WE CREATE THE SPACE FOR RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Report 2013 2 Sustainability Report 2013 | About this Report ABOUT THIS REPORT In this sustainability report, Aareal Bank Group has provided a description of its social and environmental performance for the second time. By doing so, we have delivered on our goal of creating transparency about the impact of our business activities on the natural and social environment. The report is aimed at our clients, shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers and the wider public. The starting point of our activities is our first sustainability report, which was published in August 2013. In it, we set ourselves appropriate goals and documented existing programmes and initiatives. Every year, we report on the progress made towards these goals as part of our ongoing sustainability reporting process. At the same time, we invite our stakeholder groups to engage in systematic dialogue with us, to help us better understand their expectations and to enhance our sustainability strategy. Reporting period and scope This report covers Aareal Bank Group’s achievements in the area of sustainability in the 2013 financial year. Data or statements that refer only to individual companies in the Group are identified as such. Coreal­c redit Bank AG, which was acquired on 31 March 2014, is not included in this report. The figures presented relate to financial years 2011, 2012 and 2013. Content of the report This report is largely based on the third generation (3.0) guidelines on sustainability reporting issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It also takes into account the GRI’s Financial Services Sector Supplement. An overview of the GRI indicators and a reference to the relevant page in the sustainability report is provided on page 50 et seqq. We self-declared an Application Level of B according to the GRI G3 Guidelines. This has been checked and confirmed by the GRI. Editorial note The editorial deadline for this report was 30 April 2014. To improve readability, we have largely avoided writing out companies’ full legal names. All figures and data have been compiled with the greatest care. To our knowledge, the information provided is correct. However, we cannot assume any liability for the accuracy and completeness of the disclosures. Further information Up-to-date information about sustainability at Aareal Bank Group is available on our website: www.aareal-bank.com/responsibility. Sustainability Report 2013 | Contents 3 10 20 28 Sustainability Clients and Employees Approach Products Long-term success is central to Aareal Bank Group’s business A company’s success is largely Aareal Bank Group’s corporate model is divided into the Structured dependent on its employees. philosophy. And a responsible Property Financing and Consult­ Aareal Bank Group's systematic approach is a crucial requirement ing/Services segments – the two employee development policy for doing business successfully key pillars on which our success aims to enhance its employees’ in the future as well. This is why is built. We take a long-term professional and personal skills. we have aligned our activities with approach to client relations and We also promote a positive workour sustainability strategy since aim to provide sustainable solulife balance and offer a Company 2012. tions, ensuring we are well Health Management programme. prepared for future megatrends. 40 46 Environment Society 04 Introduction 06 Company Profile Aareal Bank Group aims to miniBeing a sustainable company mise the impact its business activities have on the environment: we take care to use consumables also includes taking social respons­ ibility. This is why Aareal Bank Group supports a large number of 50 as efficiently as possible and to external educational and academic GRI Index obtain resources from renewable initiatives, as well as charitable or sustainable sources. and social organisations. 54 GRI Statement 4 Sustainability Report 2013 | Introduction INTRODUCTION In the past year, we celebrated our 90th anniversary and also achieved very good results, despite a challenging environment. This confirms once again the soundness, Aareal Bank stability and sustainability of our business model. Group Trusted since 90 years Our continuing economic success is proof that we are on the right track. Our aspiration to sustainability and our focus on the needs of clients, employees, shareholders, investors and society contribute substantially to this success. One year ago, we published our first sustainability report and since then we have launched many of the measures set out in our sustainability programme. This report documents the progress we have made in the various areas. Our sustainability efforts are directed especially towards our employees – who are the basis for our business success. In the reporting period, we launched our Company Health Management initiative to promote health and fitness, and the programmes on offer have been taken up enthusiastically. Aareal Academy offers new seminars in this connection, to help specialist staff and managers cope with stress. Our multifaceted, employee-friendly HR strategy has proved successful: in the reporting period, Aareal Bank was once again certified as a Top Employer. This reinforces us in our aim of continuing our targeted investment in our employees – because they are the people who turn our aspirations for a sustainable business into reality, day after day. ”Our sustainability efforts are directed especially towards our employees – who are the basis for our business success.“ Dr Wolf Schumacher, Chairman of the Management Board of Aareal Bank AG Sustainability Report 2013 | Introduction 5 We have also made further progress in our other sustainability management areas. For example, our environ­m ental performance indicators have improved and will be even better from 2014 when we start to use green electricity. Our successful commitment to social responsibility has continued. We support a large number of external DR WOLF SCHUMACHER educational and academic initiatives, as well as chariChairman of the table and social organisations. Management Board These positive developments have also been confirmed by third parties. For example, we again achieved substantial improvements in our sustainability ratings in the reporting period – another indication that we are on the right track. Of course, we continually set ourselves new sustainability targets and document them in our sustainability programme – because we want to keep on contributing to the full extent of our capabilities. I hope you will find this report interesting reading. With best wishes Dr Wolf Schumacher Aareal Bank Group has participated in the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. By signing the UN Global Compact, Aareal Bank Group is committed to aligning its business processes with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. 6 Sustainability Report 2013 | Company Profile COMPANY PROFILE Sustainability Report 2013 | Company Profile 7 With its head office in Wiesbaden, Aareal Bank Group is one of the leading international property specialists. With our two business segments Structured Property Financing and Consulting/Services we successfully accompany our clients as a financing partner, advisor and service provider. Company Identity Aareal Bank Group is an institution with a long history. Our clients have been at the centre of our business activities ever since the Bank was founded in 1923. From our beginnings as a financer of private residential construction in Germany, we have grown into an international partner for commercial property financing and an end-to-end service provider for the commercial property sector and the housing industry. Aareal Bank’s structure mirrors its positioning as a medium-sized enterprise, ensuring close cooperation, quick decisions and tailored solutions. This mid-sized structure also informs our judicious, risk-sensitive and prudent approach. This is why our clients have placed their trust in us for over 90 years. Business Segments Aareal Bank Group operates a solid, forward-looking business model. The Group’s parent company is Aareal Bank AG, which is listed in Germany’s MDAX index. Below this umbrella brand, the Group’s companies are bundled into two segments – Structured Property Financing and Consulting /Services. These are the pillars of our success. In the Structured Property Financing segment, we provide support for domestic and international clients investing in property. Our focus is on financing existing properties with an attractive risk-return profile, in particular office buildings, hotels and shopping centres, as well as logistics and residential properties. Our particular strength lies in our combination of local market expertise and sector-specific know-how. Our market experts are active in three continents and have a proven track record in assessing and valuing the location and quality of properties. This enables us to create tailored financial solutions for our clients. As an active issuer of Pfandbriefe and uncovered bank bonds, Aareal Bank has a sound, broad base for its refinancing requirements. Deposits by institutional investors are another key source of refinancing. These are largely independent of the capital markets and represent an important additional pillar in the Bank’s long-term funding mix. Total property financing volumes were € 24.7 billion as at 31 December 2013.1) 1) Includes property financing volumes managed on behalf of Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG in the amount of € 0.2 billion 8 Sustainability Report 2013 | Company Profile The Consulting/Services segment offers comprehensive solutions for the housing and commercial property industries, as well as for the utilities and waste disposal markets. In addition to specialised banking services, these focus on processing automated mass payments and optimising higher-level processes. We also provide consulting, software and services in the area of IT-based business process optimisation for property companies and their clients and partners. We can draw on nearly 60 years of experience in this field. Our service portfolio is systematically focused on our clients’ needs. Locations Over the years, our expertise has steadily become more international. We now operate in over 20 countries in line with our three-continent strategy. Our Structured Property Financing segment is active in Europe, North America and Asia, while our Consulting /Services segment provides in-depth coverage in Europe. Our workforce of around 2,400 employees is drawn from over 30 different countries. On the ground, day to day, they put into practice the factors that make our business successful – local market and property expertise, face-to-face client contact, in-depth analysis of their needs and client support, often spanning many years. At the same time, we continuously adjust our range of services to meet our clients’ changing requirements. This is one of the reasons why our business model has proved to be crisis-proof in the recent past. Europe North America Asia Structured Property Financing Structured Property Financing Structured Property Financing Consulting/ Services Aareal Bank, Real Estate Structured Finance: Brussels, CopenAareal Bank, Housing Unit: Berlin, Essen, Hamburg, Leipzig, Munich, hagen, Dublin, Istanbul, London, M ­ adrid, Moscow, New York, Paris, Stuttgart, Wiesbaden | Aareon AG: Berlin, Coventry, Dortmund, Emmen, Rome, Shanghai, Singapore, Stockholm, Warsaw, Wiesbaden | Enschede, Essen, Gorinchem, Hamburg, Hilversum, Hückel­hoven, Karlskrona, Aareal Valuation GmbH: Wiesbaden | Aareal Estate AG: Wiesbaden Leipzig, Lund, Mainz, Meudon-la-Forêt, Mölndal, Munich, Nantes, Norrtälje, Orléans, Oslo, Piteå, Southampton, Stockholm, Stuttgart, Swansea, Toulouse | Deutsche Bauund Grundstücks-AG: Berlin, Bonn, Moscow, Munich | Aareal First Financial Solutions AG: Mainz Sustainability Report 2013 | Company Profile 9 Selected Key Figures 3 continents on which we are active 1 Jan1 JanChanges 2,400 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 € mn € mn € mn Income statement employees from over Operating profit 198 176 22 30 different countries 10 mn Consolidated profit 93 85 8 Indicators residential units managed Cost/income ratio (%)1) 38.5 40.9 by Aareon AG Earnings per share in (€) 1.95 1.75 RoE before taxes (%) RoE after taxes (%) 8.0 5.2 7.2 4.8 € 7.2 bn in deposits from the housing industry 31 Dec 2013 € mn 31 Dec 2012 € mn € mn Changes % € 24.7 bn in property financing under Portfolio data management Property finance 24,550 23,304 1,246 5 of which: international Equity 2) 20,802 2,450 19,991 2,317 811 133 4 6 € 43 bn total assets Total assets 2) 42,981 45,750 -2,769 -6 Regulatory indicators 3) Consolidated operating profit (€ mn) Core tier 1 ratio pursuant to AIRBA 4) (Basis: IAS/IFRS, Basel II) in % 15.0 200 Tier 1 ratio pursuant to AIRBA 4) 198 185 150 176 (Basis: IAS/IFRS, Basel II) in % 20.8 Total capital ratio pursuant to AIRBA 4) 134 100 (Basis: IAS/IFRS, Basel II) in % 24.5 87 50 1) Structured Property Financing segment only. 2) Comparative figures for 2012 were adjusted. Further information is included in the ”Accounting policies“ section of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 3) After confirmation of Aareal Bank AG’s financial statements for 2013. The inclusion of retained earnings transferred as part of Aareal Bank AG’s liable equity as at 31 December 2013 is subject to approval by the Ratings Annual General Meeting. 4) Advanced Internal Ratings Based Approach. 2013 2012 Fitch Ratings, London long-term AAshort-term F1 F1 Fitch Pfandbrief ratings AAA AAA oekom prime prime Sustainalytics 57 57 CDP 81 B 67 D 10 Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach 11 Long-term success is central to Aareal Bank Group’s corporate philosophy. And a responsible approach is a crucial requirement for doing business successfully in the future as well. This is why we have aligned our activities with our sustainability strategy since 2012. In this way, we aim to play our part in forward-looking economic and social development. Sustainability at Aareal Bank Stakeholders expect companies to make their social and ecological impact transparent. As a financial institution, we aim to be a trustworthy partner for our clients. We do this by taking responsibility and contributing to a sustainable society. As a private bank, Aareal Bank Group finances properties and acts as an intermediary between investors and borrowers. Since the Group was founded over 90 years ago, we have aspired to the goal of doing business successfully over the long term and in line with ethical principles. We take numerous measures to achieve this, from interacting with business partners and shareholders through to safeguarding attractive jobs for our employees and discharging our social responsibility. We published our first sustainability report in 2013. It was the result of a strategy process in which we analysed the courses of action open to us with respect to sustainability, and set ourselves goals for the coming years. We have established five areas in which we are aiming to position ourselves more strongly. Sustainability Strategy Aareal Bank Group’s sustainability strategy is an integral part of its corporate strategy. It comprises the following areas: Clients and products: To develop Aareal Bank Group’s core business sustainably, the Group actively includes its business philosophy when discussing sustainability trends and developing sustainable solutions in the world of finance. As a partner to the property industry, we do business in a sustainable way that meets the requirements of the sector. Employees: Aareal Bank Group’s employees are the most important agents of the Company’s sustain­ ability strategy. By providing them with an attractive working environment with long-term prospects, we motivate and enable them to put sustainability into practice in their everyday work. 12 Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach Shareholders: Aareal Bank Group regularly informs its shareholders about sustainability trends which are relevant to its business and about the measures it has taken. Our sustainability management activities meet the special requirements for information in this area. Our successful participation in ratings and rankings means this is also documented by third parties. Environment: Aareal Bank Group takes ecological requirements into account in its daily business. We endeavour to improve the impact of our activities by reducing our ecological footprint. Besides using resources more sparingly, we achieve this through sustainable procurement. Society: Above and beyond its direct business activities, Aareal Bank Group aims to make a contribution to improving the common good. We do so by providing money, materials and expertise for projects. Our focus here is on supporting education initiatives in the finance and property industry. We also provide targeted, long-term support for selected social projects. Key issues We identify key issues for our stakeholders by performing internal analyses. These are weighted according to their importance for stakeholders and Aareal Bank Group’s success. They reveal that ”integrity in doing business” and ”transparency and reporting” are key sustainability issues. Other key issues are ”employee development”, ”work-life balance” and ”diversity and equal opportunities”. These issues are assigned to areas of activity and specific measures are then developed and bundled in a sustainability programme. The areas of activity correspond to the individual chapters of this report. Stakeholder dialogue Aareal Bank Group’s stakeholders are its clients, shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers and the wider public. We regularly seek contact with our clients in individual discussions, at trade fairs, or at industry events. Sustainability is becoming an increasingly important issue for the property industry – from both an energy policy and a social perspective. Each year, the Aareon Congress and the Aareal Energy Forum offer two additional opportunities for us to systematically discuss environmental and social risks and opportunities with our clients. ”We make our business decisions by taking a long view and respecting the responsibility we have for future generations. We take into account the economic, social and ecological impact of what we do.“ Henning Zander, Group Sustainability Officer of Aareal Bank AG Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach 13 As a general principle, our shareholders can attend the Annual General Meeting and express their opinions on our sustainability activities and on all aspects of the Company. We meet investors’ increased need for inform­ ation about the Company’s sustainability performance by participating in relevant ratings or investor meetings. We provide our employees with regular information via the Intranet and via our staff magazine. Employee discussions and events, workshops on topics such as optimising the work-life balance and the Idea Box allow them to make contact with the management and influence organisational development. Sustainability management At an organisational level, Aareal Bank Group has assigned responsibility for sustainability management to the Chairman of the Management Board. In this way, we can both underline the strategic importance of sustainability for our corporate philosophy and steer its practical implementation from the highest level. The Chairman of the Management Board puts the sustainability strategy and the corresponding annual programme to the Management Board for discussion and approval. Aareal Bank AG Management Board reports to Group Sustainability Officer appoints/heads Sustainability Working Group Members: Tasks: Group Sustainability Officer Annual updates to the sustainability Sustainability Officer at Aareon AG programme Employees of the bank divisions: To coordinate general sustainability – Investor Relations activities – Credit Management To discuss sustainability trends – Organisation and requirements – Human Resources To put forward proposals for – Treasury developing the strategy – Compliance To monitor the measures decided – Corporate Communications as part of the sustainability pro– Sales gramme – Institutional Housing Business 14 Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach In managing and developing the strategy, he is supported by the Group Sustainability Officer, who organises the meetings of the Sustainability Working Group and acts as the point of contact for all divisions within the Company. He provides technical support in specific cases, monitors Aareal Bank Group’s sustainability performance and puts forward proposals for continually updating the sustainability programme in consult­ ation with the divisions concerned. As the point of contact for external stakeholders, he documents their concerns and informs them about activities. In addition, he is responsible for sustainability reporting and participation in the relevant ratings and rankings, and also informs the Management Board about external and internal developments to sustainability issues that are of importance to Aareal Bank Group. The Sustainability Working Group serves as a platform for the Management Board to develop the sustainability programme: its members implement corresponding measures, analyse megatrends and assess opportunities and risks facing Aareal Bank Group. The Working Group also coordinates cross-divisional sustainability activities. It includes representatives of the Human Resources, Organisation, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations, Treasury, Compliance, Housing, Sales and Credit Management divisions, plus the sustainability officers at Aareal Bank Group and Aareon. The Working Group meets once a quarter and on an ad hoc basis in special cases, and is chaired by the Group Sustainability Officer. We have established a similar structure in our largest subsidiary, Aareon. SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME We aim to conduct our business activities in harmony with the environment and with society. To achieve this goal, Aareal Bank has set itself different goals under the headings of Sustainability, Clients and Pro­ ducts, Employees, Environment, and Society. The measures derived from these serve as a compass for successfully putting our corporate responsibility into practice. The following sustainability programme forms the basis of our activities in the area of corporate respons­ ibility. In the reporting period, individual measures have been adjusted and extended to take account of current developments at Aareal Bank. We will continue to take forward a number of measures that we have marked as ”ongoing”, but will not include them in the sustainability programme’s regular updates as we have already reached our targets for these measures. These relevant measures are marked with an asterisk * in the table. Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach 15 Sustainability Goal Measure Deadline Status Include sustainability in strategic market monitoring with To establish the operational a view to identifying risks and opportunities, e.g. by Ongoing* Key topics have been confirmed conditions needed to updating the stakeholder analysis and materiality matrix implement the sustainability objectives Code of Conduct has been modified Integrate sustainability into the Code of Conduct 2013 and is available on the Internet To increase transparency Participate in the Association of German Banks’ working Ongoing* Active participation in the working group and ability to engage in group on sustainability as of 2013 dialogue Prepare sustainability reporting based on GRI G4 2015 New measure Expand the existing web pages devoted to social Sustainability issues now grouped together Ongoing* responsibility and sustainability issues under the heading of Responsibility Integrate sustainability issues into one-on-one discussions Sustainability issues have been Ongoing* with stakeholders integrated into discussions Working with oekom, Sustainalytics, To enhance external Work on rating inquiries, sustainability surveys and Ongoing* EIRIS / imug and CDP as well as with stakeholder dialogue analyses a variety of additional surveys Exchange information and views with advisory boards on Regular exchange of information and Ongoing* sustainability issues views with advisory boards Integrate sustainability issues into existing communications Information on ratings has been included Ongoing* formats and media, incl. roadshow documents in communications Expand the existing Intranet pages devoted to social Sustainability issues now grouped together 2013 responsibility and sustainability issues under the heading of Responsibility To enhance internal Sustainability issues have been inte­grated stakeholder dialogue into a number of different formats; Integrate sustainability issues into internal information Ongoing inte­gration into new employee onboarding events and the trainee pro­gramme will be reexamined in 2014 Clients and Products Goal Measure Deadline Status To ensure responsible Take ESG1) criteria into account during the lending These are taken into account during Ongoing* lending process property valuations To measure sustainability First perform­ed Analyses carried out in 2012 and 2013; Analyse the securities portfolio annually from a sustain­ performance in the in 2012, on­going results were above average in both years; ability perspective securities portfolio thereafter* scheduled every two years in future To ensure data security Achieve certification of Aareon’s information security The ”initial certification” project was 2014 and data protection management system in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001 launched in 2013 Participate in the I-stay@home initiative and Further measures 2015 This initiative is on schedule develop a portal 1) Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance 16 Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach Employees Goal Measure Deadline Status Teleworking application process simplified, Increase range of flexible working models Ongoing* high take-up of working time accounts To promote Support employees who work part-time Ongoing* High part-time working level achieved work-life balance Documents submitted; recertification expected Achieve recertification of Aareon by berufundfamilie gGmbH 2014 to take place in June 2014 Sign Diversity Charter (”Charta der Vielfalt”) 2013 The Charter was signed in June 2013 Enhance mentoring programme 2014 Currently being addressed Marija G. Korsch has been a member of the To promote diversity Increase the proportion of women on the 2015 Supervisory Board since 2012 and Chairman and equal opportunities Supervisory Board to 30 % of the Supervisory Board since 2013 Participate in the Anna+Cie programme which prepares New measure: a member of the Management 2014 female managers for top management positions Board will also act as a mentor Initial analysis carried out in 2013, with a Ongoing Conduct an age structure analysis focus on examining and analysing succession from 2013 To enhance the human planning resources strategy, All employees can take advantage of the wide taking into account the Offer all age groups special training leading to qualifications 2014 range of training and CPD opportunities on offer ageing population Analyse implications of demographic change for the Is being taken into account in updates to the Ongoing* Company future human resources strategy Initial analysis undertaken in 2013, implement­ ation ongoing since then; the opportunities Enhance and adapt recruitment strategy 2013 presented by social media channels are being used to attract interested candidates Enhance and adapt young talent programmes 2014 Currently being addressed Measure is ongoing; for example, a master’s To recruit, foster and Continue sponsoring bachelor’s and master’s theses Ongoing thesis examining older employees’ learning retain talent strategies was sponsored in 2013 Expand programme of vocational traineeships at Aareon 2013 Positions have been filled Extend the Bank’s programme of vocational traineeships 2014 New measure Support Sporthilfe’s ”Future Springboard” initiative by offering athletes short internships and the ability to take 2014 New measure part in the mentoring programme Introduce additional modules such as skin cancer screening, Various modules have been introduced and 2013 sports and recreational offerings and a range of lectures employees have taken them up enthusiastically Introduce a new, mandatory seminar on ”healthy leadership” Most managers have attended the seminar in 2013 for all management staff 2013 and the rest will complete it in 2014 Offered for the first time in 2013; To expand the Organise a seminar on stress management 2013 the event will be offered again in 2014 Company Health Organise seminars on quitting smoking 2014 New measure Management programme A survey was carried out that showed no Conduct an employee survey to identify and evaluate 2013 critical levels at Aareon for any of the areas workplace stress at Aareon analysed Expand Aareon’s Company Health Management pro­gramme to include new modules such as heart and back 2014 New measure health checks Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach 17 Environment Goal Measure Deadline Status Investigate certification, e.g. to ISO 14001, for the Wiesbaden site 2014 Investigations currently ongoing Implement energy-saving measures at the Wiesbaden site, Some aspects have already been such as using energy-saving lighting and highly efficient pumps, imple­mented (for example, new pumps have Ongoing To reduce resource heat recovery and a building services automation system to been installed); further measures will be consumption monitor and optimise operations implemented successively Aareal Bank and Aareon to participate in the Wiesbaden and 2014 New measure Mainz “Ökoprofit” initiatives Renovate the conference area at the Wiesbaden site 2016 New measure Introduce a CO2 limit when purchasing new company cars 2013 Implemented – Company Car Policy modified and an average CO2 limit for the fleet in Germany To reduce the environmental impact Investigation concluded: currently no plan of business travel Investigate the use of electric vehicles at the Mainz site 2013 to use electric vehicles because of their dis­ and trips proportionately high costs Adjust travel guidelines to include additional sustainability aspects 2014 New measure To reduce Sharply reduce CO2 emissions by purchasing 100 % green energy 2014 Green energy in use since January 2014 CO2 emissions for the Wiesbaden and Mainz sites and other locations in Germany Increase coverage of energy consumption levels for reporting Preparations are underway to include other 2014 purposes sites and subsidiaries Completed; the supplier evaluation system has been revised and the revised questionnaire Consider social standards when selecting suppliers 2013 will be used for new suppliers and for the annual survey of current key suppliers Further measures Modernise the energy management system by introducing a new software application to measure electricity, heat, low temperatures 2014 New measure and water consumption Purchase building automation software 2014 New measure Carry out various renovation and modernisation measures at Ongoing New measure the Wiesbaden site Society Goal Measure Deadline Status Education and academic research • Continue working to promote education and academic research, as well as the dialogue between research and practice Ongoing through support for various Ongoing in the property industry educational bodies To help tackle • Sponsor the Institute for Banking History (Institut für bank­ challenges facing historische Forschung) society and openness for Charitable and social organisations dialogue • Sponsor the Zwerg Nase Foundation and continue Donations to non-profit and social Ongoing foundation membership organisations will continue • Donations Employee participation in the Common Purpose initiative Ongoing Employees regularly take part in the initiative 18 Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach Defining the framework Aareal Bank Group considers responsible, transparent management to be an expression of good business practice, and it is firmly anchored in the Management Board and Supervisory Board: as the parent company, Aareal Bank AG expressly supports the objectives of the German Corporate Governance Code. Integrity and responsible conduct are mandatory for all Aareal Bank Group employees, regardless of their position. The Code of Conduct contains binding rules requiring all employees to act in a lawful and ethical manner towards clients, business partners and co-workers. It is supplemented by detailed compliance guidelines aimed at preventing conflicts of interest, corruption, money laundering, fraud and data protection infringements. Compliance with the guidelines is checked on an annual basis by Internal Audit and external auditors. Aareal Bank has implemented procedural guidelines aimed at preventing financial crime that require our employees to report incidents and guarantees their anonymity. No cases of corruption have come to light since the process was put in place. We published an anti-corruption guideline to counter cases of cor­ ruption and to systematically pursue them. The guideline is intended to serve as a foundation for protecting all employees and raising their awareness of the danger of corruption, as well as serving as a guide to correct conduct. Aareon will also publish an anti-corruption guideline in 2014. Newly recruited Aareal Bank employees are informed about the Company’s compliance and fraud pre­ vention requirements in a classroom-based training course. Subsequent training is delivered using written information materials. In addition, employees must complete training programmes covering compliance, money laundering, other punishable offences and data protection. We also offer subject-specific classroom-based training. External staff is required to attend the training programme; the precise requirements vary depending on how long they are employed at Aareal Bank. Employees at international locations are trained by locally appointed compliance officers. To us, sustainability also means addressing risks in a responsible and focused manner. For this reason, Aareal Bank Group has implemented professional risk management for all business decisions, which helps us to identify, measure, limit and manage risks and is continually fine-tuned. Memberships Aareal Bank Group signed up to the United Nations Global Compact in 2012. This means we have explicitly committed to its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We have already incorporated these principles in our business processes for many years. Aareal Bank Group is also a member of several industry associations such as the Association of German Banks (Bundesverband deutscher Banken – BdB) and the Association of German Pfandbrief Banks (Verband deutscher Pfandbriefbanken – vdp). It is represented on the management board of both associations. We are also a supporting member of the Federal Association of German Housing and Real Estate Enterprises (Bundesverband deutscher Wohnungsunternehmen e.V. – GdW) and numerous regional housing industry associations. Sustainability Report 2013 | Sustainability Approach 19 Aareal Bank Group’s Sustainability Officer represents the Company, for example, in the working group of CSR and sustainability officers run by the German Property Federation (Zentraler Immobilienausschuss – ZIA), in the sustainability working group run by the BdB, and in the working group on sustainability run by the German Society of Property Researchers (Gesellschaft für immobilienwirtschaftliche Forschung – gif). We use these forums to promote sustainable practices throughout the industry. In 2012, we also became a member of the Association for Environmental Management in Banks, Savings Banks and Insurance Companies (Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten – VfU). Aareon AG is a member of the Federal Association of Independent Property and Housing Enterprises (Bundesverband Freier Immobilienund Wohnungsunternehmen e.V. – BFW), the umbrella association of German property managers DDIV (Dachverband Deutscher Immobilienverwalter e. V.) and other, regional property industry associations. Ratings The importance of ratings for assessing sustainable corporate business practices has grown enormously over the last ten years. When making investment decisions and entering into business relationships, investors and clients increasingly consider the sustainability performance of a company as well. Ratings play a central role in this: they make sustainable business conduct measurable and comparable. •  I n 2013, Aareal Bank Group again gained Prime Status in the sustainability rating by the prominent rating agency oekom research AG. This status is awarded to companies which, according to the oekom corporate rating for social and environmental performance, rank among the leaders in their industry and meet the minimum industry-specific requirements. Our human resources policy contributes to this good result in particular: we achieved an excellent rating of Bin the area of employees. •  I n the rating conducted by Sustainalytics, Aareal Bank Group scored 57 out of a possible 100 points – above the average for the rated companies. •  T he assessment by rating agency imug also resulted in an above-average score overall. Our publicsector Pfandbriefe were rated ”positive”, while our mortgage Pfandbriefe and unsecured bonds were rated ”neutral”. They are therefore suitable as investments from a sustainability perspective. •  I n 2012, Aareal Bank Group participated in the CDP for the first time, and immediately scored 67 out of a possible 100 points on the ”disclosure score”. This led to us being awarded the prize for the best German newcomer of 2012 and clearly exceeded the average score of the companies rated. Aareal Bank Group improved on this result in 2013, with a score of 81B. The CDP illustrates a company’s transparency and performance with respect to issues regarding climate change. 20 Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products CLIENTS AND PRODUCTS Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products 21 Aareal Bank Group’s business model is divided into the Structured Property Financing and Consulting/Services segments – the two key pillars on which our success is built. We take a long-term approach to client relations and aim to provide sustainable solutions, ensuring we are well prepared for future megatrends. The property industry and global megatrends Regardless of the current uncertainties on the markets, megatrends will change the property markets in the coming decades. The property industry and commercial property financing will benefit from several global megatrends. These not only bring with them significant potential for value appreciation, but are also generating sustained high investment volumes on the property markets – and hence a substantial need for financing as well. Demographic change The heterogeneous developments in population structures in the various regions of the world will have a strong impact on demand for working and living spaces and will significantly alter requirements in relation to building functionality in particular. Many developed, western societies are being confronted with ageing populations as a result of this demographic change. As a consequence, demand for properties is increasing, due in particular to the growth in oneand two-person households. The need to raise the retirement age in most industrialised nations also means that demand for high-quality commercial properties will continue to rise – in order to make age-friendly working possible, for example. By contrast, strong population growth is expected in many newly industrialising countries, which will also lead to increased demand for living and working spaces. Both of these trends offer the property industry huge opportunities. Globalisation Open markets around the world increase competition between regions. They make it easier for market players to operate across national borders and hence to create strategically diversified portfolios. Comprehensive knowledge of the relevant local and regional property markets enhances success in the property business. Structural change Many newly industrialising countries are in the midst of a structural shift from manufacturingto servicesbased economies, while the developed economies are evolving into informationand knowledge-driven economies. New ways of working are placing completely new demands on how workplaces are designed. The long-term transformation of these societies is fundamentally changing the way properties are used and fuelling the need to invest in a very wide range of commercial properties. 22 Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products Urbanisation Rural regions are experiencing massive population declines, while more and more people are moving into cities. The rapid growth of major cities such as Shanghai is not only attributable to general population growth – it is primarily to the result of migration. The consequences of this trend towards urbanisation will have a corresponding effect on the property markets. The main results are the need to optimise the use of floor space and avoiding further urban sprawl. Modern buildings If a property is to satisfy its users over the long term, it must reflect future trends today. Sellers of office properties, for example, must already factor in rising energy prices and the growing consciousness of environmental and climate protection, as well as the changes in the working world. Discerning tenants not only expect green buildings, however; good public transport connections are also a priority for them. The reason: 30 % of a service company’s CO2 emissions are attributable to its employees’ daily commute between home and the workplace. Easy accessibility via public transport gives employers the opportunity to reduce their ecological footprint. All in all, properties that do not meet sustainability criteria are likely to face increasing marketing problems in future. A property in an unfavourable location with outdated technical and structural features will have enormous problems during the search for tenants and investors, or will be faced with considerable discounts. Digitisation Digitisation has experienced an enormous boost in recent years: well over 90 % of the world’s techno­ logical information capacity is now digital. Twenty years ago, this figure was a mere 3 %. The Internet, smartphones and tablets have significantly changed the way people communicate. In the housing industry, the digitisation of communication is having a considerable impact on the implementation of a tenant-oriented strategy. Tenants’ experiences with other sectors such as retail or banking are rapidly raising their expectations of services that housing companies must provide via the Internet, and their accessibility. What they want is an offer that is systematically focused on clients’ individual needs. This significantly affects processes in housing companies and requires client relations to be systematically structured. As part of this digitised communication, mobile services enable even more flexible and productive work. The housing industry can make significant cost savings by using integrated mobile solutions. For example, the on-site processes performed when a flat is accepted can be further simplified. The property industry – and hence Aareal Bank Group – will benefit from these trends, and with its solid business model, the Group is prepared for them. Our motto – Local expertise meets global excellence – means that we are close to clients and are familiar with the relevant markets. We finance high-quality commercial properties, including green buildings, for example. These are characterised by extremely high, sustainable usability and hence also by above-average property values. The issue of digitisation is a key focus for Aareon, whose response to this trend includes a broad range of mobile services. Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products 23 Responsible credit business The financial market was dominated by great uncertainty for many years. Aareal Bank Group’s successful business model has allowed it to perform extremely well in this market environment. Adequate, sustain­ able risk management and risk control are the core elements of this success. We have benefited from our sound, sustainable lending policy, our pronounced market and client proximity, forward-looking refinancing policy and healthy balance sheet structure. Aareal Bank Group provides support for clients investing in property in Europe, North America and Asia. This three-continent strategy allows us to diversify our property financing portfolio across different regions and opens up cross-border and cross-regional business opportunities. At the same time, diversifying our risk in this way reduces our dependence on individual markets. Equally, the wide range of different property types that we finance – including office buildings, retail properties, hotels, and logistics and residential properties – helps keep our portfolio balanced. In the area of commercial property financing, we primarily concentrate on investment financing, i. e. financing completed buildings. The properties are usually secured by senior liens, can serve as cover assets and have moderate loan-to-value ratios. Our small NPL portfolio also demonstrates the quality of our credit business. Sustainability as a criterion for financing The assessment of the basic business environment in countries in which we are or aim to become active considers economic aspects such as changes in gross domestic product, the unemployment rate and interest rate trends. In addition, we look at legal certainty, market transparency and levels of corruption in the country concerned. We take the following sustainability criteria into account during property valuations in connection with lending decisions: • Economic quality, e. g. the property’s location and rental status, the ability to meet tenant requirements, the flexibility of the building’s structures and the economic efficiency of the floor plans • Technical quality, e. g. issues relating to the building’s construction, the materials used, fire pro­ tection, insulation and soundproofing, fittings and fixtures and the quality of the interior spaces (measured in terms of their thermal, acoustic and visual comfort) • Functional quality, e. g. transportation links, general accessibility and barrier-free access • Life-cycle quality, e. g. demonstrated by opportunities for flexible use, the ability to re-let properties, third-party usability and appropriate expenditure on value preservation measures • Sociocultural quality, e. g. high-quality architecture and town planning • Ecological quality, e. g. as expressed by environmental liability and contamination audits. Regular impairment tests, which are performed on the basis of appraisals, provide information on changes to these criteria. 24 Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products Financing future-proof properties: the ”Belair” property has BREEAM certification Aareal Bank provided € 152 million in financing for the acquisition of the ”Belair” complex of office and administrative buildings in Brussels. Core renovation of this 11-storey office complex was completed in December 2013. The building has received green building certification under the BREEAM standard with a ”very good” rating. Aareal Bank acted as arranger, syndicate leader and lender in the transaction. The BRE Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) sustain­ability standard is the leading and most widely used method of certi­fying buildings. BREEAM is a registered trademark and is displayed with permission. All rights are reserved. Sound, broad refinancing base Aareal Bank Group has a sound, broad base for its refinancing requirements. We are an active issuer of Pfandbriefe, which make up a significant share of our long-term funding. Pfandbrief issuance is governed by the German Pfandbrief Act (Pfandbriefgesetz – PfandBG), whose strict provisions focus in particular on investor protection. Pfandbriefe are a particularly sound investment with a proven market infrastructure – something that also applies in uncertain times. Their excellent credit ratings and stable returns are valued by investors in Germany and abroad. The AAA rating for Aareal Bank’s Pfandbriefe confirm the quality of its cover assets pool. The geographical distribution of the cover assets pool also demonstrates the diversification strategy used in commercial property financing. Aareal Bank’s mortgage Pfandbrief is one of the world’s most highly diversified covered bonds. Deposits by institutional investors and by the housing industry are another source of refinancing. These are largely independent of the capital markets and represent an important additional pillar in the Bank’s long-term funding mix. The volume of deposits by the housing industry has continually increased in the past years – proof of our clients’ trust. Sustainability of the securities portfolio Due to the persistently volatile market environment, and in order to comply with future regulatory require­ ments, Aareal Bank holds a liquidity reserve in the form of a high-quality securities portfolio. It comprises four asset classes: public-sector borrowers, covered bonds and Pfandbriefe, bank bonds and asset-backed securities (ABSs). Around 98 % of the portfolio has an investment grade rating. We conducted a sustainability analysis of Aareal Bank Group’s securities portfolio for the first time in 2012, and will repeat this regularly to ensure continuous improvement. The independent rating agency oekom research came to the conclusion that the issuers listed in our Treasury portfolio achieve best-in-class status on average. Exclusion criteria set by us were also considered in the analysis. The overall score of the portfolio improved in the reporting period compared with the previous year’s analysis. Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products 25 Services for the property industry Today, mobility and mobile information systems are inextricably linked. People who are on the move a lot want access to all relevant information – especially in the housing industry. Aareal Bank Group offers the commercial property and housing industries innovative, environmentally friendly solutions with optimised processes. They are intended to digitise our clients’ property management to the extent permitted by law and technology. This applies both to the payment transaction pro­ cessing performed by Aareal Bank and to Aareon’s ERP products. Aareal Bank’s products BK 01 is the leading system for processing mass payments in the housing industry. In the period under review, the Bank processed payment flows for more than 5.5 million homes and commercial units and around two million power supply contracts, involving a total of over 100 million payment transactions per year. The system provides electronic account information that can be automatically read into the ERP systems. The system’s automated downstream processes make a significant contribution to speeding up workflows and reducing administrative costs. BK 01 immoconnect creates a special, exclusive data interface between the ERP systems of housing and energy companies. This interface optimises data interchange for invoicing service charges and operating expenses between these companies and the associated payment transactions for advance installments and final payments. The new BK 01 billing and data calculation system product enables energy and waste disposal companies to automatically supply their clients, particularly those from the housing and property industries, with electronic data from these areas and hence also to save paper. Aareon’s products With its country-specific ERP solutions, Aareon has a sophisticated offering that meets the most diverse client requirements and is supplemented by integrated services such as an online service portal, CRM solutions and document management systems. In Germany, Aareon offers the new product generation: Wodis Sigma, SAP solutions and the proven ASP solution GES. The Mareon service portal links housing companies, services that provide meter readings for heating, and tradesmen. This allows ongoing maintenance of properties, for example, to be handled more easily, reducing administrative costs and accelerating workflows on all sides. The same principles also apply to Aareon’s invoicing service: this enables systematic, fully integrated automation of the invoicing process, offering end-to-end standardisation and saving both time and money, not to mention lots of paper. With the introduction of Aareon’s CRM portal, clients can use personalised access data to view and manage information. Individual housing companies can customise the system’s functions. 26 Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products Thanks to 1st Touch, the British market leader for mobile solutions in the housing industry, users in Germany can benefit from Aareon Group’s internationalisation. The 1st Touch products are the ideal supplement to Aareon’s product portfolio. However, ”Mobility” is not a product, but simply a new form of mobile access to Aareon solutions. By using mobile devices, processes that were previously performed manually can now also be digitally based, eliminating many paper-based tasks. Long-term client relationships and satisfied clients Client dialogue plays a central role for Aareal Bank Group and its daily business. Forums such as our client advisory boards plus continuous dialogue ensure the Company knows what its clients want. They are the most important starting point for enhancing our portfolio of products and services. We also pay particular regard to property industry and IT trends. Our direct, long-term relationships with our clients are a key feature of our commercial property financing. One factor contributing to client satisfaction is our local knowledge and the expertise of our sector specialists in the fields of logistics, shopping centre and hotel financing. This means that we understand our clients and speak their language. In the area of refinancing, too, we have long-term, close client relationships. The Treasury division looks after a broad client base of fixed-income investors. These are investors who invest in capital market products, allowing us to refinance our portfolio of property loans. Our clients especially value our employees’ many years of capital market experience and the high level of continuity in their contacts with the Bank. Fixed-income investors are often served by the same experts for many years. Aareal Bank has been the lead bank for the housing industry for more than 50 years. We have developed an in-depth understanding of the specific challenges in the sector and have created instruments that improve business efficiency in the commercial property and housing industries. Client satisfaction with Aareal Bank’s Institutional Housing Unit is discussed regularly at three levels: •  by the Bank’s Housing Advisory Council, an advisory body comprising key industry players drawn from our clients, • in the day-to-day interactions between our clients and the sales unit contacts assigned to them, and •  by integrating clients in the development of new products or components using a standardised test phase that is explicitly designed to optimise their first-time operation. Aareon has been conducting client surveys for over ten years. We aim to systematically implement improvements based on this client survey. The results have been constant for many years, which is why we have conducted the survey every two years since 2012. Our last survey in 2012 reported high client acceptance of the survey, with a response rate of more than 40 %. What is more, approximately 87 % of these clients submitted personal replies. Overall satisfaction in particular improved significantly year-on-year, as did the results for loyalty (94 %) and client satisfaction with their points of contact (98 %). We will conduct the next client survey in 2014. In addition, Aareon maintains close dialogue with clients via topic-based and regional advisory boards in particular. Sustainability Report 2013 | Clients and Products 27 Data security and data protection Safeguarding our clients’ privacy is extremely important to the companies of Aareal Bank Group. We observe banking secrecy and comply with the provisions of the German Data Protection Act (Bundes­ datenschutzgesetz – BDSG) as well as the data protection regulations of the countries in which we are active. We only collect, process and use personal data with the consent of the data subject or in those cases allowed by law. Employees are taught about data protection issues in training sessions. A data protection officer who is not subject to the instructions of, but is appointed by, the Management Board ensures compliance with data protection provisions and monitors employees’ obligation to maintain data secrecy together with the Human Resources division. Large volumes of end-customer information are processed by Aareon in particular. As a result, data security and data protection have a high priority for us. Since 2010, Aareon has regularly undergone voluntary data protection audits in accordance with section 9a of the BDSG. Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Zertifizierung von Managementsystemen (DQS GmbH) again confirmed Aareon’s high level of data protection in 2013. Aareon, including its German subsidiaries, was awarded the DQS data protection seal of approval (DQS-Gütesiegel-Datenschutz) for the fourth time. There were no reportable data losses or data protection infringements in the period under review. Data in Aareon’s cloud is stored exclusively in Germany in data centres that are fully operated by the company itself. The data centres are linked by a dedicated, encrypted fibre optic network. Aareon’s customers access their data at Aareon using dedicated WAN connections or encrypted VPN connections. Multi-layer firewalls prevent data stored in Aareon’s cloud from being accessed over the Internet. Aareon’s data centre operations are regularly certified in accordance with IDW PS951. In 2013, Aareon launched the ”ISO/IEC 27001 – initial certification” project. This aims to further enhance Aareon’s high standard of information security management and have this checked by an external auditor, so that it can be certified in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001 in mid-2014. Quality management As a company that acts sustainably, the concept of quality is firmly anchored in Aareon’s corporate conduct and culture. In line with this, the company’s quality management system is regularly reviewed and certified. Aareon’s quality management system has been successfully recertified by DQS GmbH. In an extensive audit, DQS checked the use of the process-oriented quality management system in line with the ISO 9001:2008 framework in the areas of software development, launches and operation for all IT-based processes related to the property industry, as well as for the consulting and services provided over the entire life cycle of Aareon’s products. As in the past, the certification is valid for three years. 28 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees EMPLOYEES Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 29 A company’s success is largely dependent on its employees. Aareal Bank Group's systematic employee development policy aims to enhance its employees’ professional and personal skills. We also promote a positive work-life balance and offer a Company Health Management programme – a concept for which we have already received a number of awards. Aareal Bank Group: an attractive employer We aim to provide our employees with an attractive and safe working environment, and we have succeeded: for the sixth time in a row, Aareal Bank was recognised as a ”Top Employer” in Germany by the Corporate Research Foundation. In 2011, Aareon received an audit certificate from berufundfamilie gGmbH, valid for three years, for its family-friendly corporate policies. In the reporting period, Aaeron prepared for recertification, which is planned for 2014. In addition, Germany's Federal Ministry for Family Affairs named Aareon Germany’s most family-friendly company in the SME category in its ”Erfolgsfaktor Familie” (”Success Factor Family”) competition in 2012. The next competition will be held in 2015. Employee structure Aareal Bank Group employed 2,375 people as at the end of 2013, of whom 908 are employed at Aareal Bank and its sales subsidiaries in New York and Singapore. The Aareon subgroup employed 1,258 people as at the reporting date of 31 December 2013. Aareal Bank Group’s largest location is Germany, with 1,755 employees. Of its 620 employees in other countries, 583 are attributable to European countries, in particular France, the Netherlands and the UK. The increase in people employed abroad is linked to the Group’s internationalisation, especially at Aareon. Employee-initiated staff turnover was a mere 2.5 % in 2013. This and the average length of service at Aareal Bank – 13.3 years – attest to our employees’ attachment to the Company. The average age of our employees is 44.7. Approximately 18.4 % of staff works part-time, reflecting a slight year-on-year increase in the proportion of part-time employees. The proportion of employees with fixed-term contracts throughout the Group was 5.1 %, up slightly year-on-year. 30 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 2,375 1,755 employees in Germany employees worldwide* 37 583 employees in Asia and North America employees in Europe excl. Germany * of whom 1,258 employees at Aareon Group Employee structure in comparison 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Number of employees 2,375 908 1,258 2,289 906 1,168 2,353 987 1,129 of whom outside Germany 620 126 483 536 123 404 541 156 374 of whom female 927 420 406 893 406 383 934 442 368 Staff turnover 2.5 % 1.4 % 2.9 % 3.1 % 2.9 % 3.3 % 3.5 % 2.9 % 4.4 % Percentage of part-time employees 18.4 % 19.3 % 16.9 % 18.0 % 18.4% 17.0 % 18.1 % 17.9 % 18.0 % Full-time employees 1,937 733 1,045 1,878 739 973 1,926 810 928 Number of female part-time employees 344 152 150 335 144 146 348 154 147 Number of male part-time employees 94 23 63 76 23 49 79 23 54 Bank = Aareal Bank AG including foreign branches and foreign subsidiaries in New York, Singapore and Prague (until 30 June 2012) Aareon = all units in Germany and abroad including subsidiaries Group = Bank, Aareon and other subsidiaries such as BauGrund, Valuation, Estate and First Financial Co-determination Aareal Bank Group complies with the statutory requirements of the countries in which it operates. This applies in particular to labour law and employee co-determination rights. Employee representatives are regularly informed of current developments. In addition, all locations participate in annual works council meetings and employee events. Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 31 Aareal Bank’s General Works Council comprises Works Council members from our Wiesbaden, Berlin, Hamburg, Leipzig and Stuttgart establishment. Employees at other German locations are represented by the Works Council in Wiesbaden. In the Group as a whole, 83 % of employees are covered by collective agreements. The subgroup headed by Aareon has a similar co-determination/employee representation structure. The General Works Councils of Aareal Bank and Aareon Deutschland GmbH each appoint an Economic Committee. Aareal Bank and Aareon Deutschland have a co-determined Supervisory Board in accordance with the Drittelbeteiligungsgesetz (One-Third Participation Act). Two Aareon employees are also appointed to Aareal Bank’s Supervisory Board. A joint Group Works Council comprising representatives of the Bank and of five German subsidiaries addresses issues that affect the entire Group. Continuing professional development (CPD) Aareal Bank Group invests in its employees’ continuing professional development on an ongoing basis. The measures taken focus on sustainably enhancing specialist, entrepreneurial and communications skills. Since an international orientation plays a significant role for Aareal Bank Group, we are expanding our training courses designed to develop and improve our employees’ language and intercultural skills. Hours of CPD per employee category 2013 2012 2011 Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Senior management staff 21.0 27.3 21.9 27.8 26.6 28.7 22.8 31.3 19.0 Management staff 33.8 47.0 23.4 31.5 38.5 25.3 27.0 31.4 23.9 Specialist staff 24.8 24.9 27.1 27.7 27.9 28.1 31.5 32.7 32.7 Aareal Bank employees both in Germany and at international locations can participate in CPD measures. Overall, the Bank invested in an average of 3.5 days of training and CPD per employee in 2012 and 2013, for a total of approximately 3,185 participant days. At the level of the management staff, around 70 % analysed their own leadership role and their responsibility for the Company's success in management training sessions in 2013. All employees discuss their individual development and agree concrete development measures with their supervisor as part of their annual Structured Appraisal and Target-Setting Dialogue. This Dialogue is the Bank’s main employee development tool and is used for both employee development planning and performance management. The Office Congress held in the reporting period was the first Group-wide event besides the Annual Management Meeting. In it, more than 40 Aareal Bank Group employees discussed the wide variety of different requirements placed on secretarial services. 32 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees A good 4,100 participant days’ training were held at Aareon in 2013. This corresponds to an average of approximately 3.3 days per employee. Aareon also conducts employee appraisals each year to discuss individual development planning and qualification measures. The Aareal Academy The Bank’s internal and external training and CPD measures are consolidated under the umbrella of the Aareal Academy. This internal corporate university provides management, qualification and training programmes for employees at all Aareal Bank locations. It encompasses a wide variety of in-house and external seminars, language and IT courses, on-the-job qualifications and individual development planning. Aareal Academy Corporate University Measures and Measures and Collaboration Integration programmes programmes with programmes for management for employees universities for new staff and experts employees, trainees and interns Fostering young talent Attracting and growing young talent is a key aspect of our human resources work. The specialist know­ ledge required in our areas of business means that it is essential to invest continuously and systematically in training young talent. We have offered a customised graduate trainee programme since 2000, with a wide range of opportunities for development within Aareal Bank. 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Graduate trainees 10 4 6 8 5 2 11 6 5 Vocational trainees 31 1 28 39 2 33 34 1 28 Aareal Bank offers and supports a large number of measures designed to ensure regular contact with potential young talent. • Internships at Aareal Bank give university and high school students the opportunity to gain a first impression of working life and find out about the Group’s divisions. The Bank reorganised its remuneration system for interns in 2013 and simplified the processes related to high school student placements. Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 33 •  A areal Bank offers internships for young people with disabilities as part of the inclusive training programmes offered by Deutsche Angestellten-Akademie (DAA) for vocational trainees or career changers. •  A areal Bank continues to provide the Wiesbaden Chamber of Industry and Commerce with guest speakers for workshops and events aimed at school students. •  A Boys’ and Girls’ Day 2013: Future Prospects for Boys and Girls was held for the first time at our Wiesbaden head office in the reporting period. The initiative, which is sponsored by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research, aims to assist school students in making career choices. •  A areon again took part in the Girls’ Day in the reporting period. In addition, it organised another Aareon kids & friends Science Camp on the topic of ”data flows on the Internet”. Aareon also plans to offer an Aareon IT Award for high school graduates in 2014. Fair remuneration systems At Aareal Bank Group, salaries are set in compliance with overarching remuneration policies, which are available online. Aareal Bank employees in Germany are paid in accordance with collective wage agreements or general works agreements. At Aareon, remuneration is governed by general works agreements. The remuneration system for the members of the Management Board of Aareal Bank Group was reviewed and modified with effect from 1 January 2012 against the background of the German Act on the Approp­ riateness of Management Board Remuneration (Gesetz zur Angemessenheit der Vorstandsvergütung – VorstAG) and the German Ordinance on Remuneration in Financial Institutions (Instituts-Vergütungsverordnung – InstitutsVergV). The remuneration system comprises non-performance-related and perform­ ance-related components. The performance-based bonus reflects the extent to which the Management Board member concerned has met the targets set by the Supervisory Board. We ensure long-term perform­ ance by anchoring multi-year goals in the contracts for our Management Board members. These goals are linked to the success of the Company and also include sustainability management aspects. Amendments to the German Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz – KWG) and the InstitutsVergV have also resulted in the following requirements regarding the structure of remuneration systems: •  We will have to lower the maximum variable remuneration for individual employees, as this may only exceed the fixed salary in exceptional cases and with the approval of the Annual General Meeting. •  We expect the number of people defined as risk takers, i. e. employees who have a material influence on the Bank’s risk profile, to increase as this is being called at European level. This will increase the number of employees whose remuneration must meet specific regulatory requirements. These include the rule that 50 % of the variable remuneration must be oriented towards the Company’s longterm success and also that at least 50 % of the variable remuneration will be retained and subject to a penalty arrangement. Aareon’s remuneration system is based on developments in the IT industry in Germany. The underlying salary bands are reviewed for market comparability together with an external remuneration specialist and are adapted every three years. The next review is scheduled for 2014. 34 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees Retirement provision and insurance Aareal Bank offers its employees an employer-funded corporate retirement plan. Employees can also make additional pension contributions using a deferred compensation model. They can also use capital formation contributions paid by the Bank to further improve their pensions. Aareon also offers its employees comparable deferred compensation models for occupational pension provision and organises information events at various locations. In addition, Aareal Bank offers its employees a variety of insurance policies. These include employer-funded health insurance for foreign travel and the option to take out occupational disability insurance at special rates. We provide our employees throughout Germany with group accident insurance cover to insure them against the long-term consequences of accidents, including disability, partial disability and death. In 2013, Aareal Bank Group decided to extend its insurance to cover employees outside work as well. Retirement Insurance provision Employer-funded Employer-funded corporate retirement insurance plan Deferred e.g. Financial compensation Health insurance pension scheme for foreign travel provision and Group accident insurance for insurance employees at Aareal Bank Capital formation Personal provision savings plans through occupational disability insurance at special rates Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 35 Equal treatment For Aareal Bank Group, treating men and women in the Company equally is extremely important. This applies both to staff appointment decisions and to continuing professional development and remuneration. All job openings below executive level are advertised as a matter of principle so that all employees, regardless of gender, can apply for them. Equally, we do not distinguish on the basis of gender when it comes to pay – besides individual performance; we only take into account factors such as qualifications, professional experience and education. The employee representative bodies regularly verify that positions are filled on the basis of applicants’ qualifications in the course of exercising their co-determination rights. The same also applies to appointments at the level of the Management Board and senior executives – the primary considerations when selecting suitable candidates are their qualifications and international experience. As required by the General Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz – AGG), Aareal Bank and Aareon have AGG officers in Germany and AGG courses are also held for all employees. The employee handbook in the USA contains anti-harassment policies to avoid harassment in the workplace. The Aareon 2.n project is designed to anchor equal opportunities in the Company. In a figurative sense, the ”2” stands for a new generation of companies that are addressing demographic change and hence the competition for management and specialist staff. The ”n” stands for ”nachhaltig” – or ”sustainable . In a qualitative survey in 2013, 59 % of employees reported that they experienced equal opportunities at Aareon. Aareon aims to encourage this further using measures that it also adopted in 2013, such as communication training sessions for women and men and lectures such as ”Living life to the full – strategies for men to navigate work, fatherhood and relationships”. Diversity We are convinced that diversity enriches our corporate culture and that it is a long-term success factor. Mutual esteem and respect for individual differences are the basis of our daily work together. This is why the Management Board has made an express commitment to diversity in Aareal Bank Group. We have also clearly stated our position on diversity in our Code of Conduct: ”In Aareal Bank Group, we respect all persons regardless of their ethnic origin, religion, ideology, disabilities, sexual identity, gender, or age. We respect their dignity, rights and privacy. We strive for an awareness and understanding of the beliefs and needs of others.” In order to give the issue of diversity even more prominence, Aareal Bank signed the Diversity Charter (”Charta der Vielfalt”) in 2013. We have published additional information on Aareal Bank Group’s diversity principles on the Internet and on our Intranet. Aareal Bank Group has an international focus: we currently employ people from more than 30 different countries. At Aareal Bank’s international locations, we ensure that most positions are filled with local citizens. 36 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees Since 2012, employees from a variety of Aareon areas and projects have been given intercultural training. The objective is to improve intercultural skills and make international cooperation easier. Around 100 Aareon employees in Germany and abroad took part in intercultural training in the reporting period. Their feedback was consistently positive. The proportion of Aareal Bank employees in Germany with a severe disability – as far as is known – was 3.3 %. Since this percentage was below the statutory minimum, corresponding settlement payments were made, or were reduced by commissioning work from workplaces for people with disabilities. This group of employees is represented in the Group’s German companies by disability officers. In the reporting period, 39.0 % of Aareal Bank Group’s employees were female. The percentage of women in management positions was 25.4 % at Aareal Bank and 21.9 % at Aareon (including middle management). Proportion development of women in management positions 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Percentage of women in management positions 24.1 % 25.4 % 21.9 % 21.6 % 26.0 % 20.4 % 18.8 % 22.3 % 17.4 % In May 2013, Marija G. Korsch succeeded Hans W. Reich as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aareal Bank. The Supervisory Board is aiming for at least 30 % of its members to be women, in line with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. However, this objective can only be taken into account at the earliest at the next ordinary Supervisory Board elections in 2015. The Supervisory Board appointed Dagmar Knopek as a regular member of the Management Board of Aareal Bank effective 1 June 2013. For the first time, Aareal Academy offered seminars especially for women in 2013, working together with partner firms to do so. In addition, the Bank has participated in the Anna+Cie programme since 2013, which prepares female managers for top management positions. Percentage of women in management positions % 30 24,1% 25 21,6% 18,8% 20 15 10 5 2011 2012 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 37 Study on equal pay for men and women In the year under review, Aareal Bank took part in the remuneration study on equal pay at work (”Lohngleichheit im Betrieb” or Logib-D) – and performed relatively well: the adjusted gender pay gap was 2.0 % at Aareal Bank, which is very low for the market. In most companies, the adjusted gender pay gap is between 4 % and 8 %. The study, which is sponsored by the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, was conducted in spring 2013. Participating companies are allowed to use the label ”Logib-D geprüft” (Logib-D tested). Work-life balance In Aareal Bank Group, supporting employees in achieving a work-life balance is a high priority. Employees can take advantage of a broad range of support services. Besides flexible working models, part-time positions and the implementation and use of long-term working time accounts, these include the possibility of positions incorporating home working, if the workplace permits this. In particular, we support our employees during emergency situations relating to child care or dependents who require care. In this way, and with the help of additional measures, we aim to help our employees achieve a better work-life balance. • Parent-child rooms, which can be used during short-term emergency child care situations, are available to employees of Aareal Bank and Aareon. •  A areal Bank cooperates with a child care centre in Wiesbaden and with the City of Wiesbaden with respect to the latter’s holiday programme. These partnerships allow us to secure child care places and school holiday care for our employees’ children. •  S ince May 2013, Aareal Bank has been a corporate member of Biberbau e.V., an official project of the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). Thanks to our corporate membership, employees’ children can take advantage of special educational and leisure activities. •  S ince February 2014, our employees have been able to look free of charge for suitable private child care with the help of our new cooperation partner famPLUS. •  I n the area of work and care, Aareal Bank offers its employees the opportunity to use the advice and support services provided by our cooperation partner VivaSenia free of charge, and to take statutory family care leave if a family member starts needing care. •  A areon employees can take leave for a period of up to six weeks or temporarily reduce their working hours in the event of special family commitments. The details are agreed with employees indi­ vidually. •  E very year, Aareon reserves crèche and kindergarten places at a nearby day care centre in Mainz. The latter are free of charge for employees’ children. School-age children can take part in the Aareon holiday programme, which has a new theme each year. 38 Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees •  A bove and beyond these services, Aareon cooperates with family services provider ElternService AWO, which provides support and advice to employees on child care and if a family member starts needing care. Health management Aareal Bank’s Company Health Management programme (known by its German initials, BGM) helps its employees to stay healthy. We developed the BGM in 2012 with the help of a consulting firm and with the involvement of our employees. It covers the areas of information and a hotline service, prevention, movement, nutrition, relaxation and training. The health care portal operated by the occupational medicine service BAD informs our employees about health-related topics. Our employees can also exchange experiences and make suggestions via a discussion forum on the Intranet. In May, Aareal Bank invited guests to the first BGM talk in Wiesbaden entitled ”10,000 steps a day – exercise opportunities in your daily routine”, at which every participant received a personal pedometer. All our other employees also received a pedometer. The BGM also includes the Employee Assistant Programme – a hotline to help employees deal with crises at work and at home. The service is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The new twelve-week running course was so popular in the reporting period that Aareal Bank has set up two running groups with over 30 participants. The offer of free skin cancer screenings in Wiesbaden was also very well received, with 220 Aareal Bank employees taking part. In response to numerous requests by employees, massages have also been offered at the Wiesbaden location since 2013. Under the umbrella of the Aareal Academy, the first of the new stress management seminars was held in 2013, which focuses on preventing stress-related illness. The ”Healthy leadership” seminar designed especially for managers was also launched. Aareal Bank is planning to supplement the BGM offering in 2014 with seminars on giving up smoking. Employee satisfaction in the Aareon Group in the reporting period was at its highest level since the survey began in 2002. As part of the BGM, Aareon also conducted a questionnaire on psychological stress factors. The result: Aareon did not receive critical scores in any of the areas and categories analysed. Occupational safety At Aareal Bank Group, the occupational safety organisation is the responsibility of the Management Board, which has implemented this via an integrated management system that complies with the statutory regulations. The aim is to further reduce the number of accidents by providing safety instructions and increasing employee awareness, as well as by various audits by external supervisory authorities. Every Aareal Bank Group subsidiary is therefore obliged to issue guidelines for its location in the form of an occupational health and safety manual. The accident rate for Aareal Bank in Germany decreased year-on-year. The sickness rate remains at a low level. Aareal Bank employees are sick for an average of 8.4 days a year. No occupational illnesses were reported in the reporting period. Likewise, there were no work-related deaths. Sustainability Report 2013 | Employees 39 Occupational safety figures 2013 2012 2011 Bank Aareon Bank Aareon Bank Aareon Workplace accidents/ commuting accidents 8 9 15 10 13 6 Accident rate 1.0 % 0.7 % 1.9 % 0.9 % 1.6 % 0.5 % Sickness rate 3.7 % 4.4 % 3.5 % 4.5 % 3.5 % 4.7 % Accident rate for Aareal Bank relates to Germany; accident rate for Aareon includes international locations; sickness rate for both Aareal Bank and Aareon relates to Germany. The sickness rate for Aareal Bank does not include any employees on extended sick leave in 2011 and 2012. Employees on extended sick leave have been included in the figure from 2013. The comparable rate for 2013 excluding employees on extended sick leave would be 3.2 %; this means that the sickness rate would be better than in the previous years. 40 Sustainability Report 2013 | Environment ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Report 2013 | Environment 41 Aareal Bank Group aims to minimise the impact its business activities have on the environment: we take care to use consumables as efficiently as possible and to obtain resources from renewable or sustainable sources. We also expect our suppliers to comply with established environmental standards. Environmental management Avoiding environmental impacts while making sparing use of resources is a guiding principle at Aareal Bank Group. With our active environmental management system, we aim to meet the requirements of environmentally responsible banking and to minimise the impact of our business activities. Making sparing use of resources in the Bank’s internal operations is the top priority. This depends in particular on employee awareness of the issue. Aareal Bank also considers cutting energy consumption, reducing CO2 emissions, increasing energy efficiency and raising the percentage of renewable energy in its supply mix as other key measures for reducing environmental impacts. Sourcing green energy to supply our main sites in Wiesbaden and Mainz, as well as other locations in Germany starting in 2014, is crucial for this. Aareal Bank Group’s key suppliers are also required to comply at a minimum with statutory guidelines. In addition, the Group’s guideline on supplier management governs other standards, criteria and assessment parameters in Aareal Bank Group’s overarching supplier management system. We regularly evaluate whether suppliers are complying with the criteria they have to meet. Participation in the ÖKOPROFIT initiative Increased use of Wiesbaden alternative energy Mainz District heating and geothermal energy Heat recovery Reduction in CO2 emissions Reduction in resource 100% of electricity from consumption green sources Energy-saving measures Use of local suppliers and  Reduction in paper and service providers water consumption  Use of automated building services system to monitor and optimise operations Reduced environmental impact of business travel Environmentally friendly company Modernisation of energy vehicles management system Subsidy for employees using public transport Modified travel guidelines 42 Sustainability Report 2013 | Environment Measuring environmental impacts We systematically capture and analyse our consumption data in order to minimise the impact our business activities have on the environment, a process that involves different environmental aspects taking into account and documenting our activities. To do this, Aareal Bank Group draws up plans on a rolling basis for servicing, maintaining and modernising our sites. Participation in the Ökoprofit initiative In 2013, Aareal Bank took part for the first time in the Ökoprofit initiative, which promotes environmental pro­tection at organisations, with the aim of continuing to make its bank operations as environmentally compatible as possible. Participating companies are required to save energy, conserve resources and cut costs as a means of protecting the environment. Companies that meet these goals are presented with the ”Ökoprofit-Betrieb award, which we expect to receive in 2014. The Environmental Office in Wiesbaden, the capital of the German state of Hesse, has been using the Ökoprofit collaborative project since 2000, for environmental optimisation at companies, making an important contribution to environmental and climate protection together with businesses. Aareon also registered for the 2014 Ökoprofit project with the City of Mainz in the reporting period. Use of resources Paper is the largest consumable product by volume used at Aareal Bank Group. The Company only uses paper certified by the internationally recognised Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) to print its brochures. Aareal Bank Group’s key office materials and printing suppliers are FSC-certified or have an environmental management system certified to ISO 14001. Between 2012 and 2013, the amount of paper used for internal office purposes by Aareal Bank and Aareon in Germany rose from 30 to 32 tonnes. This equates to approximately 20 kilogrammes of paper per employee. We optimise corporate workflows and save paper using modern IT solutions such as automated and largely paperless travel expense management, as well as invoice verification and gener­ ation. Since 2012, we have been using 75 g /m2 copier paper, which is produced using less wood than the 80 g /m 2 paper previously purchased. In addition, we use paper carrying either the PEFC certificate for sustainable forestry management or the EU Ecolabel (”Eco Flower”), the highest certification category for non-recycled copy paper in our copiers. Water consumption at Aareal Bank and Aareon has remained almost unchanged in recent years. The increase in 2013 can be traced to the various measures performed in the grounds. In order to reduce consumption permanently in future, a rainwater harvesting system is scheduled to be constructed in 2015. We have used this resource sparingly for many years and intend to track and implement any sensible means of further reducing consumption in future, too. Sustainability Report 2013 | Environment 43 2013 2012 2011 Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Germany Germany Germany Germany Germany Germany Paper used for internal office purposes (t) 23 10 20 10 21 13 Paper used per employee (kg/employee) 28 13 25 13 25 17 Printouts for/by clients (t) 24 103 24 89 24 96 Water consumption (m3) 16,186 4,887 13,835 5,153 14,582 5,322 In the reporting period, a total of 157 tonnes of waste were produced, roughly the same amount as in the previous year. Total waste in Wiesbaden was reduced in 2013. The significant increase in the percentage of recycling waste here was also encouraging and is the result of improved sorting. Waste paper is recycled. The relevant amount in 2013 was 75 tonnes or approximately 49 % of total waste, up year-on-year. Energy efficiency Aareal Bank Group aims to cut its electricity consumption further and is also making an energy mix with a high percentage of green energy a priority, so as to ensure it is sourcing its energy requirements as efficiently and environmentally compatibly as possible. Between 2012 and 2013, electricity consumption at the Wiesbaden site and Aareon increased slightly from 7,683 to 8,041 gigawatt hours. The renovation of the data centre in Wiesbaden in 2011 continues to have a positive effect on the Group’s energy consumption today: by using highly efficient technologies and integrating ”free cooling”, we were able to cut the centre’s energy consumption for the same load in 2012 by around 40 %. 2013 2012 2011 Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Wiesbaden Germany Wiesbaden Germany Wiesbaden Germany Indirect Energy consumption (GJ) 18,234 10,715 16,931 10,725 19,147 16,926 District heating (GJ) 12,886 2,633 11,019 2,670 11,192 2,320 Direct Gas (GJ) 0 2,074 0 1,708 0 2,145 Heating oil (GJ) 72 18 72 72 72 2,124 Around 44 % of Aareal Bank’s energy mix to date comes from renewable energy. We will switch our main sites in Wiesbaden and Mainz to green power starting in January 2014, generating annual savings of approximately 3,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. The Wiesbaden site has used district heating for heating and hot water for several years now. Some of the energy used to supply hot water is generated by a solar thermal system. In addition, the following factors reduce the amount of energy required at the Wiesbaden site: highly efficient pumps for heating and cool44 Sustainability Report 2013 | Environment ing distribution, heat recovery in ventilation and air-conditioning systems, and a building services auto­ mation system to monitor and optimise operations. The head office of Aareon and First Financial in Mainz, which has been occupied since 2012, is heated and cooled using geothermal energy and waste heat from the data centre. The consumption of heating oil was also cut dramatically in 2013 as a result of the relocation and the consequent switch to district heating. CO2 emissions We record greenhouse gas emissions using CO2 emissions the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol – an inter­ nationally recognised standard that sets out in tonnes  Scope 1  Scope 2  Scope 3 the framework for reporting greenhouse gas 8,000 6,986 7,155 emissions. Emissions are measured using three 1,044 838 ”scopes”. Scope 1 governs direct emissions 6,000 4,272 5,478 3,852 produced on a company’s premises. Scope 2 779 governs emissions attributable to indirect energy 4,000 2,481 consumed. Scope 3 governs emissions produced by services performed by third parties and by 2,000 2,218 2,090 2,045 services purchased. 0 2013 2012 2011 Scope 1 emissions from direct energy consumption in buildings (gas and heating oil) and from 1) Aareal Bank and Aareon company cars (diesel) totalled 2,090 tonnes of CO2 in 2013. Emissions from indirect energy consumed such as electricity and district heating (Scope 2) amounted to 3,852 tonnes. CO2 emissions of 1,044 tonnes were recorded for business trips made by rental car, flown, or taken by train (Scope 3). Mobility Aareal Bank Group has a set of travel guidelines that are binding on all German sites. These require our employees to check before every business trip whether they actually need to travel and to consider alternative means of communication. In recent years, Aareal Bank Group has invested in modern conference call and video conference technology at its sites to provide such alternatives. By systematically using this technology, we aim to help cut business travel efficiently going forward. For business trips that are nevertheless necessary, air travel should only be given preference over other means of transport if it significantly reduces the journey time. In addition, the cost of travel compared with other means of transport should only be marginally higher, or should only increase by a reasonable amount given all the circumstances. Rental cars are also chosen with an eye toward both economic efficiency and cost awareness. 1) Emission calculations for Aareal Bank only take into account its largest site in Wiesbaden; Aareon’s calculations take into account its German locations. Sustainability Report 2013 | Environment 45 Aareal Bank Group also believes that choosing environmentally friendly company cars is important: in line with its company car policy, new vehicles purchased must always comply with the strictest EU emission standard in force, depending on the manufacturer and model concerned. In addition, we updated our company car policy in the reporting period by introducing a CO2 limit for purchases of new company cars and an average CO2 limit for the fleet in Germany. Aareal Bank Group also incentivises its employees to choose environmentally friendly vehicles under the company car guidelines. For example, the employees’ own monthly contribution increases by € 4.00 for each 0.1 litre increase in consumption, regardless of the monthly lease payment, if fuel consumption exceeds the figures set out in the EU directives. By implementing this rule, we aim to make all company car drivers aware of their environmental impact, thereby reducing unnecessary fuel consumption. For employees who prefer to use public transport to get to and from work, Aareal Bank makes a contribution to their annual season tickets. Sustainable procurement In its procurement activities, Aareal Bank Group gives preference to local suppliers and service providers, ensuring short routes and reducing CO2 emissions. Naturally, we also expect our suppliers to comply at a minimum with statutory guidelines. The contract templates used for suppliers and service providers speci­ fically oblige them to comply with the regulations and standards. We conduct in-house evaluations to determine whether suppliers are in compliance with these requirements. In 2013, we revised the questionnaire for supplier evaluations in order to focus more on social standards when selecting our suppliers in future. This revised questionnaire will be used for new suppliers and for the annual survey of current key suppliers. The questionnaire is part of the Group’s guideline on supplier management, which define the standards, criteria and assessment parameters used in Aareal Bank Group’s overarching supplier management system. Besides compliance with all the necessary environmental requirements, the guidelines also consider other key points, such as the supplier’s market position, the quality of the goods and services, prices and delivery performance, the quality of commercial procedures, and adherence to deadlines and volume targets. Individual aspects are assessed on a regular basis by the responsible units in each case (the purchasing organisations and the divisions). Aareal Bank Group deliberately imposes high quality requirements on its authorised suppliers. The intention in continually updating the supplier guidelines is to constantly raise the bar for these requirements. On the other hand, in our working relationships with our suppliers, it is important for us that they have introduced and implemented extensive occupational health and safety standards. In 2014, we are also planning regular supplier audits with our key suppliers to be in an even better position to check com­ pliance with these measures. 46 Sustainability Report 2013 | Society SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2013 | Society 47 Being a sustainable company also includes taking social responsibility. This is why Aareal Bank Group supports a large number of external educational and academic initiatives, as well as charitable and social organisations. In addition to donations and sponsorship, we encourage our employees to become involved, as well as facilitating knowledge transfer between business and society. Education and academic research Aareal Bank Group sponsors educational and academic organisations and initiatives whose interests overlap with its areas of business. The Group sees itself not only as a sponsor, but also as a partner in cooperative activities. For Aareal Bank, this means supporting the next generation of professionals, pro-moting research projects and creating international links between academic research and teaching. •  A areal Bank has endowed a professorial chair at the Real Estate Management Institute (REMI), part of the EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht in Wiesbaden. •  A areal Bank Group sponsors the prestigious ”Aareal Award of Excellence in Real Estate Research” at REMI. With the Aareal Award, Aareal Bank and EBS REMI have honoured outstanding academic research in real estate economics every year since 2008. In the period since then, the prize has become a prestigious, inter­n ationally recognised award. •  Moreover, our employees are involved as speakers, and sit on examination boards and other committees, for EBS and other higher education institutions in the region, such as the Frankfurt School of Finance, the Rhein-Main University of Applied Sciences and the University of Applied Sciences Mainz. ”With our involvement, we aim to promote research and create international links between academic research and teaching. Connecting academic expertise and business practice is a key aspect of this. Our exchanges with the academic world help us to identify optimal solutions for financing, consulting and service issues in the commercial and housing property industry.“ Dagmar Knopek, Member of the Management Board of Aareal Bank AG 48 Sustainability Report 2013 | Society • A areal Bank and Aareon also provide the Leipzig University of Cooper­ative Education and the Südwestdeutsche Fachakademie der Immobilienwirtschaft e.V. with guest lecturers and speakers. • A areal Bank sponsors a prize for pioneering theses relating to the housing and property industry at the EBZ Business School (Europäisches Bildungszentrum der Wohnungsund Immobilienwirtschaft) in Bochum. • T he Bank also co-sponsors the Institute for Banking History (IBF – Institut für bankhistorische Forschung) in Frankfurt am Main. Through this involvement, we aim to help make historical experiences in the financial sector accessible for modern-day practice. The IBF has promoted academic research into banking and financial history since 1969. With its wide range of publications and regular events, the IBF informs the wider public about the historic roots of the banking industry. Aareon’s activities in the field of education and academic research focus on promoting young talent and on property industry competitions. • A areon has been a sponsor of the Institute for IT in the Property Industry (Immobilienwirtschaft­ liche Institut für Informationstechnologie) for the past four years. This is an independent platform for information technology research projects. • T he Aareon IT Prize for information technology is awarded twice a year at the Hochschule für Wirtschaft und Umwelt Nürtingen-Geislingen (HfWU). • T he company also sponsors the DW Die Wohnungswirtschaft – Zukunftspreis der Immobilienwirtschaft and the ”Property Manager of the Year” innovation prize. • For the past ten years, the ”Lerninsel” programme has been equipping promising vocational trainees with the skills to become tomorrow’s leaders in the property industry. This joint initiative by Aareon and the Verband norddeutscher Wohnungsunternehmen e.V. (VNW) as well as other associations organises intensive training courses every summer. Charitable and social organisations Aareal Bank Group sponsors charitable and social organisations and is involved in a large number of foundations. • We have been supporting the Zwerg Nase-Stiftung in Wiesbaden as a foundation member and sponsor for many years. Our annual Christmas donation and the money raised from our corporate gifts tombola also go to the Zwerg Nase house. Our employees also raised a further donation of € 5,000 by taking part in the summer party quiz and an online quiz during the reporting period. The Zwerg Nase foundation aims to provide simple, unbureaucratic help to parents with disabled children. • A areal Bank Group also supports Fit for Family Care gGmbH, a non-profit organisation for child care and youth services in Wiesbaden. Among other things, Aareal Bank employees read a story to a kindergarten group every Wednesday. Sustainability Report 2013 | Society 49 •  Since April 2013, Aareal Bank has also been involved in Deutsche Sporthilfe’s ”Future Springboard” Initiative, offering short internships of between four and six weeks to athletes and sporting professionals whose sporting careers are coming to an end and who need to master the transition to new careers. •  Managers and specialist staff from the Company take part every two years in Common Purpose. In this regional training programme, managers from business, charitable organisations and the public sector work together in small groups over the course of a year on issues affecting their area. As part of Aareal Bank Group, Aareon also considers social commitment to be an important feature of its corporate culture. This is why Aareon has supported several organisations over many years that aim to ease life for people in challenging circumstances. •  S ince 1997, Aareon has supported Deutsche Entwicklungshilfe für soziales Wohnungsund Siedlungswesen (DESWOS) in Cologne, as a member and as a donor. In the year under review, the donation to DESWOS once again benefited their project in Nicaragua. Through it, Aareon supports small farmers in Nicaragua in safeguarding the environment they live in. DESWOS works to combat home­ lessness and poverty in developing countries. The foundation is supported by the associations making up the GdW Bundesverband deutscher Wohnungsund Immobilienunternehmen and their members. • Pfarrer-Landvogt-Hilfe e.V. is a group that offers help, advice and care to homeless people. Aareon supports the project by covering the costs of a part time social worker. • Mainzer Hospizgesellschaft also receives an annual donation from Aareon. The company’s contrib­ ution helps the Mainz hospice to keep its hospice and palliative counselling service for outpatients running. Paid and volunteer hospice staff supports the dying and their families at home free of charge during one of the most difficult times imaginable. •  A areon has also been a sponsor of the Kinderhospizverein Olpe, a children’s hospice, for four years. I-stay@home Aareon has been a partner in the I-stay@home initiative for many years. This project offers IT-based solutions that enable people to remain independent in their own homes for as long as possible. It addresses both individuals and housing organisations, as well as entire towns and municipalities. The I-stay@home initiative is a project involving 15 European companies that is sponsored by the European Union. It aims to find suitable solutions to future challenges in connection with the demographic trend in Europe. The project focuses in particular on safety, health and energy consumption. The installation of the test products in the pilot apartments is a milestone. Each housing association installed the selected products in twenty pilot dwellings for tenants to try out for at least a year from February 2014 onwards. The products primarily offer greater comfort and safety in the home – for example, a cooker that switches off automatically when not in use, audible alarm signals to draw attention to water leaks, or a single unit that can control electric lighting in different rooms or switch off energy-consuming devices when they are not being used. The first version of the I-stay@home IT platform will also be available alongside these support devices in the apartments concerned and participants will subject them to rigorous testing. The idea is to link this platform as closely as possible with existing IT devices, to make it easier for older people and people with disabilities to operate. The platform itself offers additional communication and service functions. 50 Sustainability Report 2013 | GRI Index GRI Index Global ComGRI Index Application Page pact Principles level 1. Strategy and Analysis 1-10 1.1 Statement from the Management Board. f 4f. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. f 3, 11f., 14ff., 21ff. 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. f 7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services. f 7f., 23, 25 2.3 Business Segments and operational structure of the organisation. f 7f.; AR 203-205 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. f Wiesbaden, Germany 2.5 Number/names of countries where the organisation operates. f 8 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. f 7; AR 20 2.7 Markets served. f 7f. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. f 8f.; AR 96, 98 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding corporate structure or ownership. f 2; AR 110 2.10 Awards. f 9, 19, 29 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting. f 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. f 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. f 2 3.4 Contact point(s). f 55 3.5 Processes for defining report content. f 2, 12 3.6 Boundary of the report. f 2; AR 203-205 3.7 Description of specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. f 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures etc. f 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations. f 2 3.10 Re-statements/changes in the presentation of information in comparison to earlier reports. f None 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, or measurement methods applied in the report. f 39 3.12 GRI Content Index f 50-53 3.13 External assurance for the report. f None 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 1-10 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including responsibility for sustainability. f 13f.; AR 207, 217ff., 223ff. 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. f AR 208ff., 216 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure: independent and/or non-executive members n.r. Not relevant as Aareal Bank has of the highest governance body. a Supervisory Board 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to f 13; AR 221 Management Board/Supervisory Board. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, f 33f.; AR 184ff. and executives, and the organisation’s achievement of sustainability targets. 4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest. f 18; AR 218f.; Code of Conduct 1-10 4.7 Expertise of the members of the governance bodies with regard to sustainability. f 13f. 1-10 4.8 Mission statement, corporate values and codes of conduct. f 18; Code of Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the Management/Supervisory Board for monitoring the organization’s economic, f 13f.; AR 55ff. environmental and social opportunities and risks. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the Management Board. f AR 184ff., 229 7 4.11 Approach to precautionary measures. f 18, 23; AR 55ff. Sustainability Report 2013 | GRI Index 51 GRI Index Global ComGRI Index Application Page pact Principles level 1-10 4.12 Externally initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. f 18f., 35 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy groups. f 19 1-10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. f 2, 12 4.15 Identification of stakeholders with whom to engage. f 12f. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. f 2, 12f. 1-10 4.17 Comments regarding key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. f 2, 12 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators 1-10 Management Approach – Product and Service Impact f 12, 15, 18, 23f. FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business segments by region, size and by sector. f 9; AR 47, 181f. 1-6 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit. p 23ff., 49 7-9 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit. p 22ff. 1-10 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and p 23 risk assessment procedures. 1-10 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting n.r. organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues. 1-10 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. f 24 1-10 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues in case of share ownership. n.r. 1, 6, 7 Management Approach – Economic Performance Indicators f 7f., 11, 46 EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. f 9, 47ff.; AR 96f., 128f. 7 EC2 Financial implications for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. p 19 1, 6 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations. f 34, AR 140ff. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. f None 1, 6 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. n.r. EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers. p 45 6 EC7 Local hiring of senior management members. p 36 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit. f 47f. EC 9 Significant indirect economic impacts. n.d. 7-9 Management Approach – Environmental Performance Indicators f 17, 23ff., 41f. 8, 9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. f 42f. 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. f 42f. 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption. f 43 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. f 43 7 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. f 43f. 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide more energy-efficient products and services. n.d. 8 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy. f 43f. 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. f 42f. (tap water only) 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. f None 8 EN10 Recycled and reused water. n.r. 8 EN11 Land in, or adjacent to, protected areas. f None 8 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected. f None 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. n.r. 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for protecting biodiversity. n.r. 8 EN15 Endangered species by level of extinction risk. n.r. 8, 9 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. f 44 52 Sustainability Report 2013 | GRI Index GRI Index Global ComGRI Index Application Page pact Principles level 8 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions. f 44f. 7-9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. p 43f. 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. n.r. 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. n.r. 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. n.d. 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. f 43 8 EN23 Spilling of harmful substances. n.r. EN24 Transport of hazardous waste by weight. n.r. EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges of water. n.r. 7-9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services. f 23ff. EN27 Percentage of products whose packaging materials were re-used. n.r. EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. f None 8 EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the f 44f. organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 7, 8 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments. n.d. 1, 3, 6 Management Approach – Work Environment and Working Conditions f 16f., 28ff., 35 LA1 Information on total workforce. f 29f. 6 LA2 Employee turnover. p 29f. LA3 Benefits provided to permanent staff. f 34 1, 3 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. f 30 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes. f 30f. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety n.d. committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 1 LA7 Rates of lost days, injury, and number of work-related fatalities. f 39 LA8 Preventive healthcare programmes, advisory services. f 38 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. n.d. LA10 Average hours of training by employee category. f 31 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning. f 31f., AR 147 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. f 31 1, 6 LA13 Workforce structure/diversity in the organisation’s management. p 29f., 36f. 1, 6 LA14 Remuneration by gender and employee category. f 35, 37 1-6 Management Approach – Human Rights f 17, 30, 35, 41 1-6 HR1 Investment agreements that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have n.r. undergone human rights screening. 1-6 HR2 Human rights screening of suppliers. p 41, 45 1-6 HR3 Training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights. p 35 1, 2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. f None 1-3 HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. f 30f., 45 1, 2, 5 HR6 Principles and measures taken with regard to child labour. n.r. 1, 2, 4 HR7 Principles and measures to eliminate forced labour. f 45 1, 2 HR8 Training of security concerning aspects of human rights. n.r. HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. n.r. 10 Management Approach – Society f 18f., 46 SO1 Programmes and procedures assessing and regulating the impact of operations on local communities. p 12 Sustainability Report 2013 | GRI Index 53 GRI Index Global ComGRI Index Application Page pact Principles level FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged. n.r. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. n.r. 10 SO2 Analysis of risks of corruption. f All units 10 SO3 Anti-corruption training. f 18 10 SO4 Actions taken to prevent corruption. f 18 1-10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in lobbying. n.d. SO6 Total value of contributions to political parties, politicians, etc. f None, Code of Conduct SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, and their outcomes. f None SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. f AR 72, 147f. 1, 8 Management Approach – Product Responsibility (including FS15) f 18, 23f., 27 1, 8 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed. n.r. PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations. n.r. 8 PR3 Product and service labelling. n.r. PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service information and labelling. n.r. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. f 26 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by target group. n.d. PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing n.r. communications. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications. f None PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints data protection. f 27 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of f None products and services. AR = Annual Report 2013; Code of Conduct = www.aareal-bank.com/en/footermenu/code-of-conduct/; n.d. = no data; n.r. = not relevant to our business; p = partial; f = full We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B according to the GRI G3 Guidelines. This has been checked by the GRI and confirmed. 54 Sustainability Report 2013 | GRI Statement Sustainability Report 2013 | Imprint 55 WE CREATE THE SPACE FOR RESPONSIBILITY More information about sustainability at Aareal Bank Group is available here Imprint Responsible for the content: Aareal Bank AG · Henning Zander · Group Sustainability Officer Paulinenstrasse 15 · 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany Phone: +49 611 348 2009 · E-mail: sustainability@aareal-bank.com The report has been prepared in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbH, Munich, Germany Photography: Cover: Alexandra Lechner Werbefotografie Frankfurt, Germany p. 6: Jörg Puchmüller, Wiesbaden, Germany, p. 10, 46: OJO Images/Veer p. 20: PhotoAlto/Veer, p. 28: Ocean Photography/Veer p. 40: Westend61 Photography/Veer, p. 41: Soleilc/Veer Layout/Design: S/COMPANY · Die Markenagentur GmbH, Fulda, Germany Production: ABT Print und Medien GmbH, Weinheim, Germany Editorial deadline: 30 April 2014 Aareal Bank AG Paulinenstrasse 15 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany E-mail: sustainability@aareal-bank.com www.aareal-bank.com 05/ 2014
