Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 complete report Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility contents editorial 4 vision and strategy 6 detailed CSR Report 8 1 CSR approach 1.1. our action priorities for 2014-2016 9 9 1.2. responsible governance 11 1.3. a process fuelled by dialogue 19 1.4. responsible purchasing policy 25 2 employees 2.1. establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance 33 33 2.2. building the Group’s future 39 2.3. promoting workplace diversity 43 3 customer support 3.1. becoming the customers’ choice 47 47 3.2. communicating with peace of mind 53 3.3. supporting families in the safe and responsible use of new technologies 57 4 society 4.1. combating the digital divide 61 61 4.2. supporting local development 69 4.3. responding to concerns about radio waves 75 5 environment 5.1. an ambitious environmental policy 79 79 5.2. combating climate change 81 5.3. optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life 91 5.4. protecting biodiversity and rare resources 97 appendices 100 about this report 100 external opinion 104 environmental data 108 social data 116 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 1 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility benchmarks 236 7,000 sales outlets millions customers 165,000 in 30 employees countries (1) more than 1.5 million used mobiles collected in 2013 in Europe 450,000 km of submarine cables 1,503,945 metric tons of CO2 emissions by the Group in 2013 (1) Non-Orange Business Services 2 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility our presence worlwide enterprise business 220 countries and territories consumer / enterprise business 30 countries Armenia France Luxembourg Uganda UK Belgium Guinea-Bissau Madagascar Poland Senegal Botswana Guinea-Conakry Mali Central African Slovakia Republic Tunisia Cameroon Equatorial Guinea Morocco Democratic Côte d’Ivoire Iraq Mauritius Republic Egypt Jordan Moldova of Congo Spain Kenya Niger Romania 2013 revenue CO2 emissions by country Number of employees by region €41 billion 9.8% 7.0% 1.2% revenue Spain Orange Business Services rest of the world 20.95% 5.4% 7.4% France Europe Poland 9.5% Africa Middle 46.8% 44.99% East Asia France rest of the world 5% Spain 18.1% rest of the world 12.4% Poland 62.1% France 2.4% 29.06% Spain 14.9% Poland International Carriers 3% Enterprise and Shared Services Business Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 3 editorial Corporate Social Responsibility Orange, a committed operator by Stéphane Richard Chairman & Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Orange The digital revolution has totally transformed our lives. It has changed our modes of production and trade; it has changed our approach to work and knowledge, our ways of communicating and our relationships with others. It naturally raises expectations and hopes, as well as concerns and worries. Even so, I have a strong conviction: that digital technology is a tremendous tool for economic and social development and a real innovation catalyst, which must be available to everyone and put at everyone's service. For Orange, as an international company, operating in over 30 countries, there is a signiﬁcant role to play: that of putting In addition to providing access, by deﬁnition a means, we digital technology at the service of society. I would like this develop and deploy appropriate solutions in areas such ambition to become the backbone of our commitment as a as health, education, agriculture, and payment services. In socially responsible company. Africa and the Middle East, Orange Money currently provides To start, this commitment requires responsibility and exemplary access to banking services for over 9 million users. Likewise, behaviour in the conduct of all our activities, with respect to speciﬁc applications for agriculture (remote control of irrigation, all our stakeholders: customers, suppliers, employees and information on market prices, etc.) and health (detection of fake civil society. For our customers, we consider our role to be medicines, online consultations, prevention of epidemics, etc.) their guide in the digital world. Orange is the operator which are real drivers of economic and social development. helps them protect their personal data and private lives, which Our commitment is also to support digital talent which primarily supports families' safe use of digital resources which enables relies on the daily involvement of the Group's teams. If we further thoughts on technology impacts within an open naturally support specialized schools we most importantly offer discussion platform named Digital Society Forum. We have also internships to over 5,000 students, and our employees are adopted an ambitious approach to reduce the impact of our involved in tutoring. Similarly, everyone's commitment is what activities on the environment, principally by reducing our energy makes our Open Innovation process meaningful. By cultivating consumption and our carbon footprint, recycling equipment, the sharing of information and know-how, and by developing in particular mobile phones, and designing eco-friendly strong partnerships with other companies, we contribute to the products and services. As well, we offer innovative solutions development of the digital ecosystem. To achieve this, we have to help customers, companies and territories in their ecological set up start-up accelerators, linked directly with our Orange transition. Labs in Paris, San Francisco, Tokyo and Warsaw, as well as Our mission as a committed operator – ensuring that the digital Dakar and more recently Niamey. revolution beneﬁts everyone – builds on from that requirement. Lastly, we are convinced that with digital tools, new socially We are waging this battle on three fronts: access to digital tools, responsible economic models are now emerging, so we support the deployment of innovative digital services which are vectors initiatives which help speed up this transformation. For example, of progress, and support for talents and their projects in the in France we have formed a partnership with La Ruche, a digital ﬁeld. business incubator dedicated to social entrepreneurship. So, to reduce the “digital divide”, we invest so that everyone Accelerating the spread of the digital revolution and supporting can have access to the best possible network, even in the most innovation to promote economic, social and environmental remote areas: in France, this means 4G for already 50% of the progress – such is my ambition for Orange, a committed, population and the coverage of “dead zones”; in Africa, this socially responsible operator. means 3G, solar sites and community phones. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange editorial Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, a driver of progress and innovation by Muriel Pénicaud For the past three years, I've been a member of the Board of Directors of Orange, and Chairman of the Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee tasked with informing the Board and assisting it in its decisions. This privileged position enables me to observe the company's long-term approach to corporate social and environmental criteria, as well as verify and reinforce their effective integration in its strategy. What I see at Orange is very encouraging. CSR is not new to the company. Ingrained in the DNA of Orange, whose prime mission is to create links between people, the operator's corporate social responsibility rests on its commitment to put digital technologies at the service of populations and territories. General Manager of Danone Human Resources and member This position is further supported by the company's history, its of the Executive Committee of Danone until end-2013, human resources and its exceptional network across regions currently Chairman of the National Economy Education and countries – in France, in other European countries, in Africa Board and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Danone and in the Middle East. It is upheld by the everyday commitment Ecosystem Fund, Muriel Pénicaud is an independent director of Orange employees and by the numerous initiatives of the at Orange. In this capacity, she chairs the Governance and Orange Foundation. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. However, despite or due to the many initiatives conducted in numerous CSR aspects, Orange has long abstained from publicising its achievements! Yet, highlighting CSR initiatives is model through recycling or second-hand sale. Tomorrow's essential to enable the largest number of people, both inside social, technological and environmental performance will be and outside the company, to understand their meaning and inseparable from economic performance. share their results – a prerequisite to move on to the next step. Indeed, the appropriation, involvement, exchange and pride In all countries where the Group operates – each with its of stakeholders (employees, customers, suppliers, territories, own degree of priorities – clear, coordinated initiatives are etc.) is part and parcel of the CSR endeavour. Orange has undertaken in these areas, which have business implications understood the importance of this matter and has decided for the operator, as well as social implications for the countries to structure its CSR approach in order to better coordinate in which it operates. Orange has understood that these two initiatives, previously seen as diffuse, and thereby greatly aspects need to be tackled together and coordinated within the amplify their effects. framework of a corporate strategy using CSR as a link between business and society, which enhances the social value of the The other encouraging and promising CSR development Orange brand. at Orange is the growing integration of this approach in the Group's strategy. As deﬁned by Stéphane Richard with the support of the Board of Directors, Orange's strategy rests on a vision of innovation While there is still a long way to go, I think that Orange is on open to all stakeholders: customers, employees, scientists, the right track. This is conﬁrmed by the Group's approach in major manufacturers, young entrepreneurs, etc. I see this as all its dialogues with stakeholders and its anticipation of its a good opportunity for the Group, and the means to go even legal reporting obligations. This commitment is also seen in further in terms of CSR. Indeed, Orange's skills, digital expertise the way the Group deals with the issue of employee diversity, and social commitment provide a great opportunity to develop provides information to customers concerning radio waves new services to connect distant people, enhance the day-to-day and data protection, and puts forward solutions to the life of disabled and non-mobile persons, transform education various forms of digital divide. Meeting the combined social, and make it available to everyone, reduce energy consumption, industrial, economic and environmental requirements is also promote entrepreneurial creativity, develop innovation on a part of Orange's daily CSR challenge: supporting the upsurge daily basis, etc. To put it simply, in thousands of areas within its in network uses and trafﬁc while consuming less energy activities and around them, the innovation supported by Orange and emitting less CO2, and organising the difﬁcult task of can be a vector of social progress. collecting end-of-life equipment to establish a value-creation Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 5 vision and strategy Orange, a committed operator in a changing world Orange, a committed operator in a changing world With factors such as population growth, the dwindling of resources, geopolitical shifts, the challenging of traditional powers, new patterns of consumption and interaction, and the emancipation of civil societies, the world is changing under the impetus of information and communication technologies. Our immersion in the digital world puts us in a privileged position to support these transformations, but also gives us greater responsibility. For Orange, acting as a socially responsible company means supporting these changes, as well as using them to drive progress and development for everyone. Embedded in the company's strategy and addressing industrial, social and environmental challenges, our CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) approach is at the heart of the digital transformation. As a committed operator, Orange must ﬁnd new ways of creating value, in keeping with the expectations of this fast-moving world: for Orange, CSR thus acts as a trailblazer , to think up and experiment with new models, beyond business as usual. Like for our open innovation endeavour, the idea is to open up the Group to a new way of seeing itself as a socially committed player. Its major focus: making the most of digital technology to accelerate progress for everyone. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange vision and strategy Orange, a committed operator in a changing world vision and strategy A dual ambition With a solid base that has earned us recognition as a benchmark operator, we want to go even further through an increasingly open and socially committed CSR approach. Our new CSR strategy thus has a dual ambition: ■ making our social responsibility commitment an ■ strengthening our position as a trusted operator, by accelerator of progress for everyone, by opening up accelerating the deployment of the policies adopted over to new forms of collaboration and interaction with all recent years. our stakeholders to promote the emergence of novel ideas and innovative economic models driving progress for all This requires exemplary internal practices to prevent (individuals, territories, communities and the environment). corruption and ensure respect for human rights, the greater integration of CSR criteria in our purchasing processes, It means ﬁghting against all digital divides by accelerating ongoing adherence to our fundamental commitments as the deployment of our networks, developing products and a responsible employer and supporting our employees in services which facilitate use of digital technology by the the digitisation of our functions. It also means pursuing elderly and disabled, and by removing educational, cultural our ongoing ambition of excellence in terms of customer or economic barriers for vulnerable populations. experience by continuously improving our quality of service. In these times of big data and digital revolution, This means placing digital technology at the service it also means protecting our customers' personal data of economic and social development, for example by through more stringent requirements in terms of network developing dynamic local ecosystems based on new security, the protection of freedom of expression and the technologies to meet the needs of local populations in the right to privacy. On a broader level, it involves clarifying the ﬁelds of health, education or agriculture; it means supporting utilisation of digital technologies by assisting families in their the emergence of new talents and growth models through safe and responsible use. innovative services and collaborative working and invention spaces which give digital economy players the possibility of Our CSR strategy also rests on the existing strong ties with imagining new means of creating and prospering. our stakeholders, because we know we can't go it alone and that it is indispensable to mobilise all the players concerned: It also means addressing the challenge of climate change by employees, customers, suppliers, economic partners, public investing in new-generation network equipment to reverse authorities, NGOs, as well as competitors. Through ever the energy consumption trend despite the considerable closer, ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders, and our increase in new digital uses and the growing number of active involvement in industry forums and initiatives, we will customers. And taking action to offer real solutions for the be able to make headway in the integration of sustainable transition to an ecological, energy-efﬁcient system: through development principles. the design of eco-friendly products and services, the launch of offers supporting the development of a green economy, and closer collaboration with our suppliers, industrial partners and public authorities to promote the emergence of new production models, consumer habits, etc. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 7 vision and strategy Orange, a committed operator in a changing world a solid base On the strength of a responsible governance model, the willingness to listen to stakeholders, coordination tools and policies, we have built a solid base which enables us to integrate CSR criteria in all Group functions at all levels. This CSR approach is structured around four main ﬁelds of action: ■ the Group's employees, at the centre of our development areas, launched several products and services dedicated strategy: within the scope of our commitments as a to elderly and disabled persons and held over 1,000 newresponsible employer, our actions have included the technology workshops within the scope of the Orange implementation of the social contract in France and the Digital Solidarity programme. Our Orange for Development deployment of the Orange People Charter in 23 countries; programme has already provided tangible beneﬁts such we set up the social barometer survey and the Composite as the set-up of business incubators in Senegal and Indicator of Social Performance taken into consideration Niger, the Orange Social Venture Prize in Africa, the Data in the remuneration of the Group's senior executives; we for Development challenge and the launch of several also improved our occupational risk prevention measures innovative mobile services on African markets in the and deployed an innovative policy concerning workplace ﬁelds of health, agriculture and mobile banking. We also diversity and gender equality, which earned the company launched the Digital Society Forum to open discussions on numerous awards and certiﬁcation under the Gender the changes brought about by new technologies, and set Equality European Standard; up a Group information site on radio waves, both for the sake of transparency. ■ our customers, in respect of whom we must meet all our commitments to continue to be recognised as a trusted ■ the environment, that we must preserve by reducing our operator: we thus set up a stringent policy concerning impacts and developing innovative solutions to support the service quality, which is monitored on a continuous basis needed transition to ecological, energy-efﬁcient economic through a dedicated indicator, the Customer Experience models: we have deﬁned and deployed operational Tracker, taken into consideration in the bonus of top energy action plans in 22 countries to attain the objective managers. We also take account of our customers' of a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions between 2006 growing concerns for the protection of personal data and 2020, set up Group guidelines to optimise waste and the protection of children: to that effect, we signed management, launched eco-friendly collection campaigns the Orange Charter for the protection of personal data, and offers to buy back mobile phones in several European deployed parental control tools, set up training sessions countries; we also contributed, in partnership with including courses for parents, and organised numerous Emmaüs International, to the set-up of electronic waste awareness raising campaigns on safe and responsible collection and treatment schemes in African countries. uses of new technologies through partnerships with Being the ﬁrst operator to introduce the green labelling of specialised organisations and by taking part in all industry mobile and ﬁxed-line phones (as early as 2008 in France), initiatives to promote safer Internet use; we also launched several products and services which contribute to the development of the green economy: ■ society, in which and for which we play a major role: to electronic billing, video conferencing, sustainable mobility enable the largest possible number to beneﬁt from access services, smart meters and other innovative Smart City to the digital world, we have deployed 3G and 4G networks applications. in Europe and in the AMEA region, invested heavily to ﬁll white areas, helped to breach the digital divide in Africa Learn about all our initiatives in the detailed fact sheets through the laying of submarine cables and deployment included in this report. of innovative solutions (including over 2,300 solar stations and 4,350 community phones) to cover remote rural 8 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 1.1. our action priorities for 2014-2016 CSR approach 1 For the 2014-2016 period, our CSR goal centers around of eight priorities covering all our ﬁelds of action, starting at the very heart of the company with special attention being paid to employees and extending to our customers, society and the environment as a whole, with the intention of sharing our social responsibility values with our industry and our stakeholders. CSR approach ce vernan stak eh R go old S e report ue ing og ial an rd dC employees customers environment society s pu ht rc rig as an h in g h um Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 9 1 CSR approach our action priorities for 2014-2016 our action priorities our main drivers ■ continue the deployment of our social ■ monitor and improve the quality of life at work, responsibility model in the aim of being ■ support of employees in the Group's digitisation process, recognised, by 2015, as one of the ■ innovative policy concerning workplace diversity and preferred employers in the main countries gender equality; in which we operate. ■ promote safe and responsible use of our ■ data protection, products and services. ■ assist families in the safe use of digital technology; ■ monitor and improve service quality and customer relations, ■ lead the way in terms of service quality and ■ open partnerships (open innovation) to offer innovative customer experience on all our markets. services to customers, ■ responsible communications; ■ use information and communication ■ support entrepreneurship and local innovation (social technologies to promote economic and venture prize and deployment of new business social development at the local level: create incubators), sector-speciﬁc offers and support the ■ action in favour of digital talents, emergence of fairer development models. ■ data for development programme; ■ rapid deployment of high-speed and superfast networks in Europe and the AMEA region, ■ promote digital inclusion by developing ■ approach addressing the needs of vulnerable offers and solutions for as many people populations, as possible and reduce all forms of digital ■ strategy to provide access to elderly and disabled divide. persons, ■ digital education; ■ reduce the Group's carbon footprint: ■ deployment of energy action plans for networks, controlling energy consumption and buildings and transport, lower its CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 ■ participate in the development of a recycling and process (compared with 2006), and optimise the chain for end-of-life equipment, life cycle of our equipment to reduce our ■ integrate criteria concerning rare resources impacts on the environment, biodiversity and biodiversity; and rare resources. ■ support the transition to an ecological, ■ deployment of mobile device collection and recycling energy-efﬁcient system through the schemes on the European markets, design of eco-friendly products and ■ partnerships to develop innovative green solutions services, the development of green offers (smart cities, smart grids, sustainable mobility, etc.), that enable customers to reduce their using big data, environmental impacts and that contribute ■ digital solutions that contribute to the development to a positive economy that generates new of new economic models (circular economy, service production and consumption models. economy, collaborative economy, etc.); ■ responsible purchasing policy, notably within ■ propagate CSR principles in the the framework of the Joint Audit Cooperation, telecommunications sector and within ■ participation in industry initiatives to promote better our sphere of inﬂuence, and shed integration of CSR criteria (protection of freedom of light on the digital impacts for a better expression and human rights, protection of children, appropriation by everyone. the environment, accessibility, etc.), ■ innovative uses of dialogue with stakeholders. For each of these priorities, detailed action plans have been deﬁned and can be examined in the detailed roadmaps included at the end of the various sections of the report. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 1.2. responsible governance CSR approach 1 To ensure the implementation of our CSR approach and to be recognised by stakeholders as a trustworthy operator, responsibility at Orange is based on a clear structure and governance principles, with particular vigilance as regards the challenges of preventing corruption and respecting human rights. 1.2.1. a structured, Group-wide approach a rigorous and audited process CSR approach Embraced at the highest level of the organisation, Orange’s CSR approach is underpinned by a dedicated organisation, Orange’s CSR approach applies the principles of inclusivity, involving all employees in every business and country in which materiality and responsiveness, as deﬁned in the AA1000 the Group operates: Accountability Principles Standard (2008). This is the international reference for corporate social responsibility and ■ the Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility emphasises the need to take stakeholder requirements into Committee, formed by the Board of Directors, ratiﬁes account (see appendices for more details on the application of strategic CSR approach and procedures; AA1000 APS). ■ the CSR Department: headed up by a member of the senior The Group has also adopted the principles deﬁned in the management team, the department ensures that guidelines is ISO 26000 standard on Corporate Social Responsibility. deployed throughout the Company’s operations by providing technical and methodological support to subsidiaries and CSR is managed through a special reporting tool, which reporting on projects to the Group Executive Committee; measures changes in the performance of each entity through qualitative and quantitative questionnaires. The deﬁnitions and ■ CSR sponsors reporting to the highest organisational level methodologies for reporting each indicator have been clearly have been appointed in each Group function and entity formalised in line with the relevant international guidelines, operating across all our markets. They meet in a CSR particularly those of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI – see Sponsors Committee or communicate directly with the orange.com). Group CSR Department. They ensure implementation of the strategic guidelines deﬁned by the Executive Committee; For several years, Orange has had an external CSR audit carried out by one of its auditors in order to ensure the ■ the network of CSR managers covers all Group entities and reliability of indicators and the proper application of the Group’s business lines and contributes to the operational deployment commitments in the entities (see appendices). of guidelines. The network meets six times a year. focus main CSR awards received in 2013 ■ Orange won the TSF prize at the Global Carrier Awards ■ Orange Poland’s 2012 CSR report was commended in recognition of its continued efforts to counter fraud by the Polish Ministry of Economy for the company’s and corruption. continuing improvement of standards in this area. Praise for the report also included the system for measuring the ■ Orange was also ranked by the French Minister of effectiveness of Orange Poland’s social initiatives. Women’s Rights as the top company for increasing the number of women in senior management positions. ■ The Polish subsidiary’s safer internet programme for children programme, in partnership with Nobody’s ■ Several of the Group’s subsidiaries (Belgium, France, Children Foundation, received an award at the 2013 Polish Spain, Romania, Poland, Slovakia and Orange Business European CSR Awards. The European CSR awards are Services in the UK) obtained the Top Employer organised in 30 countries by the European Commission certification, in recognition of their responsible to inspire CSR innovation. Orange Poland’s initiative won employment policies. recognition as the best partnership with an NGO. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 11 1 CSR approach responsible governance recognised performances In order to gain an external view of its policy, Orange responds Orange Poland afﬁliate has also ﬁgured in the RESPECT index, to questionnaires from non-ﬁnancial rating agencies every which is the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s index of the best CSR year and maintains regular dialogue with ﬁnancial analysts and performers. socially responsible investors. Orange is also in the SAM rating agency 2014 Sustainability The Group has been included in the FTSE4Good (since 2002), Yearbook. as well as the NYSE Euronext VIGEO World 120, VIGEO Europe 120 and VIGEO France 20 indices. For the past six years, our focus Orange organised its ﬁrst Compliance Day The first Compliance Day organised by the Group Chief employees to explain Compliance and answer questions. Compliance Officer took place on 2 October 2013. The 500 or so employees of Mobinil in Egypt attended the event took place simultaneously in the majority of the three sessions organised in Cairo. Coinciding with these Group’s entities in France and around the world with meetings and talks, the Group Intranet highlighted the the participation of several members of the Executive Group’s Compliance achievements during the year and the Committee, who personally made presentations to large compliance page received almost 50,000 hits on that day. audiences. A number of country directors, such as Poland The success of Compliance Day was such that the event and Romania, were directly involved in meeting with will be organised again in 2014. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 1.2.2. CSR, central to Group governance focus CSR approach responsible governance 1 The Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee further recognition for Orange’s anti-corruption reports directly to the Board of Directors and provides Orange programme with the organisational structure to guarantee that CSR In 2013, Orange won the TSF prize at the Global Carrier challenges inform policy at the highest decision-making level. Awards for its efforts to counter fraud and corruption. The committee met several times in 2013 to examine the Orange had been singled out in 2012 for the transparency procedures for ensuring integration of CSR data in the of its anti-corruption measures and was ranked eighth management report, the application of CSR approach (and in first place in the telecommunications sector) in throughout the Group, and to address speciﬁc issues, such the “Transparency in Corporate Reporting” classification, as radio waves, and the ethics and prevention of corruption published by Transparency International. programme. CSR approach Furthermore, the CSR Department presents regular updates on proactive prevention of fraud and corruption focus Several years ago, Orange drew up a proactive strategy to prevent the risks of fraud and corruption and reduce any of its e-RESIST, corruption prevention e-learning possible consequences. programme An alert system, compliant with CNIL (French data privacy 2013 saw Orange roll out e-RESIST on-line training, a authority) rules, allows employees to voice their concerns and programme developed by the International Chamber of report any breaches in complete conﬁdentiality. Commerce (ICC), the United Nations Global Compact, Transparency International and the World Economic At the end of 2012, the Group decided to consolidate its antiForum. Based on real-life scenarios, RESIST provides corruption strategy by drawing up a formal anti-corruption practical guidance for employees on how to prevent policy aimed at integrating the principle of zero tolerance into and/or respond to an inappropriate demand by a client, daily practices. This policy is available on www.orange.com in business partner or public authority. the commitments/responsibility/vision section. Implementation is backed by a dedicated organisation: a Group Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer guarantees compliance with standards and the deployment of the corresponding programs. A Group compliance function oversees an integrated approach to CSR strategy to the Group Executive Committee. compliance to guarantee a robust protection against regulatory, ﬁnancial and reputational risk (see review). a founding document: the Group’s Code of Ethics Our Code of Ethics was adopted in 2003 by the Board of Directors and is aligned with the fundamental principles of the focus Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations Global Compact and the ethics at the heart of customer relations guiding principles of the OECD for multinational corporations. The Group’s annual ethics forum on 3 October 2013 Available in eight languages, it was disseminated in all Group addressed two major issues: “build loyalty by building countries. Orange ethics into service relations” and “ethics and Big Data”. The Group’s four-member Ethics Committee, whose members are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, To promote trust with our customers, the Group oversees consistent application of the Code of Ethics and developed a frame of reference for ethics in service monitors ethical practices in the Group. relations based on three priorities: transparency in offers, ethical behaviour in all interactions with customers, and The network of ethics correspondents helps to roll out safe and responsible usages. This frame of reference awareness-raising and training campaigns in all countries, includes self-assessment by countries and has been according to local contexts. piloted in Cameroon, France and Romania with countryspecific adaptations in line with the local context. The Orange charter for the protection of personal data published in November 2013 (see section 3.2) fully supports our vision of a responsible operator as far as Big Data is concerned. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 13 1 CSR approach responsible governance increased commitment with respect to human rights focus Orange was one of the ﬁrst companies to sign the United Nations Global Compact in 2000, thus asserting its commitment report on transparency of government requests to respecting and promoting basic human rights in its activities for customer personal data and sphere of inﬂuence. This commitment is explicitly included in the Group’s Code of Ethics, and in the global agreement with Orange, like all operators, has contact with governmental the UNI Global Union on basic social rights within the Group, services that are in charge of security. These contacts are signed in 2006. governed according to strict compliance with the law, under the government’s responsibility, and very often, Orange is also a founding member of the Telecommunications monitored by judges. Orange follows the principles Industry Dialogue, which is a union of operators and outlined below, particularly in terms of transparency, and manufacturers in the telecommunications sector, formed in will make every effort to regularly publish a maximum 2011 to establish a joint dialogue with stakeholders on human of information on government requests, subject to that rights issues. More speciﬁcally, the Industry Dialogue addresses information being able to be rendered public according two key issues for the sector, namely freedom of expression to local law. and customer privacy. It is primarily based on the international framework of the UN: “Protect, Respect & Remedy”. In In France, the Commission nationale de contrôle des March 2013, the member companies signed up to abide by interceptions de sécurité (CNCIS, French national joint action principles to establish a shared frame of reference. commission monitoring security-related information These principles are available on orange.com or on the Industry collection) issues a report that details these requests, Dialogue website (www.telecomindustrydialogue.org). which is available at the following web address: http:// www.ladocumentationfrancaise.fr/var/storage/rapportsThe Group has also signed a two-year partnership with the publics/134000156/0000.pdf. This independent, highGlobal Network Initiative (www.globalnetworkinitiative.org) level commission is chaired by two elected members for collective reﬂection and to exchange good practices with of the French parliament (a deputy and a senator) as regard to the challenges posed by freedom of expression and well as by a high-ranking judge of the French Supreme protection of privacy within the telecommunications sector. Court, assisted by two other judges. Orange is a very active participant in the various working groups of both the Industry Dialogue and the GNI. In September 2013, Orange was elected as president of the Industry Dialogue for a period of 6 months. The table below details the actions undertaken to implement the principles. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange reporting on the Industry Dialogue principles CSR approach responsible governance 1 guiding principles of the Industry Dialogue main Orange Group actions Create and/or maintain relevant policies, with Board oversight Signature of the Industry Dialogue principles, following a review or equivalent, outlining the commitment to prevent, assess, by the Group Executive Committee and availability in several and mitigate to the best of their ability the risks to freedom of languages on the orange.com website in March 2013. expression and privacy associated with designing, selling, and Publication of the Orange data protection charter in operating telecommunications technology and telecommunications November 2013. services. Conduct regular human rights impact assessments and use In 2013, Orange called on the services of a specialist ﬁrm to draw due diligence processes, as appropriate to the company, to up guidelines to prioritise human rights risks in each country identify, mitigate and manage risks to freedom of expression and in which the Group has or plans to have a presence. CSR approach privacy – whether in relation to particular technologies, products, services, or countries – in accordance with the Guiding Principles for the Implementation of the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework. Create and/or maintain operational processes and routines to Work jointly with the Group Security Department with responsibility evaluate and handle government requests that may have an in these areas. impact on freedom of expression and privacy. Creation of two new human rights indicators in September 2013 (with initial data to be escalated in 2013): ■ number of employees trained in human rights issues; ■ number of cases in which government authorities requested a restriction of human rights, in countries where applicable law allows this, and action taken to manage those requests. Adopt, where feasible, strategies to anticipate, respond and Complaint ﬁled by Orange with the courts for illegal surveillance minimise the potential impact on freedom of expression and of subscribers on a submarine cable privacy in the event that a government demand or request is received that is unlawful or where governments are believed to be misusing products or technology for illegitimate purposes. Always seek to ensure the safety and liberty of company personnel This general Orange Group principle was applied during recent who may be placed at risk. events, notably during the Arab Spring. In 2013, Orange faced no major events that posed a threat to the freedom of expression of its personnel. During the political upheavals in Egypt, Mali, the Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Orange implemented measures to guarantee the safety of its personnel. Raise awareness and train relevant employees in related policies In 2011, the Group created a CSR e-learning module, including and processes. a section on protecting human rights. Share knowledge and insights, where relevant and appropriate, Orange is a very active participant in the various working groups with all relevant and interested stakeholders to improve of the Industry Dialogue together with other sector members, understanding of the applicable legal framework and the especially in the working group on sharing tools and case studies effectiveness of these principles in practice, and to provide support or mechanisms for handling complaints. for the implementation and further development of the principles. Participation in a learning forum organized by the Industry Dialogue and the GNI in Brussels on 13 and 14 November 2013. Report externally on an annual basis, and whenever circumstances The Group’s annual CSR report includes a chapter on respect make it relevant, on their progress in implementing the principles, for human rights, which addresses the principles of the Industry and as appropriate on major events occurring in this regard. Dialogue, with the level of transparency allowed by law. Help to inform the development of policy and regulations to Group-level dialogue in November 2013 in the framework of the support freedom of expression and privacy including, alone or Industry Dialogue on freedom of expression and privacy during in cooperation with other entities, seeking to mitigate potential an Internet governance forum, with considerable participation on negative impacts from policies or regulations. the part of NGOs. Examine, as a group, options for implementing relevant grievance In 2013, Orange was part of the Industry Dialogue working mechanisms, as outlined in Principle 31 of the UN Guiding group on sharing tools (see above), formed to address the Principles for Business and Human Rights. issue of grievance mechanisms and to examine the various options for issuing precise recommendations. Launch of a joint Orange and CSR Europe working group in 2013. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 15 1 CSR approach responsible governance some key dates 1996 2011 ■ signing of the ETNO* Environmental Charter. ■ signing of the ICT Coalition for a Safer Internet for Children and Young People. 2000 ■ signing of the UN Global Compact**. 2012 ■ publication of Orange’s ten commitments for contributing 2003 to the implementation of the Digital Agenda for Europe ■ adoption of the Group Code of Ethics. launched by the European Commission; ■ formal statement of the Group’s anti-corruption policy and 2006 appointment of a Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer; ■ signing of Group agreement with the UNI Global Union***. ■ launch of the Industry Dialogue. 2007 ■ signing of the European reference framework for safer use 2013 of mobile telephones by teenagers and children. ■ deﬁnition of the new strategic priorities for the period 2014-2016; 2008 ■ publication of the Orange Charter for the protection of ■ signing of Caring for Climate. personal data; 2009 ■ signing of the Industry Dialogue action principles. ■ signing of the Code of Best Practice for Women in ICTs drawn up under the aegis of the European Commission. Z a fair value sharing model Orange has put in place a value sharing model that distributes the wealth created between all the stakeholders fairly. sums reinvested into the Group to ensure its durability sums allocated to stakeholders €9 billion employees (labour costs) €18 billion suppliers (purchase of goods and services) €6.2 billion customer support Net capital expenditures on tangible (revenues) €1.6 billion and intangible assets banks and bondholders (net ﬁnancial expenses) €0.8 billion €41 billion €1.7 billion R&D expenditure shareholders €0.2 billion €5 billion reduction of the debt and other elements public authorities (duties and taxes) €0.1 billion corporate sponsorship and philanthropy * European Telecommunications Network Operators ** United Nations *** Union Network International 16 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 review CSR approach responsible governance 1 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ethics As part of the programme 2013 ■ update to the practical ethics guide and improvements to the ethics for the continuous e-learning module to include raising awareness about conﬂicts of interest improvement of the Group’s and to provide new case studies from different countries (already available ethics programme, each in French and English, and soon to be translated into Spanish, Polish, country, entity or area Romanian and Arabic); creates its own programme ■ self-assessment guide on the ethics of service relations drawn up CSR approach of actions for the areas and tested in three countries (Cameroon, France and Romania) prior to selected at Group level: a planned gradual roll-out in 2014; ■ raise awareness of the concept of conﬂicts of ■ publication of the Orange data protection charter in November 2013 interest by reinforcing (see section 3.2). actions already taken to prevent detect declare and handle all kinds of relationships: clients, employees and suppliers, etc.; ■ develop ethical customer service relations with regard to: ■ the protection of client data, ■ proper conduct towards competitors, ■ social networks: attitude to be adopted for professional or personal interactions, ■ client relations with regard to marketing, sales and after-sales service. anti-corruption measures ■ in terms of anti-corruption, ■ roll-out of a structured approach across the Group, broken down into six roll out Group policy stages. This is based on leadership provided by senior management, the guidelines in each country creation of ad hoc governance structures, a risk assessment covering the and implement the Group as a whole and each entity, the deﬁnition of an appropriate policy, compliance section. communication and training initiatives, as well as checks to measure the programme’s effectiveness; ■ creation of a network of 17 Chief Compliance Ofﬁcers and 70 Compliance Ofﬁcers to relay and develop the policy; ■ preparation of a Compliance Guide for the business market; ■ strengthened Orange Foundation anti-corruption procedures to guarantee against conﬂicts of interest when selecting projects: addition of an anti-corruption clause in the Foundation’s governance charter (December 2013). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 17 1 CSR approach responsible governance objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 respect for human rights ■ bring Group reporting 2013 ■ presentation of the issues to countries during a seminar held in Paris into line with the GRI in June 2013; human rights reporting ■ creation of new human rights indicators in September 2013 recommendations, (with initial data to be reported in 2014): ■ launch of a human rights impact study at end-2013 with the aim of prioritising impacts in each country in which the Group operates. ■ formalise Orange’s 2013 ■ signature of the Industry Dialogue principles in March 2013 ; principles of action ■ spokesperson for the Industry Dialogue: with regard to freedom ■ Freedom Online Coalition Tunis 17 June 2013, of expression within ■ Learning Forum with GNI in Brussels, 13-14 November 2013. the Industry Dialogue, of which Orange is a founding member; ■ collaborate with the Global 2013 ■ formal meeting on 9 September 2013 in Paris of the members of the Network initiative to Industry Dialogue and GNI and creation of working groups. beneﬁt from its recognised expertise in this area. roadmap objectives deadline ethics ■ roll out the new ethics e-learning module in all Group entities and countries. 2014-2015 anti-corruption measures ■ carry out an assessment of corruption risks and continue anti-corruption training through deployment 2014 of e-learning. respect for human rights ■ roll out the 10 principles of the Industry Dialogue in all countries in which the Group has a presence; 2014 ■ carry out an assessment of human rights risks for the Group focusing on high-risk countries; 2014 ■ raise awareness amongst employees on the position papers published by the Industry Dialogue, 2014 focusing in particular on surveillance and differences between operators and Internet service providers. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 1.3. a process fuelled by dialogue CSR approach 1 Orange’s CSR approach is founded on structured dialogue with stakeholders. Consistently listening to stakeholders ensures that the Group’s projects are aligned with stakeholder priorities, keeps us in tune with emerging challenges and needs and allows us to identify opportunities. 1.3.1. a structured methodology at country level focus CSR approach For several years, Orange has developed a method for structured dialogue with its stakeholders based on the three Orange Niger renews stakeholder dialogue principles of the AA1000 standard: Three years on from its first stakeholder dialogue, ■ inclusivity: identify stakeholders that make up the Company’s Orange Niger set out to renew the campaign, with the ecosystem and then survey a large representative sample; objective of assessing its CSR action programme taking local developments into consideration (new challenges, ■ materiality: adapt the basis for surveys aimed at stakeholders new players and emerging expectations around new to the local context; technologies) and measuring the perception of the actions undertaken following on from the first dialogue ■ responsiveness: design and implement action programmes process. to address stakeholder expectations and concerns. 40 or more stakeholders were approached: 31 external This approach is implemented both at Group and business line stakeholders (representatives of public authorities, civil levels, to ensure the coherence of global policies, and at country society, customers and business partners), and seven level, which is the most in touch with local issues and players. employees (including two employee representatives). ■ In France, Spain and Poland, dialogue with stakeholders is 12 workshops were held with two to four stakeholders well established and thus requires advanced programmes belonging to the same category. The two priority to enrich the analysis of CSR challenges year after year (see expectations of external stakeholders that emerged from review). the process were innovative products and services for sustainable development, and the contribution to local ■ For subsidiaries whose stakeholder dialogue structure does social and economic development. Concerns around not have the same level of maturity, we have developed a these two issues have intensified significantly between turnkey method, the CSR Dialogue Toolkit. Based on internal 2010 and 2013. Internally, the two priorities identified reﬂection workshops and external interviews with stakeholder relate to the customer experience and innovative representatives, this method confronts internal and external products and services for sustainable development. opinions on the subsidiary’s CSR issues. An action plan Following this dialogue process, Orange Niger set new is then created which is tailored to the expectations and priority initiatives and is working on the corresponding concerns of local stakeholders and in line with the Group’s action plan. CSR priorities. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 19 1 CSR approach a process fuelled by dialogue 1.3.2. thematic applications of stakeholder dialogue focus open the debate on societal changes ushered in Having seen the beneﬁts of the stakeholder dialogue method in by the digital revolution the subsidiaries, in 2012 Orange undertook a study to develop In accordance with the principle of responsiveness this methodology, using it to focus on a speciﬁc issue within a enshrined in standard AA 1000, responsible engagement country, such as e-agriculture in Africa, or to identify the bases should also facilitate responding to the concerns of for innovation in a speciﬁc area. stakeholders. The aims of the Digital Society Forum are Following implementation in Mali in 2012, dialogue on to open the debate on the impact of new technologies m-agriculture (mobile services for agriculture) turned to three on our daily lives, and give the keys to keeping control new African countries in 2013, i.e. Madagascar, Senegal and of digital technologies. Initiated by Orange in April 2013, Cameroon. In all, 130 stakeholders were surveyed in six African in collaboration with Psychologies Magazine and the countries. The discussions led to Orange launching a number of Fondation Internet Nouvelle Génération (FING), the innovative m-Agri offers and to the publication in December 2013 collaborative site promotes dialogue on the challenges of the Group’s ﬁrst catalogue of m-Agri products in Africa (see ushered in. Sociologists, psychologists, researchers and chapter on “supporting local development” p. 69). digital operators consider the impact of technology on our everyday lives and share their views with the general A speciﬁc process of dialogue also took place in January 2013 public through round-table discussions, collaborative for the business incubator, CTIC Dakar, to explore the needs workshops and on-line events. The Digital Society Forum and expectations of stakeholders. is already a force to be reckoned with: three forums organised in 2013, seven collaborative workshops Several dialogues in 2013 addressed speciﬁc social challenges with 200 participants in various cities, more than 600 as part of the Digital Society Forum (see focus), within the subscribers to the website, 100 or more published Industry Dialogue (see section “responsible governance”) or in articles and 60 or more videos on line. JAC forums (see “responsible purchasing”). for more information, go to: http://digital-society-forum.orange.com/en/ some key dates 2006 2012 ■ completion, with the help of a specialist agency, of a Group ■ launch of speciﬁc dialogue processes for e-agriculture in study of stakeholders’ expectations in mobile telephony and Africa and at Orange Business Services. the Internet. 2013 2008 ■ dialogue on e-agriculture in Madagascar, Senegal and ■ ﬁrst structured dialogue processes with stakeholders in Cameroon; France, Spain and Poland. ■ dialogue on the expectations of the Dakar incubator 2009 stakeholders; ■ preparation by the CSR Department of the “CSR Dialogue ■ launch of Group dialogue on freedom of expression and Toolkit”, a structured methodology for dialogue with customer privacy; stakeholders available to the Group’s subsidiaries; ■ launch of the Digital Society Forum. ■ test in two countries: Madagascar and Côte d’Ivoire. 2010 ■ deployment of a stakeholder dialogue process in four new African countries. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange CSR approach a process fuelled by dialogue 1 Z generic mapping of stakeholders of an Orange subsidiary in the AMEA zone health authorities standardisation bodies innovation and marketing i customer support CSR approach national health authorities telecommunications ministry AMEA marketing, Europe, Orange SME & microbusiness customers WHO regulatory bodies Business Services key accounts ministry of health standardisation body R&D and technocentres suppliers environmental authorities Development & ICT bodies i employees network equipment suppliers ministry of health local authorities handset equipment suppliers agriculture ministry employee representatives (executives and call centres education ministry non-executives) general supplies local authorities elected local authorities (mayors, members shareholders of parliament, regional councillors) shareholders investors local communities communities around Orange sites lessors of real estate developers and owners of buildings opinion leaders (public or private) community leaders leader of political opposition telecom partners doctors inﬂuential people telecom partners religious representatives further education NGOs and associations schools and university Child Care association training centres environmental association authorities business internal civil society i innovation stakeholders health association consumer associations innovation partners i user associations bank/IMF resident associations pharmaceutical companies minority associations general public others customers/non-customers, users... experts i professional associations sociologists Development players i competitors association of telecom operators Development and ICT experts CSR association development agencies informal vendors social entrepreneurs / innovative NGOs (ICT) formal vendors microﬁnance institutions distributors wholesalers media competitors development NGOs Orange partner stores and franchisees traditional media venture capitalists active cybercafes traditional operators non-traditional media social entrepreneurship (networks) former telecentres (affected) operators of other models Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 21 1 CSR approach a process fuelled by dialogue Z prioritisation of CSR challenges (materiality identiﬁed during the stakeholder dialogue in Niger matrix) importance for stakeholders (external vision) local employment economic e-learning inclusion e-health geographical inclusion (Voice) philanthropy digital in rural areas privacy and data security supporting local economic development child economic inclusion customer relations protection (Internet) e-banking offer transparency local digital content sustainable value chain network and digital citizenship service quality products and services accessibility radio waves climate and energy impact on the business (internal vision) 22 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 review CSR approach a process fuelled by dialogue 1 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 stakeholder dialogue 1. at country level: 2013 ■ dialogue in 2013: ■ organise dialogue in ■ in Guinea-Bissau, countries where it was not ■ in Russia (Orange Business Services), possible in 2010-2012, ■ in Guinea Conakry; due to political or ■ dialogue in Slovakia postponed to 2014; organisational reasons: ■ dialogue postponed in Democratic Republic of Congo and Egypt CSR approach Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, for security reasons. Kenya, Egypt, DR Congo and Slovakia. ■ renew dialogue in 2013-2014 ■ dialogue took place in Niger in November 2013 (panels), followed by countries where this an updated CSR and foundation action plan; has already taken place, ■ in France, the ﬁndings of national and local stakeholder surveys conducted in using different methods 2012 were disseminated to the 11 regional divisions in 2013 and local action (individual interviews, plans drawn up as a result; panels, surveys) and ■ in Poland, following the national campaign of meetings organised by Orange update the CSR action in 2012 to present its CSR action plan and publication of these actions in plans. the 2012 CSR Report, a SWOT analysis of the dialogue structure identiﬁed weaknesses in perception and opportunities for improvement in four main areas: promoting safe and responsible uses, accessibility for the elderly or disabled, research on radio waves, and diversity. New participatory dialogue methods developed: exploratory workshops, seminars with experts, on-line surveys, participative seminars, and more provided a catalogue of ideas to evaluate and enrich our CSR action plans; ■ dialogue in Spain has evolved from the initial listening exercise towards jointly structuring a stakeholder dialogue process and targeted partnerships to create value for all. 2. dialogue applied to 2013 ■ e-Agriculture dialogue: speciﬁc areas or ■ in Madagascar in March 2013, services: ■ in Senegal in June 2013 (stage 1; stage 2 planned for early 2014), ■ use stakeholder dialogue ■ in Cameroon in September 2013; methods to identify the ■ dialogue on the expectations of the CTIC Dakar incubator stakeholders ecosystem and issues in January 2013; relating to a speciﬁc topic ■ preparation for dialogue on the business market in France. or area to create speciﬁc action plans or projects. 3. at Group level: 2013-2015 ■ launch of the Digital Society Forum to promote debate about new ■ introduce stakeholder technologies; dialogue at Orange ■ Group-wide dialogue in November 2013 in the framework of the Industry Group level. Dialogue on freedom of expression and customer privacy during an Internet governance forum, with a strong presence of NGOs; ■ organisation in October 2013 of a co-creation and prospective workshop with 20 or so bloggers specialised in CSR and green economy, and focusing on the corporate social responsibility challenges for Orange; ■ organisation of the third JAC forum, held in China, with invitees including operators, suppliers, NGOs and others, around the theme of the JAC Supply Chain Sustainability Guidelines (see page 35). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 23 1 CSR approach a process fuelled by dialogue objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 Digital Society Forum ■ schedule the sessions ■ launch of the Digital Society Forum website in April 2013, in collaboration of the Orange Society with Psychologies Magazine and the Fondation Internet Nouvelle Forum focusing on major Génération (FING). Three round-table discussions were held in 2013 social challenges; (relations 2.0, connected families, and new forms of learning). Seven collaborative workshops on these issues were organised in Paris, Nantes ■ spotlight the Forum and Rennes, attracting 200 or more participants and 20 experts; and make sure that ■ the DSF partnered the ﬁrst Changer d’Ère Forum in June 2013 and the information and participated in the 2013 FOSI (Family Online Safety Institute) conference recommendations it in Washington (US) in November. develops are publicised. 2014-2015 roadmap objectives deadline dialogue at country level ■ organise dialogue in countries where this was not possible for political or organisational reasons (Kenya, 2014-2015 Egypt and Slovakia); ■ renew dialogue in countries where this has already taken place, using different methods (individual interviews, 2014-2015 panels, surveys) and update the CSR action plans (second wave). dialogue at Group level ■ establish stakeholder dialogue at Group level, involving the Executive Committee 2014-2015 dialogue applied to speciﬁc areas or services ■ organise speciﬁc dialogue on Group products and services. 2014-2015 Digital Society Forum ■ support the international expansion of the Digital Society Forum; 2014-2015 ■ open up to new partners and pass the milestone of 1,500 unique daily visitors to the website. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 1.4. responsible purchasing policy CSR approach 1 A telecommunications operator like Orange operates networks and infrastructure and sells products, but does not manufacture these resources itself. In this model, purchasing policy and the efﬁciency of the supply chain not only constitute a major share of the company’s CSR challenges, but also have a direct impact on the company’s performance overall. Since our responsibility extends across the supply chain, Orange has a long track record in implementing a responsible purchasing policy to anchor CSR principles in its relations with suppliers and to strengthen management of ethical, social and environmental risks. The policy was updated in 2013 (available on orange.com) and is structured around two themes: ■ act as a responsible purchaser, incorporating Corporate Social Responsibility concerns into its governance and internal purchasing CSR approach and logistics processes and contributing to regional development and local employment; ■ encourage its suppliers and subcontractors to commit to attaining its CSR standards and to implement them within their own supply chain. 1.4.1. act as a responsible purchaser In 2013, Orange substantially bolstered CSR governance of opening up its calls for tender to SMEs and encouraging their purchasing and logistics with the roll-out of a broad action plan development. Orange signed the charter for “publicly funded to improve buy-in of the company’s CSR commitments by all companies to promote the emergence and development of actors in the purchasing chain, as well as application of those innovative SMEs” in December 2012. actions in business processes. Orange also actively supports small and medium-sized All of the above principles have also been introduced into the companies in the sheltered employment sector, demonstrated framework for the joint venture created with Deutsche Telekom by its commitment to purchase a minimum of 15 million euros in 2011, Buyln, to pool the purchasing activities of the two from this sector each year. In September 2013, Orange joined groups in certain areas (handsets, mobile communication the Board of GESAT (France’s national network for the sheltered networks, and for a large share of the landline equipment and sector) to take an even more active role in improving professional service platforms) – see Review. standards of sheltered workers. Acting as a responsible purchaser also means being fully aware In broader terms, the Group develops tools to provide its of the major inﬂuence a large corporation like Orange can have suppliers with a long-term view of its needs and developments on supporting local economic development. This is why Orange in its businesses, enabling them to plan ahead according to pays particular attention to the portion of purchases that are projected workload. sourced locally (see graph). The Group is ﬁrmly committed to Z share of local purchases as a percentage 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% external supply purchases 50% 40% local purchase 30% expenses 20% item reviewed 10% by Deloitte: moderate level of assurance ce d ain um ia kia va gal Ma t as ypt n a ld p an lan an va ldo li Co da ny or ou Fr Po Sp lgi m ne Eg Jo Ke ew Gr Be Ro Slo Mo Se ry r Ivo th of st re calculation methods are detailed in the appendices, under local purchases , page 103. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 25 1 CSR approach responsible purchasing policy 1.4.2. promote CSR standards with suppliers and throughout the sub-contracting chain a rigorous selection and evaluation process focus Orange selects suppliers using a structured seven-step process, including an evaluation of suppliers at the time Orange publishes its white paper on supplier of selection or listing, as well as throughout the term of the relations in France purchase contract. In addition to assessing quality, lead times The Group published a white paper in March 2013 to and costs, supplier evaluation and selection takes into account: report on the Group’s responsible purchasing policy and demonstrate its practical commitment to supplier ■ strict compliance with the applicable laws and regulations; relations in France. With a preface by Stéphane Richard, ■ compliance with conﬁdentiality, fair competition and it is available on orange.com, under “commitments/ subcontracting rules; responsibility/vision/responsible-purchasing”. ■ clearly stated commitments and action principles; ■ environmental, social and societal criteria adapted to the Overall supplier performance is evaluated based on the purchasing typology. dedicated QREDIC® system, in operation by the end of 2013 in All contracts with the Group’s approved suppliers include 17 countries (see review). a responsible purchasing clause entitled “Ethical practices This is supplemented by a document-based supplier – corporate social responsibility”, specifying Orange’s evaluation, either using an Orange questionnaire or with help requirements. from a company specialising in responsible purchasing. A monitoring and alert system covering a range of purchasing and procurement risks is also in place for what the Group focus views as its key or strategically important suppliers, whose Orange awarded “Responsible supplier failure could potentially trigger signiﬁcant consequences for relations” certiﬁcation the Group’s business. A speciﬁc mechanism was introduced in 2013 aimed at addressing the challenges inherent in critical Orange was awarded the French government’s materials: measures included updating Group processes to “Responsible supplier relations” certification in April 2013 collect and escalate information from suppliers and take steps during a ceremony at the French Ministry of Finance as needed to encourage them to limit use of rare materials and marking the third anniversary of the “Responsible those originating from conﬂict areas in the world, substituting supplier relations charter”. Introduced in 2012, the label them with recycled resources (for more information see the singles out French companies that have signed on to chapter “Preserving biodiversity and rare resources”). the charter for achievements in establishing long-term and balanced relations with their suppliers. Awarded for three years, it certifies that the company adheres to the Charter’s ten commitments for responsible purchases. The certification rewards the many initiatives undertaken by the Group to roll out its responsible purchasing policy and demonstrates its commitment to establishing sustainable and balanced relations with suppliers. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange focus CSR approach responsible purchasing policy 1 JAC: encouraging progress in 2013 There were 38 CSR audits conducted in 2013 within the The same holds true for occupational health and safety framework of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). Audits regulations, and we are seeing frames of reference being were concentrated in Asia and focused in particular on introduced in regions where such concerns were previously resolving previously detected non-conformities. unheard of. The measures taken since the creation of the JAC are The challenge now facing the Group is the dissemination of bearing fruit, and the most severe non-conformities (with CSR principles to tier-2 and following tiers. Orange takes suppliers ranked as tier 1 are increasingly rare. Instances the long view in this area, given the number and diversity of of forced and child labour are extremely scarce on the suppliers and subcontractors involved in the supply chain ground, and are swiftly resolved once detected. from one level to another. CSR approach In some countries, compliance with statutory working hours remains difficult to enforce, although the situation is improving. fostering sector cooperation Z breakdown of non-conformities identiﬁed during the 2013 JAC audits To improve the incorporation of CSR aspects by suppliers, Orange is convinced that all companies in the sector should pull together: cooperation between competitors creates the 2 forced labour 7 disciplinary practices opportunity to more effectively inﬂuence supplier behaviour. To discrimination 4 33 further this aim, the Group initiated a cooperation agreement in environment 2009 (Joint Audit Cooperation – JAC) with Deutsche Telekom 18 and Telecom Italia to combine their CSR audits of suppliers wages according to a common methodology based on the social 123 17 health and safety responsibility and environmental standards, SA 8000. The JAC child or youth labour was extended in 2011 and 2012 to Belgacom, KPN, Swisscom, Vodafone, Telenor and TeliaSonera and in 2013 to Verizon. 40 working hours 112 audits were conducted in 15 countries on ﬁve continents since 2010. 374 corrective actions were completed, out of a total of 638, covering 83 plants and 400,000 or more workers. 85 The ﬁndings of the audits conducted in 2013 are encouraging business ethics (see focus). focus shared CSR principles The members of the JAC drew up guidelines in 2013 to A total of 52 opinions and comments on the draft were facilitate understanding of shared CSR expectations by received during the process. suppliers and to support implementation throughout the audit and monitoring process. Based on the findings The third JAC forum on 16 January 2014 in Chengdu of audits by JAC members over a number of years, the (China) was attended by 137 participants, including guidelines were established following dialogue with operators, suppliers, NGOs and audit firms. Discussions the stakeholders concerned: the draft text was sent for were lively and included a very extensive debate on the ratification to a number of specialist external firms (with Guidelines during the plenary session, which were then expertise in environment, work organisation, occupational sent to the participants following the forum. health and safety, human rights and other specific areas). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 27 1 CSR approach responsible purchasing policy some key dates: 2004 2011 ■ introduction of the QREDIC® tool to assess the overall ■ extension of the JAC cooperation agreement to include four performance of suppliers; new operators; ■ introduction of an “Ethics and environment” clause in all of the ■ launch of BuyIn, a joint purchasing company formed by Group’s purchasing contracts. Orange and Deutsche Telekom. 2008 2012 ■ the “Ethics and environment” clause is changed to “Ethical ■ extension of the JAC cooperation agreement to include two practices – corporate responsibility” and now includes ﬁve of new operators; the basic ILO conventions on forced labour, child labour and combating discrimination. ■ implementation of CSR governance at Buyln; ■ signature of the charter for publicly funded companies to 2009 promote the emergence and development of innovative ■ launch by Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia and Orange SMEs. of Joint Audit Cooperation, a cooperation agreement to combine CSR audits on Asian suppliers. 2013 ■ extension of the JAC cooperation agreement to a new 2010 operator, and introduction of joint guidelines; ■ launch of a new strategy for supplier CSR evaluations with the help of an external specialist company, EcoVadis; ■ new Group responsible purchasing policy and introduction of stricter CSR governance in the Purchasing and Logistics ■ publication of the Code of conduct for the Group’s suppliers; Department; ■ signature of the “responsible supplier relations” charter in ■ Orange awarded “Responsible supplier relations” certiﬁcation. France. focus expert and consultancy engagements in the Group’s subsidiaries As part of the audit and consultancy engagements in compliance with complex regulations and management subsidiaries in Europe and the AMEA region, the Group of the risks incurred in the event of non-compliance as Purchasing and Logistics Department’s Corporate CSR relevant at each stage. The operational implications of the team offered its expertise to subsidiaries in the area of WEEE regulations and cross-border movement of waste waste management and related topics. Depending on were explained, together with the content of purchasing the local context, national laws and best practices in contracts with suppliers and subcontractors (CSR clause, the subsidiary, the team provided support to optimise reporting, concept of producer, etc.). waste management across the entire chain, including 28 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 review CSR approach responsible purchasing policy 1 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 favour suppliers who meet ethical, social and environmental requirements: ■ consolidate local use 2013 ■ deployment of QREDIC® performance evaluation of local suppliers of QREDIC® in countries (non-France and non-Corporate) in 17 countries with 855 performance already covered. assessments carried out at end-2013. ■ launch its use in Poland 2013 ■ in light of the increasingly intense workload, review of the deployment and in three new AMEA target to include only countries that request it; CSR approach countries. ■ roll-out in Poland cancelled; ■ deployment in the AMEA region in Morocco only. ■ reinforce CSR criteria 2013 ■ decision by the CSR steering committee in May 2013 to systematically when choosing incorporate CSR criteria in calls for tender and validation of its operational suppliers and monitor implementation at all stages of the purchasing process during end-of-year the implementation of meeting; contractual clauses in ■ systematic monitoring of the inclusion and validity of the CSR clause this area; incorporated in the IT system; ■ introduction of an equivalent mechanism for the inclusion of CSR criteria in the purchasing process approved by the Buyln CSR steering committee. ■ reinforce our knowledge 2013 ■ presentation of the strengthened anti-corruption and due diligence policy of suppliers particularly in its entirety to the Purchasing Department’s executive committee; regarding the proactive ■ process to manage partner-related (supplier) fraud risk initiated. ﬁght against corruption, via the due diligence process, risk analyses and the appropriate procedures; ■ encourage buy-in of 2013 ■ since the Group is certiﬁed for its “responsible supplier relations”, the Inter-company one of the priorities of CSR in France is to encourage our subcontractors Relations Charter by to embrace the principles and commitments of the responsible supplier major suppliers in France relations charter; to guarantee respect ■ of the 424 signatories to the charter at end-November 2013, 66 are direct of CSR principles suppliers, accounting for some 9% of our purchasing volume in France from end to end of the (based on 2012 ﬁgures). subcontracting chain. ■ continue supplier 2013 ■ at the end of 2013, 240 suppliers linked to CSR risks had been evaluated CSR evaluations with (11 rejected), or 48% of the 500 suppliers linked to critical or major CSR the aim of evaluating risks; 31 are currently being evaluated; 500 strategic suppliers ■ the H2 2013 campaign is limited to 34 suppliers due to the 2013 or suppliers associated priorization of the numerous projects. with critical or major risks every three years and reinforce Corrective Action Plans. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 29 1 CSR approach responsible purchasing policy objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ strengthen the audit 2013 ■ 38 audits conducted in 2013 as the JAC was extended to new operators, process initiated in with a very strong focus on resolving the 259 non-conformities detected the framework of the in prior years; Joint Audit Cooperation ■ ﬁrst meeting between the Chief Procurement & Chief CSR Ofﬁcers of the (JAC): nine operators that expressed their willingness to extend the scope of the ■ by increasing the JAC to the upstream section of the purchasing chain and to prepare to number of suppliers; change governance procedures to include newcomers; ■ by extending the ■ formulation of the “JAC Guidelines” to improve suppliers’ knowledge number of production about the CSR requirements of the ten telecoms operators and to sites audited; facilitate effective and measurable implementation of measures to correct ■ and working more non-conformities. closely with our suppliers when implementing corrective action plans. ■ reinforce the visibility 2013 ■ 2 priority purchasing areas deﬁned in 2013 in France to increase the and reliability of our reliability of our forecasts for business subcontracted and to provide forecasts for business personalised support to suppliers for changes in volume: work on networks subcontracted to and customer call centres. our suppliers, while reducing the impact of changes in forecasts on the supplier network, particularly in France. promote the concept of the environment and social laws among suppliers: ■ improve the incorporation 2013 ■ approval by the year-end steering committee of the strengthened of all environmental or operational application of CSR at all stages of the purchasing chain, social criteria in calls for focusing in particular on environment, social, ethics, anti-corruption tender. and supply chain management criteria. ■ optimise the logistics of 2013-2014 ■ launch of two practical initiatives to measure the CO2 impacts of logistics mobile handset deliveries (on the ﬁnal customer delivery process and the Livebox carbon footprint) and the collection of in France. end-of-life network equipment, in order to help achieve our objectives in reducing CO2 emissions and the optimisation of waste treatment; 30 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 CSR approach responsible purchasing policy 1 monitoring the adoption of CSR and ethical priorities by the different players in the purchasing chain ■ develop the existing CSR 2013 ■ production of a comprehensive CSR training program by the Sourcing training module to better University, created in 2013, structured on three levels: integrate social and 1. generic Group modules to raise awareness (CSR, ethics, and more); societal commitments: 2. “responsible supplier relations and responsible purchasing” module inter-company relations to motivate buy-in, charter, diversity and 3. new CSR workshops to encourage transposition of CSR principles changes to the Group’s into the purchasing process; CSR approach environmental policy. ■ a pilot and two CSR workshop sessions were completed in 2013: ■ “purchasing: managing CSR risk” workshop (training for more than 40 employees); ■ “responsible supplier relations and responsible purchasing” workshop (training for more than 60 employees over seven sessions). ■ reinforce the Ethics 2013 ■ appointment of the Compliance Ofﬁcer in the Purchasing Department and anti-corruption awareness/ deﬁnition of a number of awareness and training tools (quiz, and e-learning) training programme using in process. internal communication tools and overhaul the training module. ■ extend the training and 2013 ■ “basics of relations with network works companies” module updated to awareness practices for incorporate “Responsible supplier relations and responsible purchasing”. contract users to include Training provided to more than 400 employees in the France Technical a responsible contractual Department and throughout the country in three years. This department’s relationship with their supplier base falls into the CSR-risk category. subcontractors. integrate CSR in Buyln ■ assist BuyIn in 2013 ■ eight meetings of BuyIn’s CSR operational committee (with members implementing: of Orange, Deutsche Telekom, and BuyIn) were held in 2013 to ﬁnalise ■ a CSR management aligning the BuyIn responsible purchasing process with the requirements system, in line with and practices of both parent companies. Ratiﬁcation of the process for the governance model the inclusion of CSR criteria in the purchasing process by the Buyln CSR deﬁned in 2012, steering committee, so that operational implementation in the three BuyIn with the appropriate purchasing areas could get under way; processes; ■ process based primarily on robust CSR risk and opportunities modelling in ■ the most powerful the categories managed by BuyIn, tightly correlated with the category-based tools in terms of methodology used by Orange Purchasing to assess CSR risks; risk assessment ■ BuyIn’s dedicated Ecovadis platform up and running as of June 2013, and evaluating open to all BuyIn purchasing ofﬁcers. 71 suppliers invited in the second suppliers’ CSR half of 2013, with a detailed CSR evaluation available for 53 of these at performance, based end-2013. In addition to Ecovadis, BuyIn developed a central database on good practice in providing purchasing ofﬁcers with simple and efﬁcient access to information the telecoms sector on suppliers’ maturity/performance to be taken into their procurement and beyond. projects; ■ CSR criteria applied to Supplier Management activities; development of a CSR scorecard for strategic suppliers and scheduling of joint CSR operational meetings with the main suppliers. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 31 1 CSR approach 2014-2015 roadmap objectives deadline Orange, a responsible purchaser ■ consolidate CSR in purchasing and logistics governance and processes; 2014-2016 ■ strengthen buy-in of CSR guidelines and commitments across the purchasing chain; ■ promote regional development and local employment by opening up calls for tender to companies in the sheltered sector and to innovative SMEs. promotion of CSR standards throughout the subcontracting chain ■ favour suppliers who meet ethical, social and environmental requirements, by improving the incorporation 2014-2016 of all environmental or social criteria in calls for tender and ensuring application of Orange’s CSR requirements by suppliers; ■ contribute to the work of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), particularly by developing stakeholder dialogue on the JAC Guidelines to ensure meaningful and improved content; ■ improve the traceability of minerals from conﬂict regions for the products concerned. strengthened integration of CSR in Buyln ■ assist BuyIn to strengthen its CSR management system, risk assessment and management and CSR performance 2014 tools aimed at suppliers. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2.1. combining social and economic performance employees 2 For Orange, it is not possible to achieve sustainable economic performance without social quality. The Group can only achieve recognition as a trusted operator in all its markets by having a team of employees who are motivated and dedicated to providing the best possible service to customers. On the strength of that belief, the Group has adopted a social policy that aims to put people at the heart of the organisation, with a clear ambition: to be acknowledged as one of the preferred employers in the main countries where the Group operates by 2015. 2.1.1. a new Social Contract built 2.1.2. continual monitoring of social around six commitments quality Following the introduction of the new Social Contract in France To assist with the implementation of its new social model, in 2010, since the end of 2011 Orange has implemented the three years ago the Group adopted a global approach to the Orange People Charter, rolling it out globally across 23 different continual observation and analysis of social quality, based on a countries. number of markers: Embodying Orange’s wish to be the preferred employer in its ■ a half-yearly social barometer survey in France; main countries of operation, the Charter establishes a new framework for the Group’s relationships with its employees, built ■ an annual social barometer survey in most other countries in around six commitments: which it is present; employees ■ act as a responsible employer; ■ a composite social performance index (CSPI) which is taken into account for the remuneration of senior executive staff; ■ offer career and development opportunities; ■ analysis groups comprising managers, HR, senior executives, ■ provide a work environment for outstanding customer personnel representatives, health services and social workers. satisfaction; The latest social barometer survey indicators conﬁrm that the ■ empower managers and hold them accountable for progress social climate within the Group is improving, both in France and and success; internationally (see focus). ■ provide a positive quality of life at work; ■ recognise and reward employees for their individual and collective contributions to our success. focus further recognition of Orange’s social policy ■ in March 2013, Orange received the “Top Employers ■ in August 2013, Orange obtained the Top Employer Africa Europe 2013” label in London, bringing to fruition the label thanks to the certification of five of our subsidiaries efforts made in several Group countries and divisions to (Côte d’Ivoire, Mali, Orange Business Services Egypt, have their human resources practices and programmes Uganda and Senegal); evaluated by comparing them against local best practice. Mobistar in Belgium, Orange in Spain, France ■ in Brazil, Orange Business Services once again obtained and Poland, and Orange Business Services in the UK the “Great Place To Work” label by ranking in the Top 100 all contributed to the attainment of this European IT sector companies; label. Similarly, Orange Romania and Orange Slovakia ■ in January 2014, Orange Business Services also received obtained their “Top Employer” certification in 2013. Top Employer certification in India. BuyIn, the Group’s joint venture with Deutsche Telekom in the procurement field, also obtained 2013 certification in France (Top Employeur France) and in Germany (Top Arbeitgeber Deutschland); Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 33 2 employees combining social and economic performance Z changeaverage in the perception of employees of the France Group in each themed area score between -100 and +100 calculated based on surveys in each area 40 +2.4 37.2 +0 37.2 0.0 37.3 -0.1 37.2 34.4 34.9 35 31.8 +2.6 +0.4 +4.0 +0.5 36.8 +0.5 37.2 -0.2 37.0 36.3 +2.6 +0.2 32.4 28.9 30 32.2 26.1 27.5 27.2 29.6 +1.4 -0.3 +1.7 25 +5.7 20.4 20 16.4 17.3 +3.1 +0.9 13.4 +1.6 15.0 -1.6 13.7 +0.2 +2.5 13.6 15 10.9 10.0 +0.9 13.2 +0.3 13.5 +0.2 13.4 -0.8 12.9 10 7.5 +2.5 +4.5 +1.2 8.7 5 3.3 +4.2 7.5 0 V2 dec. 2010 V3 june 2011 V4 dec. 2011 V5 june 2012 V6 dec. 2012 V7 dec. 2013 V8 dec. 2013 management quality of life in the workplace CSR strategy recognition-pay professional development focus 8th social barometer survey conducted in France The results of the 8th social barometer survey in France, Contract and indicates that the implementation of a new carried out in December 2013 among 4,000 employees, organisational model in France has had a positive impact. confirm the continuous improvement of social quality The evolution of responses in the five areas covered in the as perceived by Group employees: 92% of employees social barometer survey, in comparison with the previous surveyed think that the quality of life at work with Orange exercise (June 2013), indicates an improvement in the is the same or better than that of other companies area of strategy and a slight decline in that of career and (compared against 79% in October 2010). This rate, the development opportunities. The other areas have remained best ever obtained since the social barometer survey broadly unchanged. began, is testament to the dynamic initiated by the Social 2.1.3. a dynamic social dialogue 2.1.4. greater focus on health and safety To support its international development, the Group has in the workplace implemented social dialogue bodies covering all activities at all As part of the implementation of its new Social Contract, in levels: 2012 Orange established a new Group Policy on Occupational Health, Safety and Quality of Life, with speciﬁc targets and ■ at global level: Global Group Committee: including indicators. 31 members elected for 4 years representing 22 countries with more than 400 employees in each one; Orange has set up a dedicated structure within the organisation to steer the implementation of this policy in each Group entity: ■ in Europe: European Works Council comprising 28 employee representatives from 19 European countries; ■ a Strategic Health and Safety Committee, chaired by a member of the Executive Committee; ■ at national level: employee representation bodies have been set up in 27 of the Group’s countries. ■ an Occupational Health, Safety and Quality of Life Department. For more information on employee representation bodies and Since 2012, signiﬁcant work has been undertaken in France to the major social agreements signed in 2013, see Section 5.6.1.4 strengthen occupational risk prevention. In particular, in 2013 of the 2013 Registration Document on the orange.com website. a review was carried out to examine the role of the Prevention Ofﬁcers, introduced in the company more than ten years ago. In addition to the ongoing dialogue arising from the employee The conclusions of that review will feed into an action plan representation bodies, Orange has a number of tools in place aimed at keeping a high level of cover for different entities, in to enable all employees to express and share their views, in keeping with the challenges posed by the evolution of health and an informal context, such as the “Orange plazza” corporate safety conditions within the company. The Group also strives social network which now has more than 42,000 members and to promote a multidisciplinary approach to work, through the around 1,800 professional communities. implementation of a multidisciplinary risk prevention committee 34 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange in each entity. Bringing all the players concerned together (occupational physicians, nurses, prevention ofﬁcers and work employees combining social and economic performance At international level, one of the key developments in 2013 was the introduction in all countries of a Group dashboard with 2 environment ofﬁcers) these committees work to address the four key health and safety indicators concerning occupational “health and safety issues and working conditions” of greatest accident numbers, which now covers more than 95% of the concern to employees. Group headcount. Health and safety indicators 2013 2012 Number of occupational accidents with lost time (Group total) R 859 1,013 number of fatal occupational accidents (Group total) R1 6 R Item veriﬁed by Deloitte: moderate assurance. The Group had 1 fatal occupational accident in 2013. This involved a car accident in Poland in which an employee died whilst driving as part of his job. 2.1.5. value sharing model recognising individual and collective contributions To reward individual and collective contributions to the Group’s results, Orange has set up a fair and incentive-based value sharing model with: executives’ bonuses based on the attainment of collective and individual targets, incentive, proﬁt-sharing and employee shareholding schemes. For more information, see Section 5.6.1.2 of the 2013 Registration Document. employees (in millions of euros) 2013 2012 2011 (1) Orange SA incentives 212 204 185 Special proﬁt-sharing reserve of the Group in France 173(1) 144 197 (1) Amount funded at 31 December 2013. 2.1.6. encouraging community some key dates involvement 2004 The new social model adopted by Orange also takes ■ establishment of the European Works Council. corporate social responsibility values into account. To promote a spirit of community involvement within the Group, the 2009 Orange Foundation (http://fondationorange.com) runs a variety of projects aimed at encouraging and recognising the active ■ inventory of stress and labour conditions in France and launch participation of Orange employees and retirees in a range of of conferences on reform. community service initiatives: charitable activities, project sponsorship, group projects for humanitarian causes, skills 2010 patronage, etc. ■ establishment of the Global Group Committee; In this respect, since the end of 2010, Orange Solidarité ■ implementation of the new Social Contract in France; Numérique (Orange Digital Solidarity) has enabled more than 2,500 employee volunteers to donate their time and ■ launch of the social barometer survey in France and share their skills to train others in the use of digital tools, by implementation of the Composite Social Performance Index. organising 1,000 workshops throughout France. Internationally, approximately 2,300 employees give up their free time to work 2011 as volunteers supporting a wide range of charitable associations. ■ launch of Partageons (Let’s share), the Group’s new bonus share plan. 2012 ■ implementation of the Orange People Charter in 23 countries. 2013 ■ attainment of the “Top Employer Europe 2013” and “Top Employer Africa” labels (see focus on page 41). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 35 2 employees combining social and economic performance 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ strengthen awareness2013-2015 ■ launch of the Digital Society Forum Road Shows from September, at the raising and Group’s various French sites and in Egypt. communication efforts toward employees regarding CSR-related topics. ■ deploy training actions 2013-2015 ■ inclusion of CSR issues in École des Réseaux (Network School) business that include these factors training; within the different ■ report on other training actions in 2014. business lines. ■ strengthen awareness2013-2015 ■ mobilisation of Grandes Écoles students as ambassadors for the Group; raising and ■ description via Orange’s twitter account of the work of the Digital Society communication efforts Forum and communication, particularly with grandes écoles and regarding different CSRuniversities, of discussions held during the 13 February workshops on new related topics in our teaching methods; school relations. ■ inclusion of a CSR section in the Group’s reporting module and on the orange.jobs website; ■ undertake actions associated with the Group’s disability commitments: equal opportunities; speciﬁc support for the raid handi-valide (DisAbility Awareness Rally) at the UJF University of Grenoble; ■ 3rd Science Factor competition for French secondary school students, to promote scientiﬁc disciplines, particularly among girls; ■ launch by Orange Tunisia of a CSR Chair at the IHEC school in Carthage; ■ organisation of a three-year partnership with the “Business as Unusual” Chair of the KEDGE business school, in connection with new economic models. ■ continue the Group’s 2013 ■ continue a global social dialogue representing the Group’s international commitments to social dimension: dialogue through locally ■ 1 meeting of the Global Group Committee (GGC) in May 2013 on global appropriate means strategy and transnational projects + 1 teleconference to review progress and regular meetings on a development project for the AMEA region. The signature on of ad hoc committees 12 September 2013 of an amendment to the GGC agreement allowing (the Global Group entry to the GGC of representatives from countries that have reached Committee, European 400 employees during the current term, is worth noting, Works Council, etc.). ■ 5 meetings of the European Works Council (EWC) (March, April, June, September and November 2013) to provide information and consult with personnel representatives on economic, ﬁnancial and social matters related to the European region, ■ 4 meetings of the French Works Council (FWC), which covers the Group’s companies within France, ■ 12 meetings of the Central Committee of the Economic and Social Unit (CCESU), the body representing employees of Orange SA and of subsidiaries recognised as being very closely linked in terms of their organisation, management and business. In 2013, two of the four Economic and Social Unit subsidiaries were merged with Orange SA: Orange France SA on 1 July 2013 and Orange Distribution on 1 October 2013; ■ local bodies (employee forums, staff representative bodies, etc.) established in almost all countries in which Orange is present. The creation in 2013 of an employee forum in the Orange Business Services subsidiary in Egypt is worth noting. 36 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange employees combining social and economic performance 2 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ continue to analyse 2013 ■ France: publication of the results of the 7th social barometer survey social quality through conducted in June 2013 and of the 8th conducted in January 2014 periodic surveys and (see focus); national/international ■ international: third annual social barometer survey conducted at end composite indicators 2013 in 23 countries in the AMEA and Europe regions and in the four and incorporate these Orange Business Services regions. The participation rate of 64% results when calculating (more than 27,000 Group employees) reﬂects employees’ interest in the bonuses awarded this subject which concerns ﬁve thematic areas: to the Group’s upper ■ strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility, management team ■ professional development, internationally. ■ quality of life at work and the working environment, ■ management, ■ recognition. ■ continue to reinforce 2013 ■ continued development of the Orange People Charter, internationally, the Orange People as conﬁrmed by the overall improvement of results obtained from the Charter and to analyse international social barometer survey. any discrepancies between the actions employees taken and the employees’ perceptions via the social barometer survey. ■ implement the Group’s 2013 ■ drafting of guiding principles of governance with regard to occupational health and safety policy, health and safety: especially by establishing ■ organisation of a group Strategic Health & Safety Committee dedicated steering which had its ﬁrst meeting on 25 March 2013, committees. ■ organisation of an Operational Health & Safety Committee, steered by the Group Director of Health and Safety and comprising experts from the ﬁeld, which meets once a month; ■ rollout of a Group occupational health & safety intranet in October 2013 with the Health & Safety managers of subsidiaries, providing information concerning the Group’s H&S policy and the implementation of an occupational health & safety management system and displaying the H&S tools available to subsidiaries. ■ recognise collective 2013 incentive and profit-sharing scheme agreements performance by ■ signature of a new proﬁt-sharing agreement with the trade unions in highlighting the June 2013 in France, replacing the prior agreement signed in 1997. involvement of staff in This agreement applies to employees of Orange SA and its French the Company’s success subsidiaries that are more than 50% owned, and associating them ■ in 2013, signature of 30 incentive agreements in Group companies in performance sharing. in France. The incentive bonus, based on the attainment of targets, is usually set at around 4% of salary, ■ for Orange SA, payment in May 2013 for the 2012 ﬁnancial year of an incentive bonus corresponding to 4.97% of salary, that is, €2,200 on average. For the 2013 ﬁnancial year, recognition of a provision at 31 December 2013 rewarding higher-than-targeted Operating Performance and Service Quality results; Partageons plan – let’s share ■ Observation by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 5 March 2014 of non-attainment of the performance conditions for the Partageons (let’s share) scheme (bonus share plan reserved for personnel). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 37 2 employees combining social and economic performance roadmap objectives deadline ■ strengthen awareness-raising and communication efforts with employees regarding different CSR-related 2014-2015 topics, and support the Digital Academy programme; ■ deploy training actions that include these factors within the different business lines; ■ strengthen awareness-raising and communication efforts regarding different CSR-related topics in our school relations; ■ continue the Group’s commitments to social dialogue through locally appropriate means and regular meetings of ad hoc committees (the Global Group Committee, the European Works Council, etc.); ■ continue to analyse social quality through periodic surveys and national/international composite indicators and incorporate these results when calculating the bonuses awarded to the Group’s senior management internationally; ■ continue to develop the health and safety policy while supporting Group countries. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2.2. building the Group’s future employees 2 The IT and communications sector is undergoing constant transformation. Careers in this sector are continually developing and changing. For Orange, the challenges are all the greater since 30,000 people will retire from the Group between 2010 and 2020 in France. In anticipation of these changes, Orange has established appropriate policies around employment management, training and recruitment to prepare for its future development in a responsible and sustainable way. 2.2.1. build a common managerial culture focus Managers play a key role in implementing the new Social Contract and making Orange a ﬁrst-rate employer. The Group Orange Expert: has set up a Management Charter and a common managerial developing the Group’s strategic expertise framework to support them in carrying out their duties by giving Launched in 2010, the Orange Expert programme aims them the tools and autonomy they need to lead their teams to strengthen and develop the areas of expertise that towards success. are key to the Group’s future. It addresses 4 objectives Our Orange Campus training initiative plays a key role in the as a priority: diffusion of this shared managerial culture: by the end of ■ set up task forces that can be mobilised to work on employees 2013, 82% of Group managers had undertaken one of the strategic issues; 60 Orange Campus managerial development programmes, having completed a total of 296,000 training hours over the ■ help to identify the best experts, to recognise them year, with particularly strong focus on the “collective challenges” and to develop their expertise by encouraging their programmes. career development; ■ encourage the development, capitalisation and 2.2.2. anticipating changes to careers transfer of knowledge and skills; within the Group ■ identify and protect areas of expertise. Identify shortand long-term trends, detect at-risk areas and offer career and development prospects to employees in line By the end of 2013, 6 expert communities were active: with these trends: this is the essence of the Group’s Strategic tomorrow’s networks (102 experts), security (73 experts), Workforce Planning (GPEC) initiative. content service solutions (72 experts), energy and the environment (46 experts), network exploitation This entails a mutual commitment: (23 experts), and the last, launched in September 2013, ■ each employee is responsible for his or her own career software. development; On 19 March 2013, these experts, who come from all ■ each country adopts a set of solutions and skills with the professional fields and countries of the Group, met in help of both the Group and national HR teams to support France for the first Orange Expert Day organised in professional development and staff promotion. Saint-Denis. A job reference framework shared by all Group companies allows for a forward-looking vision of needs in terms of employment and career and skills development, for all the Group’s business training for all areas, both at Group level and, with adaptations, for the main To support professional development and to increase customer countries or regions: France, Poland, Spain, the rest of Europe satisfaction, the Group is constantly enriching its training and AMEA, and for Orange Business Services. programmes for all employees. With 44 professional skills training schools worldwide and managerial training via Orange Campus, the Group makes professional training a priority. The Group also continues with its policy of providing technical, sales and cross-disciplinary training leading to certiﬁcation: each year, around 2,000 employees obtain recognised credentials in over 50 professional ﬁelds. At the start of 2014, Orange had over 10,000 certiﬁed employees and is now embarking on the digital ﬁeld with training courses in sales (digital coach, customer Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 39 2 employees building the Group’s future adviser), technical training (ﬁbre-optics or 4G technician, IP architect.), Information Systems (telecoms security ofﬁcer) or trained in 2013 and an average of 30 hours training received per employee. The signiﬁcant rise in training in the AMEA region is support jobs (community managers). noteworthy, with employees receiving an average 26.5 hours, reﬂecting an increase of 18.9% in comparison with 2012. Despite a difﬁcult economic environment, characterised by the ongoing crisis and more intense competition in all its markets, the Group has pursued its training efforts, with 141,842 employees Z Change in number of training hours per employee 40 35 33.4 32.7 32.9 33.8 32.5 30.7 30 28.9 28.9 29 25.5 30.5 25 22.4 23.0 22.7 27 20 15 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 France all countries (execpt France) for the Group a highly dynamic employment policy focus Preparing for the future also means predicting needs and hiring people now who will be necessary in the business world of France: Orange takes part in the 1st training tomorrow. Despite the difﬁcult economic situation, the Group scheme for engineers in cyber defence kept its employment-related commitments, especially with with work-based learning programmes respect to the employment of young people: and apprenticeships ■ in France: with 1,248 permanent employees (CDI) On 24 September 2013, Orange signed a partnership RR recruited in 2013; agreement with the Engineering School of the University of Southern Brittany (ENSIBS) to set up the first national ■ internationally, 4,725 permanent employees (CDI) R were work-based learning programme in cyber security recruited in 2013, making a total of 5,973 permanent for engineers. The Group has been working for over employees recruited for the year in the Group as a whole. a year with other major players in the field, such as Alcatel Lucent and the French Ministry of Defence, to The Group has reafﬁrmed its commitment to being a responsible set up this training programme which is currently being employer over the 2013-2015 period by implementing an offered to 28 apprentices. Eight of them have signed a employment policy with three core components: contract of employment with Orange, mostly in Orange Business Services. In this way, Orange contributes to ■ employment management that respects workers’ developing young talent in a future-growth area which livelihoods, as reﬂected in the absence of any pre-established has strategic importance, not only for the Group but redundancy plan or voluntary redundancy plan; also for France, which lacks cyber security skills. This ■ proactive employment management that strives for stresssuccessful outcome illustrates the Group’s forwardfree adaptation of organisations and procedures, such as looking approach to developing the skills of the future. the partial replacement of staff as they naturally leave the Group, in keeping with the social model, at a rate of one new employee to replace every two retiring (i.e. a hiring plan for 2013-2015 set at 4,000 employees); ■ CSR-focused employment management: seen in the hiring of 5,000 young apprentice employees per year and a policy of adapting seniors’ working conditions to ensure they can remain with the Company in their later years. 40 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange attracting young talent To attract new talents and ensure the ongoing success of the focus employees building the Group’s future 2 a 5th Orange Campus site in Dakar Group, Orange has launched targeted recruitment campaigns or speciﬁc partnerships with prestigious schools and universities Following Montrouge and Marseille in France, Madrid in and has made a range of innovative recruitment tools available Spain and Serock in Poland, a new Orange Campus site such as the Orange Jobs mobile app. was inaugurated in May 2013 in Senegal. The Orange Graduate Programme is very appealing to Located in the heart of the Dakar Technopole, the talented young people with strong potential who have a international site offers professional development unique opportunity to start their career with Orange. Each year, programmes, with priority given to 1,000 managers of 60 graduates join the Group in this way to take on roles with Group subsidiaries located in West Africa (Mali, Guinea, signiﬁcant levels of responsibility. Guinea-Bissau, Niger, Ivory Coast and Senegal). Managers of other Orange subsidiaries in FrenchThe Group also contributes to skills development and training speaking Africa (Central African Republic, Cameroon people from different backgrounds by supporting a variety of and Democratic Republic of Congo) may benefit from educational programmes and scholarships around the world. this resource. With a built area of more than 300 m2 and capable of accommodating up to 160 people, the new Orange Campus site was specially designed to be adapted to different teaching methods. In 2013, 300 managers studied one of the 27 managerial development programmes on offer there. employees focus Orange is committed to promoting the employment of young people with the Generation Contract. On 27 September 2013, Orange France and the trade to reaffirming the Group’s commitment to have at least unions signed an agreement concerning the Generation 5,000 young people in work-based learning programmes Contract, in the presence of Michel Sapin, French Minister in the company on an ongoing basis (i.e. 5% of the of Work, Employment, Professional Training and Social workforce); Dialogue and Stéphane Richard, Chairman and CEO of the Group. ■ confirmation of the objectives to keep seniors in employment (those over 55 years of age – this age Under that agreement, Orange confirms its commitment to group will represent 35% of the workforce in 2015) and promote the employment of young people and the transfer to observe the right of seniors to adjust their working of knowledge among and across generations, with new hours (part-time hours will be paid at 75% with pension and ambitious objectives: contributions at the full rate under the so-called “seniors’ part-time work” arrangement); ■ 4,000 permanent employees (CDI) to be recruited between now and 2015, of which around 3,000 will be Promotion of knowledge transfer and induction of young young people; people: 4,500 employees, in particular seniors, will be encouraged to take on a tutoring role and an arrangement ■ an additional, specific plan to take on 1,000 people in will be put in place to identify individuals in the later years work-based learning programmes focused on high of their career who have key skills to pass on. capacity broadband, from September 2014, in addition Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 41 2 employees building the Group’s future some key dates 2003 ■ Strategic Workforce Planning (GPEC) agreement signed in ■ framework agreement for employment and skills planning in France. France. 2012 2004 ■ Mon itinéraire (My career path) tool created to help employees ■ establishment of the Group job reference framework; manage their career goals; ■ 2005-2008: 45 professional training courses created. ■ new agreement signed in France on the employment of seniors and measures to enrich the later years of employees’ 2006 careers. ■ Orange management schools established in France, the 2013 United Kingdom and Poland. ■ “Generation Contract” agreement signed in France; 2011 ■ opening of a 5th Orange Campus site in Dakar (Senegal). ■ 10,000 managers trained on Orange Campus; ■ new Management Charter drafted; 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ establish an Orange 2013-2015 ■ launch of the 5th Orange Campus site on 15 May 2013 in the Dakar Campus in Dakar. Technopole, Senegal (see focus). ■ expand the Group 2013-2015 ■ rollout, through Orange Campus, of the “develop each and every manager” managerial framework training in France and internationally: 422 upper managers trained since the to include all upper April launch, of which around 1/3rd trained internationally; managers and team ■ all Orange Campus communications posted on the intranet and, for managers both in France countries with no access to the French sites, delivery directly to the HR and internationally. department; ■ distribution of facilitator’s kits to team leaders, HR managers and team managers, to lead seminars in their units; ■ continued training for top managers of the Group and for HR managers, with training received by a total of around 2,000 individuals. ■ continue to monitor and 2013 ■ 2 Monitoring Committee meetings held on 21 January and on 13 May 2013 implement the Strategic ■ presentation of the Strategic Workforce Planning (GPEC) report in the CE, Workforce Planning CET CCUES and CGF in June and July 2013. (GPEC) agreement. roadmap objectives deadline ■ accelerate internal digitalisation: raise awareness, train our employees and invigorate the Group with new ways 2013-2015 of working; ■ expand the Group managerial framework to include all upper managers and team managers; 2013-2015 ■ take part in the national effort to promote the employment of young people in France. 2014-2015 42 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2.3. promoting workplace diversity employees 2 Orange intends to make equal opportunities a trademark of its social policy from the recruitment stage and throughout its employees’ working lives. This commitment to promote diversity and equal opportunities reﬂects both our values as a responsible operator and our conviction that diversity contributes to performance, to innovation and to the appeal of our Group. 2.3.1. gender equality in the workplace: a top priority focus For several years, Orange has had a gender equality policy in new initiatives encouraging work-life balance place which addresses four main objectives: ■ Orange has set up a unique training system, in ■ promote gender parity in all roles within the Group and partnership with the organisation Companieros, especially in technical roles; based on the “Gender Equality manager” label: this programme offers managers the opportunity ■ encourage women’s access to positions of responsibility, to re-examine equality in the workplace from the with the aim of having, between now and 2015, 35% perspective of the gender mix and a management style female representation in its management bodies (the that encourages everyone, men and women alike, to management network of Group Leaders and Management express their talents and display their skills. In this way, Committees); it enables managers to share their experience and to employees encourage dialogue on issues surrounding gender ■ ensure equal pay at levels of both responsibility and equality in the workplace. In view of the success of seniority, by performing regular checks in each country these person-to-person training sessions, a virtual and by setting up corrective arrangements to address any platform has been set up to continue discussions discrepancies identiﬁed; generated by them; ■ strike a work-life balance, in particular, by making it clear ■ Orange is also a founding partner of “Happy Men that parenthood is not a source of discrimination, for women Share More”, an innovative programme set up by the or for men. Mercredi-c-papa association to encourage men to Thanks to this commitment, the Group was one of the ﬁrst support gender equality. In particular, the programme French companies to be certiﬁed under the Gender Equality aims to create a forum for discussions among men in European Standard for its Group-wide policy and for its actions the company around gender equality. in France, Spain, Belgium and within Orange Business Services. Certiﬁcation successfully renewed in 2013! (see focus below). With 31% female membership in Management Committees by the end of 2013, the Group continues with its progress in this focus respect, on the strength of the many actions undertaken, both at Group level and in the Group’s main countries: Orange obtains European equal opportunities certiﬁcation for the 2nd time. ■ proactive measures are drawing women into “talent pools” of employees identiﬁed as having upper management potential; Two years following its initial award, Orange has successfully renewed certification, with higher scores, of ■ a mentoring arrangement for women who are identiﬁed by its equal opportunities policy under the Gender Equality line management as having potential, provides support for European Standard for the Group, France, Orange Spain, the personal and professional development of employees Mobistar, Orange Business Services and its subsidiaries seeking to take on roles of responsibility: 31 women were in Italy and Germany. The Group as a whole obtained paired with a female mentor in 2013, and a second wave of an improved score of two (out of a maximum three) and the arrangement was initiated in January 2014 with 32 further achieved a three for its equal opportunities policy as it pairs. A speciﬁc programme called WILD (Women Intercultural did for its equal pay initiatives. Orange France, which Leadership Development) was launched at Orange Business represents more than 60% of the Group’s workforce, Services to help 15 talented females ascend to international also obtained a score of three. positions of responsibility; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 43 2 employees promoting workplace diversity ■ the introduction of equal opportunities networks continues in several entities: about ten women’s networks are now in For more information: see the gender equality press pack on the orange.com website place; among them the Orange Business Services women’s network which, initiated in 2011 and now with more than focus 400 members, has been emulated in Egypt and in Germany, and the Innov’Elles network sponsored by Delphine Ernottea round-the-world guided tour of equality Cunci, Deputy CEO of Orange France, which already has in the workplace more than 1,300 members; To encourage sharing of best practice in gender equality, ■ the Group also participates in national and international in 2013, Orange conducted a survey of initiatives carried initiatives, such as Jump (www.jump.eu.com), Women in out in the Group’s different subsidiaries and countries. A Leadership (www.wileurope.org), the European professional short video was made and can be viewed on the Orange women’s network (www.europeanpwn.net) and the EVE Jobs website or via the following link: programme (www.eveprogramme.com), which offer the http://www.dailymotion.com/embed/video/x15z13n Group’s females networking and personal development opportunities and help raise gender equality awareness among male employees. Percentage of women Group 2013 2012 2011 % of women employed in the workforce RR 36.2% 36.5% 36.5% % of women in management positions RR 28.6% 28.2% 27.7% % of women in the leader network RR 24.4% 23.6% 23.8% RR item veriﬁed by Deloitte: moderate assurance. focus Orange France is ranked in ﬁrst place by the French Ministry of Women’s Rights in its league table of companies increasing female representation in their management bodies On 17 October 2013, in the first league table compiled This 1st place ranking rewards the proactive gender equality by the Ministry of Women’s Rights on increased female policy adopted by Orange, particularly with regard to the representation in the management bodies of the Société representation of women on its Board of Directors (33%) des Bourses Françaises (SBF) 120 index companies, and on its Executive Committee (25%). This commitment Orange was ranked in first place. Compiled using objective was welcomed by Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, the Minister for and transparent criteria, this league table identifies the Women’s Rights, who signed a framework agreement on SBF 120 companies that have made the most progress gender equality in the workplace, together with Delphine in terms of gender equality. It will be updated annually in Ernotte-Cunci, Executive Director of Orange France and order to monitor women’s progress in these companies. Deputy CEO of Orange, on that occasion. 2.3.2. support for those who face barriers to employment In addition to the Group’s commitment to gender equality, At international level, since 2010, the Group has been involved different entities of the Group take supplementary measures to in the Global Business and Disability Network of the International foster equal opportunities, according to local needs. Labour Organization (ILO). This partnership was strengthened in 2013 to enable subsidiaries of the Group to enhance their In France, the Group has been helping people with disabilities actions concerning disability employment issues and receive to ﬁnd employment for over ten years. On conclusion of information on local best practice. Several Group subsidiaries negotiations which took place in 2013, a new agreement on the have chosen to develop disability issues in their diversity employment and integration of disabled people was signed by all policy. This is the case in Poland, in particular, where support the trade union organisations in January 2014. The agreement, has been put in place to improve the working conditions of concluded for the period running from 2014-2016, provides for disabled employees, and in Egypt where a training programme an overall target rate for the employment of disabled persons of to rehabilitate and develop independence for young disabled 6%, the target rate speciﬁed in regulations. adults is being implemented in partnership with the Ebtessama Foundation. In addition, on the International Day of Persons 44 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange with Disabilities, a round-the-world guided tour of initiatives taken concerning the integration and continued employment focus combat disability stereotyping employees promoting workplace diversity 2 of disabled workers in about 15 Group subsidiaries has been posted on the Group’s intranet. With a long-standing history of commitment to the inclusion of disabled workers in the company, in 2013 Another priority target of the Group’s equal opportunities Orange sought to be part of an innovative study on programmes: young people from disadvantaged and rural stereotypes associated with disabilities, with the backgrounds and from problematic neighbourhoods. In France, involvement of renowned researcher, Patrick Scharnitsky, each year Orange supports numerous initiatives aimed at who has a PhD in social psychology and is affiliated with encouraging the professional integration of young people from the École supérieure de commerce de Paris (ESCP). This disadvantaged neighbourhoods such as “Nos Quartiers ont du highly innovative study provides an in-depth analysis of Talent” (Our Neighbourhoods have Talent), the Passeport Avenir how common perceptions and attitudes create positive (Passport to the Future) careers forum or the “Passerelles pour or negative predispositions towards disabled people. un emploi durable” (Bridge to Sustainable Employment) day In addition to revealing a somewhat negative image of organised by the French Association of Diversity Managers disability, the study also identifies the levers that can be (AFMD www.afmd.fr). Other subsidiaries carry out similar used to eliminate such stereotyping. actions, particularly Orange Business Services which has set up a mentoring programme for young people from disadvantaged For more information refer to backgrounds to improve their English language skills through orange.jobs/site/fr-actualites/handicap-et-stereotypes.htm regular telephone conversations with English-speaking volunteers from the Group. employees some key dates 2003 2010 establishment of Mission Insertion Handicap. participation in the establishment of the Arborus fund for gender equality in the workplace in Europe. 2005 Orange France was the ﬁrst technology company to obtain the 2011 Gender Equality label. 1st award of certiﬁcation under the Gender Equality European Standard. 2007 creation of the Group Diversity Division. 2012 Orange named the winner in the Major Corporation Division of 2008 the Trophées de la Diversité (diversity awards). signing of the Charter for Parenthood in the Workplace and the Plan Espoir Banlieues (plan to bring hope to underprivileged 2013 urban suburbs). renewed certiﬁcation under the Gender Equality European Standard. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 45 2 employees promoting workplace diversity 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ strengthen gender 2013-2015 ■ organisation of a Working Group, within the HR department, and decision equality 2012-2015 taken in 2014 to encourage the establishment of dedicated associations opportunities initiatives at in North Africa and in Romania, in the ﬁrst instance. all stages of employees’ careers and in all the Group’s countries, and set up ad hoc monitoring and evaluation systems. ■ increase the proportion 2013-2015 ■ attainment, in the ﬁrst half of 2013, of renewed certiﬁcation under of women in the Gender Equality European Standard, with higher evaluation results management bodies (see focus); (objective: 35% by 2015). ■ continued increase of the proportion of women in management bodies, although these ﬁgures remain below targets, with 31% female membership of the Management Committees and 25% female membership of the Executive Committee. ■ increase support to 2013-2015 ■ establishment of Group governance at European level; the Group’s countries ■ continued action, internationally, to support Group subsidiaries that have and divisions to help chosen to develop disability issues in their diversity policy; bolster local diversity ■ country-by-country survey of best practice regarding the inclusion of policies, especially in disabled workers conducted in 2013 and world map posted on the Group the area of disability. intranet providing information and updates on initiatives taken concerning the integration and continued employment of disabled workers in around ﬁfteen Group subsidiaries; ■ creation of an auto-diagnostic tool which will be rolled out speciﬁcally to address disability issues; ■ other actions taken with regard to equal opportunities in France: ■ signature in France of l’Autre Cercle LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) Charter on 9 January 2013 and the Businesses and Neighbourhoods Charter on 21 June (adapted in an agreement signed on 12 December with the French Ministry of Urban Affairs), ■ organisation of a conference on the impact of physical appearance on career prospects and development (10 June 2013), ■ participation in the Stereotypes and Origins survey (feedback meeting held 9 October), nd ■ 2 social barometer survey on diversity (feedback meeting 12 December), ■ video-CV pilot test performed with Facealemploi.tv., ■ launch of the à chances égales community of employee volunteers in February 2013, ■ performance of a quiz on discriminatory remarks in job interviews given to HR and managers, ■ extension of Capital Filles programme in 15 academies. roadmap objectives deadline ■ strengthen gender equality initiatives at all stages of employees’ careers and in all the Group’s countries, 2013-2015 and set up ad hoc monitoring and evaluation systems; ■ increase the proportion of women in management bodies (objective: 35% by 2015); 2013-2015 ■ increase support to the Group’s countries and divisions to help bolster local diversity policies, especially 2013-2015 in the area of disability. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 3.1. becoming the customers’ choice customer support 3 At Orange, we realise that offering the best technology and tariffs is not enough to set us apart: today’s customers are increasingly informed and demanding. They expect high performing services and personalised service, and it is only by responding to these needs, in their entirety, that we can set ourselves apart as an operator of choice. 3.1.1. service quality, a priority focus Orange has completely transformed its customer service culture to offer customers a quality service both in its stores service quality recognised and in the Group’s call centres. New functionalities, easy to by multiple awards use products and services, clear and relevant responses from Orange employees: these are the guarantees that Orange ■ industry leadership prize and prize for the best project strives to offer to each of its customers. of the year at the Global Carrier Awards 2013; To achieve the objectives of excellence set in this area, the ■ “CRM Excellence Award” awarded by the international Group has launched two initiatives to strengthen skills and firm Gartner and 1to1®Media to Orange Poland for its increase the involvement of employees that come into direct implementation of the “mission client” programme; contact with customers: ■ awarded two prizes by Frost & Sullivan: African ■ the Orange certiﬁcation programme offers customer services Telecommunications Company of the Year Award and employees a two-level accreditation recognising their Customer Value Leadership Award; professional qualiﬁcations; ■ four prizes awarded to Orange Business Services at ■ the yearly “Orange customer champions” recognises the World Communication Awards 2013: “Best Global Orange’s best salespeople and customer assistants in 23 Operator”, “Best Enterprise Service” for Intelligent countries (Armenia, Belgium, Botswana, Cameroon, Côte Apps Enabler, “Best Cloud Service” for Flexible d’Ivoire, Egypt, Spain, France, Jordan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Contact Center and “Best Small Business Service” for Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Moldova, Morocco, Poland, Le Cloud Pro; Portugal, Dominican Republic, Romania, Senegal, Slovakia ■ Orange Business Services named leading supplier of customer support and Tunisia). More than 40,000 salespeople and customer contact centres in cloud mode in the Asia-Pacific zone assistants took part in the 2013 edition. in a recent report published by Current Analysis; ■ Gartner names Orange as a Magic Quadrant Leader for Managed or Outsourced Communications for focus multinationals for the fourth consecutive year. Business Together as a Service facilitates the development of new working modes within multinational businesses Named “Best Cloud Service” at the World a service quality that is continually monitored Communications Awards 2012, the Business Together as a Service solution developed by Orange Business The Customer Experience Tracker (CET) has been in place since Services is the first unified communications offering 2008 to compare the quality of the experience encountered by on the markets (unified email and instant messaging, customers within Orange versus the competition, regarding all availability indicator, audio, web and video conferences, aspects of the customer experience. Focusing on four thematic mobility). Since 2013, it is accessible for large companies areas (offers, quality, customer relations and emotions), the CET at global level (40 countries with support in 30 languages). has also included a CSR component since 2011. Incorporated This highly secure cloud service is hosted in three data since 2010 in the bonus calculation for top-level management, centres belonging to Orange Business Services’ global the CET is now being used in France, Spain, Poland, Belgium, cloud computing infrastructure. The solution has already Romania, Slovakia, the Dominican Republic, Moldova and been adopted by more than 50 large companies in Armenia. 19 countries in the Africa, Middle East and Asia France and worldwide, and has also been chosen by (AMEA) zone use a similar tool called the “Quality of Service Orange France to simplify its employees’ work. Barometer”. Our Business division (Orange Business Services) also has its own speciﬁc monitoring indicator. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 47 3 customer support becoming the customers’ choice Z General public satisfaction intention to recommend (average score out of 100) broadband Internet mobiles services 90 100 75 90 60 80 2011 45 2012 70 30 2013 60 item reviewed 15 by Deloitte: reasonnable level of assurance ce land ain ce lan d ain um ia kia ia a ov an Sp an Sp lgi man va men Mo Fr Po Fr Po Be Slo ld Ro Ar 3.1.2. focus on simplicity New offerings are released each year in response to changes throughout 20 countries and allow us to asses our customer’s in customer requirements and the way they use their devices. perception of the simplicity of our offerings at each key moment To ensure our offerings remain clear and transparent, we have of the customer’s journey. been simplifying our catalogues since 2010, with the aim of reducing our offering by 40%. In 2013, more than 1,800 offers To supplement direct interaction with customers over the were discontinued. phone or in stores, we also offer our customers service apps to make things simpler, such as Orange et moi, Orange Connect To ensure that our products and services are easy to use, we or Assistance Livebox. These applications allow customers perform numerous tests each year under real usage conditions the option of managing their services and connectivity and of in one of our 23 customer testing centres as part of the troubleshooting any technical issues on their own, if they so simplicity+ programme. These testing centres are distributed desire. Z number of simplicity tests per year 640 583 541 357 2010 2011 2012 2013 48 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange focus customer support becoming the customers’ choice 3 Belgium: Mobistar launches a new store concept On 15 November, 2013, Mobistar opened its first concept compare devices, stock in real time and social media store right in the centre of Liège. Its name: @Mobistar. flows and weather reports. All the more on offer to make Aim: to offer its customers an innovative experience visiting the store a more enjoyable experience. Four times with a focus on experimentation, discovery and service. larger than current Mobistar Centres, this new concept People can test a multitude of devices and applications, store also employs three to four times more employees to have their smartphone repaired, make appointments for provide personalised support to its customers. Specialist professional advice, find information or ask a customer employees are available to consumers at each point of service employee to solve a problem. Customers can also sale. A special space is reserved for business customers: charge their GSM or smartphone securely. A cafe and B2B Expert Point. Mobistar plans to open four concept free WIFI are also available while they wait. Large digital stores by 2015. screens display information on products and services, 3.1.3. innovation in customer support focus Besides service quality, Orange also strives to set itself apart for its innovation. In order to offer our customers products and Orange Spain improves its customer experience services that are increasingly innovative, we rely on a dedicated organisation through the Orange Labs, Technocentre and In November 2013, after several months of a successful Orange Silicon Valley network: more than 5,000 researchers, pilot, Orange Spain launched a new customer support engineers, technicians and marketing staff distributed over service in ten stores in seven regions throughout the 12 countries and four continents. Every day, these individuals country. use their creativity and talent to make a real difference to our The aim? Agents at the call centres are trained to assist customers’ daily lives. sellers onsite in the store and thus improve the customer To provide our customers with more innovative offerings, we experience by managing requests (fixed line, mobile, have opted for open-innovation, for example, by opening up our residential or business) from customers that cannot customer support APIs (Application Programming Interface) to developers through normally be solved through a call to the hotline in person. our Orange Partner programme to stimulate the creation of new The services offered include: deactivation/activation of services. We also support innovative start-ups through our certain services, requests for information or changes Orange Fab incubator, or our participation in the European Hello to contracts or even the opening and management of Tomorrow Challenge. certain claims or incidents. Customer feedback is very positive: they are able to obtain a quick response to their For more information on innovation at Orange, see our “openproblems and consider the in-store service a real added innovation” press backgrounder on orange.com value. 3.1.4. a responsible communications policy Improving our customer experience also involves permanently offer in a responsible manner: protection of their personal data, optimising our communication methods and better integration reduction of their environmental footprint, support for disabled of corporate social responsibility issues into the Group’s users, reduction of exposure to radio waves, etc. communication strategy. In addition to the information presented on orange.com and the annual publication of our CSR report, Moreover, we provide training in responsible communications we use original tools and initiatives to ensure that our CSR at the Group’s communication academy to strengthen our commitments are clear and explicit for our customers. In 2013, communications teams’ CSR capabilities. Orange France decided to launch a web platform to support We also aim to limit the impact of our event-based communication the use of digital: bienvivreledigital.orange.fr. The platform is through our Chorus programme (see focus on page 50). accessed from orange.fr and offers Internet users tools and practical tips to help make the most of what the Internet has to Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 49 3 customer support becoming the customers’ choice focus some key dates 2004 6 priorities for responsible events ■ simplicity+ programme launched. Launched in 2013, the Chorus programme aims to take CSR challenges into account from the design phase 2006 of communications events. Created on the basis of ■ ﬁrst three customer testing centres opened in France and existing guidelines (including ISO 20121) by the Group’s Poland. communication and CSR teams in collaboration with all of the teams concerned (employees, suppliers and 2008 partners), this programme is based on six priorities: ■ CET (Customer Experience Tracker) launched to assess 1. ensure that our spaces are accessible and secure; customer experience across all markets; 2. create good working conditions that are fair and ■ new customer testing centres opened in Egypt. secure; 3. opt for responsible purchasing and committed 2010 suppliers; ■ CET integrated into the formula for calculating the bonuses awarded to top management; 4. mobilise local players; 5. make our teams aware of the environmental impact; ■ Quality Committees established; responsible for analysing and promoting Customer Experience and Quality action 6. promote responsible behaviour among our guests. plans at country level; This programme has already been implemented for ■ new customer testing centres opened in Madagascar, 20 events in 2013 and will be gradually rolled out to all Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, Romania and Slovakia; Group events. ■ Customer Experience Simpliﬁcation Programme launched. 2012 ■ new customer testing centres opened in Belgium, Jordan, Tunisia and Mauritius; ■ 24 countries with over 100 projects under the Customer Experience Simpliﬁcation Programme. 2013 ■ new customer testing centres opened in Kenya and Mali. 50 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 review customer support becoming the customers’ choice 3 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 customer experience as part of the aim of 2013 ■ continuation of the project to simplify the offering under the Group’s offering the best customer scope with more than 1,800 offers discontinued in 2013 and expansion experience in 2015, of the project to include the general public mobiles market in Poland and strengthen the Group’s Cameroon (ﬁfth country from the AMEA zone to be included). action plans to: ■ simplify and segment our offerings and provide clearer explanations of the customer beneﬁts associated with each plan, especially with regard to high capacity broadband services (4G and ﬁbre). ■ develop loyalty offers. 2013 ■ France: introduction of an offer for payments by instalments to purchase a new smartphone; ■ Tunisia: launch of Orange Fidélité, which combines all services (ﬁxed-line, mobile, Internet) in one single programme. ■ simplify the customer 2013 ■ 53 customer experience projects completed in 20 subsidiaries during 2013; experience and technical ■ new method for deﬁning target opportunities for the launch of complex architecture. projects: six pilot countries (France, Spain, Dominican Republic, Tunisia, Morocco, Côte d’Ivoire); around ten projects were launched using this methodology; ■ continued implementation of the PictO guidelines in France, Belgium and Spain. Two new subsidiaries have joined the programme: Jordan and Egypt; customer support ■ new customer testing centres opened in Kenya (CTC Nairobi) and Mali; ■ roll out of the Time-To-Market (TTM) process in Iraq. ■ mobilise all Group 2013 ■ organisation through Welcome Path of consistent access for customers to business lines to improve services at all of our contact points. service quality. ■ facilitate the customer 2013 ■ opening of an online store in Jordan to support the sale of all product lines sales and after-sales and services; relationship in all our ■ opening of an online store for the business market in France to simplify channels (stores, call mobile renewals for SMEs; centres, online channels ■ implementation of a tool to help sales in Tunisia; based on customer usage and social networks). to simplify the sales process and improve transparency between Orange and its customers; ■ continuation of work to improve the online customer experience in Spain, the Dominican Republic, Armenia, Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, and France (business market); ■ introduction of a prototype in France offering an overview of customers that is uniﬁed, multiproduct and multichannel to help improve customer experience but also to simplify management of customer relations; ■ customer support services: ■ monitoring of data consumption available on smartphones in all European subsidiaries, ■ availability to customers of tools to test their installations online, so that they can diagnose any malfunctions or manage their services themselves (Livebox, Orange et moi), ■ implementation of smartphone support services in ten European countries, through “Orange Experts” who all share the same identity. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 51 3 customer support becoming the customers’ choice objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 responsible communications communications academy 2013 ■ inclusion of a three-hour responsible communications module in the course. ■ continue training sessions on responsible communication as part of the communications academy. ■ incorporate this training 2013 ■ preparation of training in the form of e-learning, which would then be module as a requirement included as a requirement in the course for new employees. in the training programme followed by new employees. responsible approach to 2013 roll out of Chorus, Orange’s responsible events policy events ■ operational tools created to support teams (toolkit, best practices kit, ■ have the event-based leaﬂet, online reporting tool); communications teams ■ training of Brand Managers who train their contacts in the different in France adopt this countries during ﬁeld visits. The Brand Managers are also points of contact approach. in the event of points of contact for questions relating to responsible communications; ■ creation of our own Chorus certiﬁcate to highlight the mobilisation of a project team for the implementation of the six priorities (targets for each of the 12 commitments); ■ optimisation of the reporting site; automatic generation of the certiﬁcation result; ■ creation of new tools available to teams; Q&A, guide from the Chorus coordinator, Chorus video, cartridge tags, NFC tags and QR code; ■ roll out of the Chorus programme for: ■ the main corporate events: the Group’s General Meeting, Hello Show, Cannes Festival, Roland Garros, Mobile World Congress, Women’s forum, MIP TV, ■ three Orange France events: Orange innovations at pavillon M, the seminar for Orange France managers, Salon de la Copropriété (co-ownership trade show). 2014 roadmap objectives deadline ■ roll out guidelines for the self-assessment of responsible service relations at country level 2014-2015 ■ as part of the aim of offering the best customer experience in 2015, strengthen the Group’s action plans to: 2013-2015 ■ simplify and segment our offerings; ■ develop simpliﬁed offers; ■ simplify the customer experience and technical architecture; ■ mobilise all Group business lines to improve service quality; ■ facilitate the customer sales and after-sales relationship in all our channels (stores, call centres, online channels and social networks). 52 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 3.2. communicating with peace of mind customer support 3 In just a few years, the digital society has exploded both in terms of the quantity and type of personal data transmitted over telecommunications networks. Processing and recovering this mass of data (Big Data) are now the focus of numerous services and economic models with high growth, particularly in the targeted advertising ﬁeld or making customers relations more personal. At the same time, technological complexity and a certain lack of transparency in practices has caused public concern regarding the possibilities of breaches of privacy rights by businesses and governments. 3.2.1. clear commitments focus Conscious of the responsibilities of its central roles in the digital Données Perso: a Mobile app ecosystem and its privileged links to more than 230 million to manage personal data customers worldwide, Orange aims to set itself apart as a During the Hello Show 2013, Orange presented its trusted operator and has adopted clear commitments for the Données Perso app, a simple and effective tool allowing protection of private data by publishing its data protection Android users to manage their personal data from their charter in November 2013 (see focus). Contrary to certain mobile: they can view and manage the information Internet services, where the apparent free charge hides the shared with their operator, manage the data used by the monetisation of this data to third parties, we aim to guarantee apps on their phones, view their usage in an innovative our customers that their personal data are not communicated way and also confirm whether they want to share to third parties without controls. Our economic model is still their personal data in order to receive better customer ﬁrmly based on the invoicing of services to our customers. In experience! consideration of this invoicing, we assure our customers better data protection. The app has been trialled in France since October 2013, and the official launch is scheduled for 2014. For more information, see http://hello.orange.com/plus-loin-avecles-nouveaux-usages/donnees-perso focus customer support Orange publishes its Data Protection Charter Signed in public by Stéphane Richard in November 2013 ■ ensure transparent processing of the data in all stages at the Hello Show, the Orange Data Protection Charter of the relationship; reinforces the commitments already taken by the Group in particular before the European Commission. ■ support customers to help them protect their privacy and better manage their personal data. The charter includes four clear commitments: These commitments also apply when all or part of the ■ guarantee the security of its customers’ personal data service is provided by our suppliers and partners. through its reliable processing and secure storage; The charter is available on orange.com, in the responsibility ■ allow customers to control their personal data and how section. it is used, in particular through a personal dashboard; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 53 3 customer support communicating with peace of mind 3.2.2. internal processes guaranteeing data protection 3.2.3. helping customers to better protect their data As part of its Global Safety Policy, Orange monitors and controls Besides internal measures implemented to protect the security risks across all stages starting with the offering design phase. It and conﬁdentiality of data, Orange offers its individual and puts tools and processes in place to ensure data security and business customers a comprehensive range of security privacy for its customers. solutions helping to facilitate electronic exchanges whilst providing end-to-end protection. We also work to create simple Spearheaded by the Group Security Department, this policy is tools allowing our customers to control, manage and monitor regularly reviewed to take any new risks into account. their personal data. To anticipate data security threats, we apply a method for Practical tips are regularly offered to customers to make them assessing major risks (High Level Risk Assessment – HLRA) aware of the risks and to promote safe and responsible use which gives greater consideration to security and data protection in order to protect their personal data, in particular in the issues right from the offering design phase. “data protection” section on bienvivreledigital.orange.fr or, for business customers, on the Orange Business Services Security As part of the security management system, in compliance blog (http://blogs.orange-business.com/securite/). with the ISO 2700x standards, each country has established processes to assess risks and implement any necessary security measures. The Group Audit Department conducts regular security audits to ensure that these measures are implemented. focus Belgium: Mobistar launches its ﬁrst secure storage space on the cloud Photos, videos, music, contacts, documents… automatically stores the customer’s memory on their Smartphones or tablets contain so much digital data that smartphone or tablet in complete security on a server users want to keep at all costs. According to a recent located in Europe. With Mobile Cloud, Mobistar is the first survey conducted by the GfK Significant agency, only operator in Belgium to offer its customers a secure storage 12% of users already use cloud type solutions, mainly for space without any hidden costs to automatically protect sharing large files. However, more than 50% of consumers the memory on their mobile devices (photos, contacts, state that they are interested in protecting their data on the videos, music, etc.). Included in the Dauphin, Panthère and cloud, since it is a much simpler solution, which is more Internet Everywhere packages, this new service allows you secure and does not need a cable or computer. to store all your files in a secure location, while being able to access them at any time and from any location using It is precisely to meet this demand, which concerns several your smartphone, tablet or a web portal. hundred thousand customers, that Mobistar launched the Mobile Cloud service in November 2013. This service 54 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange focus some key dates customer support communicating with peace of mind 3 data privacy day: 2006-2007 a day to remember the challenges related ■ publication of a Group-wide global security policy and to the protection of personal data deployment of a security management system throughout Since 2008, on the initiative of the European Council, the Group in compliance with the ISO 27001 standard; 28 January is International Data Protection Day. Orange is a partner for this event and has made a manual ■ appointment of a data protection ofﬁcer in charge of the available for its employees online. Designed by the Legal protection of personal data. Department and the Group Compliance Department, it summarises the challenges linked to data protection 2008 and explains the approach taken by Orange. In order ■ publication of the Conﬁdential Code, an internal charter to make data protection the responsibility of each and translated into eight languages that sets out rules for the every employee on a daily basis, a series of educational protection of private information. information extracts were taken from this manual and published on the Group Intranet at the start of 2014. 2012 ■ establishment of a Governance Committee on personal data. 2013 ■ publication of the Orange charter for the protection of personal data. customer support Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 55 3 customer support communicating with peace of mind 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ update the Group’s 2013 ■ standards updated based on feedback on experience and developments security standards and in the context, with the addition of new requirements for the security use these for 2013 of personal data. reporting. ■ deﬁne a set of Group 2013 ■ creation of the Data Governance Board (ﬁrst meeting held in March 2013); rules based on its ■ validation of the Group’s goals for the protection of personal data at security policy for the the DGB in July 2013. protection of personal data. ■ deﬁne Group policy 2013 ■ publication of the Orange charter on the protection of personal data for protecting privacy, (signed by S. Richard during the Hello Show 2013); communicate and ■ launch of an internal campaign to raise awareness on the protection apply it. of personal data (December 2013). increase the amount of 2013 ■ redesign the support site bien vivre le digital (http://bienvivreledigital.orange.fr/) information provided for to increase the amount of information provided to our customers on our customers on the risks the risks and correct use of mobile phones. and correct use of mobile phones. ■ continue work to: 2013-2015 ■ the Données Perso (Personal data) app was presented at the Hello ■ offer Orange Show in November 2013. This app allows Android users to manage their customers the right to personal data on their mobile. control, monitor and manage the personal information they have supplied on Orange platforms, for all services managed by Orange, ■ make available to customers a dashboard of their personal information by 2015. roadmap objectives deadline ■ roll out the Orange Data Protection charter at country level; 2014-2015 ■ offer Orange customers the right to control, monitor and manage the personal information they have supplied on Orange platforms, for all services managed by Orange; ■ make available to customers a dashboard of their personal information by 2015. 56 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 3.3. supporting families in the safe and customer support 3 responsible use of new technologies Orange’s policy for the “protection of children on the Internet”, a major concern for our customers, is based on three complementary principles for action: ■ actively promoting responsible use by passing on clear messages and information issued by specialised institutions and associations; ■ supporting and training parents and educators to help them to better understand the tools and to create responsible reﬂexes in children; ■ developing parental control tools in line with developments in the digital world. 3.3.1. an international commitment focus In partnership with national, European and international organisations, Orange is involved in efforts to establish the France: basic principles necessary to make the Internet a safer place of a new portal to guide parents children and teenagers. In 2013, in response to demands identified through To this end, the Group is a member of the following initiatives: stakeholder dialogue, Orange France established an Internet portal to raise awareness among parents and ■ the Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content, educators on digital use among young people and to an initiative launched in 2008 by the GSM Association, give advice enabling minors to take advantage of new which represents 850 mobile phone carriers throughout 218 technologies in complete security. The section “bien countries around the world; vivre le digital”, which was jointly developed with associations, is available on Orange France’s new site ■ the “CEO coalition to make the internet a better place dedicated to responsible digital coaching. It groups for kids”, an initiative launched by Neelie Kroes, European together a large number of resources useful for parents: Commissioner for the Digital Agenda, which mobilises, at the customer support articles, videos, tips for choosing a contract that is highest level, all players of the value chain for information and suitable for young users, help configuring parental communication technologies; control, recommendations for the protection of privacy on social networks, etc. ■ the ICT Coalition, which brings together 26 companies in the information and communication technologies sector around For parents who require more support, the site also a set of guidelines to increase online safety for children and proposes a section “parent courses”, providing much teenagers; more detailed training on different topics. The parent courses offer free workshops in Orange stores, three ■ Privacy Design Guidelines for mobile applications times a year throughout France, as well as educational developed by the GSMA. videos or practical guides for online training. Since these courses were launched in 2012, almost 4,000 customers in 39 cities throughout France have already completed a training session. For more information, visit the site http://bienvivreledigital.orange.fr/controle-parental Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 57 3 customer support supporting families in the safe and responsible use of new technologies 3.3.2. partnerships with specialist associations focus The Group has formed partnerships with specialist associations to promote safe and responsible use of new technologies by Poland: a secure search engine for young families and in schools: Internet users ■ Orange is a partner of the international NGO FOSI, or Family According to a recent survey by TNS for Orange Online Safety Institute, which works to make the Internet Poland, one out of six children aged between ten and safer for children and their families. The Group participates 15 have already visited Internet sites forbidden by their in FOSI’s studies to promote a culture of online responsibility parents. 75% of children found these sites by accident and to encourage digital citizenship; and 22% were able to access pornographic content. To prevent this, Orange Poland, in partnership with ■ the Group also has also been lending its support to Safer Nobody’s Children Foundation have developed a search Internet Day for three years. This event sponsored by the engine designed especially for children and teenagers European network Insafe promotes proper Internet use and so that they can use the Internet safely. Named BeSt works to put young people in control of their digital life; (BezpieczneStrony – Safe Sites), this search engine is completely free and protects minors from viewing ■ we are also a member of the IWF (the Internet Watch unsuitable content. Orange Poland was awarded the Foundation). “safe Internet” certificate by the regulatory body for electronic communications in recognition of the security Several of our European subsidiaries have also formed of these services and its efforts to educate children on partnerships at national level: the safe and responsible use of new technologies. ■ Orange France is a partner of Internet sans crainte (the French branch of the European Safer Internet programme), e-enfance and Unaf (the French union of family associations); ■ in Poland, the Group works with Kidprotect and Nobody’s Children Foundation; ■ Orange Spain has a long-term partnership with the Protégeles Foundation; ■ in Slovakia, Orange works with Unicef and a network of psychologists to conduct awareness programmes in schools; ■ Orange Romania works with the NGO “Save the Children Romania” and actively supports “Safer Internet day”. 58 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange some key dates customer support supporting families in the safe and responsible use of new technologies 3 2005 focus ■ publication by a number of European subsidiaries of guides for parents on the subject of children and cell phones. Romania: a parental control app on mobiles and tablets 2007 Orange Romania is the first subsidiary of the Group to ■ signing of the European Framework for Safer Mobile Use by launch a parental control app that is accessed directly Young Teenagers and Children. from a smartphone or Android tablet. Orange Control Lock makes it easy for parents to control their children’s 2008 use by filtering unsuitable sites, deactivating certain ■ contribution within GSMA to the launch of the Mobile Alliance functions or configuring the duration of use. Against Child Sexual Abuse Content.). For more information, visit https://www.orange.ro/orangecare/ content-lock/. 2011 ■ Orange joined the CEO Coalition and ICT Coalition”. 2012 ■ signature of the Privacy Design Guidelines for Mobile Applications from the GSMA. 2013 ■ Signing of a partnership with Symantec to roll out “Norton Family”, a multi-platform security service for families, in several European countries. customer support Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 59 3 customer support supporting families in the safe and responsible use of new technologies 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ continue to train and help 2013 ■ implementation of the managers’ network “Better Internet for Kids” (BIK), countries to strengthen with monthly meetings and the exchange of good practices; child protection and ■ organisation of a European seminar in Warsaw in December 2013 on the support activities in the strategic challenges of the BIK; face of the risks inherent ■ with the help of Orange Poland, implementation of a newsletter on child in the digital sphere via protection published every two months; the resource centre. ■ proposals for joint actions to roll out in 2014 (communication on digital parenting and e-learning). ■ launch initial offerings 2013 ■ launch of a marketing study on children and family offerings in 2013. designed for families. ■ implement targeted 2013 ■ deﬁnition of the strategic plan Better Internet for Kids, shared at country marketing/ level; communication actions ■ organisation of workshops on digital parenting via the Digital Society on the topic of digital Forum; parenting. ■ contribution to the blog Ma vie numérique (My digital life) on the magazine website for Psychologies.com: 127 articles written for the Blog; ■ at country level, several awareness raising initiatives for Parents and Children: ■ France: implementation of the bien vivre le digital site, resumption of the parents' course tour, ■ Romania and Slovakia: actions in schools, ■ Spain and Poland: voluntary employee programme; ■ development of services dedicated to safe and responsible uses: invoice control in France, BeST browser in Poland, etc. ■ apply the guidelines 2013 ■ conﬁrmation of Orange’s commitment to the Coalition on 3 June during the of the CEO Coalition CEO meeting with N. Kroes; to Make the Internet a ■ drafting and preparation of activity reports on Orange’s commitments Better Place for Kids http://www.ictcoalition.eu/commitments; within Orange. ■ action plan being deployed in the ﬁve areas of action for the Coalition and in particular the selection of the parental control solution (Norton Family) for the Group, the deﬁnition of a framework agreement with Symantec and the deﬁnition of roadmaps for the implementation of parental control with countries in the EME zone. roadmap objectives deadline ■ apply the actions of the CEO Coalition particularly the implementation of parental control tools; 2014 ■ consolidate actions to raise awareness among parents in Europe; 2014 ■ support the deployment of marketing offers aimed at families in European countries 2014-2015 ■ assess the action taken for child protection and family offers in the AMEA zone; 2014-2015 ■ mobilise employees with actions to raise awareness of safe and responsible use of new technologies 2014-2015 with the help of actions from the Foundation, CSR Department and the Digital Society Forum. 60 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 4.1. combating the digital divide society 4 Due to their increasingly important role in economic life and social links across the world, digital services are now almost as essential as access to water and food, accommodation, transport and health services. However, there still exist multiple sources of inequality in access to digital services both at national level and globally. As a responsible operator, Orange is committed to combating all exclusion factors, whether these be geographic, economic, physical or sociocultural. 4.1.1. serving all territories In our ﬁght against the geographic digital divide, we are focus permanently investing to extend the coverage of our ﬁxed and mobile networks, developing innovative technical and Niger: “one school, one access” commercial solutions so that our services can reach the most isolated populations. For more details on our network, see The “one school, one access” project developed by Chapter 3.2.1 of the 2013 Registration Document on orange. Orange Niger consists of creating cybercafés within com. school establishments. Two pilot sites have been selected in the town of Tahoua. The pilot was launched In particular, the Group is heavily involved in ending the digital on 23 April 2013 in two classrooms (one at a primary isolation of the Africa, Middle-East and Asia (AMEA) zone. This school and the other at a secondary school). involves active participation in large construction projects for submarine cables, the deployment of 3G networks with the aim of covering 80% of populations in the AMEA zone by the end of 2015 – but also implementing innovative solutions such as In developed countries, the challenge is to ensure increased solar radio stations or community phones to provide collective bandwidth for all in response to the explosion of new digital Internet and mobile telephony access in the most isolated uses. We have made ambitious commitments to deploy our high rural zones. At the end of 2013, Orange had already deployed capacity networks (ﬁbre, 4G) in our main European markets. 3G/3G+ in 17 countries in the AMEA zone, installed more than Our investment plans are already bearing fruit: In 2013, 4G 2,300 solar stations in regions with no electricity and equipped offerings have already been deployed in six European countries 4,350 villages with community phones in six countries, Mali, (Spain, France, Luxembourg, Moldova, Romania and the UK) Côte d’Ivoire, Madagascar, Niger, Central African Republic and as well as in Uganda, Mauritius and the Dominican Republic. In Cameroon. line with our commitments, all our European markets will have access to 4G before the end of 2015. focus new agreements for sharing networks in Romania and Spain In March 2013, Orange and Vodafone signed an agreement territory. This agreement establishes the sharing of active in Spain to pool the FTTH network with a joint investment network components (transmitters) in rural zones and of €1 billion. The aim is to reach six million homes in more passive sharing (pylons, masts) in dense zones. This allows than 50 Spanish towns by 2017. Launched in August, both operators to continue investing in the development fibre has already been deployed in 12 towns and already of mobile telephony infrastructures while at the same time society covered 800,000 homes at the end of March 2014. benefiting from substantial savings, thus helping them extend their 4G coverage and provide better coverage in On 16 September 2013, Orange and Vodafone signed an rural zones. agreement for the creation of a joint company and to share mobile network infrastructures throughout the Romanian Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 61 4 society combating the digital divide focus help vulnerable populations manage their spending At the initiative of Orange, an experiment was conducted the residents with solutions to organise their expenses and in a social housing zone in Nanterre (France) to better better manage their budget, teaching them, for example, understand the usage of modest households in terms of about renewable loans, energy efficient actions, access telecoms and energy, and thus develop solutions to help to social energy tariffs and the different mobile telephony these households better manage their budgets. offerings and multiplay access. The Agence Nouvelle des Solidarités Actives, Orange’s These workshops are now established in around 50 towns chosen partner, has designed awareness workshops to and will be extended in 2014. Turnkey packages have help these households have a global understanding of been prepared and will be deployed to players in the social these new challenges. A programme of ten workshops sector who may wish to use them. were attended by almost 150 residents. These provided 4.1.2. ensuring accessibility Studies conducted in previous years have given us a better for the elderly and disabled understanding of the needs of these populations, which are not fully covered by the low cost or social tariffs currently In order to combat the digital divide as a result of disability or offered. They require tools that allow them to better control age, we have deployed “a design strategy for all” for several their spending and manage their budget. years now. Led by the Group Accessibility Department, this strategy has the following principal objectives: In the AMEA zone, the community phone concept offers collective access at a low cost and promotes the development ■ adapting our products and services and designing speciﬁc of micro businesses. products that combine innovation, simplicity and ergonomics; The sale of second-hand telephones through European ■ incorporating the notion of accessibility in all the Group’s collection programmes also offers populations in the AMEA activities, from design through to marketing and making zone reliable products at a low cost, while favouring a second life websites accessible, in all its markets; for electronic equipment. This solution beneﬁts the environment and customer purchasing power, which Orange is also starting ■ establishing a tailored distribution network; to develop in Europe. Second hand mobile offers have already ■ working with national and international institutions, been launched in France, Spain, Poland, Romania, Slovakia organisations, and customers to better identify today’s needs, and Belgium. develop partnerships and contribute to standardisation in relation to disability. 4.1.4. remove educational and cultural For more than ten years, the Orange Healthcare division barriers (http://healthcare.orange.com/eng/Orange-Healthcare) has In order to combat the digital divide linked to education been developing dedicated solutions in response to challenges and cultural barriers, Orange ﬁnances several education in the ﬁelds of healthcare and dependence, to ensure better programmes and equipment in partnership with academic coordination of care and improved comfort for the ill, to help institutions in the regions in which it operates, particularly keep the elderly in their own homes, regardless of whether they through the Foundation. For example, in France, the Orange are dependent or not, to develop hospital care at home and Solidarité Numérique (Orange Digital Solidarity) programme remote monitoring of patients with chronic illnesses. has organised almost 1,000 workshops on new technologies since 2010, thanks to the participation of 2,500 employees who volunteered to support, outside of working hours, 4.1.3. customised offerings for people members of the partner associations (Secours Populaire, with low incomes Force Femmes, Fondation Agir contre l’Exclusion, Solidarité In order to reduce the economic digital divide, Orange is et Avenir, etc.). developing a programme dedicated to customers with low incomes, providing adapted offerings and distribution modes. Another example, this time in Jordan: the Orange Broadband Fund programme has connected 500 schools to the Internet In Europe, we are currently working with partners to by supplying the necessary equipment (particularly computers). construct a dedicated offering for vulnerable populations. 62 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange In 2013, the 11th edition of the Schools for the Future programme in Slovakia supported 109 projects initiated by teachers or some key dates society combating the digital divide 4 NGOs to promote innovative teaching methods in primary and 2003 secondary schools in this country. ■ signature in France of the national agreement on the coverage of “White Zones”; Our Group also develops products and services that are easy to use, such as the “easy Internet” solution aimed at people who ■ ﬁrst edition of the Solutions Handicap catalogue in France. are not familiar with new technologies, in particular the elderly. 2007 ■ launch of the programme to construct solar base stations to develop access in rural areas of African countries; focus ■ ﬁrst experiments with customer service accessible to deaf facilitate access to digital for seniors and hard-of-hearing customers through direct contact over the Internet using French sign language or text in real time. In February 2013, Fujitsu Limited and Orange signed a partnership aimed at offering new mobile telephones and services to the senior market in Europe. First smartphone 2009 provided under this partnership: the STYLISTIC S01, an ■ commissioning of the LION submarine cable (Indian Ocean); intuitive smartphone equipped with numerous functions to facilitate use by senior citizens, available in France ■ introduction of the ﬁrst community phones in Mali. since June 2013. 2010 Orange has also been a partner of Musiques & Cultures ■ launch of the Orange Solidarité Numérique (Orange Digital Digitales (MCD) since 2012; this association produces Solidarity) programme; Hype(r)Olds. These Internet and multimedia workshops, created by the artist Albertine Meunier see digital ■ Orange received the gold medal at the Geneva 2010 creation as a vehicle for creating social links. It is aimed International Exhibition of Inventions for its B-Link project, an at women aged over 77. application developed by Orange Labs Poland enabling users to control their computer by blinking their eyes. In Poland, the Orange Foundation conducted an educational project for seniors in 2013: 12 live interactive 2011 meetings aimed at the elderly were organised (online ■ launch, in France, of the wholesale ﬁbre offering enabling the streaming) in libraries throughout Poland. More than pooling of FTTH networks outside very densely populated 7,000 senior citizens participated in these meetings, areas. and the response was very positive: according to the surveys conducted at the end of each meeting, 98% of participants thought that their confidence in their 2012 possibilities had increased and 96% indicated that they ■ commissioning of the ACE and LION2 submarine cables. wanted to learn how to use a computer and the Internet or increase their skills in this area. In Slovakia, the ■ Orange Uganda’s Internet pour tous (Internet for all) received Orange Foundation is deploying the “Green for Seniors” the prize for Meilleure amélioration du réseau (Best network programme in order to finance innovative projects improvement) at AfricaCom 2012; supporting integration and reinforcement of senior skills. ■ launch of the Melovibe and Colourcall applications in France, In 2013, 46 projects were supported in this way. Spain, and Poland. society 2013 ■ 4G offers launch in nine of the Group’s countries; ■ signature of a partnership with Fujitsu to develop mobile phones and services aimed at the seniors market in Europe. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 63 4 society combating the digital divide Z population coverage rate for the mobile network deployed by Group subsidiaries Belgium Poland 89.8% 90.24% 99.7% 99.83% Luxembourg Slovakia 95% 79.2% 99.6% 99.8% France Moldova 98.7% 96.86% 99.9% 98.23% Spain Romania 97.6% 98.57% 99.35% 99.95% Caraïbes Armenia 71.8% 98.11% 95.96% 98.24% 3G 2G Morocco Tunisia 51.6% 86% 99% 95.1% Niger Jordan 12.3% env. 50% 79% 99.8% Mali Iraq 20% NA 85% 88.2% Senegal Egypt 45% 94% 91.2% 99.9% Guinea Bissau Central African Republic NA 20% 72% 38% Guinea Conakry Uganda 17% 41% 60% 76% Côte d'Ivoire Kenya 50% 11% 97.9% 79% Cameroon Madagascar NA 21.7% 93.3% 68.4% Equatorial Guinea Vanuatu NA 24.5% 92% Reunion 97.4% Congo Botswana 18% 27% 55% 95% Mauritius 84% 99% 3G 2G 64 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 review society combating the digital divide 4 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 geographic digital divide ■ continue deploying solar 2013-2015 ■ at the end of 2013, a total of 2,310 solar base stations were in service, stations according to a fall from 2012 (2,367) due to the rural electriﬁcation of 262 solar base local conditions; stations in Senegal. ■ study the possibility of switching sites powered by fuel engine generators to solar or solar-fuel hybrid; ■ improve broadband coverage in Africa by leveraging the Group’s network of submarine cables and terrestrial backbone network. ■ launch initiatives to 2013 ■ launch of a pilot in Guinea-Bissau to assess usage and beneﬁts. facilitate access to There will be a review at the start of 2014. energy to power mobile phones in Africa. high capacity mobile 2015 ■ launch of 4G offers in 6 European countries (Spain, France, Luxembourg, broadband: Moldova, Romania and UK). ■ deploy 4G/LTE in all European countries in which Orange operates by 2015. ■ deploy 3G in all areas 2015 coverage of the population of the AMEA zone: of the Africa-Middle-East ■ 2G: 82%; zone in which Orange ■ 3G: 43% – launched in 17 countries; operates by 2015; ■ 4G launched in 2 countries (Uganda and Mauritius) and 15 million active ■ offer mobile coverage data customers; to 80% of the population. ■ 4G launched in the Dominican Republic. society Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 65 4 society combating the digital divide objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 accessibility for the elderly or disabled ■ enhance the process 2013 ■ update of the test grid to facilitate qualitative evaluations and better for testing and selecting evaluate the services actually provided to customers. Technical tests handsets, in order to complemented by customer tests on representative mobiles. Publication in provide countries with European countries of a catalogue presenting mobile terminals that have a full line-up of accessible been tested and selected for their accessibility features. handsets. ■ improve the accessibility 2013 ■ deployment of the new Livebox with tactile markings to differentiate of the Livebox and between the buttons and ports in France and Poland as well as the Livebox Orange TV decoder. Play decoder in France; ■ diffusion of audio-description ﬂows on our ADSL and ﬁbre networks for all TV channels concerned, both SD and HD. ■ make Orange’s main 2013 ■ improved accessibility of data access apps on Orange networks; audits of mobile apps available the main apps and implementation of action plans to improve accessibility for Android and iOS. (Orange et moi, Mon Réseau, Mes Boutiques, Mes Messages vocaux, Orange WIFI). ■ make the digital world 2013 ■ development of two free 100% Orange applications on Android aimed at more accessible to the deaf or hard of hearing (Melovibe and Colourcall): launched at the end the elderly and disabled of 2012 in France, Spain and Poland, they were updated in June 2013 to through new versions optimise ergonomics following feedback from customer testing; of service packages, ■ in France, the Paris City Hall chose the easy Internet solution aimed at applications, and beginner level Internet users to provide training for senior citizens on adapted software. the Internet. ■ make it easier for 2013 ■ distribution of a selection of mobile terminals adapted to the needs of customers to select the disabled and elderly; following the example of France and its autonomy accessible solutions store, implementation in Spain of an online catalogue of accessible in Spain and Poland solutions, and solutions distributed in Poland via the orange.pl site, through online in the section “without barriers”. catalogues. ■ help the elderly in Poland 2013 ■ as in France, creation in Poland of a dedicated team for the disabled access the digital world and elderly, which selects solutions for the Group’s portfolio, deploys through training and actions to support customers (communication, training in the use of new coaching. technologies, speciﬁc programme for senior citizens). ■ launch a major programme 2013 ■ launch of a Senior programme, a vast project for the Group to meet for the elderly involving the needs of the ageing European population. Several concrete results a complete ecosystem have already been achieved: (handsets, interfaces, ■ signature of a partnership with Fujitsu to develop smartphones aimed services, and support) at the senior market in Europe and the marketing of STYLISTIC S01 in and a fully-integrated France, in June 2013, with support services (digital coaching workshops end-to-end approach. for €1); The programme will ■ launch in Poland of a low cost tablet with coaching by the operator to offer the beneﬁts of enable seniors to access the digital world. data connections via smartphones and tablets, and be based on projects anticipating the elderly’s future usages. 66 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 society combating the digital divide 4 ■ identify customers’ 2013 ■ tests conducted in France and Poland with users with reduced mobility main navigation paths or vision to assess the accessibility of the main navigation paths for these online and audit customers; ﬁrst tests for the in-store presentation of products in “discovery the corresponding workshops”; accessibility; ■ set up an indicator that 2013 ■ creation of a quarterly indicator at the start of 2013 to monitor can track improvements the development of the accessibility of websites for European countries. in the accessibility of the main websites in each European country. increase the amount 2013 of sales and advisory support provided to the disabled: ■ continue implementing ■ at the initiative of the Group Accessibility Department, sharing of best local product support practices among the countries for all accessibility components. strategies and improve efforts by sharing best practices. ■ continue working with 2013 ■ at the end of 2013, 260 branded stores in France: Spain and Poland to roll increased accessibility, trained staff, signage for adapted products; out branded stores. ■ opening of 25 branded stores in Spain; ■ in Poland, launch of preparatory work for all components of the branding programme. ■ upgrade the Autonomy 2013 ■ in France: drafting and integration of accessibility criteria in the product section of the website data sheets for the mobile e-shop and integration of the accessible in line with the 2013 products range; in the mobile terminal selectors (e-shop and ﬁxed), e-shop strategy. development of the e-shop format of the mobile autonomy page); ■ work on the digitalisation of the accessible customer relationship; overhaul of the agir au quotidien section with the launch of the autonomy section on the new site bienvivreledigital.orange.fr in July 2013. ■ in France, as part 2013 ■ in France, six accessibility training sessions were held in 2013 in of the training addition to the training provided to sales employees already in place programme for the 1014 (classroom-based, e-learning training); customer centre ■ in Poland, launch of an e-learning training project currently being tested. targeted distribution school, implement proactive training measures for regional representatives and charity correspondents society on Autonomy offerings, and present the method to other countries. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 67 4 society combating the digital divide roadmap objectives deadline geographic digital divide ■ continue deploying solar stations according to local conditions, in accordance with the base station 2013-2015 outsourcing contracts; ■ improve broadband coverage in Africa by leveraging the Group’s network of submarine cables and terrestrial backbone network. ■ launch initiatives to facilitate access to energy to power mobile phones in Africa. high capacity mobile broadband: 2014-2015 ■ deploy 4G/LTE in all European countries in which Orange operates by 2015. ■ deploy 3G in Orange countries in the Africa-Middle East zone by 2015 and provide mobile coverage for 80% 2014-2015 of the population. accessibility for the elderly or disabled products and offerings: 2014-2015 ■ continue to develop offerings and products to meet the needs of the disabled and elderly, either directly, or in partnership with start-ups under the open innovation logic; ■ increase the integration of accessibility in the Group’s internal activities; ■ develop products and offers that facilitate access to the digital world for seniors on the European markets. access to offerings: 2014-2015 ■ continue to develop the accessible distribution network (in stores, remotely); ■ develop access to digital offerings by improving the online catalogues; ■ continue to work on training and coaching actions. increase dialogue with disabled players cultural or educational divide 2014-2016 ■ support the efforts to increase digital literacy in the AMEA zone via the Orange Foundation’s digital education programme; ■ support the Group’s MOOCs (Massive online Open Courses) dedicated to mastering digital tools. 2014-2015 68 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 4.2. supporting local development society 4 Information and communication technologies are a major economic and social lever in developing countries: ■ they make businesses more accessible and competitive; ■ they stimulate employment markets by helping new activity segments to emerge; ■ they improve productivity and the extension of target markets for large, medium and small enterprises; ■ they help the sustainable development of territories: access to education, healthcare, administrative services, geographical and social inclusion, etc. At Orange, we believe that technologies should beneﬁt populations. And therefore, we develop innovative solutions to respond to local requirements and support the emergence of digital ecosystems as sources of social progress and economic development. focus 4.2.1. a structured approach, based on stakeholder dialogue the Data for Development challenge chooses its ﬁrst prize winners Since 2011, we have deployed a structured programme called Orange pour le Développement (Orange for development), Launched in June 2012, the Data for Development developed initially for the AMEA zone in response to a triple competition rewards research work on the possible uses objective: a strong ambition for growth on these markets; for anonymous operating statistics on mobile networks emerging economies requiring support to accelerate their to aid socio-economic development. The aim of this development; and the need to ﬁnd economic, technical and project is to support the development of Côte d'Ivoire; commercial solutions adapted to local requirements. it was launched by Orange, in conjunction with the Belgian University of Louvain and the MIT in Boston. The This programme has now been rolled out in all our markets and selection committee met at the MIT in Boston on 1 May is focused on three main areas: 2013 to pick four projects out of the 80 received: ■ development of infrastructures and connectivity, ■ the project “Exploitation of mobile data to manage accessibility to ICTs for a greater number of people, epidemics through national information campaigns” particularly in rural or isolated zones; was awarded First Prize for the best project; ■ launch of value-added services to meet a range of needs ■ the project “Study of social groups for the analysis in areas as diverse as health, education, agriculture, ﬁnancial of mobile network data” received the Best Scientific services and administration; prize for the project which used innovative analysis methods and showed originality in their scientific ■ support for innovation in local ecosystems: incubators, approach; academic partnerships, etc.; ■ the “AllAboard project”: a system for exploring urban This approach is based on dialogue with our stakeholders, who mobility and optimising public transport” received the have helped us to identify young people and women as two Best Development prize for the project considered the targets for priority actions: most useful and likely to be translated into a concrete ■ in developing countries, where there is a lack of entrepreneurial action; society dynamic and a sufﬁciently solid SME network, these two ■ the project “Exploration and analysis of mass increasingly educated populations lack sufﬁcient employment telephony data: a visual analytical approach” received opportunities that are in line with their qualiﬁcations and the Best Visualization prize for the most clear and ambitions; creative visual representation. ■ in developed countries and in Europe in particular, these two The winning researchers presented their projects to groups were the ﬁrst to feel the impact of the crisis and the the scientific community during the NetMob 2013 transitions caused by globalisation. international conference (Analysis of Mobile Phone As an extension of this programme, the Orange Foundation Datasets and Networks). sponsors local projects to meet the needs of these populations: This challenge allowed the scientific community to health, education of women, insertion of vulnerable populations. access a database from 2.5 billion scientific data records For more information, go to www.fondationorange.com/?lang=en. on the mobile network. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 69 4 society supporting local development 4.2.2. speciﬁc applications to meet local requirements focus Since the launch of the Orange For Development project, several innovative offerings have already been launched on the big data for territory management African markets, most notably in relation to mobile services for New technologies offer a great opportunity to optimise agriculture (m-Agri), mobile banking, e-health or education. A management of urban territory and improve services for few examples: the population. This is particularly the case in Africa, ■ Orange’s involvement in the development of value added where the majority of countries do not have or have very services for farmers stepped up a gear in 2013. Following little infrastructure to produce and store socio-economic the success of experiments conducted since 2011 in Niger data, which is essential for their public policies. Orange (Labaroun Kassoua mobile service offering real time access to has been at the forefront in this field and has conducted the prices of agricultural products), Orange launched two new an experiment to develop this technology in Abidjan, offerings in 2013: Sénékéla in Mali (farming tips and market a town of five million inhabitants with no database to prices) and SIM Anacarde in Côte d’Ivoire (information and facilitate urban management. tips on the cashew industry). The Group also organised its ﬁrst The key idea: provide the authorities in charge of m-Agri Pan-African seminar in Bamako in December 2013, the town with innovative technology, based on the and published a catalogue of m-Agri solutions offered on the collection and processing of geolocalisation data from African markets based around three axes for development: mobile telephones. These data will then be modelled ■ improving agricultural revenues, to produce a tool to manage mobility in real time and facilitate the planning of urban services. The indicators ■ increasing agricultural productivity, produced are signalling aggregates which make the individual telephone users completely anonymous. ■ consolidating the value chain globally. These techniques were validated and approved by the CNIL (French data privacy authority). This major The Group also sponsored the ICT4AG seminar, the ﬁrst innovation is likely to be of interest to many other large-scale event on New ICTs for agriculture, which took towns. This would involve for the first time operationally place in Kigali in Rwanda, from 4 to 8 November 2013; applying in the south a technology that is still emerging ■ Our m-banking offering, Orange Money, already has nine in the north with considerable potential for applications million customers across 13 countries and is regularly and development. updated with new services to meet local needs: ■ in Senegal, Total customers can now pay for their fuel and all purchases made at a petrol station using Orange Money on their mobile phone, without having to worry ■ Orange is also very involved in mobile health services via the about cash, Orange Healthcare division. A few examples: ■ in Botswana, since August 2013, customers can use ■ in Senegal, the Voices project, in partnership with the Orange Money to withdraw money from all Visa ATMs Mérieux Foundation and the RAES NGO, consists of and pay for purchases in stores or online. Botswana is supplying the national network of laboratories (RNL) with currently the ﬁrst country to launch this innovative range an Android app and mobile terminals allowing healthcare of mobile payment services, designed and offered in professionals to upload epidemiological information from partnership with Visa, rural centres to the RNL headquarters in Dakar, ■ in Egypt, Mobinil launched its Mobi Cash service on ■ in Mali, the mWomen project, in partnership with MFS 11 November 2013, in partnership with BNP Paribas Africa aims to offer pregnant women and their children Egypt, now Emirates NBD, and in agreement with the micro health insurance for around €2 a month, which Central Bank of Egypt. This new service allows the could potentially be paid remotely by Malian diaspora operator’s customers to deposit and withdraw money to using Orange Money. This project obtained a grant of and from an account linked to their mobile number, and $70,000 as part of the GSMA’s mWomen call for projects, to make transfers from their mobile for amounts ranging from 10 to 3,000 Egyptian pounds. Additional services, ■ in Madagascar, a pilot project to monitor malaria similar to those offered by subsidiaries that have launched epidemiology in rural areas was launched in partnership Orange Money, will soon be proposed, depending on the with the Institut Pasteur in Madagascar in September 2013. regulatory context in particular; The project consists of the daily uploading of information on detected or suspected cases of malaria in the villages of the Ankazobe region, 100 km from the capital. Information is collected by 16 local agents who then send the collected data via text message from mobile telephones or Tanàna 70 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange focus Madagascar: ICTs serving education 4.2.3. an open innovation policy to promote the transfer of skills society supporting local development 4 The Initiative Francophone pour la Formation à Distance To support local development, Orange favours the path of des Maîtres (Francophone initiative for remote teacher open innovation to enable it to work with local players to create training), launched in June 2012 by Orange Madagascar solutions that are best suited to the requirements of the area. in partnership with the AUF (Francophone university In each country, we build partnerships with local economic association), aims to improve the quality of education players, universities and specialist schools to help train local and teaching of French in primary schools, by offering talent and integrate them into economic life, since these are the classroom-based and distance training to teachers future players in the development of their country. in the Amoron’i Mania region using new technologies (smartphones, etc.). A total of 500 teachers and tutors This North-South transfer of skills is accompanied by a Southhave benefited from this service. The IFADEM, which North transfer of innovation: the innovative digital uses tested is now a real success was officially brought to a close in the AMEA zone in recent years help increase the Group’s on 12 December 2013 in Ambositra with the certificates contribution to the economic and social development of the awarded to 22 tutors and 398 teachers. countries in which it operates, with two priority levers: ■ promote the creation of employment in the sectors of the future through innovation and support for start-ups in the digital world (investment funds, incubators, etc.); phone (community phone) in villages where there is no 2G. Currently, 11 hospital centres and 25 benchmark health ■ support the development of social entrepreneurship, centres and a further eight health centres have increased through initiatives such as the Orange Social Venture Prize in the monitoring system in order to cover more towns and Africa, the Community Awards launched by Orange Uganda villages across the country. since 2011 or the Challenge Data for Development (see focus on page 78). focus positive results for the Orange Tunisia’s Developers Programme A key project in Orange Tunisia’s social responsibility Therefore, three years after its launch, 3,000 people have strategy, the Developers Programme aims to create a been trained in coding, 2,800 students were trained at virtuous ecosystem based around mobile applications in their universities and more than 100 received their training Tunisia, a sector with high growth potential. Accessible at the Orange Developer Centre, a unique laboratory for everyone and completely free, the Orange Tunisia in Tunisia which is completely dedicated to mobile Developers Programme is deployed in more than development. The programme has produced 50 apps and 15 regions and offers a range of additional services to help more than 100 developers have been recruited. young talent to create their own mobile app. some key dates society 2009 2012 ■ launch of Orange Money. ■ launch of a second new ICT incubator project in Niger; 2011 2013 ■ launch of the “Orange for Development” initiative to contribute ■ creation of Challenge Data for Development in Côte d'Ivoire; to the economic and social development of countries in the Africa, Middle East and Asia zone; ■ publication of the ﬁrst m-Agri catalogue in the AMEA zone. ■ opening of the ICT incubator in Dakar; ■ creation of the Orange Social Venture Prize in Africa. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 71 4 society supporting local development 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 local development ■ use the results of studies 2013 ■ organisation of a partnership with the Agence Nouvelle des Solidarités currently under way to Actives (New agency for active inclusion) and the Centre Scientiﬁque improve the provision et Technique du Bâtiment (French scientiﬁc and technical centre for of telecommunications building) a private social housing provider, the Nanterre town hall services to thoose most and CCAS (Community centre for social action) and the Cetelem in need. Foundation: an in-depth sociological study was carried out by the CSTB (Centre Scientiﬁque et Technique du Bâtiment), to identify household uses in terms of equipment, energy consumption and telephone and internet use. Eight themed workshops (communication, energy, budget, etc.) were presented, which facilitated the creation of a “kit” of best practices which was distributed to social players who might be able to replicate the project in other territories (these already total 60); ■ observation of emerging economic models, their interactions and effect on the digital economy, to ensure better interaction between the digital economy and these new forms and to provide resources adapted to the players, producers, distributors and consumers though products and services to support the sharing and collaboration processes which characterise these approaches; ■ preparation of an Inclusive Orange proposition for the European countries in which the Group operates. ■ reinforce the Group’s 2013 ■ organisation of four internal meetings on O4D governance with all of positioning in emerging the Group’s entities in 2013; ﬁelds through its “Orange ■ identiﬁcation of m-Agriculture as a CSR priority for the AMEA zone: for Development” (O4D) ■ deﬁnition and deployment of Stakeholder Dialogue on agriculture in reference framework six countries, and a cross-functional ■ three mAgri services marketed (Niger, Mali, Côte d'Ivoire), implementation ■ creation of local partnerships (SIM B, Mercy Corps, GSMA for approach: development, CIRAD, etc.), m-agriculture, ■ publication of ﬁrst catalogue for mAgri services in Africa, e-government, smart ■ ﬁrst Pan-African mAgri seminar in Bamako in December on the theme cities, and energy supply of perennial mAgri services; to rural areas. ■ m-Women: launch of an internal Orange programme to reduce gaps in the use of ICTs between women and men in the AMEA (approximately 20%). GSMA grant awarded to Orange Mali for the launch of a micro-health insurance service for women using Orange Money, with a local partner (MFS). ■ leverage the data owned 2013 ■ launch by Orange of the ﬁrst “Data for Development” challenge, which by the Group to further allowed the international scientiﬁc community to analyse statistics on economic and social mobile network trafﬁc in Côte d'Ivoire. The aim of this research work development (Data for was to: use big data to support development and improve the wellDevelopment). being of the populations. Presentation of the results for which the health, demographic and urban mobility projects gained recognition from the MIT at the international NetMob conference in May 2013; ■ as part of this ﬁrst D4D challenge, launch of the “Data for Abidjan” project, which aims to provide a modelling tool for the management and improvement of urban services in Côte d'Ivoire’s capital. ■ launch the third social 2013 ■ third edition of the Orange Social Venture Prize in Africa launched in venture prize. May 2013: 455 ﬁles received; prizes were awarded during the Africacom conference in November 2013; coaching for the winning projects over six months; Orange ﬁled the main prize winner’s patent in the country in which it is deployed; ■ the three prize winners were from the employment, energy and culture sector in Côte d'Ivoire, Tunisia and Cameroon. 72 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange society supporting local development 4 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ launch a crowdfunding pilot 2013 ■ completion of a feasibility study on crowdfunding; for African SMEs. ■ launch of an in-depth study with the Group’s Financial Department in 2014. ■ launch new incubators in 2013 ■ launch of an incubator in Niger in July 2013; African countries where ■ postponment of the incubator project in Mali due to political events; the Group operates. ■ in Tunisia the Développeurs (Developers) programme was rolled out in 15 regions offering a range of additional services to support young talent and help them create their own mobile app. ■ continue rolling out 2013 ■ launch of two service pilots in Senegal (audio messaging and contact the “Digital world for all sharing). in emerging countries” programme. philanthropy ■ support local 2013 ■ deployment of several projects in countries affected by conﬂict, communities by creating where foundations are not yet in place: Democratic Republic of Congo and new charities to meet Central African Republic. Given the very fragile situation in both of these citizens’ needs. countries, the support provided by the Orange Foundation targets the most basic requirements of these populations: access to healthcare, particularly for young girls and women who have been the victims of sexual violence, and professional training to provide communities with the skills required for their own development; ■ partners for two projects in the Central African Republic: the Red Cross and Caritas; ■ partners for projects in the Democratic Republic of Congo: Doctors of the World, MAGNA Children at Risk and OXFAM France. ■ provide responses 2013 ■ in Africa: to growing integration ■ 14 association projects supported in 2013 for the education and training issues (social, of 10,000 people; professional, cultural, ■ 150 schools connected; etc.) with innovative ■ 3,500 computers provided to associations since 2010. digital technology-based ■ in France: : solutions in all ﬁelds ■ 1,000 digital workshops provided by employees in 2013; e and, insofar as possible, ■ 6,500 young people trained (Fondation d’Auteuil, Écoles de la 2 chance, in all countries. Missions Locales, etc.). continue providing aid 2013 in 2013: society ■ ■ with a focus on women ■ €1 million beneﬁting 30,000 women and young girls in the ﬁelds of health in Africa and the Orange and education, Villages project. ■ 9,000 women received professional training, ■ Women for Change prize in partnership with the Women’s Forum and Marie-Claire magazine to recognise women’s humanitarian projects in Africa, ■ awareness campaign on early marriage in partnership with Plan France; ■ at the end of 2013, the Foundation’s Village programme covered: ■ 29 villages, ■ 200,000 people impacted, ■ €2.5 million invested. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 73 4 society supporting local development roadmap objectives deadline ■ support the deployment of at least two new incubators in the AMEA zone with the aim of developing new forms 2014-2016 of entrepreneurship linked to the local and digital economy. ■ increase partnerships with players from the social, solidarity and social venture economy. 2014-2016 ■ launch the fourth edition of the African Social Venture Prize and increase support for the best projects 2014 from previous editions. ■ increase partnerships with players from the social and solidarity economy to develop solutions for vulnerable 2014-2016 populations. ■ extend the deployment of training and incubator structures dedicated to social entrepreneurship in France 2014-2016 and Europe. 74 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 4.3. responding to concerns about radio waves society 4 The massive development and use of cell phones and the erection of cell phone antennae sometimes gives rise to some concerns on the possible effects of radio waves on health. The Group strives to provide the clearest answers possible to these legitimate questions. The Group’s policy on radio waves aims to ensure responsible deployment of its activities by reconciling several different challenges: the rational development of wireless networks, information of stakeholders and protection of the public and employees from the potential effects of electromagnetic waves. The radio wave policy is based on ﬁve themes: focus 1. transparent communication with all parties concerned a new Group site dedicated to radio waves by radio wave issues: Orange monitors the results of With a view to keeping its stakeholders informed, in scientiﬁc studies, permanently informs stakeholders via the september 2013 Orange launched an Internet site appropriate communication tools and maintains regular dedicated to radio waves: http://ondes-radio.orange. dialogue with local authorities, neighbours and consumers com/en/home. concerned by this topic; The site is available in four languages (French, English, 2. contribution to research efforts: Orange provides indirect Spanish and Polish) and offers very complete educational ﬁnancial support to research projects, giving public health material to respond clearly and transparently to any authorities complete freedom and independence to allocate questions posed: what is a radio wave? how does a the funds to the studies of their choosing. The Group also mobile network function? how do radio waves and the uses its technological expertise in the ﬁelds of dosimetry and human body interact? what do the health authorities metrology to contribute to various European projects such say? how can I limit my exposure to radio waves? as FP7, Mobikids and LEXNET or to French projects such as the ANR’s (the French national research agency’s) Fetus The site is updated regularly to take into account the project, Mobiexpo and Acte (analysis and characterisation latest news and publishes the results of the latest of exposure of very young children to LTE wireless scientific research and opinions from the main health communication systems, a programme led by Orange). authorities. As regards the establishment of standards, the Group is involved in various international working groups (Cenelec, Orange Poland, Orange Egypt, Orange Mali and ITU, IEC) working to develop transparent methodologies Orange Tunisia have already reviewed their institutional that are viable on a technical level; websites so that they are coherent with the Group’s dedicated radio wave site. Also, the Internet sites of 3. compliance with regulations relating to phone antennae these subsidiaries provide links to this reference site. and mobile handsets when there are no national In France: the Group’s radio wave site is also a good regulations in place, the Group asks its subsidiaries to source of reference and can be accessed through the apply the recommendations and limit values deﬁned by Bien Vivre le Digital portal. the ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection, WHO international commission (www. Moreover, the Group’s dedicated radio wave Internet icnirp.de)). All mobile phones sold by the Group have a site is widely published on the Group and on France’s SAR (Speciﬁc Absorption Rate) below 2 W/kg. Cell phone Intranet sites so that employees have access to reliable antennae are regularly tested by subsidiaries to ensure they information on this subject. Externally, the site has been adhere to national regulations or, in the absence thereof, to society well acknowledged by members of the GSMA and at the the limits set forth by the ICNIRP. The results are published Salon des Maires et des Collectivités Locales (town halls on the websites of the national regulatory bodies, where and local authorities expo), which took place in Paris in applicable; november 2013. 4. promote proper use of mobiles: Orange encourages the appropriate use of mobiles by providing a hands-free kit with each device purchased and by using various channels and materials to educate customers on the proper use of mobile phones (website, brochures, etc.); Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 75 4 society responding to concerns about radio waves 5. apply a Group policy on radio waves in the workplace, which: To supervise the application of its policy, Orange formed a dedicated oversight body – the Radio Wave Committee – ■ anticipates the implementation of European Directive that works with a network of radio wave ofﬁcers appointed in 2013/35/EU concerning minimum provisions aimed at each country. A group resource centre allows the sharing of promoting an improvement in the level of health and information relating to radio waves in all countries. safety protection for workers, ■ sets out the goals to be achieved, the principles to be complied with and the basic values to be adopted so that employees are informed about, and protected from, the potential effects of radio waves. some key dates 1994 ■ formalisation of the Group’s policy on radio waves and ■ development of a dosimetric technique for mobile creation of communication tools; telephony by the Group’s researchers (electromagnetic ﬁeld ■ Orange extended the inclusion of a hands-free kit in all its measurement method); packs to subsidiaries using its mobile catalogue. ■ ﬁrst Group colloquium on radio waves. 2010 2002 ■ development of a Group policy on radio waves in the ■ Orange was the ﬁrst international carrier to include a hands workplace. free kit in all packs sold by its French subsidiary. 2012 2007 ■ creation of a centralised Group resource centre for information ■ appointment of an ofﬁcer responsible for radio waves at on radio wave-related issues. Group level and establishment of a network of radio wave correspondents in all subsidiaries; 2013 ■ creation of the Group online portal for reference information on radio waves (see focus). 76 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange society responding to concerns about radio waves 4 Tunisia Iraq Morocco United Kingdom Poland Jordan Belgium Egypt Luxembourg Slovakia Mali Niger France Moldova Senegal Romania Guinea-Bissau Central African Guinea Republic Cameroon Côte d’Ivoire Equatorial Uganda Guinea Spain Armenia Congo Kenya Dominican Republic Caribbean Madagascar Local legislation that applies ICNIRP recommendations Botswana Voluntary application of ICNIRP recommendations Other local legislation Mauritius Réunion Vanuatu society Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 77 4 society responding to concerns about radio waves 2013 review reminder of 2013 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ expand the common 2013 ■ development of the common resource centre – the seminars planned resources centre to share for 2014 will reinforce their visibility and usage at country level. good practice. ■ launch a dedicated 2013 ■ launch of the multilingual radio waves site in September 2013 in website. four languages (French, Spanish, English, Polish), so that countries without a dedicated site can access the information. ■ provide training to 2013 ■ preparation of pictogrammes on good practices with the countries countries on health and distribution in the second half of 2013; and safety aspects. ■ launch of a project to harmonise Group practices regarding interventions on radio sites with the European subsidiaries; this will be continued with the AMEA subsidiaries in 2014. ■ conduct an audit 2013 ■ inventory completed; (with risk assessment) ■ in terms of risk analysis, audit of 50% of countries. in AMEA countries. ■ support and educate 2013 ■ deferral to 2014 of three sessions that were planned less-developed countries (North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa and English-speaking Africa). in this regard. roadmap objectives deadline radio waves ■ deploy training for employees of the AMEA subsidiaries; ■ reinforce this issue within the Group’s health and safety policy (at least two countries trained in 2014); 2014-2016 ■ audit one country on the application of its 2014 radio wave policy. 2014 78 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 5.1. an ambitious environmental policy environment 5 In a world with limited natural resources, companies will only be able to ensure their long-term success by controlling their energy consumption and reducing the environmental impact of the life cycle of their products and services. That’s why Orange has taken a proactive approach to help preserve the environment and maintain the conﬁdence of its stakeholders – while seizing new opportunities related to the development of green technologies. 5.1.1. an all-encompassing approach Z ISO 14001 certiﬁed scope at year-end covering three complementary priorities Initiated in 1996 with the signature of the European 34% 35% Telecommunication Network Operators (ETNO) Environmental Charter, the Group’s environmental policy has developed in 25% three complementary areas: 17% ■ reducing the Group’s direct environmental impact, with a 14% particular focus on two key issues: reducing our energy and carbon footprint and optimising waste management; ■ reducing the impact of the Group’s products and services at customer sites by using eco-design methods and encouraging environmentally responsible usages; 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ■ developing innovative products and services that let everyone – businesses and individuals – lower their RR item veriﬁed by Deloitte: reasonable assurance. environmental impact. At the end of 2013, the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation rate for EMS in the Group was 35%, up from 34% in 2012. The Group 5.1.2. faster deployment of Environmental has tripled its certiﬁcation rate in the space of ﬁve years and Management Systems has proactive action plans in place to expand the scope of To achieve its targets for reducing its environmental impacts and ISO 14001 certiﬁcation to 60% in 2016. risks, the Group is progressively rolling out ISO 14001-compliant Environmental Management Systems (EMSs) at its main entities. Our aim is an ambitious one: to cover 60% of the Group’s scope in 2016. Note: due to the reorganisation of EMS management in France, the initial target date (end-2015) has been pushed out by six months. The milestones are: 40% by mid-2014, 50% by mid2015 and 60% by mid-2016. entities having obtained ISO 14001 certification by the end of 2013 subsidiary scope Orange Marine All facilities and vessels Orange France Six key processes and 12 priority sites Orange Spain All activities and sites (except the data centre acquired in July 2012) Orange Poland Mobile activities Orange Business Services Three priority sites environment Orange Slovakia All activities Orange Moldova All activities Orange Romania All activities. Integrated QSE certiﬁcation. Mobinil (Egypt) All activities Orange Mali All activities Sonatel (Senegal) All network technical sites, and the site housing the submarine cable linking the west coast of Africa and Europe (ACE), certiﬁed since June 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 79 5 environment an ambitious environmental policy some key dates 1996 2008 ■ signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter. ■ signing of a strategic partnership with the WWF. 1998 2010 ■ creation of the Group’s Environment Department. ■ ISO 14001 certiﬁcation of Orange France (four key processes and four priority sites) and of Orange Business Services’ 2001 Cesson-Sévigné site. ■ launch of the Environmental Management System (EMS) based on the ISO 14001 standard. 2013 ■ 35% of the Group’s operations certiﬁed according to ISO 14001. 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ continue deploying 2013-2015 ■ Successful outcome to all current certiﬁcation renewal audits. Launch of ISO 14001 EMS new ISO 14001 certiﬁcation plans or extension of existing programmes: in the Group’s main ■ in Senegal, extension of the scope of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in countries and entities, to June 2013 to the site hosting the submarine cable linking the west coast, reach a 60% ISO 14001 ■ in Tunisia, certiﬁcation of Orange Tunisia’s three main sites obtained certiﬁcation rate by in January 2014: headquarters, Kram call centre and Charguia Major end-2015. Service Centre (MSC), ■ continuation of progress towards ISO 14001 certiﬁcation of the Group’s new headquarters, expected to be completed in spring 2015; ■ in France, steering of the EMS system has been reorganised to allow more autonomy for operating departments; it has led to year-end audits being postponed by several months. roadmap objectives deadline ■ expand the scope of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in Orange to reach 40% at end-2014 and 60% at end-2016. 2014-2016 80 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 5.2. combating climate change environment 5 Orange has set ambitious objectives to address climate change: reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and our energy consumption by 15% between 2006 and 2020. This represents a real challenge given the current growth in uses and the continuing increase in data trafﬁc. 5.2.1. plan of action covering ■ reducing transport impacts, by optimising the vehicle all emissions sources ﬂeet, providing training in ecodriving and promoting new sustainable mobility choices. The Group’s action plans to meet these objectives focus on three complementary areas: The review below presents these action plans in detail. ■ reducing energy consumption by networks and information systems, which account for close to 70% of the 5.2.2. be an actor in the transition Group’s total energy consumption: the Green ITN action plan to an ecological, energy-efﬁcient rolled out in 22 countries, representing over 95% of the energy system consumed by the Group’s technical installations, shrank energy usage by in excess of 1,100 GWh since 2010. Over In addition to internal measures to reduce environmental 2,300 solar energy sites have been set up in 19 countries (15 impacts, the Group continues to develop eco-design methods in the AMEA region), saving 28 million litres of fuel oil. A total to improve the environmental performance of products and 600,000 metric tonnes of CO2 were prevented in the period services and provide its customers with innovative solutions to 2010-2013; reduce their carbon footprint. These are particularly present in the areas of sustainable cities and Smart Homes. ■ improving the energy efﬁciency of buildings, drawing on the best construction techniques, high environmental quality This drive is also materialized by developing new economic processes and smart energy meters for stricter monitoring models (circular economy, service economy, collaborative and control of consumption; economy, etc.). focus a new network of energy and environment experts Launched in 2010, the Orange Expert programme aims ■ recycling, waste reduction, life-cycle analyses and ecoto share technical expertise within the Group by creating design. communities of experts in strategic fields. Employees are invited to submit applications for membership in Orange Work by the expert communities in 2013 revolved around Expert communities, based on specific skills, a broad new energy sources and energy storage solutions, understanding of the connections between business areas inventorying best practices for increasing the energy and a strategic vision. There are currently six communities efficiency of our networks, preparation of a guide to in the programme, one of which is an “Energy and improve broadband service quality in the domestic context environment” community with 46 experts from 12 of the impacted by the electromagnetic environment, and Group’s countries. Their aim is to share knowledge and research into the potential for the development of software improve the Group’s expertise and thereby contribute to eco-design. The agenda for 2014 will focus on discovering policy on emerging issues in three key areas: breakthrough solutions to propel the Group towards achieving its environmental targets. ■ energy and the technical environment; ■ electromagnetic waves; environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 81 5 environment combating climate change focus Orange is committed to sustainable mobility Marking European Mobility Week (16 to 22 September At end-2013, more than 2,600 Orange drivers had also 2013), Orange provided new smart mobility services for benefited from the ecodriving training provided by the its employees in France, allying alternative transport Group in France and in Poland, designed to enhance solutions, user comfort and environmental concerns. safety behind the wheel, cut fuel consumption by 12% on Orange Car-Sharing launched in December 2013 at eight average and lower CO2 emissions by at least 10%. sites in France (in Paris, Rennes and Provence-Alpes Côte d’Azur), with 100 car-sharing vehicles for business Videoconferencing solutions are also increasingly popular travel and for hire for personal use during evenings and in the Group: more than 4,000 videoconferences are weekends. 25% of vehicles for car-sharing are “clean” organised every month on average, resulting in a 10% electric or hybrid models. The Group aims to increase the reduction in business travel. car-sharing programme to 2,000 vehicles by 2018. This array of smart mobility solutions all help towards achieving the target of lowering Group CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. some key dates 2007 2010 ■ launch of a project to build solar base stations in Africa. ■ Orange receives a 2010 Global Telecoms Business Award in the Green Power Innovation category for its programme of ■ Orange obtains the Trophy for clean and economic solar base stations. technologies awarded by ADEME and the magazine Industries et Technologies for its patented Optimised 2011 Ventilation solution; ■ launch of a Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in Spain; ■ launch of the EcoCenter server virtualisation programme in France. 2012 ■ Orange makes a contribution to the European Commission’s 2008 ICT Footprint project to assess the environmental impact of ■ signing of the United Nations Caring for Climate programme; new technologies. ■ launch of green labelling of ﬁxed and mobile handsets in 2013 France. ■ development of an energy consumption and CO2 emissions simulation tool in 11 countries that together account for 90% 2009 of the Group’s energy consumption; ■ launch of the ﬁrst Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in France and Belgium. ■ launch of a car-sharing initiative for Orange France employees. 82 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange Z energy consumption by type Z CO 2 emissions by country environment combating climate change 5 3.4% 3% gas coal 7.6% vehicles 21% France 69% 45% 17% electricity rest of the world oil fuel 5% Spain 29% Poland Z Group’s CO 2 emissions (in metric tonnes of CO2 and kg CO2 per customer) t CO2 kg CO2 / customer 1,600,000 8.4 1,500,000 8.1 1,400,000 7.8 1,300,000 7.5 1,200,000 7.2 1,100,000 6.9 1,000,000 6.6 900,000 6.3 800,000 6.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group CO2 emissions (t CO2) Kg CO2 / customer focus harnessing technology to meet new urban challenges Against the backdrop of rapid and major changes in our ■ develop services to improve the day-to-day urban urban landscape, cities must address the need to optimise experience for citizens and tourists alike; energy and transport solutions. Orange is there to support cities to address these changes through its strategic, five■ Smart Building: support the development of smart point Smart Cities programme: buildings for the city of tomorrow. ■ improve mobility within cities and contribute to traffic Achievements in 2013 included a partnership deal with free flow with connected cars; Streetline to develop smart parking services in France, giving motorists real-time information on parking availability environment ■ encourage use of public transport; and how to get to them. Orange teamed up with Veolia in 2011 to launch the M2Ocity joint venture, which now ■ develop smart grids to help power companies to manage operates 700,000 energy-efficient water meters in France, energy more efficiently; as part of the Group’s Smart Grids operation. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 83 5 environment combating climate change 5.2.3. progress towards achieving the greenhouse gas emissions reduction target from 2006 to 2012 Orange has committed to reducing its CO2 emissions by Our reductions target covers all energy sources (electricity, gas 20%. Progress towards achieving the Group’s target, taken and fuel oil) for Scopes 1 and 2, i.e. all energy consumption as an absolute value by the European Commission and our and emissions from mobile and ﬁxed networks, data centres, stakeholders, is monitored by the Executive Committee. tertiary sector buildings and motor vehicles. At the same time, Orange also tracks the objective as a ratio The following are not included in the Group’s energy and CO2 per customer. metrics: The scope for monitoring the target includes the 11 main ■ employees’ business travel by air or rail; commuting to and Group countries or entities (namely France, Spain, Poland, from work; Orange Business Services, Belgium, Egypt, Romania, Slovakia, Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire and Jordan). This scope ■ refrigerants (which are taken into account in country carbon accounts for: inventories). ■ 96% of the Group’s 2012 revenue; ■ The calculation methodology, scope of the indicators and targets are detailed in the appendix on page 110. ■ 87% of customers in 2012; and ■ 85% of CO2 emissions in 2012. Z changes in the Group’s carbon footprint Change in the 2006 2012 period 2006-2012 CO2 emissions MtCO2 1.18 1.34 +14% CO2 emissions per customer (excluding Orange Business Services) kgCO2 per customer 8.3 7.2 -13% Customers Million 133.7 178.8 +34% Change in the 2006 2012 period 2006-2012 Networks tCO2 715,884 1,029,630 +44% Tertiary tCO2 304,515 181,604 -40% Fleet tCO2 151,129 127,523 -16% Taken as an absolute value, CO2 emissions rose 14% in of customers across all Group countries. However, despite the period 2006-2012. The increase was essentially driven the growth in uses, we note that energy efﬁciency measures by network energy consumption, due primarily to the improved our performance when looked at relative to the development of new digital uses and the growing number number of customers (down 13% from 2006 to 2012). 84 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange environment combating climate change 5 Orange is on track to meet its targets for “tertiary sector The Group will step up its efforts in networks and IT buildings” and “vehicles”. systems, which are critical for improving energy efﬁciency performance: in absolute terms, network consumption rose ■ CO2 emissions from the vehicle ﬂeet fell 16% in the period 44% from 2006 to 2012. 2006 to 2012, helped by: The increase is due to two main factors in the main: ■ ﬂeet rationalisation measures (5,000 fewer vehicles in the period 2006-2012), ■ the hike in the number of customers served (up 34% to 178 million at end-2012, from 133 million in 2006 for the ■ Installation of 1,198 electronic gearboxes as of endscope of the 11 countries included in the target); December 2012, ■ the growth of new digital uses, generating more data trafﬁc ■ ecodriving training (delivered to more than in our networks and IT systems, and, as a result, higher 6,000 employees since 2010), power consumption. ■ introduction of hybrid and electric vehicles, as well as The Green ITN 2020 plan has nonetheless proved its mettle: car-sharing vehicles for Orange France employees; the pooling of network equipment (RAN sharing), RAN renewal, optimised ventilation systems, opening of new-generation ■ CO2 emissions from tertiary buildings were 40% lower in the data centres and the establishment of 2,300 solar stations in period 2006-2012, helped by: Africa, together with other energy efﬁciency measures led to ■ the building energy action plan in France, which delivered total savings of 180,000 metric tonnes of CO2 in the period 700 MWh in annual savings, 2006-2012. Despite the higher customer numbers and the expansion of services and uses, our plan of action controlled ■ French energy saving certiﬁcates, saving 47 GWh the rise in consumption in absolute terms and drove down CUMAC (on aggregate), emissions per customer, without however inverting the curve. ■ the installation of energy measurement tools in buildings Hence, Orange will turn to new avenues to achieve reductions in Europe, with a 2020 target date: ■ energy monitoring and control of more than 90,000 items ■ a plan to gradually replace the network infrastructure and IT of equipment (PCs, printers, screens, and others). systems with less energy-hungry solutions; ■ improved collaboration with suppliers to design newgeneration equipment delivering signiﬁcant energy efﬁciency gains. environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 85 5 environment combating climate change 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 networks and IT systems ■ continue the work started 2013 ■ priorities deﬁned by the Group’s network department and presented to in 2012 with France, the Executive Committee early in 2014; Poland, Spain, Slovakia, ■ Green ITN 2020 aims presented to CEOs in Europe in December 2013, Côte d’Ivoire, and Egypt, as part of the Sirius transformation programme; which account for 86% ■ energy efﬁciency measures in France, Poland, Spain, Slovakia, of the Group’s energy Côte d’Ivoire and Egypt; consumption, to identify ■ noteworthy result: in a world ﬁrst, a partnership agreement was signed and prioritise ways to cut in December 2013 between Orange and one of its strategically important energy consumption. network equipment suppliers to provide new equipment that will deliver savings of 50% compared with the current generation, by 2016-2017. ■ continue to progressively 2013 ■ systems to measure consumption by networks and IT systems were introduce systems for introduced, primarily in Europe and AMEA, with a total of 925 Group sites measuring the energy equipped at end-2013; consumption of networks ■ since a pilot conducted with Orange Slovakia resulted in energy efﬁciency and IT systems. savings from metering systems, broader roll-out is proposed in Europe; ■ a tool to simulate energy trajectories and the impact of renewable energy was introduced, with the assistance of a specialist ﬁrm, to boost reliability and improve the data input to the Group’s databases. ■ leverage the results of 2013 ■ the deployment of solar solutions continued in the AMEA region and was tests performed in 2012 extended to an additional 205 sites, bringing the number of operational to further innovate in the solar sites in the Group to over 2,300, including about 250 sites transferred ﬁeld of renewable energy. to Tower Companies (licensed service providers) as part of a programme to share passive infrastructure at radio sites in the AMEA region. 86 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange environment combating climate change 5 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 tertiary sector buildings ■ expand the measures 2013 ■ in France, meters were installed in 80 of the largest tertiary sites at to install energy end-2013 (representing in excess of 900,000 sq.m.) (versus 60 at measurement tools the end of 2012). The Group’s Real Estate Department continued to in buildings in France apply other energy-efﬁciency measures (energy efﬁciency assessments at and Belgium to other 94 buildings, automated detection of consumption anomalies at 46 sites, countries. and other actions with a lead time of less than six years for a return on the investment); ■ in Spain, tools were installed to deliver improved consumption management and efﬁciency in all buildings; ■ following a pilot in 2013 covering IT systems in Slovakia, it was decided to extend the solution to other subsidiaries in Europe: the system will provide detailed energy consumption metrics for IT systems and covers 100,000 items of hardware in ofﬁces and data centres. ﬂeets (no target published 2013 ■ the vehicle catalogue was optimised to lower CO2 emissions; 23 electric in 2012). and 40 hybrid vehicles were introduced; ■ fuel consumption was cut by 1.5 million litres in 2013 vs. 2012; ■ Orange continued to shrink its vehicle ﬂeet in France (21,942 vehicles as of the end of 2013), reducing it by 4.22% from 2012 to 2013, or 970 vehicles. The reduction was achieved by optimisation measures and restricting business travel (videoconferencing, teleconferencing and other solutions); ■ launch of Orange car-sharing at eight sites (100 cars) in December 2013; ■ continued roll-out of ecodriving training (2,672 employees were trained in 2013); ■ installation of 6,671 electronic gearboxes as of end-December 2013. evaluations and training ■ identify the main 2013 ■ review of the ﬁndings of the carbon inventory in Poland and resulting action conclusions of the plan implemented in the second half of 2013. Bilan Carbone® (carbon inventory) carried out in Poland in 2012 (adapted to the speciﬁc conditions in that country). environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 87 5 environment combating climate change objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 environmental performance of products ■ reduce the environmental 2013 ■ a new TV decoder was launched at end-2013 featuring a very low-energy impacts of Home stand-by mode. Network handsets. ■ apply the results of 2013 ■ results of the eco-innovation workshops held in late-2012 and early-2013 the eco-innovation included in the plans for the next Orange boxes; workshops in the ■ Orange is currently examining adjustments to functions to enhance development of the next the energy efﬁciency of the Livebox (disable unused interfaces) with roll-out Orange box. in the network planned for 2014-2015. ■ continue work on 2013 ■ following a revamp of internal priorities, eco-design of services and eco-design of services. software activities were suspended in 2013. Some life-cycle analyses were nonetheless completed or started in 2013: ■ comparison between paper and electronic billing (ﬁnalised), ■ comparison between local video storage (PVR) and storage in the cloud (ﬁnalised), ■ comparison between network personal data storage (cloud) and storage locally by individuals (launched in 2013); ■ publication of a green paper on eco-design of equipment and services, managed jointly by Orange for Syntec; ■ start of communication and training on software eco-design for Orange developers. ■ publication of a white paper on eco-design at the end of December 2013. ■ carry out a second 2013 ■ the ﬁrst eco-design/eco-innovation pilot project for the business market eco-design/ecocontinued its work, focusing on Multi Connect Business: quantiﬁcation innovation pilot project of the gains delivered by eco-design from both customers’ and Orange’s for the business market. point of view, in terms of the environment, the economy and the customer experience. Launch of a second project postponed to 2014. ■ supplement 2013 ■ training for network architects continued at Paris TECH; the eco-design ■ training in eco-design is planned for the critical materials project steering recommendations for group; network architects. ■ eco-design training introduced in professional training for service developers. 88 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 environment combating climate change 5 environmental labelling ■ promote standardisation 2013 ■ in 2013, the GSMA’s work on harmonising the environmental display efforts based on pilot of mobile phones (following on from a working group in which Orange projects carried out participated) was transferred to an ITU working group, to which Orange by the Group. contributes, with the aim of publishing an international standard in 2014; ■ in France, collaboration between Orange and SFR in the ADEME (French Environment and Energy Management Agency)/Afnor (French standards authority) platform to publish a French reference guide on mobile phones. equipment lifetimes ■ substantially increase the 2013 ■ development of SIM only offers in France and Spain in particular; usage of electronic billing ■ launch of the Sirius-Refurbished Handsets project to promote the sale and extend the useful of used phones in Europe. lives of handsets. environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 89 5 environment roadmap objectives deadline EMS ■ expand the scope of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in Orange to reach 40% at end-2014 and 60% at end-2016. 2014-2016 climate change networks and IT systems 2014-2016 ■ step up deployment of GREEN ITN 2020 action plans in the countries in which the Group operates; ■ deﬁne and implement a network equipment optimisation plan and start work on the eco-design of data centres and the network; ■ roll out the energy consumption measurement and optimisation tool in data centres in Europe. tertiary sector buildings 2014-2016 ■ in France, optimise steering of technical installations and reduce energy consumption by continuing actions in progress (smart meters, remote metering, etc.); ■ in other European countries, deploy the energy consumption measurement and optimisation tool for IT equipment (ofﬁce automation) in all tertiary buildings and examine the possibility of including other sources of energy consumption (such as air conditioning, lighting and more). transport 2014 ■ continue to optimise our ﬂeet of vehicles by integrating sustainable mobility tools to improve environmental results (car-sharing, car-pooling, etc.); ■ increase the number of electric vehicles and step up substitution of videoconferencing for business travel. environmental performance of products and services 2014 ■ strengthen eco-design of domestic network equipment; ■ start a study of eco-design of services. green offers 2014-2016 ■ develop innovative “green” solutions, particularly for the sustainable cities and Smart Homes markets, by pooling resources with partners in the energy, transport and domestic equipment sectors and by exploiting big data; ■ contribute to the development of digital solutions for new economic models (circular economy, functionality, collaborative economy). 90 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 5.3. optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life environment 5 Extending the life cycle of products and equipment, particularly through re-use, and optimising end-of-life processing is one of the priorities of Orange’s environmental policy. Product life-cycle management incorporates three key aspects to: ■ extend equipment life cycles by increasing re-use by Orange customers or others; ■ optimise the management of waste and end-of-life products generated internally by introducing processing channels suited to each category of waste and ensuring their end-to-end traceability; ■ collect and process waste electronic equipment with approved external partners or waste management service providers. The Group’s ambitions go beyond reducing direct and indirect Virtuous circular economy models require the participation environmental impacts to promoting the emergence of new of all actors in the chain: customers, employees, suppliers, circular economy models to increase re-use and efﬁcient collection and refurbishing partners, processing providers and management of resources. Recycling is a natural component local authorities. Orange is committed to actively engaging of this process, with suitable systems in place in African all stakeholders in this process to contribute to the optimum countries, especially where organised WEEE (waste electronic operation of the recycling sector from the collection of used and electrical equipment) structures have yet to be established. equipment from customers to processing by accredited But so also are innovative initiatives, such as buying back used companies, while ensuring end-to-end traceability. electronic devices (mobile devices or business WEEE) and the sale of used mobile devices. These alternatives provide avenues for tackling environmental issues (such as reducing waste, managing resources and increasing energy efﬁciency) and for addressing social issues (by creating purchasing power and providing low-income groups with the opportunity to enjoy the beneﬁts of new technologies, while creating jobs, especially to help people to enter the workforce). focus improved management of WEEE generated by companies There are more than 6 million electronic and electrical to provide services to our business customers and key devices (switches, routers, PABX, telephone handsets, accounts in France, governed by the same regulations and etc.) in operation in France under business packages committed to their own environmental policies. Orange offered by Orange. This WEEE is highly significant in terms selected Ecologic, a company accredited for handling of both volume and customers concern. Under the WEEE waste electronic and electrical equipment generated Directive, Orange Group is considered to be the Producer by business, to take responsibility for the collection and of these devices and hence bears responsibility for the treatment of WEEE, providing full traceability. recovery, pollution treatment and recycling when they reach end-of-life. Reconditioning is an option for some More than 800 Orange Business Services and Orange equipment, when technically feasible, once individuals’ France employees received training in 2013 to provide sensitive data is secure. Working with all involved in the the teams with the skills needed to meet customers’ chain (the CSR community, Logistics, Purchasing, Sales environmental requirements, particularly with respect to and Marketing, the Technical Department, After-sales handling end-of-life electronic equipment. and legal affairs), Orange developed tailored systems environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 91 5 environment optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life focus optimised processing facilities in Mali and Kenya Orange Mali carried out a detailed inventory of all the waste Viable batteries are given to employees, in return for a generated by its business in 2013. Based on the findings, commitment to return the end-of-life batteries for collection it produced a waste management guide for employees and treatment. The batteries are used for solar power to raise awareness of the risks associated with waste, in homes and rural areas and help to lower employees’ provide an overview of best practices, as well as a frame energy bills and reduce their carbon footprint. Employees of reference for audit engagements. received close to 1,200 batteries in 2013. Since Mali has no local facilities for the treatment of batteries Mobile phones covered by warranty and returned to the and WEEE, Orange Mali teamed up with an electronic shop are stored pending return to the manufacturer. This equipment supplier to collect the waste for subsequent year, 974 phones with minor faults were also distributed disposal at a specialist processing site in France. In 2013, to employees. Orange Mali sent 94.82 tonnes of WEEE and 7.18 tonnes of batteries for treatment for processing. In addition, the A similar system is in place in Orange Kenya, covering the Orange Foundation organises the reconditioning and recycling of WEEE, metal, wood and paper waste. For PCs, donation of IT equipment. a strategic partnership was formed to recondition used personal computers and donate them to rural schools. focus Z main (excluding waste treated by the Group ordinary waste) More than 12,000 mobile phones collected in one month in Slovakia 4.8% 5.7% other-non hazardous waste October 2013 saw Orange Slovakia join forces with waste electrical and electronic equipment other hazardous waste 1.0% (WEEE) Samsung in a new eco-initiative to encourage customers 5.5% WEEE collected from paper-carboard 6.0% customers to bring in their used mobiles. Customers using the dropbatteries 5.8% 2.7% metal poles off service are eligible to win one of 40 Samsung SIII mini mobile phones every month. Over 12,000 mobile phones were collected under the scheme. The campaign had a charitable purpose also, with all profits going to “Aid Ladybug”, organised by the Socia Foundation to provide support for the elderly. 30.9% wooden poles Similar campaigns were organised by Orange Slovakia 37.6% cables previously, with profits going to the Navrat NGO and the Andreas centre on behalf of those suffering from autism. A total of more than 35,000 mobile phones were collected by Orange Slovakia in 2013, and €43,000 donated to community projects. 92 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange focus Orange Reprise: a mobilephone buyback scheme in France environment optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life 5 Orange Buyback, run by Orange France from 12 to ■ handsets suitable for resale in the used phone market 14 September 2013, was a major campaign throughout are bought back in exchange for a voucher, based on France to encourage customers to bring back their old a scale set in collaboration with E-Recycling, a firm mobile phones. A minimum 10 euro voucher was offered specialising in the repurchase and resale of mobile for each mobile returned (in working order or not). equipment. Orange is committed to offering the best buyback prices in the French markets. A valuation Customers could go to the dedicated page on committee meets every week to set the prices according bienvivreledigital.orange.fr to assess the value of their to market developments; mobile before returning it to the shop. ■ decommissioned or worthless phones are transferred The operation was a resounding success and collected to the green recycling system, introduced in partnership almost 50,000 phones. with Ateliers du bocage, a company formed to help people enter the workforce and a member of Emmaüs The buyback scheme is now permanent. Depending on international. their condition: Z increase in the number of mobiles collected Z evolution of the quantity (tonnes) of customer WEEE (collected and evacuated) 1,600,000 3,500 OBS 1,400,000 3,000 Rest of the world 1,200,000 Slovakia 2,500 1,000,000 Romania 2,000 800,000 Belgium 1,500 Spain 600,000 1,000 Poland 400,000 France 200,000 500 Switzerland 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 R item veriﬁed by Deloitte: moderate assurance. Note: data relates to the tonnes of equipment collected from customers, and not the tonnes produced. The increase in the number of tonnes collected (for mobiles and other WEEE) illustrates the success of the collection services introduced by Orange. focus Mobo, recycling star in Mauritius Mauritius welcomed a very special visitor in October 2013, nou pei prop (let’s keep our country clean), appears on Mobo, the mobile phone collection robot. Designed by 100,000 school copybooks, school bags and t-shirts. Orange and launched in France during the Hello Demain expo in 2011, Mobo is an original solution for local Mobo was welcomed by none other than the President authorities and companies for the collection of used of the Republic, Mr Rajkeswur Purryag, before moving on mobile devices. Orange Mauritius rolled out a largeto meet the public, chaperoned by the team of Orange scale recycling awareness campaign with 230 collection employees and volunteers, 2,500 scouts, government and environment points in its shops, public spaces and other commercial commercial representatives. Mobo brings new momentum premises. Used for the collection of used batteries in to Orange Mauritius’ campaign to recycle used phones addition to mobile phones, the Mobo slogan anou gard and batteries. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 93 5 environment optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life some key dates 2007 2011 ■ deﬁnition of guidelines on waste applicable to all Group ■ one million mobile phones collected in Europe. countries. 2012 2009 ■ creation of a dedicated channel to collect and treat data, ■ audits of WEEE collection and processing channels in France, ﬁxed-line telephone, and imaging WEEE at business customer the United Kingdom, Spain and Poland showing a good level sites in France; of compliance with the requirements of the WEEE Directive; ■ reference guides for waste management were developed, ■ launch of Group programme for the collection, recycling and tailored to the speciﬁc conditions in African and Middle resale of used mobile phones. Eastern countries. 2010 2013 ■ participation in work undertaken by the United Nations ■ membership of Ecologic, the French eco-body approved Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) to optimise the for the collection and processing of WEEE generated by management of electronic waste; companies, and creation of a paid waste electronic and electrical equipment service collection for companies; ■ establishment of two mobile phone collection and recycling channels in Burkina Faso and Benin in partnership with ■ new waste electronic equipment collection centre opened in Emmaüs International and Ateliers du Bocage. Côte d’Ivoire in partnership with Emmaüs International. 2013 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 WEEE ■ roll out new methods 2013 ■ in June 2013, signature of a contract with Ecologic, the French eco-body for the collection and approved for the processing of business WEEE, to provide compliant recycling of WEEE from management of this waste for Orange Business Services customers, businesses and gradually in accordance with the regulations, and to improve our response to the broaden them to include needs of customers for the collection and processing of this equipment; other European countries ■ launch of a paid collection service for customers to better ﬁt their needs, in where Orange Business addition to membership to the eco-body. Services operates. ■ train the sales force on 2013 ■ 800 or more Orange Business Services and Orange France employees end-of-life issues for received training in environmental issues in 12 training sessions (see focus); equipment, so they can ■ training for the legal community specialising in environmental law covering help business customers the regulatory requirements for waste management. contribute to meeting waste collection and recycling targets. 94 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange objectives deadline environment optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life main achievements in 2013 5 ■ actively participate in 2013 ■ presentation to the European subsidiaries of developments as a result the implementation of of the amended WEEE and Restriction of Hazardous Substances the amended WEEE (RoHS) Directives in Europe; participation by Orange in the process Directive in the various for the transposition of the new WEEE Directive into French law, as well European countries as in the French Ministry of the Environment’s WEEE Pro accreditation where the Group committees to prepare for major regulatory changes. operates. ■ implement measures 2013 ■ launch of a working group to consider the issue of WEEE generated on a European level to by the networks to prepare for changes (decline in the switched telephone help reach the collection network, replacement of equipment). Dissemination of the Group’s targets set forth in the expertise on major regulatory changes to its European subsidiaries new Directive (for 2016 (new WEEE, new collection rates), in line with programmes to conserve and 2019 in particular). scarce resources through recycling initiatives; ■ Orange’s increased involvement in the work of the ITU-T (SG5 Environment and Climate Change) study group, taking responsibility for a study on best practices to optimise electronic and electrical equipment end-of-life solutions. collection of mobile phones ■ improve the effectiveness 2013 ■ more than 1.5 million mobile phones were collected by the Group’s of phone buyback subsidiaries in Europe in 2013, giving a collection rate of 11.6% programmes, especially (just missing the 15% target), and up 16% from 2012; in France and Belgium. ■ phone buybacks have increased 9% overall year-on-year as a result of the improvements in the buyback systems in several countries in Europe: ■ in France, signature of a contract with E-Recycling for a competitive buyback offer covering all sales channels: resulting in the collection of 160,000 mobiles in the second half of 2013, four times the number collected in the ﬁrst half, ■ in Belgium, launch of a new buyback advertising campaign in the second semester 2013, resulting in a collection rate of 13.6% in second semester, over twice the 6.7% achieved in ﬁrst semester, ■ start of a study to assess the market potential and mechanisms for phone buyback programmes included in rapidly changing marketing offers. Presentation and discussions with countries, with recommendations for optimising offers. ■ introduce a pilot buyback 2013 ■ in Egypt, inconclusive buyback and used phone purchase initiative: low market programme in the AMEA potential and legal restrictions on the import of used mobile phones. region. ■ expand used mobile 2013 ■ preparation of roadmaps to roll out used mobile phone offers in phone offers and the the European market. To date, four countries (Poland, Spain, France range of handsets offered and Romania) have offers on used mobile phones. in Europe. environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 95 5 environment optimising equipment life cycle and end-of-life objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ expand mobile phone 2013 ■ in Spain, Orange worked out eco-citizen initiatives with UNICEF, and new collection initiatives initiatives in schools and in the business community with Mobo (the used across Europe, and mobile collection robot); develop “structural” ■ in Poland, signature of a contract with Greenfone for eco-citizen collections initiatives beyond existing from schools and libraries; environmental measures. ■ in Slovakia, Orange teamed up with Samsung to offer in-store eco-citizen collection of used mobile phones. The collection rate was 19% in Q4 2013, the best result for the Group’s eco-citizen initiatives thus far (see focus); ■ national Mobo collection initiative in Mauritius of batteries and mobiles (see focus). ■ studying the feasibility 2013 ■ development of new practical tools to help subsidiaries in African, Middle of large-scale collection Eastern and Asian countries to accurately assess the quantities of waste and recycling schemes collected, according to the reporting indicators deﬁned by the Group; in Africa. ■ marked progress achieved in particular in Mali and Kenya (see focus); ■ ﬁfth waste electronic equipment collection centre opened in Côte d’Ivoire, in partnership with Emmaüs International. Since the ﬁrst collection centre opened in Burkina Faso in March 2010, more than 120 tonnes of waste have been collected and sent to France for recycling to European environmental standards, and 30 jobs have been created in Africa; ■ the Group continued its participation in international bodies actively engaged with the issue (ITU Study Group 5, United Nations Environment Programme UNEP, and StEP Solving the e-Waste Problem initiative) to come up with local-based WEEE solutions in the AMEA region. 2014 roadmap objectives deadline WEEE ■ optimise the collection and treatment of WEEE from business customers and extend the reach of 2014 the programme to countries where Orange Business Services has a signiﬁcant presence; ■ continue collaborative initiatives to develop local solutions for WEEE management in the AMEA region, working with our subsidiaries and other external partners; ■ consolidate training programmes in the Group’s entities. collection, re-packaging, resale or recycling of mobile phones ■ expand and reinforce mobile phone collection and buyback initiatives, as well as used phone offers across 2014 Europe; ■ assess the feasibility of used mobile phone offers in the AMEA region; ■ raise the rate of collection of mobile phones in distribution channels controlled by Orange by 50% by the end of 2014. 96 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 5.4. protecting biodiversity and rare resources environment 5 Like any other company, Orange depends on ecosystem services. In addition to its commitments as a responsible corporate citizen, the Group is also aware that protecting biodiversity is an essential condition for the long-term sustainability of its business. 5.4.1. assessing impacts on biodiversity responsible management of paper to protect forests The Group has conducted studies for several years to gain a greater understanding of its interaction with the ecosystems and In the interests of responsible stewardship of forests, which to develop initiatives to protect biodiversity, working closely with are critical for preserving biodiversity, Orange has implemented NGOs such as the French bird protection association (Ligue de measures to reduce its paper consumption and to provide Protection des Oiseaux) and the WWF (World Wildlife Fund). digital solutions for customers to encourage them to switch to 2013 saw Orange engage the services of a ﬁrm specialising in paperless options. E-billing saved almost 1,500 tonnes of paper analysing the risks and opportunities created by its activities on in France in 2013. the ecosystem (see focus). Within the company, Orange gives priority to using recycled, FSC-certiﬁed or PEFC-certiﬁed paper to play its role in ensuring responsible forest management. focus limited impacts on ecosystems In 2013, Orange set about gaining a more accurate picture The study revealed a low level impact in general. The main of its impacts on biodiversity and conducted an evaluation impact relates to CO2 emissions, the chief culprit in climate of the risks of its main business lines (networks, tertiary change and damage to biodiversity. Orange also intends sector activities and transport) and the opportunities to examine the potential impact of electromagnetic waves related to the use of new information and communication on the ecosystems. technologies. 5.4.2. rare resources, a strategic issue Orange’s policy to take account of the challenges related to the “urban mines” with potential deposits of up to 40 times the rare resources used in the composition of the Group’s products minerals that can be extracted from the earth! Through the dates back to 2011. intermediary of its Chief Environment Ofﬁcer, Orange took over the chairmanship of the group tasked with assessing the needs It keeps an up-to-date database on each resource for use in risk and risks associated with rare resources for French industry assessments and researching alternative resources. within COMES (the French Strategic Metals Committee) in September 2013. Dialogue with suppliers aims to encourage them to limit the use of these rare resources and substitute recycled resources for Besides the economic advantages, recycling of rare resources them. contained in waste electronic equipment could also be a boon for the ecosystem, since rare metal mining can be particularly Orange remains convinced that tackling the issue extends destructive for biodiversity. The Group’s approach also aims beyond its own CSR policies, and that it represents a major to secure supply and to promote a circular economy model opportunity to create sustainable employment and protect seeking to reconcile respect for the environment with the the environment. Accordingly, the Group is in discussions creation of jobs in industry. with companies in a number of different sectors and with environment government bodies in an effort to develop efﬁcient solutions to For more information: consult the Group’s position on rare exploit the vast deposits of rare resources contained in waste resources on orange.com electronic and electrical equipment, a rich source constituting Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 97 5 environment protecting biodiversity and rare resources focus more stringent management of rare metal risks 2013 saw Orange call on the services of a specialist firm to carry out a quantitative analysis of rare and critical metals used in the composition of a selection of mobile handsets distributed by the Group. The study identified and assessed 13 strategic metals, according to a risk hierarchy. Orange introduced a risk management process and established a dedicated organisation: ■ a risk monitoring committee to track risks associated with strategic metals, comprising members from all relevant departments (Purchasing, Legal Affairs, Handsets, Networks, Research & Innovation). It meets every month to assess the situation and specify action plans as needed; ■ the committee reports to the Strategy Committee which meets twice a year to approve the Group’s rare resources strategy. Specific clauses have also been introduced into supplier contracts to encourage them to restrict the use of these rare metals. Z critical metals for Orange 13 critical metals identiﬁed high impact Gold Silver Rare Earths Tin Lithium Antinomy economic importance for Orange Copper Cobalt Germanium Silicom Bismuth Graphite Platinoïds low impact low risk high risk Price and supply risks some key dates 2005 2011 ■ introduction of e-billing and ﬁrst initiatives in partnership with ■ inventory of rare resources used in the composition of the the WWF to raise awareness amongst customers in France. Group’s products; 2007 ■ initial study to assess the Group’s impacts on biodiversity; ■ signature of the ﬁrst regional agreements with the bird ■ launch of the Let it Bee project to install nests at Orange sites. protection association, LPO, to cap telephone poles. 2012 2008 ■ mapping of rare resources used in the composition of the ■ signature of a three-year partnership agreement between Group’s electronic products. Orange France and the WWF. 2013 2010 ■ implementation of a rare resources risk management process ■ signature in France of the voluntary charter on the reuse and and organisation; removal of wooden telephone poles and beams treated with creosote or chromated copper arsenate (CCA). ■ evaluation of Orange’s impacts on biodiversity broken down by risks and opportunities for its major business lines. 98 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 2013 review environment protecting biodiversity and rare resources 5 objectives deadline main achievements in 2013 ■ launch a speciﬁc impact 2013-2015 ■ an in-depth impact study on biodiversity for each business line study on biodiversity (networks, buildings and transport), using the services of a specialist ﬁrm for each business line and Orange Consulting. Evaluation of the Group’s impact in the form of risk (networks, cables, ofﬁce matrices (see focus). buildings, and transport), and outline an action plan to reduce the Group’s impact on biodiversity. ■ expand the use of 2013-2015 ■ widespread use of FSC-certiﬁed paper in France and other countries FSC-certiﬁed or recycled in Europe; ofﬁce paper, and reduce ■ environmental awareness programmes in Spain and Slovakia for example. the Group’s overall paper consumption. ■ introduce action plans 2013 ■ establishment of a Group-wide decision-making process for rare resources for each business involving all relevant departments: CSR, Purchasing, Networks, Orange concerned, so as to Lab, Technocentres, Legal Affairs, Orange Consulting, etc.; as part of incorporate rare resource this process a steering committee is tasked with examining all aspects issues into business of the risks associated with the management of rare resources and processes. the action programmes to be rolled out by each business line, escalation procedures, due diligence, and a Strategy Committee with responsibility for making decisions and ratifying the Group’s rare resources strategy. roadmap objectives deadline biodiversity ■ continue the impact study launched in 2013 to assess the Group’s impact on biodiversity, with an approach 2014-2016 structured by business line (networks, cables, tertiary sector buildings and transport), and deploy initiatives to reduce the main impacts in this area; ■ carry out a study of speciﬁc actions in one or two countries. rare resources ■ formally state the Group’s position on rare resources regulations; 2014 ■ introduce the actions identiﬁed by the Rare Resources Steering Committee. environment Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 99 A appendices about this report This report is intended to provide a fair and balanced view of veriﬁcation of the report the global performance of the Orange Group over the 2013 calendar year. It endeavours to meet the main requirements for As in previous years, Orange requested one of its auditors to information expressed by the Group’s stakeholders (customers, review progress on the objectives in the roadmaps given in shareholders, ratings agencies, employees, suppliers, public this report and verify a selection of social, environmental, and authorities and local communities). human resources indicators and the application of the AA 1000 APS (2008) principles. The summaries of these indicators that have been veriﬁed are period and frequency of report identiﬁed by the symbols R and RR according to the level of assurance that applies to the indicator (respectively “moderate Every year since 2002, the Group has published an annual report assurance” and “reasonable assurance”). on sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. This report covers the period from 1 January to 31 December The conclusions of this work appear on pages 104 to 107. 2013. It also includes a number of qualitative items from early 2014 (outstanding achievements). application of the principles scope and methodology of report of the AA1000 standard In all signiﬁcant aspects, the process of drawing up the 2013 The content of the report has been produced on the basis of Corporate Social Responsibility Report adheres to the three indicators selected in such a way as to give an account of the principles (completeness, materiality and responsiveness) of main economic, social, societal and environmental impact of the AA 1000 APS (2008) standard, a benchmark in the matter the Group’s activities. The choice of these indicators has been of corporate social responsibility focusing on the recognition of partly determined by the recommendations of international stakeholders’ requirements (www.accountability.org). benchmark bodies such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the UN Global Compact, the guiding principles of the OECD and the ISO 26000 standard on the social responsibility of completeness organisations. The identiﬁcation of our stakeholders’ requirements is a key element in our process of identifying sustainable development The indicators have been collected, calculated and consolidated issues. The list of the Group’s main stakeholders appears on with the support of dedicated IT tools. Unless otherwise stated, page 21. the data presented covers all the Group’s activities and the countries in which it operates. materiality For environmental data, the scope of the report covers an The selection of the most signiﬁcant sustainable development average of 98% of the Group’s sales. The rate of coverage, issues connected with the Group’s activities takes account estimated as a percentage of the sales of the entities included of requirements expressed by stakeholders and an internal in the reporting scope, is given for each environmental indicator prioritisation of risks, which is regularly reassessed. in the table of data on pages 108 to 115. For social data, the rate of coverage estimated as a percentage responsiveness of the Group’s workforce is given in the table on pages 116 to Action plans covering sustainable development issues 119. signiﬁcant to the activities of the Orange Group are reassessed annually, and new issues are identiﬁed at the same time. These issues and plans are set out in roadmaps at the end of each chapter of this report. 100 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices about this report A The report is an essential element of the Group’s response male-female management split to the requirements expressed by its stakeholders. Published (permanent contracts at end of period) annually, it enables us to recognise the impact of, and progress with, undertakings made to these stakeholders. Orange takes The rule for calculating the “management personnel” indicator is account of suggestions for improvement transmitted by its based on the active workforce on permanent contracts. readers, as well as conclusions drawn from the veriﬁcation work The “management personnel” indicator includes employees in undertaken to improve the quality of its reporting. the “executive” category, which corresponds to the consolidation of levels E, F, and G of the French National Telecommunications Collective Agreement (Convention Collective Nationale des compliance with international Télécommunications). reporting guidelines Group entities outside France use a document describing the levels in the Collective Agreement to assign to each employee GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) the corresponding level of the Collective Agreement. This report was developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version 3 guidelines. The reporting table can percentage of women in the “Leaders” be consulted at: http://www.orange.com/en/commitments/ network responsibility/communication/. Based on the method of The “Leaders” network is a manager network that had assessment recommended in the guide to the GRI G3 1,109 members at end-2013. These members hold positions of application levels, the self-assessment of this report has been very high responsibility in the Orange Group. undertaken using application level A+. correspondence with the Global number of departures Compact The number of resignations, number of redundancies/dismissals, and number of departures per gender only include departures Orange signed up to the United Nations Global Compact in of active employees on permanent contracts. Therefore, July 2000. permanent departures of employees on temporary leave (for example due to a long illness, assignment to non-active service, As part of the Compact, Orange is required to issue a or unpaid leave) are not included in these indicators. Communication on Progress report each year. For the Group’s compliance with this requirement, see the reporting standards published on http://www.orange.com/en /commitments / number of hours of training responsibility/communication/. The reporting for the number of hours of training is in a standardisation phase internationally. It now covers more than correspondence with the ISO 26000 96% of the Group’s employees. standard The international ISO 26000 standard provides guidelines on the health and safety indicators social responsibility of organisations. The ISO 26000 standard The deﬁnitions of the Group’s health and safety indicators were revolves around seven central issues covering various areas of redeﬁned in 2011. Roll-out of the reporting system was almost action connected with the social responsibility of organisations. complete at end-2013, with a coverage rate of over 96% of staff. Countries report accidents in accordance with domestic For the Group’s compliance with these reporting guidelines, see regulations. The frequency rate of occupational accidents the correspondence table for the reporting guidelines published corresponds to the number of occupational accidents with sick on http://www.orange.com/en/commitments/responsibility/ leave per million of theoretical working hours. As for the severity communication/. rate of occupational accidents, it corresponds to the number of days of sick leave for occupational accidents per million of theoretical working hours. These theoretical hours worked are appendices social data calculated based on the annual theoretical number of days worked in each of the countries where the Group operates The social reporting in this document is based on HR-Info, an (Source: ILO). information system that differs from that used for the Annual Report and Registration Document (Magnitude) because only HR-Info allows distinctions to be made by gender and socioprofessional category. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 101 A appendices about this report environmental data CO2 emissions The 2012 version (with the 2009 results, not updated in 2013) Environmental reporting is based on the Indicia reporting of the GHG Protocol was used to calculate CO2 emissions for tool. Only those countries consolidated in the Annual Report electricity, except for France, for which the Group took 60 g contributed to CSR reporting. There have been no signiﬁcant CO2/kWh as the value for the period 2008 to 2013, based changes to the reporting scope between 2013 and 2012. The on the Ademe’s revised estimates. Prior years were therefore environmental data reporting is based on quarterly reporting corrected. The emissions factor for Orange Business Services campaigns. The values for the fourth quarter are theoretically International entities throughout the world corresponds with the estimated by the countries and corrected the following year. “world” factor of the GHG Protocol 2005. The ﬁrst quarter of 2013 saw the corrections of 2012. The fourth quarter of 2013 was estimated, excluding three countries The coefﬁcients used for the other kinds of fuel (gas, fuel oil, where actual data was provided: France, Slovakia and Armenia. coal, petrol, diesel and LPG) are also taken from the GHG The use of the estimation methods for environmental indicators (2007). Reporting on refrigerant emissions, accounted for in that was implemented for year-end accounting at 31 December C02 emissions for Scope 1, is not yet exhaustive. The Group is generate uncertainties on the consolidated annual data that do working to improve monitoring of these emissions. not exceed 5% of the value of each indicator. For details of the progress of the Group’s CO2 reduction targets energy 2006-2020 (-20% over the period) see pages 84-85. The energy consumption of premises, particularly shops, for Countries or entities included after 2006 are not included in the which the Orange Group does not pay an invoice directly, is target monitoring (with the exception of Egypt), and countries not reported. that are no longer part of the Group (UK, Switzerland, etc.) are excluded from monitoring. Electricity consumption by the Group’s Polish entity is calculated from a statistical sample of invoices received during the ﬁnancial Target monitoring covers CO2 emissions linked to the Group’s year. In the same way, the consumptions of electricity of Orange energy consumption: Spain and France networks are based on a part of estimation. ■ scope 1: CO2 emissions linked to direct energy consumption The “fuel oil consumption (all buildings and all uses)” indicator comprises consumption (excluding vehicles) of domestic fuel ■ gas, oil, diesel and petrol, as well as marine heavy fuel oil and diesel ■ fuel oil (excluding cable ships), for Orange Marine’s ﬂeet. ■ coal, transport ■ fuel for Orange vehicles; Most of the data for train and air travel are provided by Carlson Wagon Lits, which covers more than 80% of the mileage ■ scope 2: CO2 emissions linked to indirect energy consumption travelled by the Group’s employees. Distances covered during train and air journeys are estimated using the great circle route ■ electricity (network, buildings), method (the shortest distance between two points on the Earth’s surface). The CO2 emission factor for short-haul air transport in ■ CO2 emissions linked to heat consumption (heating the GHG Protocol (180 g CO2/km per passenger) is used for all network to heat buildings) are not included as few of the ﬂights (short-, mediumand long-haul). The CO2 emission factor Group buildings use this type of heating. for train transport is taken from the Bilan Carbone™ method when available for the corresponding country. In the other countries, a standard factor of 100 g CO2/km per passenger is used. Local travel agencies, besides Carlson Wagon Lits, that provided reporting data are also taken into consideration, as well as the travel undertaken by families of expatriate employees. 102 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange electronic waste (e-waste) collected from customers environmental management system appendices about this report A The “Size of ISO 14001 certiﬁed sites or activities” indicator WEEE collected from “private” customers consists of WEEE is calculated based on the ratio of energy consumption of the (mobile, ﬁxed-line and multimedia handsets) returned to sales scope covered by the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and total electricity outlets, by mail or collected by service providers on behalf of consumption, except for France, for which the indicator is Orange. calculated based on the ratio of the number of employees covered by the certiﬁcation to the total number of employees. This indicator includes the mobile phones of Group employees. It includes batteries and accumulators that are part of equipment when it is returned by a customer, and other types of batteries CET (Customer Experience Tracker) and accumulators collected separately at various collection The indicator published corresponds to the average score given points. by Orange customers for the following question: Would you recommend Orange mobile/broadband Internet to your friends In France, WEEE from “business” customers (OBS France) is and family? not included in this indicator but rather in the internal WEEE indicator (network). Those questioned awarded a score on a scale of 0 to 10. The scores were averaged out and multiplied by 10 to give a score out of 100. evacuated and recovered waste Reporting on waste incorporates the concept of evacuated waste (i.e. waste that is no longer stored in the Group’s sites local purchases or under its direct control, but which has been disposed of to The Group calculates the percentage of orders placed with local a service provider or an external body, with or without a related suppliers for each country (geographically speaking). ﬁnancial transaction), and recovered waste (i.e. waste that has been recovered through re-use, material recovery or energy These data come from the consolidate data in the Group’s recovery). purchasing IT system (Gold) and include for each entity: Non-hazardous waste is not included since 2012. However, ■ the total amount of orders; since 2012, ﬂuorescent bulbs, PCB and printer cartridge waste ■ the total amount of orders from local suppliers. is included under “Other hazardous waste”. In the AMEA region, due to work in progress to identify and secure waste collection With the following deﬁnitions: and treatment channels, the reporting is not exhaustive. ■ local suppliers: In France, only waste handled by a service provider having signed a framework contract with the Orange Group is listed ■ suppliers that are not subsidiaries of a larger company, in the report as ofﬁce waste and non-customer network WEEE, with the exception of cables and other hazardous waste ■ suppliers that are subsidiaries of a company operating on (including bilge water and sludges) from Orange Marine and a a national scale only; limited quantity of waste from Orange Marine. ■ external suppliers: Different dedicated service providers are used, depending on ■ suppliers that are subsidiaries of an international company the type of waste concerned (copper cables, paper, network equipment, batteries, wooden poles, etc.). Particular attention The indicator for a country is not given if complete data are not is paid to wooden poles, in order to prevent their reuse and available. to ensure they are properly eliminated. For all sites on lease, household and similar waste is not reported, as they are managed by the landlord. Orange Business Services International Monitoring of OBS International reporting is limited to The same deﬁnitions and methodical analysis method are used 11 countries out of the 200 where OBS operates. These in the other European countries. In non-European countries, 11 countries represent 70.1% of staff at the end of 2013. A given that established channels are often not available to treat large part of the reporting, particularly for waste, is centralised, certain types of waste, the quantity of recovered waste generally and not local. Because of this, certain data may not represent corresponds to all evacuated waste that had been sold. the actual (exhaustive) values for the country. The countries are Australia, Brazil, Switzerland, Egypt, Germany, India, Mauritius, Russia, Singapore, United States, and United Kingdom. appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 103 A appendices external opinion assurance report of one of the Statutory Auditors on the corporate responsibility reporting process Year ended December 31, 2013 For the attention of Orange SA Group Executive Management This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Pursuant to your request and in our capacity as one of These items were prepared under the responsibility of the the Statutory Auditors of Orange SA, we have conducted Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Department in procedures on the following items: accordance with the following reporting criteria: (1) the description given by Orange SA on page 11 of the (1) for the principles, the AA1000 APS (2008); 2013 Group Corporate Responsibility Report (“the report”) on the compliance with AA1000 APS1 (2008) principles of (2) for the main achievements, the corporate responsibility inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in the report’s policies and guidelines prepared by the Orange SA Group preparation process (“the principles”); and described in the 2013 roadmaps; (2) the description made by Orange SA on pages 17, 18, 23, (3) for the selected Information, all the procedures relating to 24, 29, 30, 31, 36, 37, 42, 46, 51, 52, 56, 60, 65, 66, 67, the reporting of environmental, social and societal indicators 72, 73, 78, 80, 86, 87, 88, 89, 94, 95, 96 and 99 of the (the “Reporting Criteria”), available for consultation at the report on the state of progress of the objectives set in the Corporate Social Responsibility Department, that are report’s roadmaps and of the validity of their presentation summarized on pages 100 to 103 of the report; (“main achievements”); (4) for the GRI Self-Assessment, the GRI G32 sustainable (3) the corporate responsibility Information selected by Orange development reporting guidelines. SA and identiﬁed by the symbol R or RR among the It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on these items information published on pages 25, 35, 40, 44, 48, 79, 109, based on the work we performed. Our work covers only these 111, 113, 115, 116, 117, 118 and 119 of the report (“the items and not the entire report. selected Information”); We conducted our procedures in accordance with ISAE (4) Orange SA’s self-assessment of the report based on GRI 30003 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements), G3 guidelines (“the GRI Self-Assessment”), available at the the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) and the NEP (norme Group website, www.orange.com. d’exercice professionnel) 90904 professional guidelines. 1 http://www.accountability.org/standards/index.html 2 https://www.globalreporting.org/reporting/reporting-framework-overview/application-level-information/Pages/default.aspx The report can be given an A GRI application level if the company (i) has reported information for all the indicators required by this standard, (ii) has explained for each indicator category the managerial approach adopted and (iii) has provided information on all of the key indicators required by the standard. It can be given an A+ application level if the existence of this information has given rise to an external veriﬁcation. 3 ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than audits or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information” 4 NEP 9090 – Services relating to business and environmental information that fall within the scope of due diligence directly related to the mission of the Statutory Audtors (Prestations relatives aux informations sociales et environnementales entrant dans le cadre des diligences directement liées à la mission du commissaire aux comptes) 104 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices external opinion A Our procedures satisfy the requirements of a Type 2 veriﬁcation (1) description of the compliance in accordance with AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). with AA1000 principles The Professional Code of Conduct governing the statutory auditor profession, to which we are bound, guarantees our nature and scope of procedures independence with regard to the criteria required by the AA1000 AS (2008). We met the people responsible for Corporate Responsibility at the Orange SA headquarters (Executive Committee and We have carried out the following procedures, in order to obtain: Corporate Social Responsibility Department) and a sample of legal entities5, in order to assess the implementation of the ■ a reasonable assurance that the description of the principles report’s preparation process as deﬁned by Orange SA and the (1) deﬁned above, the description of the main achievements identiﬁcation of signiﬁcant events in 2013. (2), and the selected Information (3) identiﬁed by the symbol (RR) have been prepared, in all material respects, in We conducted tests at corporate level and for the aboveaccordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria; mentioned entities on the implementation of the procedure relating to: ■ a limited assurance that the selected Information (3) identiﬁed by the symbol (R) and the GRI Self-Assessment (4) do not ■ the identiﬁcation of stakeholders and their expectations; contain any material anomalies likely to call into question the fact that they have been prepared, in all material respects, ■ the identiﬁcation of material Corporate Responsibility issues; fairly and in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting ■ the implementation of Corporate Responsibility policies and criteria. guidelines. To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to the corporate We compared the material issues described by Orange SA in its responsibility experts of our ﬁrm. report with those presented by the main Telecommunications sector companies in their Corporate Responsibility reports and those arising from our review of the sector’s press in 2013. appendices 5 Mobistar (Belgium), Orange Armenia, Orange Côte d’Ivoire, Orange Kenya, Orange Mali, Orange Poland, Orange Romania, Orange SA (France). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 105 A appendices external opinion conclusion of reasonable assurance We have veriﬁed the set-up within the Group of a process to collect, compile, process and check the selected Information In our opinion, Orange SA’s description on page 26 of the with regard to its completeness and consistency. We have report on compliance with the AA1000 APS (2008) principles familiarized ourselves with the internal control and risk of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in the report’s management procedures relating to the compilation of the preparation process has been prepared, in all material respects, Information. We have conducted interviews with individuals in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria. responsible for corporate responsibility reporting. Concerning the selected quantitative Information: (2) main achievements ■ for the consolidating entity and controlled entities, we have set up analytical procedures and veriﬁed, using sampling nature and scope of procedures techniques, the calculations as well as the consolidation of We assessed Orange SA’s description of the state of progress this Information; of the objectives set in the report’s roadmaps and of the validity of the presentation of the main achievements by conducting ■ at the sites that we have selected6, based on their activity, interviews and collecting substantive evidence Orange' their contribution to consolidated indicators, their location headquarters and from the relevant entities. and a risk analysis, we have: ■ conducted interviews to verify the proper application conclusion of reasonable assurance of procedures and obtain information to perform our veriﬁcations, In our opinion, Orange SA’s description of the state of progress of the objectives set in the report’s guidelines and of the validity ■ conducted substantive tests, using sampling techniques, of the presentation of the main achievements on pages 17, 18, to verify the calculations performed and reconcile the data 23, 24, 29, 30, 31, 36, 37, 42, 46, 51, 52, 56, 60, 65, 66, 67, with supporting evidence. 72, 73, 78, 80, 86, 87, 88, 89, 94, 95, 96 and 99 of the report has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria. conclusion of reasonable assurance For the Information selected by the Group and identiﬁed by the sign (RR) in the report, the level of measurement accuracy (3) selected Information and the performance of more extensive procedures than those performed on other Information selected by the Group and nature and scope of procedures identiﬁed by the sign (R), in particular regarding the number of tests, enabled us to express reasonable assurance. We assessed the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria with respect to its relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity In our opinion, the Information selected by Orange SA and and reliability, by taking into consideration, when relevant, the identiﬁed by the sign (RR) has been prepared, in all material sector’s best practices. aspects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Reporting Criteria. 6 Two OBS entities (Equant in Brazil and the UK) and a sampling of legal entities in the following countries: Belgium (Mobistar), Poland (Orange Poland), France (Orange SA and FT Marine), Armenia (Orange Armenia), Kenya (Telkom Kenya), Côte d’Ivoire (Orange Côte d’Ivoire) and Mali (Orange Mali), representing 80% of total employees, and between 54 and 96% of environmental information. 106 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices external opinion A conclusion of limited assurance (4) work on the GRI Self-Assessment Based on our work, we have not identiﬁed any material anomaly nature and scope of procedures likely to call into question the fact that the Information selected by the Group and identiﬁed by the sign R is presented, in all Based on the GRI cross-reference table shown on the Group’s material aspects, fairly and in accordance with the abovewebsite, www.orange.com, we satisﬁed ourselves that for each mentioned Reporting Criteria. indicator contributing to the A+ application level, a disclosure was provided in the report or in another document referred to in Without calling into question the above conclusion, we draw the table and published by the Group. your attention to the fact that, as indicated in the methodological note presented in the section “about this report” on pages 100 to 103: conclusion of limited assurance ■ concerning calculation of environmental indicators, the Based on our work, we have not identiﬁed any material application of estimation methodologies for those indicators anomaly likely to call into question the fact that Orange SA’s that were implemented at 31 December 2013 generates self-assessment of the report based on the GRI G3 guidelines uncertainties on the consolidated annual data that account that contributed to the A+ application level is presented, in all for less than 5% of the value of each indicator. material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria. ■ concerning calculation of waste indicators, due to the work in progress for identifying and securing its waste collection and treatment channels, reporting is not exhaustive, particularly in the AMEA region. Neuilly-sur-Seine, May 5th, 2014. One of the Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés Frédéric Moulin Partner appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 107 A appendices environmental data nc: Not collected na: Not applicable R: item reviewed by Deloitte: moderate assurance RR: item reviewed by Deloitte: reasonable assurance Z environmental performance (energy) reporting scope, as a EUROP percentage corresof the overall pondance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic facilities presenting a risk fuel tanks units 2,391 1,767 195 0 330 58 0 72 917 energy consumption Scope 1 fuel (all buildings, all use) m3 EN3 99.8% 13,532 2,649 2,597 286 96 38 111 27 5,575 gas m3 EN3 99.6% 15,915,478 3,186,333 0 172,980 0 240,406 nc 0 0 coal tons EN3 100.0% na 86 na na na na na na na gazoline + GPL for company’s vehicles liters EN3 99.0% 27,486 206,595 60,033 0 233,567 99,301 nc 110,979 467,523 diesel gazoline for company’s vehicles liters EN3 99.0% 27,682,945 4,923,833 539,736 1,861,572 988,644 480,879 nc 32,915 192,575 SCOPE 1 TOTAL ENERGY GWH EN3 99.5% 601 116 36 24 13 9 1 2 71 CO2 emissions (fuel-gas-coal) tons CO2 EN4 99.8% 69,058 13,464 6,961 1,099 258 567 297 72 14,942 CO2 emissions (vehicles) tons CO2 EN5 99.0% 76,194 14,032 1,627 5,119 3,275 1,559 0 355 1,642 Scope 1 CO2 emissions (energy only) tons CO2 EN3 99.5% 145,252 27,497 8,588 6,219 3,532 2,126 297 426 16,584 CO2 emissions from tons green house gas eqCO2 EN19 19.0% 2,136 9,646 0 0 179 261 0 0 0 Scope 1 CO2 emissions tons CO2 EN16 99.0% 147,388 37,143 8,588 6,219 3,711 2,387 297 426 16,584 Scope 2 electricity GWh EN4 99.6% 2,315 622 276 108 113 59 23 17 29 of which green energy GWh EN6 100.0% 0 0 57 108 0 0 0 0 1 Scope 2 CO2 emissions tons CO2 EN16 99.6% 138,901 398,331 65,361 0 47,014 13,159 9,091 1,856 16,827 Scope 1 + Scope 2 CO2 tons CO2 EN16 99.3% 286,289 435,474 73,948 6,219 50,725 15,546 9,389 2,282 33,411 108 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices environmental data A Group 2013: AMEA Validated Values Group Orange Business Côte Other AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali d’Ivoire Egypt Cameroun Jordan Kenya Countries International 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 0 640 0 1,500 585 0 0 0 85 8,540 7,901 5,666 5,992 5,996 3,277 5,046 2,325 28,857 4,148 171 3,604 15,682 105 88,126 88,841 77,798 71,087 80,750 0 0 0 0 0 -36 0 0 135,415 19,650,576 22,503,710 21,662,486 23,836,444 23,867,165 na na na na na na na na na 86 100 87 119 197 30,539 314,881 755,277 455,831 123,057 298,845 217,070 44,247 465,682 3,910,914 5,165,407 5,885,434 6,867,479 9,518,387 647,359 278,992 957,987 0 848,598 767,214 353,157 307,409 1,152,059 42,015,874 45,217,595 42,733,872 45,091,672 44,358,123 45 64 43 339 58 12 47 185 18 RR 1,684 1,766 1,610 1,588 1,732 8,781 13,524 6,232 77,337 11,116 459 9,659 42,027 542 276,394 284,149 253,491 239,159 264,565 1,853 1,517 4,432 1,085 2,627 2,821 1,488 951 4,276 124,852 136,642 131,524 140,344 144,637 10,634 15,040 10,664 78,422 13,743 3,280 11,147 42,978 4,819 401,246 420,791 385,015 379,503 409,203 0 3,741 0 0 0 0 0 0 817 16,780 24,633 7,536 15,881 14,105 10,634 18,781 10,664 78,422 13,743 3,280 11,147 42,978 5,636 RR 418,026 445,424 392,551 395,384 423,308 67 21 49 349 23 56 25 77 84 RR 4,314 4,169 3,984 4,039 3,916 4 2 1 1 1 0 1 4 0 179 123.70 122.80 8.37 9.74 appendices 39,081 9,456 20,317 162,171 5,361 32,284 9,448 29,456 42,129 RR 1,040,244 1,024,182 930,592 1,060,789 1,016,110 49,715 28,238 30,980 240,593 19,104 35,564 20,594 72,434 47,765 RR 1,458,270 1,469,605 1,323,143 1,456,173 1,439,418 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 109 A appendices environmental data reporting scope, as a EUROP percentage corresof the overall pondance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic Scope 3 ﬂight distances for business trips km EN29 99.0% 155,158,114 4,776,631 6,154,019 729,686 4,418,675 1,070,427 1,296,087 812,969 2,795,211 train distances for business trips km EN29 99.0% 88,757,316 6,827,822 2,824,699 1,410,642 25,734 0 0 0 0 Scope 3 CO2 emissions tons CO2 EN16 99.0% 28,772 1,543 1,253 200 798 193 233 146 503 total emitted CO2 (Scope 1+2+3) tons CO2 EN16 99.0% 315,061 437,016 75,201 6,418 51,523 15,739 9,622 2,428 33,914 KPI: electricity consumption/ kWh/ customer customer 99.0% 32.60 26.60 18.75 23.52 10.85 20.50 10.73 27.55 8.57 KPI: CO2 due to electricity consumption/ kg/ customer customer 99.0% 1.96 17.03 4.44 0.00 4.50 4.54 4.29 2.97 4.93 KPI: total energy consumption (Scopes “1+2”)/ kWh/ customer customer 99.6% 41.1 31.6 21.2 28.7 12.1 23.5 11.3 30.2 29.3 KPI: CO2 emitted (all energies = Scopes “1+2+3”)/ kg/ customer customer 99.0% 4.4 18.7 5.1 1.4 4.9 5.4 4.5 3.9 9.9 110 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices environmental data A Group 2013: AMEA Validated Values Group Orange Business Côte Other AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali d’Ivoire Egypt Cameroun Jordan Kenya Countries International 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2,788,629 1,572,201 3,572,313 2,418,534 3,371,908 2,120,128 0 1,333,635 49,065,193 243,454,361 277,542,729 290,385,071 284,772,951 215,613,397 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,109,606 100,955,819 112,256,755 113,164,635 105,266,548 86,939,923 502 283 643 435 607 382 0 240 8,943 RR 45,674 52,076 54,139 53,110 40,063 50,217 28,521 31,623 241,028 19,711 35,946 20,594 72,674 56,708 RR 1,503,945 1,521,681 1,377,282 1,509,283 1,479,481 8.66 1.93 6.66 9.93 3.78 14.35 22.30 7.46 na 19.61 19.47 19.03 20.17 21.23 5.04 0.87 2.77 4.61 0.89 8.32 8.42 2.84 na 4.63 4.67 4.29 5.18 5.24 14.4 7.8 12.6 19.6 13.3 17.5 64.4 25.3 na 27.3 27.8 26.8 28.2 30.9 6.5 2.6 4.3 6.9 3.3 9.3 18.4 7.0 na 6.7 6.96 6.38 7.30 7.70 appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 111 A appendices environmental data Z environmental performance (water waste EMS) reporting scope, as a EUROP percentage corresof the overall pondance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic consumed water(1) paper & carboard, internal (ofﬁces) and external tons EN1 93.0% 10,371 1,590 3,429 0 612 511 0 0 12 Evacuated internal waste internal (network & tertiary) WEEE tons EN22 96.5% 982 646 3 598 271 26 0 0 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 96.5% 90% 100% 100% 3% 100% 100% na na na metal poles tons EN22 90.1% 1,318 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 90.1% 100% na na na na na na na na wooden poles tons EN22 97.5% 15,546 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 97.5% 100% 100% na na na na na na na cables tons EN22 97.0% 18,398 420 0 0 0 0 0 0 .5 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 97.0% 78% 100% na na na na na 100% na batteries tons EN22 98.0% 1,341 96 0.2 15 168 19 0 39 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 98.0% 85% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na 100% na paper carboard tons EN22 97.0% 2,635 33 166 28 13 70 0 7 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 97.0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na 100% na other hazardous waste (PCB – printer cartridges – Fluorescent tubes included) tons EN22 96.0% 462 27 1 1 6 0.03 0 0 .4 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 96.0% 22% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na 100% na other non-hazardous waste tons EN22 85.0% 1,197 592 0 118 0 150 0 0 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 85.0% 67% 100% na 20% na 10% na na na TOTAL EVACUATED INTERNAL WASTE TONS EN22 94.6% 41,878.0 1,827.1 169.8 759.0 457.5 265.8 0.0 47.5 0.0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 94.6% 88% 100% 100% 11% 100% 49% na 100% na (1) The current reference framework and reporting systems do not provide reliable consolidated data for water use. The Group has launched a study of its impact. 112 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices environmental data A Groupe 2013: AMEA valeurs validées total Group Orange Business Côte Other AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali d’Ivoire Egypt Cameroun Jordan Kenya Countries International 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 29 16,559 20,199 23,215 25,278 23,615 0 0 133 4 50 0 0 141 0 6 2,860 3,204 2,273 2,125 2,517 na 100% 27% 100% na na 100% na 76% 76% 92% na na na 0 0 2 35 16 0 0 0 0 1,371 1,259 1,153 950 722 na na 100% 100% 100% na na na na 100% 100% na na na 0 0 17 0 0 40 0 0 0 15,618 14,329 11,903 11,740 9,360 na na 100% na na 0% na na na 100% 100% na na na 12 0 35 0 0 92 22 0 0 18,980 16,329 8,968 8,214 5,698 100% na 52% na na 0% 100% na 0% 79% 76% na na na 0 11 20 1,159 0 0 0 41 31 2,939 1,942 2,402 2,664 1,546 na 0% 0% 100% na na na 0% 50% 91% 87% na na na 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 1 53 3,011 3,180 3,482 2,957 3,057 na na na na na 0% na 0% 85% 99% 95% na na na 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.01 0 4 499 654 379 591 660 na na na na na na 100% na 100% 28% 21% na na na 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 342 2,399 1,007 1,052 644 904 na na na na na na na na 2% 60% 58% na na na 12.2 143.8 78.8 1,243.0 16.0 136.9 162.7 42.2 435.8 R 47,676 41,903 31,613 29,885 24,464 100% 92% 49% 100% 100% 0% 100% 0% 17% R 87% 87% na na na appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 113 A appendices environmental data reporting scope, as a EUROP percentage corresof the overall pondance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic KPI: tons of internal tons/ EVACUATED waste/ M€ of MEuros of turnover turnover EN22 94.6% 1.71 0.60 0.04 0.55 0.51 0.43 1.18 WEEE collected from customers (including batteries) tons EN22 98.2% 2,425 0.1 31 223 29 6 0 0.1 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 98.2% 83% 100% 14% 0% 100% 97% na 100% na KPI: WEEE collected from kg/ 1000 customers customers EN22 98.2% 34.15 0.01 2.10 48.43 2.79 1.98 0.00 0.12 0.00 EMS KPI EMS: importance of ISO 14001 certiﬁed scope % 92.5% 19.9% 29.1% 98.3% 0.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 114 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices environmental data A Groupe 2013: AMEA valeurs validées total Group Orange Business Côte Other AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali d’Ivoire Egypt Cameroun Jordan Kenya Countries International 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 0.02 0.54 0.14 1.07 0.06 0.36 2.20 0.07 0.22 1.16 0.96 0.70 0.66 0.53 0 0 0 0 0 18 0 1 72 2,805 2,416 3,121 1,607 1,357 na na na na na 7% na 100% 45% 75% 78% na na na 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.73 0.00 0.11 na 13.00 11.54 15.35 8.22 7.74 43.5% 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 4.5% RR 35.0% 33.9% 25.0% 16.8% 14.0% appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 115 A appendices social data -: not available na: not applicable nc: not collected RR: item reviewed by Deloitte: Reasonable assurance R: item reviewed by Deloitte: Moderate assurance scope EUROP (in % of the overall Other GRI Group’s Dominican EME indicators code headcount France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Armenia Moldova Republic Countries In the Group (end of the year) Number of male employees LA13 100% 65,488 11,769 1,998 1,089 1,565 880 213 497 728 97 Number of female employees LA13 100% 37,247 8,770 1,959 572 1,523 371 209 451 713 57 Total number of employees LA1 100% 102,735 20,539 3,957 1,661 3,088 1,251 422 948 1,441 154 Percentage of women among the employees LA13 100% 36.3% 42.7% 49.5% 34.4% 49.3% 29.7% 49.5% 47.6% 49.5% 37.0% Total number of employees CDI (Permanent contracts) LA1 100% 101,651 19,695 3,762 1,641 2,913 1,175 417 948 1,233 145 Total number of employees CDD (Temporary contracts) LA1 100% 1,084 844 195 20 175 76 5 208 9 Total number of employees (Full Time) LA1 100% 94,720 20,320 3,784 1,583 2,985 1,250 422 947 1,435 153 Total number of employees of the previous year LA1 100% 105,731 22,235 3,962 1,787 2,960 1,311 421 969 1,271 149 Number of men (CDI) in management positions LA13 99.7% 21,105 2,645 311 441 513 489 30 91 31 11 Number of women (CDI) in management positions LA13 99.7% 9,099 1,000 116 181 337 95 11 42 18 3 Number of employees (CDI) in management positions LA13 99.7% 30,204 3,645 427 622 850 584 41 133 49 14 Percentage of women (CDI) in management positions LA13 99.7% 30.1% 27.4% 27.2% 29.1% 39.6% 16.3% 26.8% 31.6% 36.7% 21.4% % of women in the “leaders” Global ﬁgure (concerning 1,109 leaders at the end of 2013), difﬁcult to split between the different countries, network LA13 100% because of transverse-corporate activities Average age of the workforce LA1 100% 48.0 40.7 39.5 38.6 32.5 35.8 30.1 31.5 31.2 33.4 Total number of permanent employees (CDI) in 2013 LA1 100% 104,351 21,287 3,815 1,773 2,806 1,207 415 969 1,271 138 Number of redundancies LA2 100% RR 88 1,856 98 92 47 51 181 12 % of redundancies per country (compared to 2013 permanent employees) LA2 100% 0.1% 8.7% 2.6% 5.2% 1.7% 4.2% 0.0% 0.0% 14.2% 8.7% Number of external recruitments LA2 100% RR 1,267 991 126 84 314 90 55 85 215 34 % of external recruitments (compared to 2012 permanent employees) LA2 100% 1.2% 4.7% 3.3% 4.7% 11.2% 7.5% 13.3% 8.8% 16.9% 24.6% (1) OBS International takes into account : Equant (which number of employees throught 200 countries including France, represents 94,7% of the overall number), 10 NRS subsidiaries (2,3%) and 8 Globecast subsidiaries (2,9%) (3) Corrected 2010 Group Total (taken out of the HR data of Mauritius -1726 employeesand Equatorial Guinea -491 employees-, unconsolidated entities in 2010) There are small discrepancies between the values presented above and those published in the annual report or Registration Document. These are due to rounding up for the Joint Ventures. 116 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange appendices social data A AMEA Other Orange Other countries/ Business Group Group Group Group Côte AMEA word services Total Total Total Total Senegal Mali d’Ivoire Egypt Jordan Cameroun Kenya Countries organisations International(1) 2013 2012 2011 2010 (3) 1,240 379 855 3,672 1,617 436 1,319 1,643 1,373 8,642 RR 105,500 108,299 109,175 107,112 629 117 537 1,162 494 229 418 1,034 621 2,877 RR 59,990 62,232 62,715 61,287 1,869 496 1,392 4,834 2,111 665 1,737 2,677 1,994 11,519 RR 165,490 170,531 171,890 168,399 33.7% 23.6% 38.6% 24.0% 23.4% 34.4% 24.1% 38.6% 31.1% 25.0% RR 36.2% 36.5% 36.5% 36.4% 1,863 421 1,375 4,834 1,948 605 1,624 2,363 1,877 11,443 161,933 166,944 167,648 164,406 6 75 17 163 60 113 314 117 76 3,557 3,587 4,242 3,993 1,869 496 1,392 4,834 2,110 665 1,737 2,677 1,982 11,507 156,868 164,023 166,153 163,607 1,902 444 1,347 4,773 2,316 663 1,663 2,690 1,918 12,019 170,531 171,929 168,356 168,107 229 34 184 247 136 190 97 148 676 5,131 32,739 33,016 32,557 31,206 93 6 75 55 40 51 42 51 325 1,462 13,102 12,967 12,498 11,833 322 40 259 302 176 241 139 199 1,001 6,593 45,841 45,983 45,055 43,039 28.9% 15.0% 29.0% 18.2% 22.7% 21.2% 30.2% 25.6% 32.5% 22.2% RR 28.6% 28.2% 27.7% 27.5% Global ﬁgure (concerning 1,109 leaders at the end of 2013), difﬁcult to split between the different countries, because of transverse-corporate activities RR 24.43% 23.61% 23.80% 23.15% 41.4 35.0 39.7 32.0 37.4 38.3 40.9 39.8 36.2 38.7 44.3 43.7 42.6 42.8 1,902 387 1,337 4,773 2,129 603 1,663 2,385 1,808 11,925 166,944 167,684 164,365 164,372 2 18 37 6 17 7 24 80 379 R 2,995 2,359 2,050 3,311 0.1% 0.0% 1.3% 0.8% 0.3% 2.8% 0.4% 1.0% 4.4% 3.2% 1.8% 1.4% 1.2% 2.0% 39 43 90 568 45 36 100 369 318 1,105 R 5,973 8,203 10,163 10,090 appendices 2.1% 11.1% 6.7% 11.9% 2.1% 6.0% 6.0% 15.5% 17.6% 9.3% 3.6% 4.9% 6.2% 6.1% Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 117 A appendices social data scope (in % of EUROP the overall Other GRI Group’s Dominican EME indicators code headcount France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Armenia Moldova Republic Countries In the Group (end of the year) Number of resignations LA2 100% RR 442 621 63 80 207 44 53 78 72 17 % of volontary departures (compared to 2012 permanent employees) LA2 100% 0.4% 2.9% 1.7% 4.5% 7.4% 3.6% 12.8% 8.0% 5.7% 12.3% Total number of employee departures (male) LA2 100% 2,640 1,318 73 134 146 55 32 43 123 14 Total number of employee departures (female) LA2 100% 1,377 1,332 95 80 122 41 21 35 130 15 Total number of employee departures < 30 years LA2 100% 299 608 8 57 134 35 40 57 130 6 Total number of employee departures 30-50 years LA2 100% 540 1,485 150 138 132 59 12 20 118 23 Total number of employee departures >50 years LA2 100% 3,179 557 10 19 2 2 1 1 5 Number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA4 100% 102,349 18,496 3,516 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (compared to 2013 employees) LA4 100% 99.6% 90.1% 88.9% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total number of trained workers LA10 96.1% 92,229 18,720 3,936 1,436 2,010 1,361 245 729 1,517 Total number of hours devoted to training LA10 96.1% 3,330,491 605,039 171,291 36,461 64,827 50,015 5,515 28,294 62,661 Average number of hours of training per year and per employee LA10 96.1% 32.5 29.0 45.2 21.3 23.0 42.4 13.2 29.6 49.7 % of employees who had a performance appraisal(4) & (5) LA12 86.16% 97.0% 100.0% 100.0% 87.46% 88.54% (2) The 6 indicators below are temporary values on a restricted scope of reporting Number of fatal accidents LA7 96% 1 Number of related work accidents (2) LA7 96% 700 53 5 6 1 8 Number of days lost due to non-fatal Work Accidents LA7 96% 44,558 2,700 77 245 2 185 Total number of days lost due to illness LA7 90% 1,043,541 154,600 25,728 9,783 8,024 1,450 4,150 3,368 1,382 Frequency rate of work related accidents (TFRAC) 2013: Not ﬁnal value LA7 96% 4.3385 1.4343 0.7469 2.1368 0.0000 0.4402 0.0000 0.0000 2.9875 0.0000 Severity rate of work related accidents (TGRAC) 2013: Not ﬁnal value LA7 96% 0.2751 0.0731 0.0115 0.0872 0.0000 0.0009 0.0000 0.0000 0.0691 0.0000 (1) OBS International takes into account : Equant (which number of employees throught 200 countries including France, represents 94,7% of the overall number), 10 NRS subsidiaries (2,3%) and 8 Globecast subsidiaries (2,9%) (2) The number of accident have been reported, for OBS Intl, on 10 Equant countries: USA, UK, Brazil, India, Singapore, Australia, Germany, Belgium, Egypt and Mauricius), 6 Globecast subsidiaries & 4 NRS subsidiaries. (3) Corrected 2010 Group Total (taken out of the HR data of Mauritius -1726 employeesand Equatorial Guinea -491 employees-, unconsolidated entities in 2010) (4) the given % refer to the mid year performance employees appraisal campaign. For France & OBS, it concerns performance appraisal of senior managers (level E, F, G); for the other countries, when values are available, it concerns the complete population of employees. (5) For Poland, collected reporting on only TP, Centertel & Orange Customer Service Sp.Zoo (OCS) (96% of CDI employees) 118 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange AMEA Other Orange appendices social data A Other countries/ Business Group Group Group Group Côte AMEA word services Total Total Total Total Senegal Mali d’Ivoire Egypt Jordan Cameroun Kenya Countries organisations International(1) 2013 2012 2011 2010 (3) 3 21 411 116 9 105 84 248 892 R 3,566 3,888 4,582 4,052 0.2% 0.0% 1.6% 8.6% 5.4% 1.5% 6.3% 3.5% 13.7% 7.5% 2.1% 2.3% 2.8% 2.5% 49 7 36 357 157 22 102 167 289 1,201 6,965 5,130 6,169 5,718 15 4 11 132 63 12 36 62 111 381 4,075 2,917 3,162 3,143 2 2 322 63 6 28 60 152 466 2,475 2,640 2,837 2,840 4 11 41 158 135 26 77 157 233 925 4,443 3,663 4,603 4,107 58 4 9 22 2 33 12 15 191 4,122 1,744 1,891 1,914 1,869 665 762 74 1,620 129,351 133,700 132,079 130,393 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 28.5% 3.7% 14.1% 78.2% 78.4% 76.8% 77.4% 1,330 309 755 2,391 1,437 457 1,685 1,645 928 8,722 141,842 140,226 139,433 139,139 70,400 20,048 38,756 75,482 49,718 17,402 21,366 60,973 16,477 233,606 R 4,958,820 5,120,114 4,868,034 4,755,346 37.6 50.4 28.6 21.4 23.9 28.6 12.9 29.6 8.9 20.0 30.5 30.7 29 28.9 58.59% 91.92% na na na na R1 6 4 na 2 1 16 1 36 3 13 5 9 R 859 905 852 na 134 25 320 34 1,197 151 136 304 140 R 50,208 52,838 53,873 nc 5,888 567 6,068 13,532 7,021 2,474 1,359 3,428 3,909 5,919 R 1,302,191 1,271,011 na na 0.5876 1.1583 6.4919 0.1156 9.2395 0.0000 1.2497 2.9019 2.6032 0.3784 R 3.2503 na na na appendices 0.0394 0.0290 0.1298 0.0039 0.2910 0.0000 0.0472 0.0304 0.1583 0.0040 R 0.1900 na na na There are small discrepancies between the values presented above and those published in the annual report or Registration Document. These are due to rounding up for the Joint Ventures. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 119 A for more information on our Group social data for more information on our Group, go to www.orange.com/en/home and to find out more about our subsidiaries: www.orange.com/en/about/Group/global-footprint contacts For any questions or comments on this report, please contact: Orange Corporate Social Responsibility Direction 78 Rue Olivier de Serres, 75015 Paris, France e-mail: contact.csr@orange.com www.orange.com/csr 120 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange notes ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 121 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... 122 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange 123 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... 124 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2013 / Orange Orange – Corporate Social Responsibility Direction – S.A. with a capital of 10,595,541,532 euros – RCS Paris 380 129 866 – Publisher: Brigitte Dumont – Deputy Publisher: Christine Hermann – Editor in chief: Catherine Invernizzi – Texts: Moringa – Photo credits: François Maréchal, Eric Manas – All rights reserved. This document is printed in compliance with ISO 14001.2004 for an environment managment system. Orange 78, rue Olivier de Serres 75015 Paris Tel: 33(0)1 44 44 22 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Direction S.A. with a capital of 10,595,541,532 euros RCS Paris 380 129 866 www.orange.com/csr
