Sustainability Review 2013 Committed to the UN Global Compact As part of The Coca-Cola Company’s international System, we are proud to be a co-signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We remain committed to its fundamental principles and continuously strive to align our operations with these universally accepted guidelines. Placing them at the core of our business is the bedrock of true sustainability. The 10 Principles: Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and, 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Published by the United Nations Global Compact Office | March 2007 www.unglobalcompact.org CONTENTS 5 CEO Message 2 7 8 Our Our Economic Territories Framework Sustainability I0 12 Corporate Technology Governance Innovation Me. I4 I8 42 Treading We. World. 34 Lightly Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 1 Company Information & Territories South Africa Namibia Mozambique Tanzania Kenya Uganda Ethiopia Sri Lanka Nepal Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Sabco Coca-Cola Kwanza Nairobi Century Bottling East Africa Bottling Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Bottlers Nepal Fortune Namibia Bottling Mozambique Zanzibar Bottlers Bottlers Company Limited Share Company Bottlers Nepal (Terai) Company Troika Traders A PROUD ANCHOR BOTTLER OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. Coca-Cola Sabco has been refreshing Our purpose is to create value for everyone consumers with superior quality beverages touched by our business by providing, with since 1940. What started as a small South passion and focus, the right refreshment, at African bottling business has become an the right price, in the right place. integral part of the global Coca-Cola System, with manufacturing facilities in nine countries Success for us is more than sales volumes throughout Africa and Asia. achieved and the return on capital employed. It is about the long-term Nepal What has not changed however is our prosperity and wellbeing of our organisation, commitment to our employees, customers, the ripple effects of which are felt far beyond consumers and communities. our factory walls. For over 70 years, Coca-Cola Sabco has This responsibility is not a burden we carry, adhered to the principles of respect for the but a privilege we share. And as a proud Ethiopia people we employ and those we serve; pride anchor bottler of the world’s number one Sri Lanka in what we do and the brands we represent; soft drink brand, we look forward to enjoying and a passion for improving the future of our the opportunity for many years to come! Uganda Kenya business and the communities in which we operate. Tanzania Although we are a privately owned family Namibia Mozambique business, we do not think or act small. Our vision is to be the best Coca-Cola bottler South Africa in the world and we strive for Brilliant Execution in all that we do. 2 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 3 Coca-Cola Sabco CEO Board of Directors Message Back: From left – Mr DA Jackson, Dr GA Reidy; Mr AR Gutsche; Mr IR Garnett Front: Mr KA Warren; Mr PH Gutsche; Mrs DC Moors “ Global business trends dictate that responsible corporate citizens lead with both great results and meaningful, effective, social investment.“ Coca-Cola Sabco is proud to uphold its citizens lead with both great results and as a bottler and results in sweeter triumphs vision for sustainability in all our territories meaningful, effective, social investment. and more profound opportunities to learn in Asia and Africa. With that in mind, we have continued to and grow. There are no generic solutions monitor ourselves against our best and across the board – each initiative is tailored Within the Coca-Cola System, we are against the best of our peers in order to to the needs of each country – which makes a bottler that is actively pursuing The continually strive towards world class for exciting times, indeed. Coca-Cola Company’s 2020 Vision for a results in all our endeavours. better future and we have also charted a This Annual Review is a summary of the best course toward achieving our own goals for Targets for ongoing improvement are set of who we are and is not only a showcase but sustainability. for our economic, social and environmental also a reminder that, in order to progress, goals and measured annually to ensure that we need to remain engaged with our In today’s business landscape, a truly we are growing into the company we desire promises and commitments and monitor our successful company is one that is to be. Each financial year has its challenges progress continuously. mindful, not only of the bottom line, but and its victories, both of which are also conscious of its impact within the compounded by the diversity and dynamics communities it serves. Global business of the various countries where we do Doug Jackson trends dictate that responsible corporate business. This is what makes us so unique Chief Executive Officer 4 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 5 Our Framework for a Sustainable Future WE ARE COMMITTED TO MAKING A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD BY RETHINKING THE WAY WE LIVE AND WORK. Creating a sustainable Seeing things future differently In an uncertain global economic climate, Providing a balanced approach to long-term Coca-Cola Sabco is privileged to share Coca-Cola Sabco is fortunate to be sustainability, this framework is fully aligned the Coca-Cola Company’s 2020 Vision doing business in the exciting and fastto our business strategy and cuts across all for a better future. growing African and Asian markets. functional areas. We know that each of our Winning in these developing markets countries has its own unique opportunities demands an ability to manage daily and challenges; therefore the specific focus challenges, while maintaining a longareas of our sustainability projects are tailored Our Mission term strategic focus. to the business operations of each plant. To refresh the world... To inspire moments of optimism & happiness... As a corporate citizen, it is Coca-Cola Sabco’s Progress is reviewed on a regular basis and To create value & make a difference... responsibility to build a sustainable business best practices shared with the Group. Key in all nine of our countries for the benefit of learnings are incorporated into the strategic Me. We. World. the people we employ and the communities business plan for each country, while onTogether we can promote Together we can create a Together we can we serve. As part of our alignment with The going challenges are noted and prioritised. Our Vision well-being for the better future for local communities create a better future Coca-Cola Company, we have embraced the Over the past year, Coca-Cola Sabco has been people who enjoy our where our operations help raise for the finite resources People: Be a great place to work where 2020 Vision, which encourages us to “get proud to be involved in sustainability projects brand everyday. the standard of living. that we all share. people are inspired to be the best they can be. ready for tomorrow today”. that vary from simple changes in the way we do things to ground-breaking initiatives. Portfolio: Bring to the world a portfolio of Keeping a weather eye on the future allows quality beverage brands that anticipate and us to identify trends and forces that could This review provides a general overview satisfy people’s desires and needs. Active Healthy Living 5by20 Water Stewardship affect our operations and respond timeously. of the various focus areas and how we Product Quality Employee Engagement Energy Efficiency To this end, we are guided by an integrated are succeeding according to the key Partners: Nurture a winning network of Produce Safe Products Learning & Development Sustainable Packaging Sustainability Framework. performance indicators for each. customers and suppliers; together we create Workplace Rights Waste Management mutual, enduring value. Equal Opportunity & Recycling Planet: Be a responsible citizen that makes Workplace Health & Safety a difference by helping build and support Corporate Social Investment sustainable communities. Profit: Maximise long-term return to shareowners while being mindful of our overall responsibilities. Productivity: Be a highly effective, lean and fast-moving organisation. 6 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 7 Our Mission Sustained Focus Area Financial Continue to grow our business Economic Growth through ongoing year on year Volume revenue & NIBT growth supported by necessary capital Sustainability investment. 2014 Growing our Volume Targets 5yr + 7% + 11% CAGR volume growth NIBT growth 2013 Business Responsibly CAGR 2.59% Over the past years, Coca-Cola Sabco has seen growth in volume and turnover. The business’s economic growth is seen as its most important foundation, as the sustained growth of the Our Mission company helps to facilitate every one of the other IT Governance Focus Area sustainability goals identified by the company. Facilitate the achievement of the CCS objectives & manage ITrelated risk by providing effective & efficient decision-making around Financial Overview 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the utilisation of IT resources During 2013, Coca-Cola Sabco continued to focus on both top-line and bottom-line growth. NSR Rigorous goals have been set in place to ensure CAGR 5.57% 100% 95% the continued financial growth of the Group in the 2014 Targets coming years. + 2013 IT governance score TTC IT security dashboard Assurance Our Mission of Supply Focus Area 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Continue to grow our business through ongoing year on year Volume revenue & NIBT growth supported by necessary NIBT capital investment. CAGR 12.97% 95% On time in full 2013 2014 Targets 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 8 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 9 Corporate Governance at Coca-Cola Sabco CCS GROUP GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Country Business Capability Internal Authorisation Governance Statutory Risk Internal Audit Framework Routines Compliance Review Controls Internal Audit Board-approved mandates and have defined objectives to help the Board in Coca-Cola Sabco’s board of directors is committed to The Group has an outsourced internal discharging its duties. ensuring that the Group adheres audit department. This has ensured to the highest standard of independence, improved transparency All directors and employees are expected and sustainability of the function. to espouse the highest moral and ethical corporate governance in the Deloitte is responsible for monitoring the principles, values and standards of conduct CULTURE OF FRONTLINE ACCOUNTABILITY AND INITIATIVE conduct of its business. system of internal control in the Group set out in the Group Policy Guidelines. Coca-Cola Sabco has a governance to ensure that it operates as designed. framework, which enables the Weaknesses identified during the audit The Company has an Honest and Bona The Audit and Finance Committee and Group are reported to the audit committees at a Fide Policy, which all employees are Group to manage and report on the Group and Country level. required to sign acknowledgement Compensation and Executive Leadership important aspects of our business. The framework comprises six pillars of and adhere to. This policy sets Committee operate under Board-approved and operates at Country, Division Authorisation out all guidelines on operating in the manner required by the Company and mandates and have defined objectives to help and Group level. Framework its shareholders. During 2013, this process was further developed into an the Board in discharging its duties. Coca-Cola Sabco is committed The Group operates within an approved to an open policy of corporate Chart of Authority, which is managed and independent on-line declaration system. governance, which provides the monitored throughout the operations. shareholders and other stakeholders Coca-Cola Sabco operates a fraud and with the assurance that the Group is ethics line, which allows callers to managed ethically and in compliance Governance Routines report confidentially on any violations with the best governance practices. The Board of Directors sets the strategic of policies and procedures. All reports objectives of the Group and is responsible for received are investigated and the In this way, the framework protects the monitoring of the financial performance outcome thereof is communicated to our financial assets and human of the operating units and the Group. the Audit and Finance Committee. investments and assists in ensuring our economic sustainability. The Coca-Cola Sabco Board of Directors Business Risk Review consists of two executive and five nonexecutive directors. They meet at least four There is a regular review of Coca-Cola times a year. Each subsidiary has a formally Sabco’s strategic and operational risks. Country Capability constituted Board of Directors who meet at Risk management is integrated into the daily operations and is not a periodic or standleast twice a year. (internal controls) alone intervention. The Board of Directors acknowledges Well-structured committees, at Country its responsibilities for the systems of and Group level, oversee audit and finance, Statutory Compliance internal control. The Group maintains the remuneration, and overall management of The Group requires the compliance of all systems designed to provide reasonable Coca-Cola Sabco. its operations with all legal and governance assurance of the integrity and reliability of bodies. This is managed at Country level, the financial statements and to adequately The Audit and Finance Committee and with Group support, as required. safeguard and maintain accountability for Group Compensation and Executive the assets. Leadership Committee operate under 10 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 11 Technology Innovation Solution Selection Optimal Utilisation Risk Management With the ever-increasing number of system of Systems The focus of our risk management solutions available to choose from, the high activities is primarily aimed at ensuring The approach to ongoing capability building that disruptions to our operational Mobility, cloud computing rate of financial failure of IT vendors and in process knowledge and system usage activities are eliminated or minimised. the real risk of significant strategy changes that was established in 2011 was placed and analytics are key on the part of IT vendors, it is critical that under review in 2013 by a cross-functional Therefore we have processes that ensure we ensure we partner with vendors who rigour around introducing changes into digital technologies that will be able to meet our requirements going task team to seek more effective ways of ensuring ongoing training and reviews. our IT environment as part of projects present opportunities for forward. For this reason we continue to It was recognised that there was a need and routine maintenance activities. Building resilience into our architecture utilise a methodology where we evaluate for more internal capacity to address this, growing the Coca-Cola and score solutions based on the vision and as the Business Process Leaders were has also been an area of significant viability of the vendors, the scope and depth investment, with examples including a Sabco business through, of their services, the functionality of their fully engaged in projects such as the SAP ERP implementation in Ethiopia. It was disaster recovery data centre and back up for example, improved offerings, the system architectures as well as agreed that SABCO will employ resources WAN links in certain countries. There is continued focus on access management the initial and on-going costs. dedicated to the creation and maintenance customer service. of training material covering process, system and we are currently implementing a new Project Management and policy. These resources will report to solution in the SAP ERP space to further In line with this reality, in 2013 we reimprove our risk profile in this area. The the Functions and work closely with the platformed our sales force automation Every IT project and change request education of our user community on Business Process Leaders. solution to run on Android devices and has a professional project manager risks when using technology is an area in doing so provided our sales force assigned to it. Projects have a steering requiring continual updating and the use with a much improved overall mobile committee and other standard good of new approaches so that it remains experience, allowing them to have a richer governance practices in place to ensure relevant and effective. sales dialogue and spend more time in the implementation is successful. the trade with our customers. We also Environmental deployed a mobile device management Process Design Impact solution with our own internal corporate application store to enable the deployment of mobile applications and apply our mobile IT Governance The Business Process Leaders who report to IT, but work closely with the Functions, are responsible for doing the process design for Power utilisation will have benefited from our annual hardware replacement process, though it is not a measure we device policies. new processes involving systems and also currently track. As an example, we have for keeping the process documentation up Cloud computing is part of our IT replaced all CRT monitors with LED to date. We subscribe to a model company strategy, not only for cost management Sound IT Governance aims to ensure alignment between IT and the greater monitors. During 2012 all our equipment approach, where we design a process and purposes and to allow for increased organisation, identify opportunities for business advancement through at one of our data centres was moved seek a solution that will work throughout our employee mobility, but also to leverage technology, implement the correct solutions and processes to realise those to a new facility that was recognised for Group. Localisations are permitted, however technologies that are increasingly only opportunities cost effectively, operate systems optimally in partnership with the its low energy utilisation, particularly for they are generally limited to catering for local offered as cloud based solutions. We operations, manage risk, and manage the environmental impact of IT. cooling. The procedure for the disposal legal requirements. currently have a hybrid environment of IT equipment requires that items no and we are taking steps to become more cloud based, whilst managing the risks Alignment Technology Innovation Cost Management longer in working condition be disposed of in accordance with environmentally associated with such a change. In 2013 alignment was improved through We continue to seek innovation opportunities We have consistently managed to contain the sound electronic waste disposal standing participation of IT management from a wide network of sources, including overall annual increases to below inflation, practices. Where decommissioned IT In the area of analytics we have identified in routine meetings of the Functions our fellow members of the Coca-Cola while simultaneously increasing the scope of equipment is still in working condition we the need for solutions that offer greater and Divisions. The annual IT roadmap System IT Council, existing and potential the IT offering. The overall focus is, however, do investigate the use of such items for visualisation functionality to assist with session held in 2013, which is an input vendors and our Business Process Leaders on the value derived from IT spend and not corporate social responsibility initiatives. speedy and correct decision making. This is to the budget plans, also included more and user community who actively propose merely a simplistic objective of cutting cost. a project that has funding allocated to it for representatives of the Functions and improvements through our established change Approaches used include the use of forward 2014 and we have been collaborating with Operations. There is a clear commitment request process. Areas of focus continue to be cover contracts where possible, annual vendor other bottlers in The Coca-Cola System to to continue this alignment focus as we cloud enablement and mobile solutions. The negotiations at a detailed level and passing IT select the correct technology. move forward. latter is particularly relevant to our sales force. costs on to the operations. 12 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 13 Together we can promote well-being for the people who enjoy our brands every day 14 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 15 Moving matters for better education Active, healthy We will promote active, healthy living living through the product choices we offer and our involvement in physical activity programmes. Measure: • CSI spend Ensure that all products produced in our manufacturing facilities that are delivered to our Product customers and sold to our consumers adhere to the quality standards of the TCCC. Quality Measure: • Product quality • Package quality Product Ensure that all products produced in our Safety manufacturing facilities that are delivered to our customers and sold to our consumers are safe to consume for the shelf-life of the product. Coca-Cola Fortune is behind an each exercise starts with classroom engagement and emotional control. CocaMeasure: innovative physical education programme preparation. The learners then move outside Cola Fortune has partnered with the Nelson that promotes a healthier, happier to do the physical activity before completing Mandela Metropolitan University to roll out • No food safety environment within the public schooling various written exercises about it in their this programme among grade four learners in related incidents system. Move-It provides progressive, manual. Aside from basic physical development a number of anchor schools including Charles high quality, regular physical education and motor skills, the children enjoy integrated Duna and Pendla primary schools in Port within the existing core curriculum. learning that includes numeracy, visual Elizabeth, as well as the Good Shepherd and Based on a “read, do, write” methodology, literacy, language development, social Grahamstown primary schools in Grahamstown. 16 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 17 Together we can create a better future for local communities where our operations help raise the standard of living 18 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 19 Health & Equal Corporate Safety Opportunities Social Investment The 5by20 vision aims to empower 5 million women Ensure that our workplaces are safe for all our Represents an active mechanism to achieve equity Corporate Social Investment is an integral part of our entrepreneurs (CCS target 200 000) across our global employees and take pro-active steps to mitigate any in our workplace by promoting equal opportunity broader sustainability strategy and is aimed at uplifting value chain by 2020. Women are the pillars of our occupational health and safety risks. and fair treatment whilst eliminating unfair communities in which we operate. Our objectives will communities and of our business and are critical to discrimination and implementing measures to be achieved by partnering with the Coca-Cola Africa business success and our 2020 vision. redress the disadvantages experienced by previously Foundation and The Coca-Cola Company on sustainable disadvantaged individuals or groups. long-term projects. Measure: Measure: • Lost time • Target 55 243 women incidents (<2) Measure: Measure: • 2013 60 197 women • BBBEE Rating: • CSI Spend (SA Only – level 5) Workplace Employee Rights / Engagement Human Rights Learning & Development The Company works within the Coca-Cola System A key business priority at Coca-Cola Sabco is to increase to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with the levels of engagement of all our employees. Underlying internationally accepted standards at all times in the The company mission is to significantly increase Measure: treatment of our employees. We are committed principles of Engagement are ensuring sound relationships to fostering open and inclusive workplaces that the investment in and quality of learning and • Training spend as % between employees and leaders, placing emphasis on development and to “touch” every employee character and driving values-driven behaviour in order to advance human rights and where all employees are with opportunities to grow and develop. of NSR (0.6%) capture the hearts, minds and hands of our employees. valued and inspired to be the best they can be. By providing and managing high quality • Quality of training development initiatives, the company will (global ROI score of 56%) develop innovative and passionate people. • Successor cover (62%) Measure: Measure: • Employee Engagement • Workplace Rights Scores (75%) Audits (100%) Green 20 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 21 CocaCola Fortune empowers women entrepreneurs 5by20 in Ethiopia Since its inception in 2010, The So, at age 14, she was forced to quit Today she educates and provides Coca-Cola Company’s global 5by20 school and help her mother by selling healthcare for her sons, helps her initiative has empowered 300 000 vegetables on the streets and caring for mother and still manages to save 50 birr female entrepreneurs, 70 percent of her three brothers. (US$2.60) a week. Her great ambition is to whom live on the African continent. one day own a chain of factories. To date, East African Bottling Share Things went from bad to worse when she Company has provided 2 345 fell pregnant. Never forgetting where she came from, Ethiopian women with business Korach is also a great role model and and life skills training. For many “There was no one by my side and I had helps where she can by giving casual impoverished women like Korach it to do everything by myself when I had employment to the poor. has not just helped their business, it my first baby at home. I remember I was has literally saved their lives. This is very hungry and there was nothing to eat Although she says she remains restless at her story. – I had no money to buy food – until my night, thinking of ways to finally pull her brother came with leftovers. family out of poverty, Korach is already a Ethiopian entrepreneur Korach is a 5by20 success story. smiling, sociable and energetic woman. “I named my son Ebenezer, which means But things were not always so. ‘stone of help’. Thus far only the Lord has helped me, if God wasn’t there looking By the end of this year, Korach is a 38-year-old single mother down on me, I would have died like my 650 of Korach’s fellow of two, living in the capital city of Addis three sisters.” Ababa. Only her elder son is at school, the countrywomen will have younger one suffered a severe fall. “He Days after the birth, Korach returned to hit his head and got sick and now he has the streets to earn her living. Then the also felt the benefits of epilepsy and can’t go to school.” government demolished the structure she EABSC’s “Coke for Life operated from and moved her to a small As she speaks, her eyes dart back and shopping centre in Kirkos sub-city. Change” and “Coke for forth, keeping tabs on the movements of her brood. Responsibility is something Despite the strategic new position, Better Life” projects. Korach has known from an early age. she lacked the know-how to grow her business effectively and her family barely “Life was too tough for us, my mom had survived on her minimal income. a strong work ethic and assigned endless With more than 60 percent of the “We’re providing business skills training, With South Africa identified as one of the lead chores to all of us; anything from chopping Then Coca-Cola Ethiopia discovered her associated small-scale retail businesses access to financial services and groups of countries for the rollout of this global initiative, wood to cooking a meal for the family and and added Korach’s name to a list of 250 run by women, the fairer sex plays a peers and mentors to help women overcome CCF’s goal is to empower 15 000 femaleI was admittedly the best worker.” women entrepreneurs designated to powerful role in Coca-Cola’s value chain the barriers they face,” said CCF Managing owned businesses in its market by 2020. receive assistance under EABSC’s 5by20 in South Africa. Director Philip Nieman. Korach had also been a bright and diligent “Coke for Better Life” initiative. The bottler has partnered with KPMG student with a promising future until In line with The Coca-Cola Company’s To date, the bottler has provided business skills and Rand Merchant Bank to expand tragedy struck her family. The programme threw her the lifeline she global 5by20 campaign, local bottler Cocatraining to 280 entrepreneurs in Polokwane, the programme and increase access to needed, with intensive business and life Cola Fortune has begun empowering these Bloemfontein, Port Elizabeth, George, East microfinance and the latest business “I passed the Grade 8 national exam, skills training, as well as material support women by offering business skills training London, Mthatha and Port Shepstone as well technology. scoring a high mark and I was very happy, in the form of a cooler, opener and two courses. as business infrastructure to 4 439 women. but my happiness was fleeting as I heard cases of product. “Creating a climate of success for about my sister’s death a month later.” These courses are available to small-scale Initial findings indicate that successful women globally is smart business for a This gave Korach the tools she needed to entrepreneurs throughout the value chain – participants are able to generate an consumer-products company,” explained With her elder sister gone and her father grow her small business effectively and from spaza shop, restaurant and café owners income three to nine times greater than Therese Gearhart, President of Coca-Cola abandoning the family, there was no one believe that she could have a bright future to informal traders. minimum wage. Southern Africa. left to pay Korach’s monthly school fee of once more. 27 birr (US$1.50). “We understand that improving the economic opportunities for women will result in increased incomes, enhanced skills in business, increased stature within the community, and improved potential for communities.” 22 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 23 Tanzania builds 5by20 businesses Mozambique equips 5by20 entrepreneurs As part of its contribution to the global 5by20 initiative, Coca-Cola Kwanza has assisted 925 women with business skills training and There were joyful celebrations aplenty when in financial need and could benefit from The municipality also came to the party by assets. Some have opened small side businesses to meet their families’ basic needs, while others run large companies with huge 150 Mozambican women received their business training. issuing a free simplified business licence to investments. Some could afford to send their children to good schools, while others have saved enough to pay for their own education. Coca-Cola vendor kits after completing the each of the participants. But all have benefited from 5by20. Here are two very different success stories: Shopkeeper Training and Resources (Star) The trainee entrepreneurs were then fully programme in Matola City in September. equipped with all the business skills and To ensure their success, the bottler’s sales tools they will need to launch their own team will be on hand to give these women 5by20 in Dar es Salaam booms The colourful handover ceremony marked small business. full support in their daily business activities the culmination of a successful 5by20 and they will also have access to ongoing Lilian is a key distributor in the Lilian started off as a stockist, selling 100 resurrected her business. She sold half the empowerment partnership between CocaAt the ceremony, the budding businesswomen peer networking as members of the Matola Kinondoni district of Dar es Salaam. cases per week. Business was fair until her land she inherited from her father to invest Cola Sabco Mozambique and the local received a full vendor kit, comprising an Municipality Women Entrepreneurship With monthly sales volumes of husband suddenly disappeared, taking all in the Coca-Cola business. Matola Municipality. Working with municipal icebox, umbrella, T-shirt, bib and four cases of Association. 25 000 cases, she is one of 5by20’s their capital with him. Left with a child to officials, CCSM identified the group of women product. In addition, they will have access to biggest successes. feed, clothe and educate, Lilian was on the Her faith paid off and today she has a thriving from different backgrounds who were all free ice as part of the CCSM Ice Project. verge of giving up. Then 5by20 stepped in. business with 11 employees. Lilian is living She owns a beautiful car, a few plots of proof of what hard work and dedication can land and is currently building her dream Equipped with soft loans and effective achieve in overcoming the odds. home. But life was not always this good. business techniques, a sceptical Lilian Women mean business in Uganda Century Bottling Company officially launched its 5by20 campaign in August Speaking at the handover ceremony, CBC Managing Director Norton Kingwill said “By doing this, we affirm Tailor-made success in Morongo by showcasing its Young Women in running a successful business had formerly our need to build both Business programme. been an entirely male preserve. Janeth is a mother of two and wellshe needed for her start-up – business skills Today, Janeth continues to flourish. She our business and the known tailor in Morogoro in the southern training, a cooler, two tables and five cases has managed to open a small sideline highlands of Tanzania. One ordinary of Coca-Cola product. business selling domestic cooking items, The programme, which is facilitated by non“We are delighted to be part of this initiative, communities in which governmental organisation TechnoServe, which I believe will alleviate poverty, working day, she was given a business thus adding to her sources of income. has so far trained 100 women from different especially in the rural areas, by giving we operate.” opportunity that changed her life. Janeth started selling half a case per day regions across Uganda. vulnerable women opportunities to retail and, with continuous monitoring and Her children go to good schools and she can Coca-Cola products.” In addition to financial literacy, the women After a visit from the 5by20 team, she was empowerment, found she could sell two to afford all basic necessities for her family. She Aside from learning basic business skills, were also given a one-day overview of introduced to the Coca-Cola business three cases per day. Over time, she increased is also planning to open her own grocery the successful trainees received coolers and He said empowering women entrepreneurs various marketing and merchandising and made to see the potential she had. her stock to 14 cases and grew her profit store with the capital she raised from her iceboxes on lease from the bottler, as well as to develop income-generating activities aspects, which will equip them with the basic Coca-Cola Kwanza gave her everything margin accordingly. Coca-Cola business. a start-up kit of assorted Coca-Cola products within the Company’s value chain had tools to run their businesses effectively. and branded apparel. benefits for everyone. From a small-scale tailor to a big-time businesswoman, Janeth has 5by20 success all sewn up. 24 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 25 Stars shine with Nepal 5by20 programme Namibia brings happiness to hospital A thousand women retailers received Delighted participants also received “Let’s empower our daughters and the business training and assets they branded coolers in which to display granddaughters. I desire to serve the next need to shine during the Shopkeeper product and attract customers with a generation just as the Company is serving Training and Resources (Star) chilled beverage. you.” programme hosted by Bottlers Nepal Limited this year. The Star programme has garnered Given the tools to expand their enthusiastic support from NBL and Cocabusinesses, these entrepreneurs will Run under the auspices of 5by20, the Star Cola Sabco senior management, as well be economically empowered to afford programme aims to build the knowledge as representatives of the Coca-Cola India better healthcare and education for their and confidence of small business owners Business Unit. children, improve their standard of living across BNL’s value chain. Its ultimate and gain the respect of society. objective is to train 12 500 female retailers Speaking at one of the sessions, CCS by 2020. Group Human Resources Manager Cathy Albertyn thanked participants for The 13-module programme was accepting the Company’s invitation. developed by the Coca-Cola University and customised according to the specific needs of Nepali women entrepreneurs. “You were born at a time Coca-Cola Namibia Bottling Company General Management Meeting. The room right for welcoming new life into the world. brought new life and happiness to the was officially opened by Gutsche family In total, 36 adult and infant mattress sets when women had to Walvis Bay Central Hospital with a representative Dorothea Moors, CCS CEO were provided, along with pillows, privacy The initial training was conducted in various parts of the Kathmandu Valley face lots of challenges much-needed upgrade of the maternity ward earlier this year. Doug Jackson and CCNBC Managing Director Frik Oosthuizen. curtains and three mobile traction beds. and Bharatpur, close to the BNL bottling operations, but will be expanded further and difficulties. Despite The CCNBC employees were all touched When word of the run-down state of the At the handover ceremony, hospital by this special project, which was codeafield in due course. such difficulties, all of you rooms reached CCNBC, a task team was officials were overwhelmed with joy when named “Good Start”, and it will remain As part of the workshop, attendees visited are brave enough to run swiftly assembled to tackle this worthy project. it was announced that the bottler would also upgrade the eight remaining rooms in close to their hearts. their local bottling plant so that they could better understand the production your own business and I By May, the first room makeover was the ward. complete and it was a source of great processes and high quality standards that am proud to meet such pride to the host country that it could be Over the next few weeks, the rooms were Coca-Cola products maintain. women in Nepal.” unveiled during the Coca-Cola Sabco transformed into bright, clean spaces – just Sri Lanka’s 5by20 workshops bear fruit Tanzania gives new life to hospital One of Coca-Cola Beverages Sri CCBSL received a special award at the Concerned Coca-Cola Kwanza employees patients. They also made a large cash Lanka’s biggest 5by20 success stories same ceremony in recognition of the work embarked on an ambitious Touch project donation for the purchase of essential to date is Ranjanee Malkanthi, who the bottler does in the empowerment to reduce the mother and child mortality medical equipment. was named “Upcoming Entrepreneur of women like Ranjanee. Organised by rate at the Mwananyamala hospital in the of the Year” at the recent Professional Women in Management, the high-profile Tanzanian capital of Dar es Salaam this year. The next phase will see the start of a It is hoped that “Live and Career Women Awards. awards were also supported by the large-scale renovation project, with the Ministry of Women’s Affairs and Child Code-named “Live for Love”, the ongoing ultimate goal of creating a clean and wellfor Love” will act as a Ranjanee is one of the women who Development. project is close to the hearts of CCK employees as the hospital is situated in equipped ward that brings new life for mothers and babies. positive example to participated in the pilot project last year, where she was taught valuable business, financial This year a further 80 women-owned the Kinondoni district just 25km from the other companies... and life skills. She runs a broom manufacturing businesses will start to bear the fruits of bottling plant. Many of their families have The project is especially meaningful to the business and supports her daughter and four economic empowerment, following two been personally affected by the loss of bottler because it has given something other family members on her income. more successful 5by20 workshops. infant children there. back to the community in CCK’s best volume territory, which provides 30 After attending the 2012 5by20 programme Held in Panama and Anuradhapura in Conditions in the maternity ward, which percent of total volume. in Trincomalee, Ranjanee and her team of July and August, the workshops were handles an average of 50 births a day, are 25 women returned to their village, where conducted under the Women-Headed very poor and many of the deaths can be It is hoped that “Live for Love” will act as a they are “paying it forward” by taking on Households (formerly known as the War attributed to acute medical shortages. positive example to other companies and students and training them in the skills and Widows) programme. Staff visited the hospital, where they encourage greater private sector investment knowledge they acquired. cleaned the ward and talked with in the health sector. 26 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 27 Human Resources Working Culture of Coca-Cola Sabco “SABCO has a unique, enduring corporate identity; it has soul.” Teamwork Hard on Results Humble Family · Diversity is a strength five strong voices in a team are stronger than five individuals, especially in a crisis where we · We are competitive and play to win and take accountability for great results in an exciting competitive landscape, with consistently respond with speed, a sense of urgency and action. autonomy to win in the market. · Everyone counts as someone important. As a result, · We will sacrifice short term to win in the longer term we · A humble approach has helped us build trust, capability everyone is willing to give of their best to make this a great want to do this in a sustainable way. and in-depth knowledge of emerging markets by being open, generous and co-operative with others. company. · At our core we are a family based business, with deep respect · We are consciously an under-promise and over-deliver for the founding family, Sabco’s heritage and family values. · Our teams are open, supportive and friendly with strong culture meet and beat, committed to hard work and are · Our boardroom and business style is both entrepreneurial levels of trust, open dialogue, disciplined routines and not afraid to lead and do the work and give our best. and unpretentious at the same time. · Despite growing into a major multinational company, we have not absolute commitment to the cause. lost the feeling of being a family business. All our employees, · We empower our people and give them freedom · We have authentic leaders who are congruent and real distributors and customers are part of the Sabco family. · No politics we don’t tolerate politics for long no “smoke to operate, with real chunks of responsibility, minimal values based with high levels of integrity we can look up and mirrors”. bureaucracy, to make decisions quickly in the best to our leaders, emulate and admire them. · Many of our people have long tenure, with deep seasoned interests of the business and let them get on with it, experience in the bottling game, leaving a legacy. · We have a collaborative spirit of working across our but hold them accountable. · We never think that we “have arrived” or have all the answers. We want to learn more and will put our hands up organisation, regardless of level or rank. · We have a risk-taking culture that comes right from the owners · We have a can do, willing to do, will do attitude, using to take on extra on behalf of others. of the business. · The greater good is always more important than our own our pragmatic, sleeves-up approach to solve any area or space. problem, especially “when the chips are down”. · We know and understand our customers and consumers · We are a business founded and run by entrepreneurs. Execution is the name of the game. and thank them with our service on a daily basis. · A hallmark of our culture is warmth and a caring · We know our people by name and take care attitude to our special people who are valued for to understand them and their family situations; we · Our heritage is Coca-Cola. · We are proud of, enthusiastic and optimistic about their unique differences and contributions. rally around and show deep compassion and care for our business in the Coca-Cola System and we all our people in difficult personal situations. · We are a dedicated Coca-Cola bottler understand the market and the beverage business well. · At our foundation is an organisational spirit it is always about Coca-Cola no distractions! that cares for and respects individuals, even if · We take care of our local communities and those less · Our culture is infectious and positive; we genuinely Soft on the message is hard. fortunate than us to make our communities prosper. Love · Our employees are passionate ambassadors of our products who feel privileged to represent the love working here and coming to work every day. Sabco is a “play where you can, do what you love” People · We are passionate and highly committed to providing our employees with a multitude of world-class unique opportunities for personal growth and development. Coke Coca-Cola brands. kind of company. 28 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 29 Executive Sponsorship of Talent Capability Development & Leadership Development for Business Success Coca-Cola Sabco is recognised by various internal and external stakeholders as having a compelling people development focus. In 2013 we invested $8,644,000 in quality training, with each employee on average receiving 23 hours of training and on average $905 spend per employee. Our focus areas and achievements in 2013 included frontline sales, operations training and business skills training. We are fully committed to ensuring a strong Return on Investment for our training and our impact assessment Winning Through Growth targets were exceeded yet again in 2013. In June 2012, the development of the “Collaborating for Value: Frontline Sales Training for Emerging Markets” (CFV) began, with the aim of launching in March 2013. The initial stages of development involved the selection of a project management team with the expertise to design training tools and aids and to identify the appropriate Sales Team within the CocaCola Sabco Group to pilot the programme. The uniqueness of this programme lies in its modular nature, which ensures that it is customisable to local conditions, portable and fun. Due to the ease with which the programme can be localised, a full roll-out by Country Sales Teams was completed in early 2014. Overall results: Comments included: 9% increase in Sales volume for 2013 “The pre-sellers have also been depends on the skill of the facilitator, posters, empowered by this training and the games, handouts, and highly innovative inWe have recently reviewed the consultancy with which the organisation has hampered by old organisational knowledge 93% delegates highly satisfied with the relationship between them and the market exercises and activities. organisation’s leadership capabilities had a longstanding relationship. They have and principles. Heidrick and Struggle’s content and relevance of the training for company is greatly enhanced. This warm which resulted in the development been regularly involved in the recruitment involvement in the co-creation of the new their roles relationship between the pre-sellers and This training programme has been endorsed of the Coca-Cola Competency and appointment of our Executive Leadership Leadership Model gave them an intimate the company is being replicated between by the franchise owners’ learning university, Framework. and have good insight into the organisation. knowledge of the model which enabled 50% knowledge shift the pre-sellers and our customers.” and has included Collaborating for Value – Heidrich and Struggle also brought with them them to implement the first few crucial (sales reps currently in roles) Country Sales Training Manager Emerging Market under their Collaborating for The purpose for the review was to gain a a strong portfolio of 60 years in Leadership phases of the Leader Assessment Process. Value learning umbrella, to be made available fresh understanding of the type of leader consulting. By doing this they were able The neutrality of the Heidrich and Struggle 80% positive behaviour change six weeks This modularised programme aligns with to the other franchises in the system. required in our business today and in the to limit, if not eliminate, the biases from consultants enabled a more robust, objective after training (rated by supervisors) the Connect, Create, Align, Execute future. We strongly believed doing this internally focused staff members. It also and ultimately honest assessment and methodology of franchise owner, and meets effectively required an objective point of ensured that Coca-Cola Sabco aligned with feedback process for the development of our To date, the feedback and ROI has been needs of every market through localisation. view. Therefore, a decision was made to the changes taking place in global business senior leaders. extremely positive in all operations. There is no PowerPoint, and the learning contract with Heidrick and Struggles, a and worldwide best practices without being 30 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 31 Engaging Our People Project Speed Innovative technologies support people systems: In the world, we may have a product manufactured Unbottle Your to world class standard (manufacturing), and we Our particular Potentialachievement in 2013 was an overall employee engagement score of may have customers waiting for that product (sales 75.2% and an extraordinary ratio of 11,4:1 of highly engaged employees to highly and marketing), but the vital link is the successful disengaged. This means that we have only one disengaged employee per every 11 implementation of “the commercial activity of highly engaged employees, making Coca-Cola Sabco truly a great place to work. transporting [our products] to [our] customers”. With us, there’s never During the second half of 2013, Human Resources partnered with Supply Chain, questions, the process of defining the CAPs for talent within Logistics began. With the a flat moment. at a Group level, to drive an organisational sponsorship and support of the Group Logistics function talent and capability Logistics Manager, HR found themselves development project. The key objective of perfectly poised to align all Logistics CAPs this project is to uplift capability, ensure with the future vision of Logistics. step-change in performance and delivery, and the effective transfer of skills and In order to make it more relevant, these profiles behaviours across the Logistics landscape. were translated into detailed assessment guides that will review the status quo, appraise the level The project has been, and continues to and application of best practice in every step of be, met with enthusiasm and support “the activity of transporting [our products] to by country-based operational Logistics [our] customers”. Management teams. These assessments will provide us with The first step in this process was to the information that we need, in order review all structures and frameworks to successfully provision our Logistics within which the Logistics teams exist. colleagues with the tools, training and Questions such as “Does the structure tutoring to lift them “to an agreed standard make sense?” and “Are we comparing of proficiency,” and to open up new apples with apples when looking at all opportunities and possibilities to achieve and our entire Logistics organisation?” were excel in their relevant areas of value. The My Launch Pad answered honestly by the Supply Chain L&D team looks forward to an exciting and and Logistics leadership teams. growing partnership with Logistics, forging My Launch Pad allows employees to: Record the way ahead in the development of the PeoplePlans electronically, Complete CAP’s With the answers provided through these capability of getting products to customers. and access and manage e-learning. Our People Credo CCS My Launch Pad statistics: Total Pc Users CCS Our People Credo delivers a clear promise to both employees and 3 004 managers in terms of what employees can expect when working at CCS. Total PeoplePlan Loaded 1 426 47% PeoplePlan scored electronically (vs PY 29% ) 32 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 33 Together we can create a better future for the finite natural resources that we all share 34 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 35 We strive to reduce our water usage ratios by focusing on reducing, recycling and Energy replenishment in all our operations. Efficiency Responsible Measure: & Climate Packaging Water • Water Usage Ratio (litres per litre produced) 2.52L Control Stewardship • SWPPs: 100% of SVA’s completed • Total waste water discharged that sustains aquatic life We will constantly work on reducing the impact of our We will measure and manage our energy consumption packaging on the environment. in all areas within our business to reduce the impact of The Replenish Africa technical approaches to projects are generally very good. However, WADA should further RAIN’s monitoring and evaluation plan will highlight metrics designed to measure our operations on the carbon footprint. Initiative (RAIN) exemplify its values of Local Ownership, sustainability and behaviour change. Best Institutional Synergy, Technical Quality, practices will be shared more widely to Since its launch in 2009, RAIN and Transformational Change throughout ensure improvements across the whole of has made significant progress project development and implementation. RAIN. in achieving its objectives: To improve its strategic impact, it was recommended that WADA: Power Partnerships • Through its currently programmed Measure: projects, RAIN expects to provide 1.58 • Implement fewer, larger and deeper WADA was a foundational investment that helped build RAIN. In 2012 and 2013, RAIN Measure: • PET (annual gram reduction) million people with access to safe water, on programmes, rather than spreading the will use the knowledge and expertise gained track with RAIN’s 2 million target. • Energy Ratio: <0.31 MJ/litre • Keep abreast of • RAIN has leveraged $26.3 million in partnership too thinly across a range of through WADA to build new partnerships smaller projects in multiple countries. with at least three of the water sector’s • Manufacturing plant technological innovations co-finance to date, on track to match The • Enhance the water source-to-community leading donors. These institutions are: Coca-Cola Africa Foundation’s (TCCAF’s) carbon emissions commitment 1:1. connection by linking upstream and downstream water demand and use to • Millennium Challenge Corporation (grams CO2 per • RAIN expects to replenish 2 billion litres of achieve transformational change. (MCC): William Asiko participated on water in 2013. Unit Case produced) • Glass sourced at its • Projects are planned in 31 of Africa’s 54 • Define impact as a function of sector transformation (lessons learned, policy a World Water Day panel at MCC in 2012. Following that event, MCC and 0.37g per UC lightest weight countries. influence, etc.). RAIN have been exploring possibilities • The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) received • Ensure USAID and Coca-Cola contribute to partner on water, sanitation and USAID’s 10th Anniversary Private Sector more according to their individual hygiene activities in Africa. Development Partner Award. strengths and better embed learning within • Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale • Heavy metal content the broader Agency and Company. Zusammenarbeit (GIZ): GIZ is already Waste Programme Evaluations and Sustainability • Ensure more strategically linked projects working with the Coca-Cola System in new packaging As the mid-point for RAIN, 2011 and 2012 that leverage local priorities, TCCC through the Water Futures Partnership, Management have been years of evaluation and harnessing water stewardship efforts, and USAID’s which aims to drive collective action to lessons learned to ensure the greatest impact & Recycling and sustainability of TCCAF’s investments programmes (Feed the Future, Climate Change). address some of the most pressing water risks in cities and watersheds around the through to 2015 and beyond. Beginning • Recycled material in late 2011, a third party evaluation of the • Facilitate learning and knowledge management about the partnership and world. The partnership will likely concentrate on watershed restoration and/ We will reduce the impact of waste on the environment content for crates Water and Development Alliance (WADA), best practices. or water and sanitation in schools. by reducing the amount of waste produced and TCCC’s partnership with USAID, was • African Development Bank (AfDB): Since increasing our recycling activities. conducted by Building Partnerships for Each of these recommendations will be 2000, AfDB has increased its focus on Development (BPD) to: applied to all ongoing and future RAIN the water sector to achieve the objective of • Package quality • Evaluate field activities, organisation projects where appropriate. poverty reduction and economic growth. indicator and functioning of WADA. • Identify actions to increase In 2013, RAIN’s focus is on sustainability and TCCAF met with the Director of the AfDB learning. New programme and partnership African Water Facility at the World Water the effectiveness of WADA opportunities will bring RAIN to the next Forum and has begun discussions around development assistance. level. Impact, Sustainability and Monitoring potential areas for collaboration in Chad, Measure: • Percentage waste • Determine strategic ways to feed this learning into the water development sector. RAIN will continue to focus on multi-year, Djibouti, The Gambia and Mauritania – all high-impact, high-value, sustainable projects countries yet to be reached by RAIN. •% waste recycled recycled that accelerate progress toward RAIN’s 2 Overall, the results of the evaluation are million water access beneficiary target. To positive. It was reported that the relationship accurately capture the transformation that between TCCC and USAID is strong and these projects have the potential to achieve, continued over the page. 36 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 37 The Replenish Africa Initiative (RAIN) continued. Tanzania Kenya Leading to Transformation expand upon learnings to facilitate continual RAIN will apply lessons learnt relating improvement of all programmes. By working Tanzania’s Coca-Cola Kwanza has Communities in Kenya’s arid to sustainability and monitoring to all with leading donors like MCC, GIZ and joined forces with a number of northeast now have a chance at a programmes in 2013 and beyond, further AfDB, and exploring linkages to TCCC’s stakeholders to restore the heavily better life, thanks to a life-giving strengthening the programme, improving sustainability priorities, RAIN will continue polluted Mlalakuwa River in northern water project partnership between its impact and positioning Coca-Cola as a to advance the water sector and transform Dar es Salaam to its natural, freeNairobi Bottlers Limited and leader in environmental sustainability. RAIN the lives of Africans as a leader in innovation, flowing state. Mamlaka Hill Chapel. will continue to monitor project progress and partnerships, and sustainability. Situated on the banks of the river, the In September, the bottler provided financial CCK plant overlooks this contaminated support for the sinking of the first borehole, water source and its impact on the which promises to have a regenerating surrounding communities has proved socio-economic effect on the area. impossible to ignore. Its current state has created public health The local people, who and flood risks, damage to ecological are mainly nomadic systems and devalued riverfront properties. pastoralists, survive The bottler has therefore started working with various governmental, environmental by herding cattle. The and non-governmental organisations to clean previous lack of water up the river and prevent further pollution. had a disruptive effect on The partners are in the process of creating and capacitating service providers, as well as their children’s schooling, establishing systems to ensure the sustainable as girls were forced to South Africa After a lesson from Wessa and municipal management of liquid and solid waste. Enviro-Educators on the dangers of waste skip classes to find water pollution, the learners enthusiastically set Learners from two of Coca-Cola about their task. They collected 54 bags of Community consultation plays an important part in this process and it is hoped that, by for their households, Fortune’s 46 Eco-Schools helped clear the way for a greener future when rubbish weighing more than 230kg. raising awareness, the project will inspire while boys had to drive they participated in the International action to improve the state of other rivers and Coastal Cleanup (ICC) in Port Elsewhere in the bay, almost 50 learners and streams around the capital. cattle over long distances educators from Cape Recife and Tamsanqa Elizabeth, South Africa, in September. High Schools joined CCF employees in search of water. Project partners include the Wami Ruvu Basin and staff of the provincial department of Founded two years ago in partnership Water Organisation, which is responsible for environmental affairs in a beach cleanup. Situated at the local school, the new with the Wildlife and Environmental the management of rivers in Dar es Salaam, Society of South Africa (Wessa), the Ecothe National Environmental Management borehole will support more than 100 They cleared a 1km stretch of shoreline that households and provide the community Schools initiative promotes environmental Council and Kinondoni Municipal Council. is frequented by fishermen and picnicking with accessible clean water for domestic education in schools and encourages Community environmental organisation families. The eager participants collected 40 use. It will also support agricultural individual and community action. Nipe Fagio helps with awareness building, bags, or over 106kg, of litter. activities, to help supplement the scarce while Nabaki Africa is responsible The ICC, which takes place worldwide for project planning. Two German food supply. The tangible results of the day helped around the third Saturday in September, organisations, the Bremen Overseas these learners to understand the value of Church and NBL representatives met provided the ideal classroom for the Research and Development Association responsible environmental management. It with community elders, local leaders, schoolchildren to put their learning into (Sanitation and Waste Management) and is they, and their 34 000 peers in these 46 government officials and students to practice. Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Eco-Schools, who ultimately hold the future explain and hand over the borehole. The Zusammenarbeit (Water Sector Reform), in their hands. community will take ownership of it and be CCF led the way as more than 60 learners also provide valuable international assistance. from Masibambane High School helped responsible for borehole maintenance. By setting an example and supporting to clean a 1.5km stretch of the lower initiatives that encourage conservation, Baakens River before its heavy litter load recycling and the establishment of community spilled into the sea and onto the city’s gardens, Coca-Cola Fortune is helping to tourist beaches. secure a greener and more sustainable future. 38 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 39 Water supply restored in Sri Lankan pre-schools Sri Lanka shows that every drop matters Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka helped Coca-Cola’s revitalisation project, run in Aside from access to clean water, Batticaloa to give the flood-damaged city of conjunction with Habitat for Humanity, first residents also received training on proper Batticaloa a future when it handed over started in 2011 after flooding in the Eastern sanitation and conservation methods, as well the first of four rebuilt pre-schools to region rendered more than a million people as immediate disaster response tactics. the community at the end of April. homeless and contaminated 100 000 wells. Some 20 training programmes The tiny guests of honour, the Navalar School CCBSL worked with the local community to pupils, dressed in their finery for the handover restore the water supply in affected areas by were conducted across eight ceremony, which was also attended by dignitaries from local government, the Cocaclearing over 1 700 wells and also rebuilt four schools, thereby positively impacting more villages, while a further 43 were Cola India and South West Asia Business Unit, than 3 800 residents. held at schools across the region. Habitat for Humanity and CCBSL. Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka and for the benefit of 46 households in Central College and Vipulanantha Sri Lanka combats kidney disease the United Nations Development Kadadkaraichenai in Trincomalee. In Vidyalayam – were selected for waste Programme completed yet another Kumpurupitiya, where the project reduction and eco-conservation initiatives, Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka and the which infiltrate the groundwater, are Speaking at the occasion, Minister Dinesh successful water stewardship project was supported by the Women’s Rural with bins provided for better waste National Water Supply and Drainage suspected to be the main cause. In some Gunewardena thanked the bottler for when they handed over revitalised Development Society, 22 toilets were also management. Board joined forces to fight chronic kidney of the worst affected villages, one in three becoming the first corporate to step forward water and sanitation facilities to renovated. disease with the signing of a memorandum households are touched by CKD. to support this worthy cause that has communities in the Polonnaruwa and Students and teachers participated in the of understanding on July 25. affected both children and adults. Trincomalee districts in July. Because of the strong community supporting health and hygiene awareness The plant, which will purify approximately involvement in the revitalisation work, the programmes and a Water and Sanitation The newly launched “Programme for the 1 500 litres of water per hour, will supply “We hope that other organisations will take The project partners constructed and project partners were also able to renovate a Task Force was established at each school. Provision of Safe Drinking Water to Chronic clean water for drinking and cooking the opportunity to support the provision renovated a total of 67 toilets and 46 further 21 wells and improve access to water Kidney Disease Affected Areas” will see purposes to over 1 100 households. It of clean water for drinking and cooking wells under the auspices of the Every for 190 more households. In addition, an internal water supply system CCBSL providing millions of rupees for the will be maintained by a community-based purposes in other areas of the country Drop Matters campaign, which assists was renovated at the Tamil Mixed School. construction of a reverse osmosis treatment organisation in collaboration with the affected by CKD and end the suffering of communities in the interior of the country During the construction phase, the A well and overhead tank with an internal plant in the Padaviya division. NWSDB. these innocent villagers.” with access to clean water. community members were also educated on water supply system were added to help personal hygiene, proper sanitary practices establish a school garden. The produce Situated in the northern part of the Present at the signing were the Minister of In Dalukana village in Polonnaruwa, and the use and maintenance of toilets. from the garden is expected to generate an Anuradhapura district, Padaviya has the Water Supply & Drainage, various NWSDB 45 households were each given basic additional income for the school. highest reported incidence of Chronic officials and CCBSL Chairman Asoka access to clean water and their own toilet Three schools from the Kadadkaraichenai Kidney Disease, with over 20 000 resultant Wickramasinghe and Country Manager facilities, while 25 wells were renovated area – the Tamil Mixed School, Chenaiyoor deaths. Heavy metals in agrochemicals, Kapila Welmillage. 40 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 41 For 2013, Coca-Cola Sabco Group achieved Waste and Waste Water Treading a total water usage ratio of 2.66, which is a reduction of 5% from the previous year and We are also responsible for the waste water From a waste perspective, the first a 22% reduction from 2010. Our goal is to that leaves our factories to ensure that we priority is to reduce the amount of waste Lightly have a further reduction of 18% by 2020. keep our responsibility to the environment. produced. We are proud to say that all our facilities discharge effluent either to a municipal effluent Secondly, we strive to recycle as much WUR treatment works or, if a municipality treatment of the waste as possible to reduce the 3.5 works is not available, the operation’s effluent amount of waste sent to landfills. To is treated on site to meet the stringent achieve this goal, each waste stream is 3 requirements of The Coca-Cola Company and separated at source (as far as possible) 2.5 the local authorities. All our facilities’ effluent and then measured. Waste going to can sustain aquatic life and is routinely tested landfill is also measured by each operation 2 for a range of quality parameters. and the percentage of waste recycled is then calculated from these figures. For 1.5 We are also in process of implementing the the period of 2012, Coca-Cola Sabco 1 ISO 14000 systems in our facilities to assist operations produced a total of 15g of solid with system entrenchment and improve waste per litre of beverage produced. 0.5 system maturity. As at the end of 2013, 13 81% of the total solid waste is recycled, 0 out of 20 facilities have been certified and it which amounts to a total of 22 914 tons of 2010 2011 2012 2013 is our goal to have all our facilities certified recycled solid waste. by the end of 2014. GMM Awards for Best Water Usage and Thirdly, the re-use option is implemented Most Improved Water Usage Coca-Cola’s waste reduction policy revolves but, due to the sensitivity of our products, During the 2013 GMM, Bloemfontein’s around the following three pillars: our options to re-use the waste are limited. Gutsche Street plant in South Africa, won 1. Reduce Examples of waste re-use include packaging the award again. It is the third time in four 2. Re-use bin or carton liners that are used as waste We are committed to striving to obtain the We are also focusing on the Top 10 water Environmental lowest possible water usage ratios in our issues in our operations, where we are years that this operation has won the best 3. Recycle containers for other material. water usage award in Coca-Cola Sabco. Sustainability operations by: working with the Coca-Cola company to • Reducing water consumption validate the actions and outcomes. The Without a core focus on managing and The plant introduced the following measures • Recycling our process water backbone of this approach is continued mitigating our environmental impact, to achieve this water usage ratio: • Replenishing water, to balance the management focus and leadership. While Coca-Cola Sabco’s sustainability strategy • Ensuring that steam distribution water used in our final beverages a water conscious approach assists in would be incomplete. and condensate return systems are reducing water wastage in our operations, not leaking As part of our commitment to improving we have also taken measures to specifically The four cornerstones of our Environmental • Replacing ball valves on main raw water consciousness and working with address the usage of water on our new Sustainability strategy are: water reservoir with solenoid valves the stakeholders responsible for providing production facilities by building water saving • Water Stewardship to reduce tank overflows potable water to our facilities – which in and re-use measures into new designs and • Waste and Waste Water Management • Dry cleaning in line with the dry most cases involves the local communities making specific water usage targets part of • Energy Consumption floor policy and municipalities – we have completed the specifications for new equipment. • Climate Protection • Partially closing cooling rods a Water Vulnerability Assessment in all • Responsible Packaging • Repairing all water leaks our facilities as well as a Source Water Top 10 Water Saving Initiatives • Reducing crate washer water usage Protection Plan, based on the vulnerabilities Water Stewardship identified in all our operations in 2012. 1 Detect and eliminate water leaks Dar-es-Salaam plant in Tanzania won Water is an integral part of our operation All our operations are currently tracking 2 Implementation of dry floor policy the most improved water usage award and the heart of our company as it flows the actions arising from the Source Water by achieving a water usage reduction of through everything that we do. Water Protections Plans, and the five-year Daily monitoring & display/ 3 22.3% calculated from the end of 2011 to review of the Source Water Vulnerability visual management is used as an ingredient, lubrication and the end of 2012. This was not a once-off cleaning agent for returnable bottles, Assessments will begin in 2014. 4 Recovery of backwash achievement, as they have achieved a production environment and no operation reduction of 41% between the end of 2010 Our strategy also involves actively tracking 5 Bottle washer optimisation can function without potable running and end of 2013 (their water usage ratio was water. Because we are aware of water our water usage, not only at the factory 6 CIP & rinse water recovery reduced from 5.16l/l to 3.04l/l at the end of being a scarce natural resource, that entrance, but also measuring the different 7 Rotary nozzles in all tanks for CIP 2013). This was achieved through continued is critical for our product supply, it is streams that enter different lines. Glass Paper Other Metal Plastic PET focus on water leaks, improving awareness imperative that we operate with a water By having an updated water balance 8 Reuse of water options among staff and reduction of water usage in saving consciousness in our operations. available, it will be used to firstly understand 9 True cost of water calculated & displayed high water use areas. which areas use more water and secondly act on those high water usage areas first. 10 Employee awareness 42 Coca-Cola Sabco Sustainability Review 2013 43 Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Coca-Cola Sabco has a responsibility towards the local communities and other Top 10 Energy Saving Initiatives shareholders and stakeholders to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Our main 1 Detect and eliminate air leaks focus area at this stage has been focusing 2 Detect and eliminate steam leaks on the operational energy usage. Energy Our Sri Lanka 3 Inspect and repair insulation usage is measured on a daily basis in our operations. Energy usage at our plants is 4 Reduce system air pressure operation in measured in MJ (Megajoules) power usage 5 Air knife removal plan Colombo installed per litre of beverage produced. Coca-Cola Sabco Group achieved an Energy Usage 6 Lighting review the first biofuel Ratio of 0.33MJ/L beverage produced. 7 HVAC maintenance plan boiler in the Group This is a reduction of 17.5% from the 2012 YTD figure. In 2014, the focus will include 8 Condensate return in 2013. logistics, to reduce our fleet fuel usage. 9 Set point review 10 Employee awareness Our group target is to reduce the total energy usage by 5% per year to achieve a total of 40% reduction between 2012 and 2020. Further focus areas are the formation of an operations-based steering committee that drives reduction projects in each operation and feeds into a group steering committee to ensure continued focus on the important environmental aspect. An important baseline focus area is still the “Top 10 Energy Saving Challenges”, which was developed with the World Wildlife Fund. This programme focuses on implementing 10 high return, low risk energy-saving practices in our plants and this process is tracked on a quarterly basis on a centralised database. Our Sri Lanka operation in Colombo installed the first biofuel boiler in the Group in 2013. This project was initiated to save energy and operational costs. The boiler uses wood, gliricidia, coconut shells or briquettes as energy sources and has provided savings of $800 a day to obtain a pay back on the capital investment within one year. The Sri Lanka Carbon Fund, which is a semi-government organisation, promotes gliricidia plantations for industry purposes. This government initiative therefore ensures a sustainable fuel source for our operation’s biofuel boiler. This document has been printed on recycled paper 44 For enquiries, please contact Coca-Cola Sabco (Pty) Ltd Tel: +27 (0)41 395 4111 Email: bngomane@za.ccsabco.com www.cocacolasabco.com For a specific country request, please contact the relevant country representative: Ethiopia +251 112 756 114 Kenya +254 206 998 000/9 Mozambique +258 2 1 400 189 Namibia +264 61 320 7000 Nepal +997 143 506 02 South Africa +27 41 395 4090 Sri Lanka +94 1 12 487 700/16 Tanzania +255 222 700 700/6 Uganda +256 312 365 00 Sustainability Review 2013
