TRULY GOOD BANK, IBK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About Report Introduction to the Report This report is the fourth sustainability report of IBK, a partner of small and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs) and the leader in financing and banking for ordinary people. We have drawn up this report to present the performance of IBK in social responsibility management for 2012 and listen to stakeholders’ opinions on such performance. Features of the Report IBK has set material issues through its homepage, Web mail, and questionnaire surveys for clearer communication with stakeholders. This report has reviewed key issues cited in the 2012 sustainability report and has described performance and future directions. As one of the characteristics of the 2013 sustainability report, it has detailed core performance in four areas – customers, SMEs, employees, and communities – together with IBK’s sustainability management system. This means we have actually reorganized the previous year’s five areas: customers, SMEs, employees, communities, and environment. This is because IBK’s overall management activities are grafted onto environmental management. Principles in Drawing up the Report This report has been drawn up based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Guidelines Contents G3.1, FSSS (Financial Services Sector Supplement), and AA1000APS (AccountAbility Principles Standard). IBK’s management performance has been detailed based on 02 CEO Message K-IFRS (Korean equivalent of the International Financial Reporting Standards). The 04 2012 Highlights currency unit used in the report is Korean won. We have introduced material issues in each of the areas of customers, SMEs, employees, and communities and have divided some parts into mission and vision, Sustainable Management System system, and performance to make this report a more systematic one. 06 Company Profile Equal Sharing | Employees Reporting Period and Scope 09 Mission and Vision 51 Open IBK The reporting period, based on IBK’s performance, was from January to December 11 Corporate Governance 54 Joyful Workplace 2012; IBK’s quantitative performance has been reported with December 2012 as the basic point. Data with different basic points have been indicated accordingly. For 13 Ethical Management 56 Talent Fostering and Fair Assessment quantitative data, data for the past three years have been reported together so that 16 Risk Management 58 Eco-friendly Organization time series analysis can be conducted, if possible. Some qualitative performance actually includes activities during the first half of 2013. The reporting scope encompasses the activities and performance of the IBK head Stakeholder Communication Beneficial Sharing | Communities office and domestic branches. In the case of overseas branches, we report our performance in a limited scope. We will endeavor to report more comprehensively 18 Classification of Stakeholder 63 Fortification of Financial Business for the performance of overseas branches – starting with China – in the 2014 20 Materiality Test Ordinary People sustainability report. The 2013 IBK Sustainability Report has been drawn up in Korean and English; we at 64 Support for the Financially Alienated Class IBK strive to report our social responsibility performance annually. Warm Sharing | Customer 65 Spearheading the Green Environment 25 Financial Consumer Protection Movement Assurance of the Report 66 Social Contribution Activities This report has received third-party assurance from KOSIF (Korea Sustainability 27 Customer Information Protection Investing Forum) to assure the credibility of the overall report details, data 29 Customer Satisfaction 68 Social Contribution Activities in Photo collection, and process of drawing material issues. The assurance results are presented on pages 79 and 80 of this report. 33 Social and Environmental Financial Products Performance in 2012 Additional Information Offering Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 72 Economic Performance Readers can check various kinds of information on IBK’s management activities 37 Financial Support 73 Environmental Performance on IBK’s homepage, annual reports, etc. This report, together with the previous sustainability reports, can be checked in the sustainability report category on IBK’s 39 Tailored Finance 73 Social Performance homepage (www.ibk.co.kr). Should you have opinions or queries or need additional information on this report, please feel free to contact us at: 41 Support for Small and Middle Standing Companies Appendix IBK Shared Happiness Dept., IBK Head Office 44 Support for Green Consulting 74 GRI Index 50 Eulji-ro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-758, Korea TEL: 82-2-729-7977 FAX: 82-2-729-6501 E-mail: ibktax708@ibk.co.kr 46 Consolidation of SMEs’ Capabilities 77 Independent Assurance Statement CEO Message Dear customers, shareholders, government agencies, and citizens: I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to all our stakeholders for continuously supporting and encouraging IBK through their unwavering love and affection. The year 2012 was a difficult one in terms of economic conditions worldwide, due mainly to the financial crisis in the Euro zone and delayed economic recovery in the US. The ripple effect wielded influences on our economy; thus, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and ordinary people went through huge ordeals. Doing its best for SMEs’ development and delivering warmhearted banking to ordinary people, IBK provided KRW 100 trillion in loans for SMEs for the first time ever in the financial sector amid the difficult economic situation. The number of its retail customers also passed the 1 million mark for the second consecutive year. Through the bridgeheads we secured for overseas penetration for future growth engines, all our employees cemented the fundamental framework of sustainability “We at IBK will strive to management while enhancing competitiveness harmoniously. We at IBK strive to lead an economic virtuous circle, sharing our accomplishments with society. become the world’s topWe wish to make banking and financing customer-friendlier and easier to access by reorganizing the interest rate system for their easy understanding and by reducing the maximum lending rate notch bank that fulfills its to one digit. We also declared year 2013 as the Innovative Year for Financial Consumer Protection, established the Financial Consumer Protection Center, and vowed to put the highest priority on social responsibilities.” consumer protection and customer happiness. SMEs are the very basis of IBK’s foundation. We willingly assist in SMEs’ management in various ways including financial support for win-win growth with SMEs, which account for about 99% of Korean businesses. Through IBK consulting to help SMEs and middle standing companies take off as world-class companies, IBK presents comprehensive solutions in various sectors including management, accounting, tax affairs, legal affairs, and environmental management. To deal with the manpower shortage of SMEs and youth problem, we have been operating Job World, a free employment portal specializing in SMEs, since 2009. We actually provide various social contribution services engaging stakeholders, based on the spirit of sharing and consideration. In particular, Truly Good Meal Service Vehicle of Love for the underprivileged in communities and Truly Good Nature Sharing to experience nature in national parks are earning raves. With various education/training services including financial and economic education and free customer satisfaction (CS) education, we have disseminated the talent contribution culture in and outside IBK. In particular, we offer many financial products and services support projects so that actual financial benefits can be distributed to the alienated class. In recognition of all these efforts, IBK earned the most excellent grade among 16 banks in the performance evaluation of financial support for ordinary people conducted by the Financial Supervisory Service in 2012. IBK pledges to become a bank for sharing and consideration – and which can give actual help to SMEs and socially underprivileged class – through ethical and right path management by complying with domestic and international laws and regulations and IBK’s code of ethics and Jun-Hee Cho through internal stability management that places the highest value on customer happiness. We Chairman & CEO of IBK will make all-out efforts to become the world’s top-notch bank that fulfills its social responsibilities as truly required by citizens, while abiding by global standards such as the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and CDP. 02 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 03 Deposits procured through teller windows exceeding KRW 100 trillion ● Deposits exceeded KRW 100 trillion in 2012, following KRW 50 trillion in 2007 and KRW 80 trillion in 2010 ● Recorded KRW 20 trillion increase in 18 months Moody’s and Fitch, two of the world’s top three international credit rating agencies, Public recruitment of multicultural families and marriage immigrants together raised IBK’s credit rating with the employment of disabled people Economy ● IBK’s credit rating was upgraded from A1 to A3 by Moody’s in August 2012 and from A+ to AAby Fitch in ● Publicly employed people from multicultural families and marriage immigrants as the first commercial bank to do so September 2012 ● Ranked No. 5 among the 50 safest banks in the emerging market by US financial journal Global Finance in ● Employed disabled people beyond the mandatory disabled people employment ratio January 2013 (2.5%) for the first time in the financial sector; operated the routine employment system for disabled people Net increase to 1 million retail customers for the second consecutive year ● The number of new retail customers broke the 1 million mark for two years in a row following 2011 Employees Realizing HR management centered on passion and performance regardless of educational background and family origin ● Realized transparent and open HR management by ignoring educational background and family origin; laid the foundation for all employees to be promoted based on passion and performance alone Declaration of in-house civil liberties charter ● Proclaimed the joint labor-management civil liberties charter for the first time ever in the industry Highlights Setting up teller windows for banking for ordinary people and developing financial products for them in 2012 ● Set up windows for ordinary people’s banking at two branches, opened new branches ● Developed the IBK Steppingstone Lease Fund, IBK Loans to Convert High Interest-bearing Loans for Young Collegians Industry Leader in the financial sector in CDP (Carbon Disclosure Communities Project) ● Selected as the financial sector’s industrial leader in 2012 ● Participated in the working-level group of the Climate Change Disclosure Committee affiliated with CDP Systematic social contribution activities ● Activated Truly Good Donation, a platform of social contribution fund ● Expanded the Truly Good Meal Service Vehicle of Love Loans for SMEs exceeded KRW 100 trillion for the first time ever in ● Enhanced the Truly Good Love of Country to honor noble sacrifice for the country the financial sector ● The balance of loans for SMEs recorded KRW 100.3 trillion in April 2012 for the first time ever in Korea Proactive interest rate cut; highest rate of loans for SMEs reduced to 9.5% p.a. SMEs ● To share in SMEs’ difficulties in the management environment due to the long-term economic recession, the lending rate, which was a maximum of 17% p.a., was reduced to a maximum of 9.5% p.a. (as of Jan. 2013) Expanding green management consulting ● Increased consulting specialists to some 70 people ● As of December 2012, 742 companies in the cumulative term; as of July 2013, 1,051 companies in the cumulative term Building system for financial consumer protection ● Declared Our Resolution of putting the highest priority on financial consumer value ● Founded the Financial Consumer Protection Center ● Enacted the operation criteria for preventing irrational discrimination activities Awarded the grand prize in the 2012 Personal Customers Information Protection Awards ● Received the Committee Prize (highest grade) from the Presidential Personal Information Protection Committee ● Set up the Information Protection Center Increase in Customer Convenience ● Realized smart bank by setting up smart branches ● The number of ATM+pay phone booths, a new-concept channel, exceeded 2,000 units. (as of Oct. 2012) Domestic Branches History and Awards Company Profile 1961. 8. 1 Established the Small and Medium-sized Businesses Bank 1994. 11. 30 Registered on KOSDAQ 1997. 11. 29 Transformed from a government-invested company into a government-affiliated one 2003. 12. 24 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange Incheon 34 Gangwon 6 2004. 9. 6 Next-generation system operated 2007. 1. 4 Changed its CI Seoul 224 2008. 5. 29 Established IBK Investment and Securities 2009. 6. 22 Established Domestic Corporation in China Gyeonggi 187 2009. 12.29 Selected as pilot institution of the public agency autonomous IIBK was founded in 1961 pursuant to the Industrial Bank of Korea Act to establish an efficient credit system for CI Introduction management system SMEs and promote their smooth economic activities. It was released from its appointment as public agency by 2010. 1. 4 IBK core values declared 2010. 10. 28 Awarded the grand prize in the 2010 Korea Sustainability the government in January 2012, since IBK was deemed to have the foundation to grow through autonomous Chungcheong 29 Management Awards Gyeongbuk 19 management. With this, our management autonomy in terms of manpower operation, budgeting, and management Saejong 2 2011. 5. 12 Number of retail customers exceeded 10 million assessment, among others, expanded; such expansion has become an opportunity to consolidate our market 2011. 10. 14 Recorded 10 million retail customers Daegu 24 ● Brand slogan: A Truly Good Bank, 2011. 11. 4 Environment Minister’s Commendation in climate change response competitiveness. Meanwhile, the bank’s stability is retained without change as in the past through the Industrial Bank Daejeon 11 IBK’s promise to offer the best value for low carbon, green growth Ulsan 11 of Korea Act as the basis of IBK’s foundation, despite the cancellation of IBK’s appointment as a public agency. to key stakeholders 2011. 11. 29 Recipient of Award of Excellence in the Company History Sector in the 2011 Korea Communication Awards Contributing to national economic development and growing into an outstanding bank loved by Korean people, IBK ● Tilted square: It symbolizes dynamic Busan 39 2011. 12. 5 Named excellent agency in anti-money laundering Jeonbuk 11 provided KRW 6.1 trillion in loan support – a whopping 106.2% net increase from the KRW 5.8 trillion total net increase and progressive energy to veer away 2011. 12. 13 Presidential Citation in Customer Satisfaction in the 37th Customer from stillness and move forward. Gyeongnam 25 of loans for SMEs in the banking sector at the end of 2012. We also achieved remarkable loan performance, with loans Gwangju 13 Quality Awards ● Inside of the square: It is designed 2011. 12. 16 Selected as the best agency in public agency integrity evaluation for SMEs exceeding KRW 100 trillion in September 2012 for the first time ever in the Korean banking sector. As of the to visualize IBK graphically: It Jeonnam 9 for two consecutive years end of 2012, the number of our retail customers increased by 1,054,000 people in 2011 to 11,522,000 – that means symbolizes the Bank’s pledge 2012. 1. 13 Won the Presidential Citation in the 2011 Outstanding Job Creation Company Awards more than 1 million retail customers for two consecutive years. of bringing a bright future to 2012. 1. 31 Un-designated as public agency Based on the strategy of building operation strongholds in the four corners of the world, IBK signed comprehensive customers, like the wings of a big Jeju 4 2012. 3. 14 ‘Received the Grand Prize in the 2012 Bell Risk Manager Awards for bird soaring in the sky. the third consecutive year business agreements with global leading banks including Deutsche Bank – Germany’s largest bank – and Banco ● I : “I” means customer. It symbolizes 2012. 3. 30 Balance of loans for SMEs reached KRW 100 trillion Santander and Bank of China in 2012. We are committed to establishing a new branch network in the Asian region the corporate philosophy of IBK to 2012. 5. 29 ‘New Ordinary People Serving Bankbook selected as hit product in – where many Korean SMEs enter – and to building an Asian Financial Belt through the signing of MOUs with local put customers first. Status of Domestic and Overseas Branches  Unit: branches the first half by Asia Business Daily 2012. 8. 27 IBK’s credit rating raised by Moody’s from A1 to Aa3 leading banks in other regions. ● Win-Wing’s B: “Win” from “Win2012. 9. 13 IBK’s credit rating upgraded by Fitch from A+ to AAClassification Branch Sub-branch office Office Total Wing” embodies the Bank’s pledge 2012. 10. 22 50,000 young people employed through Job World to serve as the “Wings for customers’ Domestic 582 66 648 2012. 10. 31 Won the CDP Industrial Leader Award for the second consecutive success” and bring success, hope, Overseas 5 2 7* year Status of Company Status of Dividends Unit: see category and bright future for them. 2012. 11. 23 IBK Smart Touch received the Grand Prize in the 3rd App Award Total 587 66 2 655 Korea Name of Bank Industrial Bank of Korea(IBK) Category 2012 2011 2010 2012. 12. 4 Won the Grand Prize in Korea’s Communication Management *As for overseas branches in China, 11 branches are operated under IBK China Corporation. Awards Date Established August 1, 1961 Net income/Net 1,120,552 1,552,216 1,389,667 CEO Cho Jun-hee loss(KRW million) No. of Employees 11,360 EPS(KRW) 1,695 2,365 2,111 No. of Branches 655(Overseas branch included) Overseas Branches 50, Eulji-ro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Total amount of Address of Head Office Korea dividends 257,590 373,505 264,029 Tianjin Xinging Capital 3,219,869 (KRW million) London Tianjin Total Assets(KRW million) 190,762,068 Propensity to Moscow Qingdao 22.99 24.06 20.46 Net Income(KRW million) 1,120,552 dividend (%) Chengyang Shenyang *As for overseas branches in China, 11 branches are operated under IBK China corporation Status by the Number of Shares Owned Unit: see category Ratio of shares owned  Unit: % Hanoi Tokyo Category No. of shareholders (people) Ratio(%) No. of shares owned (shares) Ratio(%) 5.98 Government 1 0.00 374,583,387 68.60 Hanoi Yantai Government-managed New York 2 0.00 8,686,245 1.590 17.2 New Delhi company Pension fund 1 0.00 141,400 0.03 6.63 Ho Chi Minh Bank 6 0.00 463,847 0.08 70.19 Securities company 34 0.04 9,154,005 1.68 Suzhou Insurance company 14 0.01 1,867,002 0.34 Investment trust 408 0.51 24,570,409 4.50 Suzhou Kunshan Other corporations 705 0.87 93,906,009 17.20 Shenzhen ▒ Government and related agencies Individual investor 80,295 98.57 32,629,126 5.98 ▒ Pension fund and financial institutions Hong Kong ▒ Other corporations Total 81,466 100.00 546,001,430 100.00 * Based on June 2012 ▒ Individual investors 06 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 07 Status of Subsidiaries Unit: see category Company Name Address Main business Date Established (Y/M/D) Capital No. of Shares Owned Ownership Mission and Vision IBK Credit Information Yeoksam-dong, Gangnam-gu, Claim collection, credit check 2000.1.18 30 600,000 100 Co., Ltd. Seoul, Korea (2000.1.17, etc.) Bongraedong 1-ga, Jung-gu, IBK Insurance Co., Ltd. Insurance business 2010. 7. 9 900 18,000,000 100 Seoul, Korea IBK Asset Management Yeoido-dong, YeongdeungpoAsset Mgt. business, investment Core Values consulting business, investment 2004. 10. 26 200 4,000,000 100 Co., Ltd. gu, Seoul, Korea IBK regards customer happiness as the most important core value. We strive to enhance trust with a entrustment business mindset of assuming responsibility for the happiness of customers and stakeholders. We are doing our very IBK China Ltd. Tianjin, China Banking business 2009. 6. 22 3,225 100 best to maximize organizational capacity through teamwork that acknowledges and considers one another. Yeoido-dong, YeongdeungpoWe endeavor to become a bank that shapes the future through relentless development of creative thinking IBK Securities Co., Ltd. Finance and investment business 2008. 5. 29 3,770 60,000,000 79.58 gu, Seoul, Korea and demonstration of excellent execution capability. Chungmuro 2-ga, Jung-gu, IT outsourcing, system 1991.3.22 IBK System Co., Ltd. 31 3,449,000 55.63 Seoul, Korea development and establishment (1991.3.20, etc.) New technology banking IBK’s mental attitude is to Trust and take the right path at all Yeoksam-dong, Gangnam-gu, business, installment banking IBK Capital Corporation 1986. 11. 1 1,655 33,090,308 100 Responsibility times. Seoul, Korea business, factoring banking business Note) In case the date of establishment and the date of acquisition are different, the latter is indicated in ( ). Customers’ Organizational Structure It is IBK’s way of doing the job Happiness Creative passion is IBK’s strength to maximize organizational Best Creative and energy, creating the 14 Business Divisions, 1 Research Institute, 1 Center, 47 Depts., 10 Teams Teamwork competencies. Passion future with creative thinking and outstanding capability in Chairman & CEO implementation. Auditor IBK Economic Research Institute Executive Vice President Director Management Philosophy IBK wishes to become a bank that nurtures dreams and hopes to realize our core value of “customer Corporate Banking Division Retail Banking Division Marketing Division Global Markets & Treasury Division Investment Banking Division Credit Card Business Division Trust & Pension Business Division Busan·Ulsan·Kyungnam Regional Business Division Chungcheong and Honam Business Division Management Strategy Division Credit Management Division Management Support Division IT Division Risk Management Division IT Security Center Financial Consumer Protection Center Compliance Officer happiness.” Such management philosophy carries the dreams and hopes of customers, employees, IBK, and society. We are committed to supporting customers’ dreams and hopes, improving employees’ quality of life through a workplace where they enjoy working, and laying the foundation to become a top-notch bank by searching for new growth engines. We will embody such basic spirit and core value with onsite management, ethical and right path management, and internal stability management. Bank with Dreams and Hopes ● Putting the highest priority on customers’ happiness ● Improving employees’ quality of life ● Laying the foundation to become a top-tier bank Conduct Truth Fruit Institutional Banking Dept. IBK Consulting Services Dept. Private Banking Dept. IBK Contact Center International Trade Business Dept. Project Finance Dept. Credit Card Marketing Dept. Trust Dept. Shared Happiness Dept. Private Equity Dept. Security Dept. IT Channel Dept. Risk Review Dept. Legal & Compliance Dept. Audit & Examination Dept. Cash Management Service Dept. Corporate Restructuring Dept. Operation Services Dept. Ethical and Right Path Internal Stability Retail Loan Dept. Onsite Management Corporate Services Dept. Global Business Dept. IT Banking Development Dept. Management Public Relations Dept. Management NPL Management Dept. General Administration Dept. Risk Management Dept. Smart Business Dept. Investment Banking Dept. Retirement Pension Dept. Secretariat ● Consider customers Credit Card Business Dept. ● Build a mature operational culture Retail Marketing Dept. ● Be a bank that fulfills its social Trading Dept. IT Management Information Dept. preferentially in decision centered on autonomy and reality. Credit Approval Dept. Corporate Banking Dept. responsibility among Korean Employee Welfare Dept. Business Financial Management Dept. Channel Strategy Dept. making at all times. people. ● Implement productive work by ● Establish problem solving and veering away from conventional Loan Planning Dept. ● Pursue sound growth that complies Human Resources Development Dept. Marketing Strategy Dept. Treasury Dept. IT Planning & Management Dept strategy directions on-site. with the basics and principles. practices and formality. Planning&Co-ordination Dept. ● Develop innovative and new ● Fair evaluation and compensation ● Concentrate on capability that Human Resources Dept. products/services based on according to abilities and one can do better rather than on customers and sites. performance something that one does not know. *based on the end of March 2013 08 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 09 Vision IBK makes an effort to become a true partner of customers and a bank in harmony with citizens by fulfilling its corporate social responsibility. We support the harmonious development of economic, social, Corporate Governance and environmental circumstances with a new future in finance, pursuing the happiness of all retail and corporate customers, employees, and communities. IBK Vision IBK: a New Future in Finance Composition The board of directors (BOD) of IBK consists of the IBK President, managing directors, and outside directors boasting of expertise and ample practical work experiences. Outside directors account for more than the majority. The BOD carries out decision making throughout IBK’s management from an objective, rational Customers Employees Government Market perspective, and its independence is guaranteed. A Management Council has been set up to deal with matters delegated by the BOD as per the articles of incorporation, and its organization and operation Customer happiness Best Workplace Warmhearted Finance Pride of Finance in Korea are set forth by the BOD. Likewise, there are three committees under the BOD: Steering Committee, Creating customer Enhancing employees’ Becoming the Positioning as a market happiness together with pride and satisfaction steppingstone of SMEs, model to be the pride of Management Development Compensation Committee, and Risk Management Committee. The BOD is financial profits by offering through the delivering warmhearted finance in Korea chaired by the IBK President as the top management. An auditor can attend the BOD meeting and present new financial experiences organization’s new future finance to ordinary beyond customer people opinions. satisfaction Status by the Number of Shares Owned Category Name Career Remarks Director Jun-hee Cho IBK President Chairman of the Steering Committee Midand Long-term Management Strategies Gyu-tae Kim Executive director Steering Committee, Risk Management Committee IBK pledges to be the bank of all Korean citizens with its true and differentiated management activities outside director Jong-gu Lee Lawyer at Kim & Chang Law Steering Committee, Management Development based on sharing and consideration. We aim at implementing financial policy smoothly and realizing stable Firm Compensation Committee, Chairman of the Risk Management Committee growth to cope with the era of persistent low growth. We will cement earnings creation competency and carry out ethical and right path management through internal stability and transparent management by Yong Cho Former standing committee Chairman of the Management Development member of the Financial Compensation Committee, Steering Committee strengthening our responsiveness to rapidly changing economic conditions beyond merely expanding the Supervisory Commission business scale. Former Deputy Governor for Political Affairs of Gangwon-do 逢山開道 遇水架橋 Jae-han Ryu Former CEO of Korea Finance Corporation Steering Committee, Management Development Compensation Committee, Risk Management Transform crisis into opportunity, shift opportunity to the future Direction Committee Cement earnings creation capacity to cope with persistent low growth Mi-sook Han Former SME Secretary of Management Development Compensation the Executive Office of the Committee Enhance earnings creation Lay the foundation for President sustainable growth Profitability Consolidation enhancement and cost Proactive soundness management Efficient growth engine implementation of competitive edge of financing Laying the foundation for robust bank Infrastructure fortification for sound growth Operation and Performance reduction for SMEs The BOD meeting is convened every quarter or at any time at the request of the IBK President or two ● Enhance interest ● Strengthen ● Implement new ● Record 1 million ● Implement  ● Successfully directors. The BOD mainly resolves and deliberates on the establishment and change of business plans, Tasks to be executed intensively profitability loan portfolio convergence corporate “Change IBK” propel post-next● Propel to turn management service of customers recognized by generation bank convening of the general shareholders’ meeting and agenda items to be presented, approval of risk customers in the ● Proactively finance and ● Secure top-rated customers ● Fortify black into those manage weak ommunications customer group ● E xecute open information management master plan, etc. According to the BOD regulations, a resolution is made when more than in the red sectors ● Substantially ● Ensure recruitment ● Enhance interest ● Enhance execute strategy competitive with dreams and security and the majority consents to the agenda items presented to the BOD. The BOD plays a pivotal role in resolving stably operate profitability efficiency of for global edge through hopes the system major management issues/matters that require sharing with employees, such as new vision and midand ● Implement soundness penetration prices and ● L ead financing austerity infrastructure ● Build smart services of sharing and ● Build integrated long-term strategies. The BOD held 10 BOD meetings in 2012 and resolved and received reporting on 48 management ● Improve channel ● Always keep consideration management ● Build scenario soundness ● Strengthen companies to be ● C onsolidate system for agenda items. The rate of BOD members’ attendance to the BOD meeting was 95%. management infrastructure of competitive retained financial subsidiaries system household loans edge in fund ● Propel integrated consumer ● Reinforce ● Establish ● Scrupulously management marketing of protection communication low-cost manage credit market corporate and ● F oster a with business procurement cards and risks ● Propel efficient retail customers workplace where sites structure growth engines employees want ● Sophisticate to come and reputation risk work management *逢山開道 遇水架橋(Bongsan Gaedo Woosu Gagyo) : Build a road when you meet God, construct a bridge when you encounter water (Samgukji Yeonui : Romance of the Three Kingdoms) 10 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 11 Committees Affiliated with BOD The BOD operates three committees: Steering Committee, Management Development Compensation Committee, and Risk Management Committee. Each committee’s activities play a role in improving Ethical Management effectiveness, professionalism, and transparency through meetings in each specialized field. Board Chairman: IBK CEO Executive director, Standing director, Four outside directors Right Path Management for the Realization of Core Values The realization of IBK’s core values starts from the basics of ethical and right path management. We divide key stakeholders into retail and corporate customers, executives, shareholders, employees, and society and Management Development continuously carry out ethical activities. These efforts were recognized; we accomplished the remarkable Steering Committee Risk Management Committee Compensation Committee feat of earning grade 3 in the 2012 Public Agency Integrity Measurement Results organized by the AntiChairman: IBK CEO Corruption & Civil Rights Commission. Chairman: IBK CEO Executive Chairman: Executive director Executive director, Standing director, Standing director Three Standing director Two director Three outside outside directors outside directors ● Guarantee of customer secrets, We contribute to the directors Compliance We always think and Customers prohibition of unfair transaction national economy and Pursuit of behave from customers’ activities social development by with Social Customer perspective and provide respecting social values, Responsibility Satisfaction the best products and complying with rules services to customers, ● Upholding the IBK’s ● Integrity obligation, and regulations, and thereby doing our utmost autonomous Steering Committee competition Society core values Executives prohibition of spearheading efforts to for their benefit and disclosure of secrets lay the sound financial principle, aiming ●Customer happiness Four Basic satisfaction. ●Mutual respect foundation. Chaired by the IBK President, the Steering Committee consists of a managing director and up to three at fair transactions ● Trust and happiness of employees, Principles of IBK’s ● Compliance with various ● Creative passion outside directors. The committee meeting is convened every quarter or at any time at the request of laws and regulations of the ● Strong teamwork prevention of sexual Code of Ethics harassment the committee chairman or two committee members. The committee deliberates on and resolves state and communities We respect dignity We strive to maximize and value of each one improvement measures for the operation and procedures of the BOD, committees within the BOD, ● Respect for employees’ Shareholders ●Shareholders’ profit the shareholders’ of our staff in IBK, and Employees protection through the Pursuit of Pursuit of shareholder value enhancement, and measures to protect stakeholders’ profits. Four meetings were held in dignity, fair HR retention of management value through good Shareholder Employee work to enhance their management investments and efficient quality of life with equal 2012. ● Fostering of talents, soundness management. Values Satisfaction opportunities and a fair quality of life ●Maximum guarantee of HR management. improvement exercise of shareholders’ justified right Management Development Compensation Committee The Management Development Compensation Committee is composed of up to four outside directors and is convened every quarter, in principle. Note, however, that the committee meeting can be convened at any time at the request of the committee chairman or two committee members. The committee deliberates Policy and Strategy on and resolves the performance assessment, compensation of standing board members and executive IBK believes that employees’ improvement and maintenance of integrity make for one of the most officers, and review and approval of the fringe benefit system for those board members and officers. One important axes in the financial institution’s right path management. We internally establish strategies committee meeting was held in 2012. and plans for implementation for integrity improvement to internalize ethical management in all our management strategies. Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee consists of the committee chairman and up to two outside directors Plans to Improve Integrity appointed by the BOD. In principle, the committee meeting is convened every quarter or at any time at • Analysis of weak factors related to integrity, diagnosis of problems the request of the committee chairman or two committee members. The committee deliberates on and Strategy • Cyclical check and evaluation of business satisfaction survey resolves the risk management master plan submitted to the BOD for consideration and key issues/matters pertaining to credit rating and estimation of credit risk factors. Eight committee meetings were held in • In-house measurement of integrity level 2012. • Removal of corruption-inducing factors in business procedures Strategy Implementation • Consolidation of internal control and in-house inspection • Drawing up a standard manual to ensure transparency and fairness in the business process • Introduction of continual change through the monitoring of the status of accomplishing strategic integrity challenges Check and Evaluation • Active use of integrity education contents including education on integrity • Promotion of improvement through in-house measurement and analysis of integrity level • Check and evaluation of internal control and in-house audit functions • Integrity culture establishment through the in-house assessment of integrity evaluation results, performance assessment reflection Integrity • Continual questionnaire survey for in-house audit function consolidation and customer satisfaction maximization 12 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 13 Systems In-House Education on Ethics IBK develops diverse and specific programs for all its employees to engage naturally in business through Ethical management education is essential education for all IBK employees. We are enhancing employees’ programs for practicing ethical management. We operate and monitor our reporting centers, which accessibility online and offline and improving the ethical management process through the Internal Control guarantee the informants’ anonymity. We also collect internal and external stakeholder opinions on ethical Council. management through the reporting centers and various channels and reflect them on our ethics education and systems to improve them. Consolidation of ethical ● Enhance and establish recognition of ethical management among IBK employees management and integrity ● Strengthen the mandatory ethical management and integrity education on top of the annual Ethical Management Practice Programs education minimum learning hours completion system IBK runs various programs aimed at disseminating positive recognition of ethical management and ● Operate integrity courses at the IBK Cyber Training Center. Cyber-integrity education ● Foster an environment for employees to understand ethical management more conveniently. conducts ethical management. We will endeavor further for the diffusion of employees’ ethics awareness through easy and specific programs. ● Organize a council consisting of team leaders by department. Internal Control Council ● Carry out internal control process improvement and monitoring, employee guidance & training, program development, and information sharing. Self-diagnosis on Ethical ● Employees themselves diagnose the details for diagnosis through IBK’s internal Compliance communication network by selecting the monthly diagnosis items. ● Strengthening the commitment to ethical management undertaking by operating a Ethical Management Education  Uunit: hours, people self-diagnosis program for compliance with laws Monthly Theme in Ethical Practice ● Selecting an outstanding theme through a public contest of themes to instill ethics Total education hours No. of trainees and integrity awareness among employees Category ● Sharing the ethical items to be maintained by employees in each month 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Clean Contract System ● Securing the transparency of procedures and fairness of transactions upon contracting, including various services and goods purchase Education on ethical and legal ● Refraining from giving and receiving bribes between contract parties, meting out compliance, anti-corruption, fair 26 28 34 2,667 2,995 3,120 mutual punishment upon violation transaction, accident prevention, Job Integrity Contract System of ● Maintaining a high level of integrity in performing duties as senior management, personal information protection Officers consolidating the commitment to innovation of ethical management practice Clean Card System ● Ensuring the transparency of execution of expenditure budget and interrupting inappropriate execution in advance ● Limiting the use of cards at member merchants recognized as unsound business or Operation of the Legal Compliance Officer System luxurious establishment Financial institutions should comply with laws and regulations, manage assets in a sound way, and protect Employees’ Ethical Awareness ● Sending letters from the IBK President on ethics, asking IBK employees and depositors. Toward this end, the basic procedures and standards (internal control standards) that should Diffusion customers for ethical management practice and cooperation during the Korean be observed by the management and employees of the financial institution concerned in carrying out traditional holidays Operation of Integrity and ● Inspecting and guiding branch employees concerning issues such as law compliance, their duties need to be set forth (Article 23.3.1 of the Bank Law). A financial institution also needs to check Ombudsman system ethics, and money laundering prevention the status of compliance with internal control standards. In case it violates the standards, the financial ● Operating the legal compliance consultant system institution must have at least one compliance officer who reports the violation to the Audit Committee ● Collecting opinions pertaining to legal compliance at the worksite, collecting bottlenecks and difficulties, and consulting for employees (Article 23.3.2 of the Bank Law). IBK operates the legal compliance officer system in keeping with the trend Operating a Whistle-blowing ● Investigating the objects and details of whistleblowers’ tip-off, investigated results of consolidating internal control including financial consumer protection and accident prevention. System handling, and regulations and operation of whistleblowers’ protection Adoption of System to Prevent ● Making a public competitive bid with the mandatory size or larger upon selecting IBK’s System of Legal Compliance Support Organization Budget Waste in Overseas Trip overseas travel agencies ● Preparing an instrument that prevents the use of accumulated frequent flyer mileage ● Board of Directors: Deciding the basic internal control policy points for personal purposes ● IBK President: Establishing an internal control policy Execution of Outstanding Local HQ ● Selecting the outstanding regional division in right path management ● Business division manager and assistant branch manager: Supervising legal compliance work in the Selection System for 2012 Ethical ● Exterminating abnormal product sales related to marketing and Right Path Management ● Fostering an environment for shifting to customer-oriented mindset and establishing respective duties a transparent management assessment system ● Legal compliance officer: Planning and supervising the bank’s legal compliance support ● Consultant on legal compliance support: Inspecting and guiding the branch’s legal compliance ● Staff in charge of legal compliance: Performing legal compliance work at the department or branch Ethical Management Violation Reporting Center ● Employee: Complying with various laws and regulations IBK’s internal and external stakeholders can report to the reporting center any unfair or unreasonable situation in the business or transaction process. In this process, the anonymity of the reporting person is absolutely guaranteed. Ethical Management Violation Reporting Center Ethics Counseling Reporting Clean Reporting Financial Corruption Reporting Center Center Center ●C ounseling on employee’s ethical ●A  person inevitably receiving money ● Shaping a sound financial climate conflict, presenting solutions to such and valuables and entertainment and preventing unjust request and conflict needs to report such to the Clean pressure from the outside in advance ●O peration of on/offline reporting Center voluntarily. ● Matters received by the Financial centers ●U  sing the reported money and Corruption Reporting Center need valuables for social contribution to be handled with proper action as activities quickly as possible. 14 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 15 Major Performance in 2012 Risk Management IBK has propelled risk management centered on four themes – advancement of risk management infrastructure, proactive soundness management, active response to external regulations, and dissemination of risk management culture – amid the persistent domestic and international economic uncertainties, consolidation of financial regulations, SMEs’ business slowdown, and forecast continuous recession in the real estate industry in 2012. Above all, the year 2012 was a year when we pursued internal stability in risk management and prepared for the future through the advancement of risk management infrastructure and building of IBK’s reputation risk system. Background Performance Details IBK ensures the transparency and stability of corporate management with effective and systematic risk ● System development in six sectors aiming at management support, based on fortification of Expansion of risk core capability with regard to risk management and data analysis management in the rapidly changing financial environment. We are doing our best to protect and increase management * Redevelopment of model of retail loan credit assessment, system for dynamic liquidity/interest stakeholder profits by putting the highest priority on stakeholder profits under all circumstances. infrastructure according rate risk management, system for credit risk factor monitoring, measuring system for commodity to asset size To cope with uncertainties and ensure soundness, IBK has built risk management organizations consisting derivatives risk, system for loan product monitoring, simulation system for BIS CAR verification of the top experts in the industry. We carry out proactive risk management in various fields – including ● Focusing on minimizing non-performing loans including consolidation of management for loans requiring caution and those under such grade; relevant department’s soundness management credit market operation risk and liquidity risk – based on the organizations. Since it set up the Risk Proactive soundness support Management Team in April 1998, IBK has been continuously engaging in building and operating a risk management ● Fortification of early-stage sorting out of potentially insolvent companies through expansion of management system. As a result, we applied the Risk Adjusted Performance Measurement (RAPM) system, credit supervision objects via system supervision credit risk under the High Class Internal Grade Act, and risk supervision expert system for the first time ever ● Preparation of IBK’s reputation risk management system Consolidation of financial in Korea’s financial sector, and we have been operating them successfully. * Standards enactment, council organization and operation, identification of factors by consumer protection department, and preparation of countermeasures Dissemination of risk ● Production of work manual and education videos for branch employees management culture ● Continual branch visit, offering education/training Risk Management Organization and System IBK has built risk management organizations consisting of the Board of Director (BOD,) Risk Management Committee, Risk Management Council (working-level council), and Risk Management HQ. Winning the Bell Risk Manager Awards for three consecutive years As a subcommittee affiliated with the BOD, the Risk Management Committee is the top decision-making IBK received the Grand Prize – the Financial Supervisory Service Governor’s Prize – in the Bell body regarding risk management work and is in charge of important policy decision making related Risk Manager Awards for three years in a row; thus solidifying its status as the top bank in the risk to risks, measurement and analysis of Basel II (International Accord to consolidate bank’s soundness) management sector. Targeting all financial companies in Korea, the Bell Risk Manager Awards is the standards’ major risks, and other risks delegated by the BOD. If necessary, the committee implements first awarding system in the risk management sector in Korea. IBK was awarded the Grand Prize after work with the BOD’s approval. Other main activities include setting of risk limit by business division and by it upgraded its risk management level and recognition with proactive risk management through the risk type, measuring and monitoring of risk level, enactment and amendment of the relevant regulations, development of the risk supervision expert system in 2012, following the RAPM system applied down development of the internal control system for the operation sector, and development of credit rating to branch teams in 2010 and internal control consolidation and dissemination of risk management model. In addition, the committee autonomously oversees the capital-meeting requirements for the BIS culture through operation risk management in 2011. capital adequacy ratio and status of asset-liability management (ALM). As a working-level council, the Risk Management Council is a decision-making body consulting on and coordinating major policies and issues related to risk management in advance. The council plays the role of managing and overseeing risk management work execution and assisting in the Risk Management 2013 Risk Management Plan Committee’s policy decision making. Composed of the Risk Management Dept., and Risk Review Dept., the Soundness deterioration of households and companies is predicted according to the continued global low Risk Management HQ takes charge of practical work related to risk management and enforces the policies growth trend, consolidation of supervisory authorities’ regulations including consumer protection, and decided by the Risk Management Committee. persistent economic recession. Aside from the bipolarization between large corporations and SMEs, deepening bipolarization between SMEs is forecast; therefore, the future management environment in the banking industry Board of Director – including decline of earnings creation capability due to insolvency increase and regulation fortification – is projected to be more difficult compared to 2012. Under the circumstances, IBK will overcome the current crisis with proactive soundness management and active response to financial regulation and prepare for take-off in the Risk Management future by building advanced systems and risk management execution capability. Committee Risk Management Council Major Tasks Details ● Induce the reduction of bad debt reserve through system improvement Risk Management HQ Consolidation of proactive ● Consolidate follow-up management through the early -stage sorting out of potentially soundness management insolvent companies ● Induce a proper level of loan handling considering the debt repayment capability Rigorous preparation for ● Realize a Truly Good Bank with rigorous reputation risk management Risk Management Risk Review environmental change in ● Thoroughly respond according to the execution of Basel III regulation and change of Dept. Dept. regulations international accounting standards Advancement of risk management ● Redevelop the credit assessment model step-by-step to take off in the future ● Reinforce the integrated risk management of the IBK Financial Group Credit Risk Market Risk Credit Evaluation Operation Risk BIS CAR Credit Supervision Enhancement of risk management ●Fortify total exposure and foreign currency liquidity management Team Team Team Team Management Team Team execution capability ●Expand risk management training 16 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 17 Stakeholder Communication IBK actively carries out communication by dividing into groups stakeholders related to social responsibility management activities. All our employees share the voices of stakeholders through various communication channels and strive to implement more accountable management activities with all these. The stakeholder opinions collected using various channels are reflected on IBK’s management strategies; such process can serve as a steppingstone for IBK to become a bank that grows continually together with stakeholders. Communication Opinions Efforts to respond channel ●Customer information ●Smart branch installation ●Awarded the Presidential Citation in the ●Customer satisfaction survey protection ●Installation of booths combining 37th Customer Quality and CS Awards ●Voice of customer Customers ●Depositor protection ●Solving customer ATM and payphone ●Selected as outstanding call center ●Employee education on customer information protection ●IBK direct messenger ●Contest of customers’ new inconveniences for 5 consecutive years ●Inspection Day for Customer Information products ●Customer service ●Chosen as the best agency in ARS Protection ●Call Center homepage App Communication consolidation service operation evaluation ●Production of depositor protection stickers ●Customer Love Event Day channel ●Social Square (SNS) ●In-house COP activities ●Employee postcard Opinions Efforts to respond ●Labor-Management Council ●Employee communication ●Named Tomorrow’s Workplace ●In-house welfare fund ●Know·CAMP(Intranet) ●Talent fostering training filled with Hope ●Event fostering ●UC messenger ●Employee welfare ●Selected as the best agency employees’ unity ●In-house SNS(Communication Square) ●IBK Leaders Club improvement for two years in a row in the ●Implementation of Employees ●Healthy laborassessment of public agency Labor-Management ●WITH IBK(newsletter) integrity Council management culture ●SMART ON(APP) ●Transparent ●Truly Good Day Care Center ●Employee meeting by department ●Cyber training center organizational culture Communication Opinions Efforts to respond channel ●IBK Top Management Club ●Tailored financial service for ●Leading in interest rate cut ●IBK Women Entrepreneurs’ SMEs ●Agreement for win-win growth between large Club corporations and SMEs SMEs ●Win-win growth ●Support for SMEs’ workers ●Support for SMEs’ risk management and normalization ●IBK Future Entrepreneurs’ Club ●Town meeting ●Assistance in the form of tailored financial support ●IBK, Truly Good Free products Communication ●Subsidy of SME workers’ family treatment cost and Consulting channel scholarships ●Green consulting ●Job World ●IBK Voluntary Service Group Opinions Efforts to respond ●Social contribution program ●Support for ordinary people’s ●Support for low●Acquisition of top rating in the assessment ●Window for ordinary people’s finance income bracket of ordinary financial support performance finance ●Sisterhood relations ●Job creation ●Truly Good Meal Service Vehicle of Love ●Stronghold branch for ordinary ●Mecenat activities for culture and ●Assistance to the ●IBK Smile Financial Foundation people’s finance Communities sports financially alienated ●IBK Shared Happiness Foundation ●Development and execution ●Financial education for adolescents class ●Assistance from social welfare facilities by of products for the financially ●Campaign to activate the ●Community regional division during Korean traditional alienated class neighborhood commercial district communication holidays ●Response to NGO/NPO ●CDP Opinions Efforts to respond Communication channel ●Legal compliance ●Acquired excellence grade in the 2011 Fund Mystery ●Perfect sales of financial Shopping ●Inspection of government portfolio (products) ●Activation of facility investment by middle standing offices Government ●Activation of support for companies and SMEs ●Joint cooperation program ●Regular reporting SMEs ●Assessment of financial public agency management ●Transparent ●Job agreement with the relevant agencies ●Conference organized by management activities ●Legal compliance checklist and legal compliance government agency activity report ●Bank-linked activities Communication channel Opinions Efforts to respond ●Annual report ●IR homepage ●Management ●Management performance results ●IR conference performance release, IR data offering Shareholders ●Sustainability report ●General shareholders’ ●Midand long-term business prospects ●Participation in global conference ●Establishment of midand longand investors meeting ●Investment value term business direction ●Disclosure of data 18 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 19 Consolidation Very important ▶ ➏ ofprotection customer Materiality Test ➐ Consolidation of customer service ➍ Risk management Support for ➒ Tailored for SMEs financing Improvement  financially alienated class ➋ ofearnings management  Healthy labormanagement culture ➓ Support for SMEs Transparent ➌ governance Employment diversity and Materiality Test Process  prohibition of discrimination  Job creation IBK conducts a materiality test to identify issues that greatly interest its stakeholders and which affect its *The materiality test seeks to draw the ➊ Enhancement asset soundness of Interest of Stakeholders social responsibility management and to manage them systematically. This test is carried out from an relevant issues by judging what issues  Harmony between work and life  Coping with are important in terms of corporate climate change objective, balanced perspective, based on the “five materiality test models” of AA 1000 as the international sustainable growth and development standard used for report assurance. After material issues were selected considering the impacts on IBK and that consider society and by deciding stakeholders’ interest, they have been decided through an independent third-party agency’s assurance. their influences. This is also called Social contribution significance test. activity  Reduction use amount of energy Composition of Issue Pool and Stakeholder Interests Development of social To compose the pool of issues that greatly affect IBK’s social responsibility management and sustainable  Eco-friendly ➑ and environmental products  Talent ➎ Ethical management energy use fostering growth, we have analyzed IBK’s materiality test results, domestic and international financial sector’s material issues, IBK’s management strategies, domestic and international norms, and CSR institutions’ questions. Centered on the composed issue pool, we administered a sustainability management questionnaire to a total of 1,027 people including 627 employees and 400 customers and community members as IBK’s key stakeholders from April 22 to April 30, 2013 and measured stakeholder interests.  Local economic activation Analysis Criteria to Draw Materiality Test Issues ◀ Important Analysis Criteria Analysis Object Management strategies and Strategic report, previous year’s sustainability report, agenda items of BOD financial performance ◀ Important Impacts on IBK Very important ▶ Internal system building and Internal system checking, employee interview, and questionnaire survey recognition Six Core Areas and Issues Industry analyses Key issues analysis of domestic and international financial institutions, media analysis Category Material issues Relevant reporting details and pages External stakeholder interests Stakeholder interview, questionnaire survey, and response to stakeholder questions Economy and ➊ Enhancement of asset soundness P 6, Company Profile ethics ➋ Improvement of management earnings P 72, Economic Performance Social norms UNGC, UNEP/FI, UNPRI, ISO26000 ➌ Transparent governance PP 11~12, Governance ➍ Risk management PP 16~17, Risk Management Selection and Review of Material Issues ➎ Ethical management PP 13~15, Ethical Management We have drawn 21 material issues in six sectors (sustainability management, customers, employees, Customers ➏ Consolidation of customer protection PP 25~28, Financial Consumer Protection and Customer Information Protection SMEs, communities, and environment) considering stakeholder interests, IBK’s vision, core strategies, and ➐ Consolidation of customer service PP 29~31, Customer Satisfaction management performance. ➑ Development of social and P 33, Social and Environmental Financial Products environmental products 2013 Materiality Test Analysis SMEs ➒ Tailored financing for SMEs PP 39~40, Tailored Financing IBK conducts materiality test to set and execute proper social responsibility management. For the test, IBK ➓ Support for SMEs PP 41~47, Support for SMEs and middle standing companies, has confirmed the need for balanced development based on the harmony of solid growth as a financial Support for Green Consulting, SMEs’ Capability Consolidation company, customer protection, and win-win growth with SMEs. As bipolarization deepens, SMEs’ various Employees  Employment diversity and prohibition PP 51~52, Open IBK of discrimination demand-related issues boil down to support and financial policy for SMEs. This report also tackles the  Healthy labor-management culture P 53, Open IBK relevant details, since various issues have been raised as to the financial institutions’ role concerning  Harmony between work and life PP 54~55, Joyful Workplace environmental protection by stakeholder group.  Talent fostering PP 56~57, Talent Fostering and Fair Assessment Environment  Coping with climate change P 58, Environmental Management  Reduction of energy use amount P 72, Environmental Management and Environmental Performance  Eco-friendly energy use PP 58~59, Environmental Management Communities  Support for financially alienated class P 64, Support for Financially Alienated Class  Local economic activation P 63, Fortification of Ordinary People’s Business  Job creation P 46, Capability Consolidation for SMEs Social contribution activity PP 67~71, Social Contribution 20 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 21 Investing in ordinary people and students is IBK’s true role. Jong-Sun Ahn, doctoral degree program, College of Engineering, Konkuk University “Although I found out that IBK also deals with personal transactions just a few years ago, I have found that IBK is a truly good bank considering the various personal financial products and kind treatment of retail customers. IBK has distinct differences from other commercial banks; in particular, IBK is widely open to individual customers. I belief the bank that I transact with is for SMEs as well as for ordinary people. I think IBK’s social responsibility is to realize genuine social development by investing in SMEs, ordinary people, and students instead of being a bank that pursues only profits.” Customer IBK strives to undertake customer satisfaction management through customer-oriented management policy. All our employees are doing their utmost, aiming at customer protection, customer satisfaction, and customer profit expansion, putting the highest priority on them. 22 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Warm Sharing | Customer 23 Financial consumer protection Financial Consumer Personal Information Protection Protection ●Building a security ●System development and environment system building ●Customer information ●Fortification of proactive protection program preventive action for financial consumer protection System development and building ●Consumer protection program Proclamation of Our Resolution In January 2013, we held a proclamation ceremony for “Our Resolution” of putting the highest priority on financial consumer value at the conference of IBK’s domestic branch managers. All IBK employees signed “Our Resolution” to protect financial consumers and uphold financial consumers’ right to know amid the current, rapidly changing financial environment. With this, all our employees have formed a bond of sympathy on financial consumer protection and cemented our commitment to grow as a leading bank in the protection of financial consumers. The full version of Our Resolution has been posted on the initial page of the IBK Website and used as screen saver, so that we can continually maintain our commitment. Establishment of Consumer Protection Center IBK prepared for financial consumer protection during the entire year of 2012, recognizing that the MISSION & VISION protection of financial consumers is an essential element for the continuous existence and growth of IBK. In January 2013, we declared the “innovative year for financial consumer protection” and established the Financial Consumer Protection Center under the executive director. The center manages and supervises Serving financial consumer protection work and strives to uphold financial consumers’ rights. Financial Consumers Composition of the Financial Consumer Protection Center Customer Satisfaction Proclamation ceremony for Our ●Education/Training for prime Resolution/Written oath Consumer Protection Team Consumer Consulting Team CS Implementation Team customer satisfaction ●Customer satisfaction program ●Planning and supervision of ●Supervision of civil complaint ●CS planning and supervision ●Enhancement of customer consumer protection work consulting and dispute arbitration ●CS quality research and management convenience ●External cooperation on financial ●Civil complaint receipt, handling, ●Receipt and management of voices consumer protection and follow-up management of customers ●Communication with ●Education on financial consumer ●Reporting the civil complaint ●CS education and moment of truth customers protection handling results guidance ●Civil complaint assessment and ●CS Leaders’ operation and management management of bonus mileage points Social and Environmental Enactment of Operation Standards to Prevent Irrational Discrimination Financial Products SYSTEM IBK respects the human dignity and value of a financial consumer. Therefore, we enact the Operation ● Realization of Standards to Prevent Irrational Discrimination and prohibit the special treatment, exclusion, discrimination, customer value CEO (IBK President) or disadvantageous treatment of specific customers due to gender, religion, disability, age, region of origin, nationality, physical conditions including looks, civil status, ideology, sexual orientation, and educational Executive Director background. We have also fortified the internal control system to prevent unjust discrimination and have Civil Complaint Deliberation Committee Financial Consumer Information devised the criteria procedures required for the correction and improvement of discriminatory actions and Marketing Division Protection Center Protection Center damage relief. Consumer Protection Council CS Information Information Consumer Protection Team Consumer Consulting Team Implementation Team Protection Planning Team Protection and Operation Team IBK Customer Service Center Fortification of Proactive Preventive Action Branches/ Monitoring of Financial Fraud via Telephone Local HQ/HQ Departments We prevent damage by financial fraud via telephone with the consolidation of monitoring if multiple bank accounts are opened in two or more financial institutions on a short-term basis. IBK inspected all terms and CS Leaders CS Assistance conditions disclosed on the homepage in linkage with a law firm and amended 135 cases in the terms and conditions where financial consumer protection is insufficient. We plan to check disclosures on financial products on/offline and take corrective actions according to the result. Warm Sharing | Customer 25 2012 Performance in terms of Prevention of Financial Fraud via Telephone  Account victimized by financial fraud (A) No. of cases Amount (KRW million) Account victimized by financial fraud (B) No. of cases Amount (KRW million) Prevention ratio (B/A) Customer Information Protection 395 1,915 351 1,565 81.70% Improvement of Financial Consumers-centered Irrational Practices and Systems IBK actively detects inconveniences in transactions from the consumer perspective and improves them so that consumers can understand easily and transact conveniently. Building Security System Case of improvement of financial consumers-centered irrational practices and systems IBK complies with the Personal Information Protection Act and E-Financial Supervision Regulations to Before the change After the change manage customers’ personal information safely. Aside from building various systems, we strengthen the All inheritors needed to visit the branch concerned, Payment can be made at the request of only some relevant policies to cope with large-scale computer system glitches and information leak accident. or a power of attorney is collected. inheritors (in case of KRW 1 million or less). Winning the Grand Prize in Establishment of the Information Protection Center Execution of Delayed Withdrawal from CD/ATM to Prevent Financial Fraud the 2012 Personal Information Pursuant to the Enforcement Ordinance of the E-Financial Transaction Act enforced in May 2012, we Victimizing Ordinary People Protection Awards adopted a chief information security officer (CISO) system – wherein a CISO taking charge of security in the One can withdraw money from a bank account – to which KRW 3 million or more is deposited using CD/ information technology sector is appointed – and set up the Information Protection Center as an IT security ATM – 10 minutes later to prevent damage due to voice phishing. organization to establish independent information security and improve the information security level. IBK steadily employs information protection personnel to execute the security policy and offers stable customer services and customized security training by job. We also invite external security experts regularly Preventive Service against e-Financial Fraud IBK Educational Broadcasting on In February 2013, IBK was awarded the Presidential Personal Information and enhance the security awareness of all our employees. To prevent financial fraud wherein a customer’s deposit is withdrawn by reissuing the authentication Financial Accident Information Protection Committee Chairman’s Prize (best grade) for its contribution With the analysis of IBK’s information protection status and master plan establishment by requesting certificate under the name of the customer using Internet banking after customer information is illegally to the protection of financial information protection consulting to an external specialist agency, IBK actively copes with changes in the acquired via voice phishing, etc., IBK has cemented security through additional customer authentication consumers’ rights including retail customer information among model IT security environment. In addition, we are fully prepared for internal and external threats thanks to our methods, including PC designation service and authentication through SMS via cell phone. IBK Broadcasting Content organizations and companies in application of communication section encryption & server access control, output security system, and personal information protection personal information search system. Communication ● IMajor news in Consumer Protection Program programs between and outside IBK ● IBK Invitation employees Castle: Information Protection Center Information Offering through IBK Broadcasting Introduction We reflect branch employees’ onsite opinions through a questionnaire survey via educational broadcasting of outstanding employees and Information Protection Planning Team Information Protection Operation Team on customer satisfaction by CS Monitors and CS Leaders to disseminate high-class financial service customers practicing methods and search for subject matters. In this manner, we present a standard proposal for ● Network News: ● Security planning and policy establishment ● Response to DDoS/hacking dealing with customers. Through IBK Education Broadcasting, we offer information on financial products Local HQ news ● Security review of new business ● Operation and management of security system and branch business procedures in detail to make efforts to eradicate imperfect sales and enhance ● Blue Mail Box: Employee ● Prevention of information leak including document ● Network design and planning employees’ job-related knowledge. complimenting encryption ● IP address and network management program ● Security control of servers and PCs Mystery Shopping System Work-related ● Live and Vivid With specialized monitoring agents as mystery shoppers, we continuously identify the sales status of education Marketing: programs Introduction variable insurance and funds and strive to minimize customer inconveniences and losses. to marketing Acquiring and Retaining Certifications Pertaining to Domestic and techniques International Information Protection Information Service and products/ systems IBK has been making efforts in diverse ways for a long time for financial consumers’ information protection. We endeavor to prevent financial transaction accidents and improve customer satisfaction (CS) with ● CS Broadcasting We have been retaining the ISO 27001 – the international standard for information protection – we acquired information services relevant to IBK, such as text information service of subscribed fund, high-amount ● Skill Up, Truly in May 2006 for the first time in Korea’s banking sector. We establish a strategy for top-level certification deposit/withdrawal information service, and fund care service. Easy Customer Consulting: in keeping with the trend of expansion of international information protection standard (ISO27001) Consulting Skills certification and reflect the consolidated security laws and regulations on our IT security guidelines. In this Building a Business Continuity Planning System manner, we make all-out efforts for top-notch information supplementation in the industry. Introduction to ● IBK Scrap: IBK To cope with operation suspension due to accidents/disasters, IBK completed the building of business major economic news introduced continuity planning (BCP) system in 2007 and acquired international certification for the first time in Korea issues in major press/ Acquiring Certifications Pertaining to International Information Protection in 2008. According to the basic principles of BCP, we conduct prior inspection so that core business and media Certification Certification body Details Acquisition year Certification mark work can be restored and resumed quickly through annual mock drill. We also offer training regularly to the Culture and arts ● Cultural Issues: staff in charge and inspect the major equipment of the BCP Center. News concerned ISO27001 International Organization International standard for 2006 with various for Standardization (ISO) business partner and customer cultures and arts information protection and ● Put the highest priority on human life protection in case of a crisis situation including accident/disaster including movies, management Basic Principles ● Protect the assets of customers and IBK and fulfill its social responsibilities of BCP ● Offer continuous customer service with quick restoration of operation musicals, and IS90364 / 857799-2:2002 ● Carry out the documentation of major issues/matters and maintain such local festivals 26 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Warm Sharing | Customer 27 Customer Information Protection Program We conduct education/training for all employees under the responsibility of the department/branch manager considering the increasing social interest in the Personal Information Protection Act. We actually Customer Satisfaction(CS) monitor the collection of selective information and sensitive information collection internally. The education/training details are recorded in the HR information system. Opening of Cyber Education Courses and Execution of Information Education for IT HQ IBK opened cyber education courses for all employees in July 2012; since then, it has been offering seven Employee Education courses including Personal Information Protection and Response to Voice Phishing Accident. We also conducted information education for IT HQ employees under the theme of responding to security threats Education on Communication Leadership for Branch Managers by inviting experts. To foster leaders in good communication through the acquisition of communication skills that can be utilized immediately at the frontlines, together with awareness shift on leadership, we offered education on communication Contest of Ideas to Prevent IT Security Accidents leadership to branch managers (105 managers in the first half and second half) for CS onsite consulting. We created employee awareness and rewarded employees through the contest of matters to improve in IT Details of Education for the prevention of IT security accidents – including customer information leak and matters to improve for the enhancement of information protection awareness. Learning communication capability with site Measuring the communication index before and after applicability including communication language, education, diagnosing levels (feedback offered) feedback skills Appointment of Staff in Charge of Personal Information Protection Communication capability Core communication capability We take action to ensure personal information stability by appointing staff (team leader or higher) in charge diagnosis of personal information. Leaders in Good Main Duties of the Staff in Charge of Personal Information Protection Case study of Communication Diagnosis and assessment of communication communication Success/Failure case study, comparative leadership leadership Diagnosing communication leadership ● Regular execution of education on personal information protection by department and branch analyses of merits/demerits of various capability, skills, and styles (analysis and techniques Execution of education on their own upon sending education data/materials assessment of diagnosis results) Effective ● Regular inspection of status of personal information handling by department and branch communication measure Inspection of status of consent collection and status of check ● Complaints handling and damage relief concerning personal information handling by department and Acquiring specific measures to overcome problems branch and factors hindering effective communication ● Response and reporting on personal information leak and detection of misuse/abuse ● Destruction of personal information whose handling purpose was fulfilled or whose retention period CS Leaders and CS Assistant Education has expired Instructors of the CS Implementation Team visit each local HQ and conduct education for CS leaders so ● Carrying out work instructed by the department/branch manager with regard to other personal that branch employees can receive education without feeling burdened. We conduct education among information protection work CS assistants to foster educational capacity and improve all employees’ CS level through standard model practical training. Inspection of Status of Personal Information Protection Through the inspection of status of personal information protection, IBK endeavors to strengthen the personal information protection management system by educating/training the staff in charge of personal information protection and those taking charge of operation of the personal information handling system by department as to the status, problems, improvement measures, and recent trends concerning personal information protection. Scene of education for CS Leaders and CS Assistants from all branches (annually) Additional Opening of Cyber CS Training Course We additionally opened a cyber CS training course to fortify the implementation of robust CS activities centered on sites and to improve communication capability. IBK SMART CS IV (onsite CS course) IBK SMART CS V(communication) ● CS Leaders: Service coaching skills ● How to improve communication (combined with ● CSA: In charge of training progress, method of drawing up psychology) teaching plan ● Communication skill by customer 28 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Warm Sharing | Customer 29 No. of Trainees Completing Education Production and Distribution of Plaque of Certification for Outstanding CS A total of 9,614 employees completed CS education in 227 sessions of education in 2012. We carry out Branch and Outstanding Employee Certification Card education aimed at educating/training a total of 11,000 employees in 2013. IBK produces and distributes plaques of certification for outstanding CS branches – including outstanding employee certification cards to instill a service mindset – in order to enhance the pride of employees at Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013(target) outstanding CS branches and outstanding employees. No. of trainees completing education 5,248 7,708 7,781 9,614 11,000 Drawing up a Customer Response Manual tailored for each Customer Group Enhancement of Customer Convenience IBK collects CS data, cases of outstanding employees in CS, and branch employees’ opinions to enhance Realization of SMART Bank through the Installation of SMART Branch customer satisfaction and improve the customer satisfaction level through customer typeand situationIBK opened a new-concept smart branch that shares the waiting space of the IBK bank branch and KT tailored customer response rather than uniform customer response, produces and registers them on “the communications branch with customers in conjunction with KT. We offer differentiated services including Know CAMP” (work guide) and CS Arena system (education/training data), and continuously offers main convergence products between banking and communications as well as time saving for customers, since content for branch education/training by chapter twice a month. The main contents include the Plaque of Certification for banking and communications are dealt with in one place. approach to and method of dealing Outstanding CS Branch with customers by situation as well as how to handle customers lodging Operation Status Customer Satisfaction Program civil complaints according to the consulting process, expression of Smart Branch Branch Name Address CS Onsite Consulting(all-year-round) interest, and customer types. A new-concept bank branch Olleh Plaza Yeongdong (sub-branch) 675-3, Yeoksam-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul through which customers can We analyze merits and demerits in customer satisfaction by monitoring each branch and disseminate the avail themselves of simple banking Olleh Plaza Suwon (sub-branch) 306-1, Yeonghwa-dong, Jangan-gu, Suwon know-how of outstanding branches in customer satisfaction. With this, we strive to improve the level of services in keeping with the moment of truth service by presenting tailored measures for improvement. banking environment change including smart gadget diffusion Prior in-depth monitoring CS onsite consulting Follow-up management ● Analyzing merits and demerits by ● Tailored consulting ● Presenting measures for window on service quality items ● Analyzing the CS assessment results improvement on poor items as (compare with another adjacent for the recent 3 years and presenting interim assessment result bank’s branch) measures for improvement ● Checking the status of measures ● Monitoring customer response by ● Monitoring dealing with customers for improvement and encouraging individual at teller windows, feedback after progress shooting with a camcorder PR of products and company, Step 1 (external specialist institution) Step 2 (instructor of CS Implementation Team) Step 3 (instructor of CS Implementation Team) offering of financial and life information through large multivision/SMART window at SMART branch Selection of IBK CS Monitors to Improve Onsite and Customer-Oriented CS System Number of New-Concept ATM-Pay Phone-Combined Booths Exceeding We designated 32 outstanding employees in CS activities as IBK CS monitors through a contest. We operate 2,000 Units the IBK CS monitors system and play a role in advising centered on sites and customers with immediate feedback on CS systems. IBK unveiled a convergence branch that combined ATM with pay phone booth around the main roads nationwide in partnership with KT Linkers in 2011. The street branch business, which has enhanced convenience of customers’ financial life, is rated as differentiated and unique smart banking. Following Monitoring Service to Deal with Customers at the Teller Window the installation of the first booth at Seoul Station in September 2011, the number of combined booths IBK conducts monitoring to inspect the service level at the branch teller windows and induce CS exceeded 2,000 units as of October 2013. improvement in the process. We make efforts to consolidate the service competitiveness of each branch through comparison and analyses with adjacent competitor banks. Selection of Outstanding Employees of VOC, SMART King, and Outstanding SMART Personnel We choose about 5 employees through outstanding cases received via the IBK homepage, postcards, and customer service centers and award them bonus CS mileage points. Outstanding personnel in terms of CS mileage points are named SMART King and outstanding SMART personnel and rewarded accordingly. In this manner, we induce continuous interest and engagement. Smart Bus Stop (left)/Combined Production and Distribution of ‘My Resolution’ Frames to be Placed at Teller ATM-Pay Phone Booth Windows We produce and distribute My Resolution frames to form a trust-based relationship with customers by establishing a customer-friendly image. We utilize this as an opportunity to commune with customers Front and Back of My Resolution based on our employees’ own commitment to customer happiness and promise to customers. Frame 30 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Warm Sharing | Customer 31 Communication with Customers Social and Environmental Financial Products The collection of Voice of Customer (VOC) is carried out on/offline, and the collected VOC is systematized for reply within 24 hours. The collected opinions are solved using various methods according to the importance of opinions. VOC Gathering System VOC On-line Channel Off-line Channel IBK Civil E-civil Customer’s Customer complaints IBK is developing new products to solve various social and environmental issues through financial products. Homepage Blog Twitter CSI Survey Complaints Postcard Service received by Center FSS We uphold the social and environmental values pursued by customers, and we will endeavor to come up with financial solutions to enable our customers to lead their lives in harmony with the world. Response IBK’s Green Financial Products Gathering Stage VOC Establishment through Various Channels Date of Amount Category Product Name Launch (KRW Features Analysis Stage VOC Classification, Analysis, System Gathering(CS Arena) (Y/M/D) 100 million) • Customer Happiness Loans Loan for Solar Power Facilities 2008.5.29 1,452 Launched solar power facilities loan to support the solar power Improvement Stage Devising Countermeasures  System Reflection  Improvement Activities Advisory Group (supply Fund generation business in 2008; provided more than USD 1 million in • Stethoscope system amount) support as of December 2011 Service System Product Environmental Improvement Improvement Development Improvement Green Growth Corporate Loan 2009.3.31 24,165 Loan that supports companies designated as green business company(Sales suspended in July 2010) VOC Continual VOC Management Implementation Management IBK Green Corporate Loan 2010.7.14 165 Loan offered to companies having green technology; provided more than USD 100 million in support as of December 2011 Performance Identification and Index Management IBK Green Real Estate-Secured 2010.3.3 1,624 Loan that supports green real estate as designated by the Loan government since 2010; provided more than USD 1 million in support as of December 2011 Improvement of Follow-up Management System for Civil Complaints and VOC Renewable Energy Win-Win Guarantee Loan 2011.8.5 227 Support of the credit guarantee type for renewable energy companies requiring investment We search for civil complaints and VOC that require system improvement or computerization development Credit Card Environmental Love Card 2007.7.19 26 Card that contributes part of the sales amount to the environmental among customer complaints or needs and manage them in a system with the computerization of work (use amount) culture development fund improvement requests [(HQ department) –> Review -> Adoption, Implementation period)]. Pleasant Air LOHAS Card 2009.6.16 1,042 Offers cash back to voluntary participants for atmospheric environmental improvement and gives fare discount when public transport means are used to improve the use ratio of public transport Implementation of Reduction of Civil Complaint Handling Period IBKs’ Style EcoCard 2011.1.17 4 Card offering points jointly with Seoul City according to Seoul citizens’ For the enhancement of customer service related to civil complaint filing including quick handling of civil reduction of GHG emissions at home to promote the practice of green life complaints, we reduced the handling period of the received civil complaints from 9.29 days on the average Green Card 2011.7.22 411 Card that acquired carbon labeling certification for the first time in in 2011 to 9.14 days in 2012. In the future, we seek to shorten the period to within 8 days. Korea(Certification D-2011-001)(Apr. 19, 2011); green mileage provided as reward for putting green life into practice Acquisition of Excellence Grade in the Assessment of Civil Complaints Civil Complaints Occurrence Assessment Grade Social Products of IBK Occurrence for Five Consecutive Years Year Grade We strive to prevent customer complaints in advance or solve them without delay using the Onsite Support Unit Date of 2008 Excellent Category Product name Launch Amount Features for Civil Complaints and pre-product consulting system. IBK earned an Excellent grade for four years in a row in the 2009 Excellent (Y/M/D) Civil Complaints Occurrence Assessment organized by the Financial Supervisory Service from 2008 to 2011. Note, 2010 Excellent Receipt Dokdo Island is Our Land Bank 2005. 3. 21 KRW 2.7206 trillion Sponsorship worth KRW 900 million for Dokdo Island2011 Excellent Book (currently on sale) (as of March 2013) related organizations however, that we received a Mediocre grade in 2012. We will make all-out efforts to garner an Excellent grade with 2012 Mediocre more rigorous civil complaints management. IBK 9988 sharing Bank Book 2012. 6. 18 KRW 880.4 billion Providing KRW 1 billion for scholarships and to cover (currently on sale) (as of March 2013) the hospital costs of SME workers’ families Increase in Customer Satisfaction Score IBK Displaced People Bank Book (sales ended) 2012. 5. 25 KRW 84.9 billion (as of September 2012) KRW 50 million worth of support for displaced people organizations Our customer satisfaction index (CSI) rose by 1.6 points compared to the second half of 2011, thanks to our Loans Owner-Operator Change Dream 2012.11.12 KRW 800 million Financial support by the government and Bank of Korea (supplied Loan (as of December 2012) for owner-operators with low credibility and low income honest services for customers. amount) using loans based on the total borrowing limit 96 94.4 IBK Start-up Loan 2010. 4. 16 KRW 297.1 billion Support to promote small and medium venture 94 93.9 (as of December 2012) businesses with technological prowess and for their 94 92.6 92.8 91.3 92 No. of Satisfactory VOC sound development 92 89.6 Receiving Cases Unit: case IBK Free Workout Loan 2012. 10. 2 KRW 300 million Project propelled jointly with the banking sector to 90 88 88.1 (as of December 2012) solve the household loan problem 88 No. of satisfactory VOC Category Social Company Guarantee 2012. 2. 8 KRW 1.8 billion Fulfilling corporate social responsibility by developing 86 receiving cases 1st H 2008 2nd H 2008 1st H 2009 2nd H 2009 1st H 2010 2nd H 2010 1st H 2011 2nd H 2011 1st H 2012 2nd H 2012 Agreement Loan (as of July 2013) financial products exclusive for social companies to 2009 2,222 support them Continuous Increase in Satisfactory VOC Receiving Cases 2010 2,283 IBK Social Contribution Loan 2012. 3. 2 KRW 3.2 billion (as of July 2013) To help one-man creative companies with creativity and professionalism and offer social services, create 2011 2,615 jobs for the underprivileged class Satisfactory VOC receiving cases are continuously on the rise, thanks to a system reflecting the voices of 2012 3,306 sites, product development, and reduction of civil complaints handling time 32 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Warm Sharing | Customer 33 IBK is striving to lay the steppingstone for SMEs’ growth. Min-Gyeong Lee Finance and Banking Dept. Manager, Policy Supervision Office Korea Federation of Small and Medium Business “I believe IBK’s one key social responsibility is supporting SMEs when they need funding or other help. IBK offered a steppingstone for SMEs’ management with the lending rate cut to one digit. Although loans for SMEs are recognized as relatively high-risk, IBK can properly assess SMEs’ business and risk with know-how accumulated for a long time. For this reason, IBK has been able to maintain solid management SMEs soundness despite the increase in loans for SMEs since the global financial crisis. IBK offers SMEs a foothold for growth by assisting them in management/ IBK endeavors to foster SMEs that will lead the global economy in the global competition environment consulting as well as in system. We at IBK will concentrate all our the economic aspect such as loan competencies on the support of SMEs to make expansion and interest rate cut.” them competitive in the competition with global companies beyond Korea, through various activities targeting SMEs including financial products development and consulting for SMEs. 34 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 35 Financial Support Tailored Finance ●Development of products needed for Support for SMEs SMEs ●Support for government and Middle Standing Fund Support and Interest Rate Cut policy Companies ●Management consulting Expanding Financial Support for SMEs for the Recovery of Economic Vitality for SMEs To solve the financial difficulty of SMEs caused by the prolonged domestic and overseas economic recession, ●Support for middle IBK has aggressively expanded financial support for them. During the past global financial crisis, we tried to standing companies overcome such crisis together with total loan increase of 91.2% for SMEs in the banking sector. In 2012, we provided KRW 38.3097 trillion worth of funds for SMEs, with our loans for SMEs exceeding KRW 100 trillion for the Financial Aid first time in Korea’s banking industry. As such, we have remained No. 1 in terms of financial aid for SMEs. ●Fund support and interest rate cut Balance of Loans for SMEs Trend in Funding for SMEs  Unit: KRW trillion ●Support for win-win Unit: KRW trillion growth *Based on KRW-denominated loans 40 38.3 ●Crisis management of 101 36.4 SMEs 12 35.6 35 32.8 95 MISSION & VISION 89 30 29.1 28.0 Serving for SMEs’ 2010 2011 2012 25 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Development Promoting Win-Win Growth with SMEs by Spearheading Interest Rate Cut IBK has presented new standards to the financial market with a continuous cut of the maximum lending rate and default lending rate for SMEs since 2011 to share in SMEs’ pain, even if such meant risking profit decline on its part. On the occasion of IBK’s 51st anniversary in 2012, we lowered the lending rate for SMEs to 10.5% p.a. This was a huge cut from 17% p.a. in 2010 to share in SMEs’ difficulties in business management SMEs’ Capacity environment due to the prolonged economic downturn. In addition, we reduced the maximum lending Consolidation rate for SMEs to one digit for the first time in the Korean financial sector on January 1, 2013; thus, the mean ●Job creation ●Welfare expansion for SME lending rate of 20,400 SMEs fell by 0.85%. In January 2013, we adopted a customer-oriented, reduced workers interest rate system instead of the existing additional interest rate system and newly set up base rates by 12●IBK’s Top Three Clubs level credit rating. With this, the mean lending rate of some 17,200 SMEs fell by 0.73%. We will relentlessly ●Procuring Products of SMEs and Social Companies strive to offer more lending rate cut benefits to many SMEs. Trend in Lending Rate Cut for SMEs Trend in New Lending Rate for SMEs Green Consulting 18% sehold loan 5.99% 5.93% Banks’ average Support business loan IBK 17% 5.81% ●Green SCM consulting ●Energy consulting 13% 5.81% ●Clean technology 5.69% 5.61% 5.49% SYSTEM consulting 12% 10.5% 10% 5.37% 5.22% CEO &Chairman 9.5% 5.10% 2010.12 2011.7.13 2011.9.15 2012.8.1 2013.1.1 2011.4Q 2012.1Q 2012.2Q 2012.3Q 2012.4Q Corporate Corporate Corporate Institutional Credit Credit IBK IBK Economic Credit General Shared Banking Support Improvement Banking Planning Management Consulting Research Deliberation Affairs Happiness Dept Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept Dept. Center Institute Dept. Dept. Dept. Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 37 Support for Win-Win Growth Support Activation through Win-Win Growth Agreement between Large Tailored Finance Corporations and SMEs IBK launched a win-win growth cooperation program in November 2008 for the first time in the banking sector. Through the program, we have been playing a role in bridging large corporations and SMEs for winwin growth by providing KRW 3.5 trillion worth of funds to partner SMEs by the end of 2012. We signed win-win growth agreements with a total of 74 companies and new agreements with 14 large corporations in 2012. As a result, the win-win growth deposit balance of large corporations that signed the agreement exceeded the KRW 1 trillion marks for the first time in August 2012. Products to Support SMEs We have improved the program of spreading the warmth of win-win growth to smaller secondary and IBK endeavors to develop financial products most suitable for fields where SMEs need them most. Instead tertiary partner firms and developed and offered various financial products including win-win growth trade of financial products that simply create profits, we are committed to developing diverse and tailored receivables-based loans and win-win growth guarantee-based loans. All in all, we have been contributing financial portfolios through which SMEs and society can develop further. to the dissemination of a win-win growth culture. Concept Map of Win-Win Growth Agreement Product Development to Solve Social Issues Including Job Creation at SMEs Support Results As a product developed in linkage with the Small and Medium Business Administration and Korean  Unit: KRW 100 million Federation of Credit Guarantee Foundation, the IBK Start-up Loan for Young People seeks to engage actively in supporting young people’s start-ups and solve the socially serious unemployment problem IBK IBK Start-up Loan for Young People 832 among young people. The fund for the KRW 80 billion loan was supplied earlier than expected, with good Supporting up to five IBK Dream Loan for Young response. On the other hand, the IBK Dream Loan for Young People contributes to job creation through Large Deposit Support Partner SMEs 167 corporations times more deposits People guarantee and direct/indirect investments in initial-stage start-ups and outstanding venture businesses with low interest rates by participating in the banking sector’s establishment of Young People’s Start-ups Foundation. The IBK IBK Loan for Sprouting 689 Loan for Sprouting Companies involves extending loans preferentially to start-ups with outstanding Companies technological prowess in the cultural content and new growth engine sectors; through this, we have IBK Start-up Loan for 242 secured a future growth engine. Finally, the IBK Start-up Loan for Seniors is a product for start-ups by those Seniors Expansion of size Expansion of in their 40s~50s. All in all, we have developed various products inducing a boom in start-ups by all age of agreements ✚ support objects IBK Restart-up Support 8 brackets. In addition, we develop a wide range of start-ups support products, including the IBK Restart-up Loan Support Loan for SMEs hoping to establish a company again. Leading Loans for Win-Win Growth Cooperation Development of Products to Support Start-ups For loans for win-win growth cooperation between large corporations and SMEs that have presented a new As our continuing business for start-up support launched in the previous year, the IBK Loan for Start-ups model of win-win cooperation, we have signed agreements with 74 large corporations including Samsung Serving assists SMEs by dividing them into small businesses, technologically innovative venture businesses, Electronics, Hyundai Motor, POSCO, and SK Group as of the end of 2012. Through the loans, we have and start-ups by specialized personnel and experienced people. Aside from financial cost saving such as provided KRW 2.6776 trillion worth of support to 3,303 partner firms; thus playing a leading role in winpreferential lending rate, specialized services including start-up consulting are supported. The total supply win growth between large corporations and SMEs. In addition, we are opening a new horizon for win-win size of the product is KRW 1 trillion. growth for the public agencies’ partner firms to be benefited by expanding the objects of win-win growth agreement to public agencies. Development of Products to Activate Facility Investments The Loan for Purchase Fund by Industrial Complex involves assisting companies moving in to the industrial SMEs Crisis Management complex sold by the private sector. The product will offer special exception suitable for the features of the local industrial complex for a certain industry, preferential treatment in exchange rate for investment SMEs Crisis Management and Support for Normalization fund-liquidating overseas business, and advisory service on corporate real estate. We plan to come up IBK cements routine risk management from credit extension (loans) to fund collection by dividing the with a Corporate Loan for U-Turn from Overseas to provide aid in the form of funds and services when an credit extension process related to SMEs into the handling stage, interim management stage, and followoverseas-invested company returns to Korea. up management stage. In this manner, we maintain the financial soundness of IBK and our customer SMEs. We have also implemented the Change-up Program as part of potentially insolvent companies’ Development of Products for Globally Competitive Companies restructuring and have performed credit risk assessment on 635 companies showing signs of insolvency IBK believes that Korea’s global competitiveness can be strengthened through SMEs and middle standing (KRW 2.0288 trillion) last year. Of those, we have selected 194 companies (KRW 726.3 billion) as companies companies’ technologies and ideas. As such, we actively develop the relevant products. In particular, targeted for workout and have induced corporate normalization through actions such as postponement of Support Results the Loan to Foster Exporting Small but Robust Companies seeks to foster small and medium-sized debt repayment, reduction of interest rate, and additional loan support. We will do our best to lead other  Unit: KRW 100 million companies with world-class technological prowess. IBK provides support in the form of working capital banks in the soundness management of SMES by continually improving the early warning system and loan and facility funds required for ordinary operational activities including fund to acquire overseas technology portfolio system and actively carrying out corporate restructuring and vigorous fund supply to SMEs. Loan to Foster Exporters 10,019 certification, patents, and technology development and commercialization funds for promising technologyLoan to Foster Exporting owning companies by selecting 500 exporting small but robust companies. This product is of great help in Small but Robust 3,038 fostering and assisting global small yet robust companies awarded preferential conditions, such as branch Companies manager’s arbitrary decision expansion and interest rate cut. 38 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 39 Support for SMEs related to Cultural Contents Having set as a new growth engine the cultural contents business, which has huge ripple effects on Support for Small and Middle associated industries and employment creation effects to overcome the Korean manufacturing industry’s limitations, IBK launched the Cultural Contents Business Team in January 2012. With the Team reorganized Standing Companies as the Cultural Contents Financing Dept., in July 2013, we actively operate the cultural contents fostering business by designating 54 stronghold branches in cultural contents, commissioning 53 advisory committee members in each sector including film, broadcasting, and performance as well as for tailored, step-by-step cultural contents product development. We devise actual support measures to offer general services combined with loans, investments, and consulting so as to foster SMEs with outstanding cultural contents as globally competitive small yet robust companies including the ff.: Fostering the business of small but robust companies in cultural contents jointly with the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism; KT Management Consulting for SMEs Group Cultural Contents Win-Win Growth Business by large corporations to help partner SMEs in cultural contents, and; fund procurement by ecological environment before, during, and after contents production. Tailored Management Support for SMEs As a high value-added creation industry, the cultural contents business is expected to play the pivotal IBK Consulting is IBK’s extended system for supporting SMEs so that IBK can play the role of firm doctor role of a vehicle for Korea to join the ranks of developed countries. IBK will strive to have Korea’s cultural offering funds and comprehensive management consulting. In a situation wherein uncertainties in the contents industrial ecology take root while ceaselessly exchanging with government agencies, industrial internal and external management environments grow, SMEs need consulting on various management sector, and academe based on a long-term vision. issues such as management strategy establishment, HR system design, and establishment of strategy to succeed the family business. Cognizant of such need by SMEs, IBK has been offering IBK Consulting since Building the Financial Support System for the Cultural Contents Industry 2003 to provide high-quality consulting to SMEs. Establishment of Cultural Contents Cooperative Business Linked with Business Team External Agencies IBK Consulting Selected and operated 12 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and stronghold branches in cultural Tourism, Korea Creative Contents Consulting on family Management Accounting Legal Green Start-up contents in 2012 Agency, Korea Technology business succession/ consulting consulting consulting consulting consulting Provided KRW Finance Corporation tax affairs 296.3 billion worth of support for 1,809 Management Manpower Tax accountant Accountant Lawyer Green consultant Start-up consultant consultant cases* (based on 2012) Mgt. strategy, Succession/Tax saving Finance/ General legal Green technology Mentor system, Established a plan to supply Organized the Cultural Biz mgt., HR strategy, Cost analysis, affairs’ risk consulting, start-up program, fund worth KRW 450 billion Contents Advisory organization, Governance Financial/ diagnosis, legal strategy to list professional for 3 years Committee Production mgt., improvement, Investment consulting, green company consulting Detailed Organization Conversion into strategy, M&A, international on the stock sectors Based on 2011 44 internal and external experts activation, corporation, Tax affairs company law market, green Production mgt., diagnosis, Tax consulting division/holding SCM consulting, Establishment of IPO company, energy consulting strategy Accounting * Typically supported works: Tower, Deranged, Tree with Deep Roots, Lights and Shadows, The King to Hearts, Pororo Continuously Execution 2~8 weeks 1~2 weeks 3~4 weeks 1~2 weeks 1~3 weeks performing a period mentor’s role Supporting Government Policy IBK has been implementing the Truly Good Free Consulting project since 2011 – when it marked its 50th To support government policy for overcoming economic recession and promote balanced national economic anniversary – to repay citizens’ love for IBK and develop SMEs. For more professional consulting, we have development, IBK develops and supports various products. In August 2012, we developed the Facility Investment increased professional personnel to some 70 people including management consultants, accounts, tax Fund Loan to provide low interest-bearing facility funds for SMEs and middle standing companies with huge Support Results accountants, patent agents, and lawyers. With such effort, we over-achieved our target by offering our ripple effects of economic activation and job creation for the invigoration of their facility investment. We have  Unit: KRW 100 million consulting service to 1,000 companies for 2 years from August 2011 to July 2013 (1,051 companies, as of the also come up with the Movable Assets and Claims-Backed Loan operated with main securities such as machines, Facility Investment Fund 9,901 end of July 2013). inventories, and trade receivables to offer a means of new fund procurement to SMEs with weak security capacity. On the other hand, we have developed the Truly Good Loan for SMEs, which provides low interestMovable Assets and Claims728 Details and Performance of ‘the Truly Good Free Consulting project’ Unit: case bearing funds to promising SMEs by setting up a lending rate-cut fund for SMEs with extra funds from public Backed Loan agencies. Actually, we offer preferential benefits such as interest rate reduction to new companies. The available No. of consulting cases Truly Good Loan for SMEs 5,152 Category Consulting details 2011 2012 as of July 2013 loan fund was used up within three months of the launch of the loan. Present solutions with analyses on strategies, HR, Mgt. consulting 45 136 69 organization, and finance Facility Investment Fund Truly Good Loan for SMEs Movable Assets and ClaimConsulting on family Present stable managerial right transfer and means 42 150 88 Backed Loan business succession of saving on taxes Targeting promising SMEs and middle standing companies, we provide facility We support low interest-bearing investment funds in place of business purchasing fund, building purchasing fund, and funds to promising SMEs This is a loan product to enable Tax-related bottleneck consulting and mock tax Tax affairs consulting 39 135 58 R&D money to promote corporate facility investment for job creation and economic operating in the knowledgemovable assets and claims with investigation service recovery. based service industry, new certain requirements – such as Accounting Building internal control, cost analysis, value movable assets (tangible assets, 24 44 26 growth engine industry, green consulting evaluation services Support worth industry, and cultural contents inventories) and trade receivables KRW 1.5 trillion Facility Legal consulting Contract review, legal risk diagnosis, legal consulting 17 44 30 Fund Loan and industry by procuring the Lending of a company – to contribute Ministry of Investment procurement investment Strategy and investment SME Rate-Cut Fund for SMEs using to supplementing the securityEstablishment of green mgt., strategy, estimation of Finance for facility Green consulting 15 51 38 KRW 90 billion investment fund Fund support extra funds from public agencies. offering ability of SMEs. greenhouse gas emissions, etc. Total 182 560 309 40 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 41 Details of ‘the Truly Good Free Consulting Project’ and Performance  Unit: case Ladder for SMEs’ Growth 150 150 136 World-class middle standing companies 135 2011 2012 Screening Middle Standing Companies Screening Unit 120 Organization Middle Standing Company Center Take-off 90 System Loan Operation Standards for Middle Standing Companies 60 51 45 42 44 44 Product Loan for Facility Investments of SMEs, Middle Standing Companies, and Small but Robust Companies Growth 39 30 24 17 Support Program for fostering exporting small but robust companies 15 0 SMEs Management Family business Tax Accounting Legal Green succession Since middle standing companies – together with SMEs – show high interest in IBK consulting, we plan KRW 100 million No. of companies companies Expansion of Support for Middle Standing Firms to help them take off as world-class companies through IBK Consulting services. We plan to secure 35,000 Loans 635 700 At the end of 2012, loans for middle standing companies stood at about KRW 3 trillion, up by KRW 1.2 differentiated capabilities through the development and systematization of IBK’s unique methodology trillion or 72.0% compared to the previous year thanks to our hard work. The number of companies with 25,000 29,516 500 (approach, analysis items, and cases) that can classify and solve SMEs’ various agonies and problems in 396 loan transactions also rose by a whopping 239 to 635. Centered on the IBK Economic Research Institute, we company management by sector and theme. We will continuously make efforts to support the execution 15,000 300 have delivered the frontline site’s opinions to the government through a fact-finding survey on the financial 17,165 of improvement proposal on consulting and enhance satisfaction with consulting with the establishment bottlenecks in each field including direct financing and succession of companies and have presented of a systematic follow-up process and cyclical telephone and visit consulting for companies targeted for 5,000 100 measures for improvement. In this manner, we have contributed to the establishment of middle standing 0 0 consulting. 2011년 2012년 companies’ financial support policy. Status of Support for Middle Standing Companies Category 2010 2011 2012 Vs. the previous Support for Middle Standing Companies year Building a System to Support Middle Standing Companies No. of middle standing companies (companies) 147 396 635 239 Middle standing companies wield economic and social influences comparable to large corporations. Balance of loans (KRW 100 million) 6,599 17,165 29,516 12,351 They not only become a role model for take-off to SMEs but also play the role of healthy partners to large corporations. IBK strives to assist the middle standing companies in various ways including financial aid to back up and develop the Korean economy further. We also offer IBK Consulting tailored to middle Status of Consulting Offered to Middle In particular, 2012 is the year when IBK focused on building the middle standing company support standing companies to enable their further growth. Standing Companies system. By devising a program for fostering exporting small but robust companies, we have developed IBK provided consulting to 327 outstanding middle the Loan for Facility Investments of SMEs, Middle Standing Companies, and Small but Robust Companies Category No. of companies standing companies from 2010 to April 2013. for Middle Standing Companies and have built the foundation for growth. In April 2011, IBK enacted the We will play the role of steppingstone for more Hall of fame* 16 Loan Operation Standards for Middle Standing Companies and clarified the scope of middle standing middle standing companies to take off as global Top management/future and 157 companies. Based on such reorganization of our internal system, we propelled the founding of Banwol companies. women entrepreneurs* and Namdong Middle Standing Companies Center as part of efforts to offer conveniences to the middle As a state financial institution, IBK is committed Exporting/Small but robust 69 standing companies in using banking and finance. From a screening system aspect, we have adopted a to building a corporate growth ladder to help companies with technological pre-loan ceiling system for smooth fund attraction and IBK branch’s quick decision making. New loans SMEs grow into middle standing companies by prowess and period extension within the approved loan ceiling scope can be handled by the branch manager’s assisting and fostering them in creating more Listed companies 31 arbitrary decision through the pre-loan ceiling system. To enhance the professionalism and efficiency jobs and growing into more solid firms. We aim to of screening based on an understanding of middle standing companies, we set up the Middle Standing increase loans for middle standing companies by Middle standing companies linked 50 with other institutions** Companies Screening Unit in January 2013. This way, we will strive to become a ladder for SMEs’ growth by KRW 1.3 trillion in 2013. We will continue to expand systematically assisting SMEs in growing into middle standing companies. dominance and mutual cooperation in the financial Corporate customer advisory 4 committee members* market for middle standing companies through programs supporting middle standing companies Total 327 via government agencies such as the Ministry of *Based on internal selection by IBK Trade, Industry, and Energy and Small and Medium ** Based on selection by other financial institutions Business Administration. 42 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 43 In the case of building a carbon management system, we estimate greenhouse gas emissions through the Support for Green Consulting onsite diagnosis of companies and diagnose future green regulations via future emissions estimation. We actually provide workers with training for sustainable carbon management system and tool and guidelines to manage greenhouse gas emissions statistics. For the building of an advanced green management strategy, we judge a firm’s current level through carbon and energy management case benchmarking of similar domestic and international companies and present optimal corporate activities to enhance competitiveness in relation to carbon and energy management. In the case of an energy management system, we diagnose the energy consumption pattern via onsite diagnosis, draw optimal means to save energy, and contribute to SMEs’ cost savings. As one sector of IBK Consulting, green consulting seeks to provide environmental consulting optimized for SMEs that have difficulties establishing environmental management strategies. Such activity is already included in IBK’s enterprise environmental management policy; green consulting aims to improve corporate Energy Consulting values through the building of SMEs’ green/environmental management, establish an eco-friendly image, IBK’s energy consulting service is offered to ease SMEs’ burden with regard to energy cost, which increases and cope with environmental regulations. We played a leading role in disseminating SMEs’ environmental year by year. IBK conducts onsite diagnosis at SMEs’ workplaces using its specialized manpower through management system by offering green consulting to 130 SMEs from 2010 to July 2013. Consisting of green energy consulting services. With this, we contribute to the firm’s cost savings by drawing optimal energy SCM consulting, energy consulting, and clean technology consulting, green consulting is a differentiated saving measures and presenting measures customized for SMEs. consulting service offered only by IBK in Korea’s banking industry. IBK plans to endeavor constantly to upgrade SMEs’ social responsibility level by continually increasing the number of companies benefitting Analysis of status of firm’s energy use and assessment from green consulting. Firm’s onsite energy diagnosis (using specialized diagnosis kit) IBK Energy Consulting Green SCM Consulting Presenting energy-saving measures tailored to firms IBK offers green consulting to the partner firms of large corporations through cooperation with the latter Presenting best practices of other companies in energy saving using various green consulting items possessed only by IBK in Korea’s banking sector. Large corporations provide certification to partner firms that received consulting and continuously offer preferential benefits (additional points upon purchase assessment) during the effective period of certification (minimum of 3 years, renewal possible). Through this, large corporations establish a green procurement system, and Clean Technology Consulting partner firms receive benefits from large corporations. Both large corporations and their partner firms then wield the positive effect of building a green management system. Planning of renewable energy facility installation Support Strategy certification IBK to propel via the green new green certification ② Selecting Certification system business Strategy/Risk companies targeted Green ① MOU, for consulting Support Consulting Management recommending ③ Offering consulting target consulting Service Support for Diagnosis Service excellent Greenof green Biz certification regulations Green SCM consulting Third-party assurance on structure greenhouse gas Large inventory SMEs corporations ④ Preferential benefits (additional points upon purchase assessment) IBK’s clean technology consulting service helps cope with greenhouse gas regulations and various types of certification led by the current government. In relation to this, IBK has a variety of solutions that can be The main purpose of green SCM consulting is to build infrastructure to cope with greenhouse gas applied by situation according to each company’s size and each industry’s interest. We constantly provide regulations and operate and manage it by devising SMEs’ carbon management and energy management support in the form of the consulting service we developed to cope with new environmental issues system. Green SCM consulting is divided into consulting on building a carbon management system and that on building an energy management system. ● Consulting on green management strategy ● Consulting on the planning of renewable energy facility installation IBK Green SCM Consulting ● Consulting on new green business undertaking strategy ● Consulting on building greenhouse gas inventory and agency work of assurance ● Consulting on green regulation risk diagnosis Building a carbon management Advanced green management Building an energy management system strategy system ● Consulting on certification support of green certification system ●Estimate greenhouse gas emissions ●Analyze domestic and international ●Diagnose energy consumption at ● Consulting on outstanding Green-Biz certification support ●Diagnose future emissions competitors the workplace estimation ●Judge firm’s current level ●Draw means to save energy ●Provide tool for emissions statistics ●Future implementation activities ●Establish energy–saving target management ●Offer greenhouse gas guidelines ●Educate/Train staff in charge 44 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 45 Consolidation of IBK’s Top Three Clubs SMEs’ Capabilities IBK offers an arena wherein SMEs engage in business more vigorously by building a network for sharing the experiences and wisdom of SMEs. The club is recognized as a prestigious club that SMEs’ CEOs want to join the most since it offers constant networking and useful training/education. IBK Top ●Founded the IBK Top Management Club in 1993 Management Club ●Holds two management strategy seminars semiannually to reinforce members’ management capacity and global competencies ●Offers various and practical programs to members including breakfast meeting and model employees’ selection from member companies Job Creation IBK Women ●Founded in 2012 to help women CEOs’ activities – a new driving force of economic development Entrepreneurs’ Club – and to promote win-win growth through networking “Job World,” a Free Job Portal ●Offers a variety of programs such as management strategy seminars, lectures, and cultural events IBK has recognized the seriousness of SMEs’ manpower shortage in town meetings, through which IBK listens Status of No. of Employed to share knowledge and build network efficiently to bottlenecks by visiting the worksites of SMEs. In this context, we built Job World, a free job portal specializing People through Job World IBK Future ●Founded in 2005 to fortify the leadership and management competency of young entrepreneurs in jobs at SMEs (www.ibkjob.co.kr) in February 2009. Since then, we have spearheaded the creation of jobs to  Unit: cumulative, people Entrepreneurs’ Club having business relationships with IBK and to expand networking solve young people’s joblessness and SMEs’ manpower shortage. We have cemented Job World’s contents ●Holds management strategy seminars semiannually to consolidate members’ competitiveness, and services to solve the mismatch between SMEs’ labor shortage and young people’s unemployment. Out of 52,209 offers various and useful programs including visit to advanced outstanding firms, participation in Exceeded 50,000 people industrial expos, and overseas cultural experiences 33 employment expos, we held 7 in 2012 centered on provincial areas where employment opportunities are relatively fewer. Actually, some 23,000 job seekers visited the expos, and 422 people succeeded in getting a job 38,123 on the spot. To activate SMEs’ employment, we have set up a Special Preferential Fund to Support Companies Creating Jobs, reduced the interest of KRW 1 million loans and commissions per person in 2012, and provided 24,957 Procuring Products of SMEs and Social Companies KRW 5.6 billion worth of assistance to 326 companies. With this, the burden of financial cost was eased on the part IBK uses the products produced by SMEs for win-win growth with SMEs. Out of our total procurement of new employee-recruiting companies, and we have contributed to the creation of jobs. We also help improve 12,193 amount in 2012, we procured KRW 116.4 billion worth of SMEs’ products (83.3%), which exceeded the the recognition of SMEs and employment at SMEs by continuously searching and publicizing excellent SMEs that government’s mandatory procurement ratio (50%) by 33.3%. We select our partners through the screening are good to work in and which are comparable to large corporations in terms of financial soundness, growth, and of contract performance capability rather than successful bid based on the lowest bidding price, which 2009 2010 2011 2012 working conditions. As a result of such effort, the number of employed people surpassed 50,000 as of October 22, may trigger excessive competition and reduce the profits of SMEs in bidding. In this manner, we wish to 2012, 3 years and 8 months since the launch of Job World in 2009; the number reached 52,209 as of the end of 2012. guarantee proper profits for SMEs. We support the invigoration of social companies with social purpose. Toward this end, we purchase social companies’ products and increase the annual procurement amount Selection and Publicity of the Best 600 Companies on Job World each year: KRW 49 million in 2010, KRW 80 million in 2011, and KRW 110 million in 2012. We spearhead the activation of employment by SMEs and dissemination of positive awareness of employment by SMEs by selecting and publicizing Job World’s Best 600 Companies that are Good to Work in. Procurement Record of SMEs’ Procurement of Social Companies’ Products Unit: KRW 100million Unit: KRW thousand  Building an Employment and Support System Covering All Generations Category Purchasing Price Category Purchasing Price To challenge ourselves with the new goal of employing 100,000 people by 2015, we plan to lay the steppingstone 2010 1,266 2010 49,355 for lifecycle-tailored employment support system covering all generations including specialized high school 2011 1,341 2011 80,197 graduates, young people, and senior generation as well as the underprivileged. We will expand quality 2012 1,164 2012 116,368 employment opportunities by encompassing excellent SMEs equipped with stability and growth potential such as Samsung Group partner firms as our partners. We also plan to assist in customized job creation in line with the local and industrial characteristics by securing excellent talents, such as discharged soldiers, retired financiers, and college students from leaders in industry-university cooperation (LINC). IBK will spearhead the improvement of recognition Trends of Procurement Ratio of SMEs’ Procurement Record of SMEs’ of SMEs by continuously searching and publicizing excellent SMEs and faithfully fulfilling its social responsibility as a Products strong steppingstone bridging SMEs and tailored talents. 100 Other products SMEs’ Products 17% 83% 83.3% Welfare Enhancement for SMEs’ Workers 80 IBK Shared Happiness Foundation IBK founded the IBK Shared Happiness Foundation for the welfare enhancement of families of SMEs’ 60 workers and alienated class in April 2006. We covered the cost of disease treatment of 967 families of SMEs’ workers who suffer from financial problems due to rare and incurable diseases and serious diseases by contributing KRW 19.1 billion from 2006 to 2012. We also awarded KRW 3.2 billion worth of scholarships to 40 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2,959 children of SMEs’ workers who have difficulty paying their tuition because of family circumstances. In addition, we provided KRW 4.4 billion in aid for academic research activities and national economic education for the development of SMEs. In 2012 in particular, IBK actively patronized the welfare service to solve educational bipolarism – such as one-on-one mentoring to support learning and cultural experience activities – so that the young and teenage children of SMEs’ workers who have difficulties receiving quality education due to domestic circumstances can grow as healthy members of society. 46 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Gradually Expanded Sharing | SMEs 47 IBK, my workplace, where I eagerly anticipate coming to work in the morning Sang-Hee Song Section Chief, SMART Planning Team, SMART Banking Dept., IBK One of the core axes of IBK’s organizational culture is respect for employees. We consider the lifecycle of an employee even before he/she joins IBK until post-retirement life. I was a young intern at IBK, and I could learn many things about social life through the Mentor-Mentee system during my internship period. I was also respected as a colleague within the workplace. Currently, the normalization of working hours is implemented with the management’s solid commitment, through which a virtuous circle – wherein we can have time to develop ourselves and enhance job concentration and efficiency – is created. Employees IBK implements an open employment system to select talents. With constant training, IBK actively supports employees’ self-value improvement. In this manner, we strive to help employees grow as superb talents. We build an equitable, fair organizational culture so that top-notch talents realize their worth through work-life balance. 48 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Equal Sharing | Employees 49 Open IBK Open Employment Open IBK IBK has been carrying out open employment since 2005 – the first to do so in the Korean financial ●Open employment ●Harmony between sector – regardless of educational background, gender, major, and age. This has actually reflected labor and Joyful Workplace IBK’s organizational culture of putting importance on talents having passion, creativity, and thirst for management ●Harmony between work challenge. We endeavor to diffuse – throughout society – the employment culture centered on ability and life and competency. In particular, we target specialized high school graduates, disabled people, beneficiaries ●Familyand childrenfriendliness of basic livelihood support, junior college graduates, and local manpower and play a leading role in ●Free communication employing young intern workers. IBK without Threshold IBK is a workplace where one can design one’s own future based on passion, performance, and commitment rather than background such as educational attainment. Lee Chul-hee, branch manager of IBK Shindang-dong, first joined IBK as driver before becoming a boiler repairman. Note, however, that he has continuously endeavored with passion to engage in finance-related work. Finally, 29 years after first setting foot in the bank to work in a regular functional position, he became a branch manager. Similarly, Kim Yongsul, Wonmi Sub-branch Office manager, began his career as security guard but became a regular employee MISSION & VISION in 2008 thanks to his kind and honest dealings with customers. He even became the new customer attraction king by visiting day care centers and kindergartens and executing “Easy Economic Education by Serving to Enhance Learning from Magic.” In 2013, he finally became a manager responsible for a sub-branch office. In other Newspaper Article on Performancewords, anyone can become a sub-branch office manager (even a driver can also become a branch manager) Employee Value Based Open HR Management at IBK with constant efforts. Realization Talent Fostering and Fair Assessment Employment of Specialized High School Graduates ●Best human power To give hope to adolescents that they can be employed regardless of educational background, we ●Fair assessment employed 67 specialized high school graduates in 2011 and 109 in 2012. We employed them in the first half of their senior year in 2012 to allow them to complete their learning at school normally. IBK fosters these students as preliminary financial talents by operating systematic programs in advance – including the operation of mentor branches and onsite experience of branches – before they undergo training at IBK. Eco-friendly After we employ them, we appoint a business mentor and a life mentor for them and provide non-business Organization counseling as well, such as social life and interpersonal skills. ●Consolidation of environmental leadership Employment of Disabled People ●Green Habits Program ●Eco-friendly buildings SYSTEM We employ disabled people all year round by establishing plans to expand their recruitment. With the and branches operation of the disabled people employment quota during newcomer recruitment, at least 3% of the total newcomers we employ are disabled people. We have also carried out linkage of recommendation for CEO & Chairman disabled people recruitment and education on employees’ recognition shift in association with the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled. As a result, we over-achieved the mandatory employment ratio (2.5%) Future Planning Office in March 2012 for the first time ever in the Korean banking sector. We plan to expand the employment of the disabled continually. Executive Director Disabled People Employment Ratio Unit: % No. of Disabled People Employed  Unit: people Management Support Division 276 2.54 Mandatory employment 219 ratio 2.5% 2.14 HR HR Development Employee General Affairs Dept. Dept. Satisfaction Dept. Dept. 1.19 117 0.76 74 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Certificate of Outstanding Business in Employing Disabled People Equal Sharing | Employees 51 Recruitment of Beneficiaries of Basic Livelihood Support and Junior College Harmony between Labor and Management Graduates IBK has built a sound labor-management culture based on its unique trust and reliability, harmony, and IBK seeks to offer opportunities to students from the beneficiary homes of basic livelihood support and who win-win growth. We strive to establish a win-win, cooperative labor-management culture of achieving have difficulties getting a job given their lack of sufficient educational opportunities due to environmental performance without consuming disputes. IBK’s labor union spearheads the implementation of social factors such as poverty – despite their capabilities and passion – as well as to junior college graduates responsibility as a social member. The labor union has achieved a lot not only for the improvement of union who are in the dead zone of employment because of college and specialized high school graduates. We members’ quality of life and human rights but also for the development of the community, one of the key nurtured the dreams and hopes of various underprivileged classes in employment by preferentially treating stakeholders of IBK. those applicants in the second-half recruitment of new employees in 2012 for the first time ever in the banking sector. Official and Unofficial Communication Channels between Labor and Management Official Channels Unofficial Channels Employment of Local Talents ● Collective bargaining on wage (yearly) ● Labor-Management Special Committee IBK endeavors to enhance local colleges’ competitiveness, induce balanced local development, and ● Labor-Management Council (quarterly) ● Dept. and Branch Labor-Management Development Council contribute to eliminating local college graduates’ joblessness. Since 2005, we have been preferentially ● Labor-Management Working-Level Council (quarterly) ● Workshop for Labor-Management Harmony ● Labor-Management Meeting (quarterly) ● Labor-Management Cultural Events treating college graduates from the non-Seoul Metropolitan Area through a local quota system for the first time ever in the financial sector. Cyclical consultation on major disputed issues/ Building the basis of trust thru the formation of matters mutual bond of sympathy Local Quota System and Employment Status of College Graduates from Non-Seoul Metropolitan Areas among Employed Newcomers  Unit: people Details of Activities Category 2010 2011 2012 Labor-Management WorkingLabor-Management Special No. of employed newcomers 406 337 492 Labor-Management Council Labor-Management Meeting Level Council Committee Local quota system 123(30.3%) 121(35.9%) 169(34.3%) College graduates from non-Seoul Metropolitan Areas 118(29.1%) 103(30.6%) 135(27.4%) Recruitment of Young Intern Workers Consulting on workers’ welfare Frequent holding of council Sharing major pending issues Enhancing work efficiency To solve young people’s joblessness, which has emerged as a social issue, IBK employs young intern workers. We enhancement and common meetings on working hours through regular communication including improvement of interests of labor-management exemption system, HR system, between management and mode of working by convening delegate bank work centered on practical work – rather than simple assisting work – by assigning them to frontline (two sessions held) Labor-Management Council, former labor union officers the Special Committee for the branches. With the operation of various programs such as job training and workshops, we bolster their employment and collective bargaining on (3 regular meetings every 6 normalization of working hours wage months or anytime upon the (7 regular meetings) capabilities. In addition, we forego document screening for outstanding interns in regular position recruitment. occurrence of pending issues) Since 2011, more than 20% of regular employees have been selected from young intern workers. In 2012, we recruited 109 young intern workers or 22.2% of the employed newcomers at IBK. Details of the IBK Human Declaration of IBK Human Rights Charter Young Intern Workers’ Employment Results Unit: people Rights Charter IBK declared the IBK Labor-Management Human Rights Charter for the first time ever in the industry at Category 2010 2011 2012 (January 3, 2012) the 2012 New Year kick-off meeting to realize human rights management through the reestablishment No. of employed 475 462 500 ① Employees’ mutual respect and of human rights value. By producing IBK Human Rights Charter frames and distributing them to each respectful treatment of one department and branch, we stress the importance of human rights management with a new management No. of working employees at IBK 381 420 469 another No. of internships completed 252 317 360 philosophy for the next 100 years of IBK. ② Prohibition of discriminatory treatment on grounds of gender, Recruitment of Multicultural Families and Immigrants by Marriage religion, age, disability, etc. Joint Operation of Labor-Management Cultural Events ③ Offering a working environment In April 2012, IBK recruited 12 people from multicultural families and immigrants by marriage – who have that is free from human We make efforts to enhance employees’ commitment to the organization while enhancing trust between been alienated from society – for the first time ever in the banking sector. These people are currently rights violation such as sexual labor and management through the joint operation of labor-management leisure utilization programs. harassment handling marketing support work including interpretation for remittance, assisting work in filling up ④ Making efforts to foster an Meeting between single employees Ski/Snowboard Camp for Employees application forms, and financial product guide at branches where many foreign workers transact. Through environment with home-work (20 employees attended) Employees watching plays (300 attended) (100 participated) this, we offer working opportunities to multicultural families and help them foster competency in banking compatibility rather than simple miscellaneous work. Status of Recruitment of Multicultural Families and Immigrants by Marriage Unit: people Country of origin Vietnam China Nepal Indonesia Philippines Total Employees who are Immigrants by No. of employed 6 3 1 1 1 12 Marriage Selected by IBK for the first time ever in the Banking Industry: Park Roy, Sriwatti, and Section Chief Briefing on college entrance exam for IBK Walking Jeju Olleh Trails Kenneth Labor-Management voluntary service Blanket Shift to Contract Workers with Unlimited Employment Period employees’ children (18 and 100 attended in the first and second briefings, respectively) (600 participated in the first and second sessions, respectively) (150 employees participated) The stability of irregular position workers’ employment and elimination of discrimination have emerged as social issues. In this context, since January 2, 2013, IBK has turned into contact workers with unlimited employment period 1,132 contract workers with limited employment period ranging from tellers, telephone consultants, office assistants, HQ/division office workers, secretaries, and general specialist contract workers regardless of the number of years in service. We will fill up those positions with contract workers with unlimited employment period in the future as well. 52 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Equal Sharing | Employees 53 Familyand Children-Friendliness Joyful Workplace Expansion of IBK Truly Good Day Care Centers IBK endeavors to be a family-friendly company that harmonizes work and life and to fulfill its corporate social responsibility with regard to women’s entry into society and child rearing. We truly believe that the quality of our employees will improve if their children grow healthy, since our employees are also parents. To devise circumstances wherein employees with infant children can work freely, we have set up IBK Truly Good Day Care Centers. In 2012, we opened centers in Seoul including Hannam and Dogok and Gyeonggi regions. In the first half of 2013, we opened a day care center in Busan for the first time ever in the provincial Harmony between Work and Life area, for a total of 9 quality day care centers. We plan to increase the number of day care centers in regions IBK is doing its very best to think in the shoes of employees and support them reasonably and practically. where demand for child rearing is predicted – including Guro-dong – for 2013. We will endeavor constantly to foster a working environment that makes our employees commit Operation of IBK Truly Good Day Care Centers in 2012 단위: 명 themselves to work with pride in the company. Operated Hannam Ilsan Pyeongchon Bupyeong Dogok Madeul Suji Bundang Center Establishment of the Automatic PC-off System No. of IBK operates the automatic PC-off system wherein PCs are automatically turned off at 7:00 pm – the accommodated 100 49 65 49 55 55 49 49 office closing hours – for the improvement of employees’ quality of life and to expand self-development children opportunities. Through this system, fast decision making and higher work productivity including improvement of concentration in work were realized, and employees’ work satisfaction increased Adoption of the Health Management System in January 2013 IBK considers employees to be its most valuable asset. Thus, it has adopted a health management system to manage employees’ health systematically and efficiently. Through this system, employees can make a reservation for medical checkup and select checkup items. Cumulative management is also possible even though the medical checkup institution is changed. In addition, we support employees in managing their health themselves by analyzing the health risk factors through daily habit evaluation. We will strive for happy home and stable workplace by actively utilizing the health management system and employee counseling program. Truly Good Day Care Center (Dogok) – A garden where children can play is created. Practice of Warm Welfare System that Touches Employees’ Hearts ●Happy Naming Service: On April 23, 2013, we launched the service of naming a baby when an IBK employee gives birth for the first time in the Korean banking industry. So far, we have given meaningful Free Communication and valuable names for 57 babies of our employees as of May 22, 2013. Communication Channels ●Offering congratulatory presents in commemoration of wedding anniversary: In 2012, we offered We strive to build a culture of trust between employees through smooth communication by offering congratulatory cards and movie tickets to 5,716 employees who celebrated their wedding anniversary various channels for actively presenting opinions on work. during the year. ●Shuttle buses to go home: We operated shuttle buses for employees going home on New Year’s Day and Chuseok (369 employees on New Year’s Day, 451 during Chuseok) Category Details of Activities IBK Leaders’ Club ● The only IBK club organized with employees’ voluntary participation ● Disseminating to worksites issues/matters that all employees need to share, such as Operation of Retirement Pension System positions, nationwide site organizations, vision/strategy, and CEO’s management philosophy Status of Retirement Pension System Management  as of the end of June 2013 ● Playing a bridging role between the HQ/division and branches as a two-way communication channel by collecting and reporting onsite opinions on major Category Details management status and new products Object IBK employees Onsite Communication ● Onsite open forum for wise answers to silly questions* that can be communicated to Samsung Life Insurance and 11 other institutions (KDB, Hana Bank, Kookmin Bank, Mirae Asset Life with the CEO for Creative onsite employees while discussing major issues at branches through management’s visit Management Management to the branches Insurance, Heungkook Life Insurance, IBK Pension Insurance, Hanwha Life Insurance, Lotte Non-Life institutions * The answers to our problems can be found at the sites. Insurance, Korea Investment & Securities, Daeshin Securities, Mirae Asset Securities) Dialogue with Young IBK ● Consolidating onsite management and emotion management by genuinely Amount managed KRW 130.5 billion Employees communicating with young employees during the dinner with the IBK President No. of subscribers 11,499 General Index of Contest of New Product ● Contest of ideas targeting all employees of the Financial Group for the development of hit Organization Diagnosis Ideas Open to All Employees products ● Rewarding all employees whose brilliant ideas are commercialized Unit: points Rise in Satisfaction Employees’ Postcards ● The IBK President listens to employees’ various opinions through postcards – whose 77 senders are guaranteed anonymity – and handles them on a case-to-case basis. Overall satisfaction rose in the organization diagnosis conducted to build a desirable organizational culture 72 71 In-house Learning ● Voluntary accumulation and sharing of knowledge between members with similar and enhance job satisfaction constantly through the expansion of employee communication and welfare 67 Organization, CoP interests and purposes beyond barriers of departments and positions enhancement. As a result of the diagnosis in 2012, job satisfaction rose sharply compared to the previous (Community of Practice) ● Sharing the learning results and ideas with management and disseminating best practices year in overall sectors including organizational cooperation as well as addressing disharmony between 2009 2010 2011 2012 Contest of New Growth ● Contest of ideas for sustainable growth among employees hierarchical levels. Engine Ideas (April 2013) 54 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Equal Sharing | Employees 55 Fair Evaluation Talent Fostering and Fair Evaluation We operate a comprehensive work evaluation system consisting of work record evaluation, work experience evaluation, and training evaluation for multilateral and comprehensive evaluation. We segmented the proprietor types from 3 to 7 in view of the different proprietors’ features, organized an evaluation group, and designed fair competition and evaluation. Corporate Individual 2011 Corporate type banking type Top-Notch Talents Industrial IndustrialCommercialCity center City center ResidentialIndividual Total 2012 complex commercial industrial corporate general type commercial type Operation of Systematic, Balanced HR Fostering Training Programs corporate type type type type type IBK operates systematic life-long education programs considering roles and job capabilities by position, ranging from newcomers to executives. In the employee curriculum, employees receive self-leadership Category Definition and Details of Differentiated Evaluation Indices education that can nurture adaptation to organization and basic skills in dealing with customers. In the ● Industrial corporate type Consolidate scoring centered on corporate customer indices. deputy division manager and department manager curriculum, they can learn professional leadership ● Industrial-commercial type ● Commercial-industrial type including open communication skills. On the other hand, in the team leader curriculum, they acquire team leadership through which an efficient team can be operated by coaching team members. Finally, in the ● City center corporate type Indices related to corporate customers are operated in relatively smaller size compared to industrial-commercial/commercial-industrial type. curriculum of department and branch manager or higher, they are trained to foster performance leadership ● City center general type Corporate customer-related indices are maintained at a certain level but induce for performance management through strategic thinking. ● Residential-commercial type operation activation within proprietors by consolidating scoring centered on retail Category Clerk Assistant Division Manager, Team Leader Assistant Branch Executive customers and SOHO indices. Dept. Manager Manager ● Individual type Actively inducing business operation based on retail customers Training for Training for Senior Training New Basics employees Marketing In-depth In-depth Executive improveemployees Marketing Pro-CEO managetraining employee of promoted marketing Roadmap training marketing ment promoted strategies training ment (AMP course) to grade 4 to grade 3 training Comprehensive Work Evaluation Capability Role Self-leadership Professional leadership Team leadership Performance leadership Marketing strategy, Management diagnosis, Decision making, ▶ To build a performanceJob Capability Job basic Sales, Customer consulting Customer management Work record evaluation Work based evaluation culture, Negotiation skills Training experience we compose work record Performance Capability evaluation evaluation 100% for evaluation evaluation evaluation department/branch managers We conduct customized training reflecting individual employees’ job capability level through job Comprehensive ▶ Consolidating responsibility Job Capability knowledge diagnosis that measures job capabilities by comprehensively analyzing employees’ job Group I work management by expanding evaluation the reflection ratio of Department/Branch manager knowledge and work experience. According to job capability level, we open and operate training suitable Group II performance evaluation out of work record evaluation for for the individual level, such as introductory course, basic course, and specialized course. By selecting 175 higher positions (Dept./Branch Group III Team leader and below manager: 50% > Team leader: outstanding employees of branches as instructors, we offer onsite training centered on practical work 25% > Team member: 20%) considering the regional operation environment and merits/demerits. We run a site-centered curriculum Business Capability by setting up training centers at strongholds by region to minimize the travel time of the trainees. As of the end of 2012, a total of 11,914 employees took 604 courses. Group I: Specialized job training courses Enhancement of Professionalism and Fairness of Assessment Group II: Basic job training Although we operated the Management Assessment Group by separating departments into profit courses departments and support departments in the existing management assessment, we have ensured Training System Operation for Job Capability Development and Fostering of Group III: Introductory job training courses professionalism by setting up the IT Dept. Assessment Group. We have enhanced fairness through Financial Experts * Opening training suitable for the individual level (27 sessions, 2,087 assessment by dividing support departments into strategy & planning and operation support according We operate various self-driven learning channels – including Cyber Training Center and SMART Learning people) to job characteristics. Likewise, we continuously operate a multidimensional assessment system wherein – so that employees can develop job capabilities while undergoing systematic training programs for job assessors holding various positions can perform assessment – other than the Management Assessment capability development and working and learning together. Group or management – when evaluating the HQ/Division organization. Status of Using Self-Driven Details of Job Capability Development Training Programs Learning Channels Status of Operation of the Management Multilateral Assessment System of Category Branch Job Head Office Job Remarks Cyber Training 89,026 Assessment Group HQ/Division Organization Center (people) Basic IBK Job Master Course* Planning ability improvement course Common capabilities Profit department Profit department SMART 3,619 Management Collective Job Training (receipt, retail/ Training by sending to specialist institutions CEO Specialized Capabilities by job Learning (people) Support department Support department corporate loan, foreign exchange) (IB, asset management, risk, IT) Executive Director Reading via 18,699 IT department * IBK Job Master Course: Basic job course on overall jobs at the branch Business Branch Communications (people) HQ/Division Manager manager Team leader IBK runs pre-learning courses to ensure systematic process from selection to assignment for the fostering of Category Operation mode HQ/Division financial experts as core personnel and to secure financial experts as preliminary manpower for future growth. Selection Selecting one month before to identify work sufficiently organization Assessment Independent assessment by assessor through the HQ/Division Selection Training for Financial Experts Assignment performance management system Local HQ department manager Dept. manager ● Strategy and planning: In charge of strategies and planning by Team leader Training at specialist institutions Actively engaged in the Preliminary specialist staff in business sector at the IBK-wide level Management including Financial Training relevant fields as specialist each field* ● Operation support: HQ/Division organization in charge of support Assessment Center for 6 months personnel management including screening management, branch facilities, Group * Selection of preliminary experts in 2012: 80 for loan screening, 50 for PB, and 201 for foreign exchange; 331 people in all logistics, and computerization 56 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Equal Sharing | Employees 57 Green Habit Program Eco-friendly Organization IBK wages a campaign to make energy and resource conservation a daily habit through the Green Habit Program. We cut down the head office’s electricity use by 240,000 kwh in 2012 compared to the previous year, thanks to the Green Habit Program. This has reduced the previous year’s use amount, 9,063,691kwh, by 2.6% (saving KRW 66 million annually). Energy Saving in Summer and Winter We prohibit the operation of elevators for floors up to the 4th floor while maintaining indoor temperature Consolidation of Environmental Leadership at 26℃ and above during summer. We maintain indoor temperature at 20℃ and below in winter. Environmental Leadership of IBK Wearing Functional Office Wear: Cool Biz Look As a member of society, IBK actively responds to recently worsening environmental pollution and IBK employees wear cool biz clothing from June to September. With this, their sensory temperature fell climate change. We intend to build and reinforce environmental leadership wherein all our customers by 2~3℃, and we realized a 10% reduction in energy consumption on the whole. In addition, we provided and stakeholders can be engaged, aside from our green management leadership. Consideration of the cardigans for the winter to our employees from December 2012 to February 2013 for the first time ever in environment and community is actively reflected not only to reduce IBK’s greenhouse gas emissions but the banking sector. to develop new business models as well. We launch activities for all customers, SMEs, communities, and international society to establish eco-friendly management strategies and practice them with leadership Stringent Energy-Saving Activities based on the thinking that the financial industry should respond to environmental change proactively. 2~3℃ declining effect of sensory IBK runs a program through which lights at the IBK head office are automatically turned off during lunch temperature by wearing T-shirt break. Likewise, half of the office lights are compulsorily turned off after 21:00 pm, with the outdoor Shortand Long-Term Goals to Fortify Environmental Leadership (cool biz look) in summer (June signboard lighting hours at the head office reduced to 23:00 pm from the existing 24:00. In this manner, we ~September 2012) → 10% reduction Short-Term (2012~2015) Long-Term (2012~2020) of energy consumption make efforts to engage in energy conservation. IBK • Reduce 20% of carbon emissions by 2015 vs. 2010 • Build an environmental management system in all worksites • Reduce energy use amount by at least 2% each year including subsidiaries Utilization of the Eco-Health Way compared to 2012 • Increase support for government-driven low carbon, green • Increase the number of eco-friendly branches growth projects We are trying to foster a culture that encourages the use of stairs and minimizes the use of elevators for Customers • Diversify green products • Achieve top green product sales in the industry compared to purposes of environmental protection and health enhancement. We have actually built an eco-health way • Expand the development of new green financial products total products from the basement floors to the 19th floor of the IBK head office. SMEs • Expand green consulting for SMEs • Support SMEs’ carbon emissions reduction • Loan support for eco-friendly workplaces • Increase support for SMEs’ response to the emissions trading system Power Saving and Reduction of Waste Generation Communities • Expand green growth support for communities • Actively engage in emissions trading system IBK has installed power-saving control devices including LED lighting fixtures and automatic sensor lighting International • Increased open engagement in external green • Expand engagement in international initiatives fixtures. It also reduces CO2 emissions by reducing the use of energy resources and waste generation at Society management information including CDP • Engage in emissions trading system the IBK head office and branch buildings. Moreover, we operate radiation & insulation systems and water2~3℃ declining effect of sensory temperature by wearing cardigans saving devices at sinks and basins. In addition, we preferentially purchase green technology products such provided by IBK in winter for the as energy-saving, eco-friendly products when procuring supplies. For photocopiers and fax machines, first time ever in the banking Establishment and Management of Greenhouse Gas and Energy Management Organization of sector (December 2012 ~February we purchase environmental mark-certified products. In this manner, we are expanding the use of green Greenhouse Gas and Energy technology products. Reduction Target Reduction 2013) → 10% reduction of energy consumption IBK has established the reduction target for carbon emissions of the IBK head office by 2015 compared General Affairs Dept to 2010 and has made all-out efforts to achieve such target. Toward this end, we have been operating •Building Management Building Energy-Saving, Eco-Friendly Buildings by devising an organic cooperation system between departments in charge within IBK. We also practice IBK IT Planning and Consulting Management Dept We put Green IBK into practice by actively using LED lighting, solar energy generator, and eco-friendly actively greenhouse gas emissions reduction activities across IBK, including appointing a supervising Center • IT Management materials for energy conservation at the IBK Customer Service Center and Incheon Namdong Financial department related to greenhouse gas/energy (IBK Consulting Center at the Corporate Customer Division). • Supervision Safety Center. In particular, an eco-friendly rooftop garden has been created at the IBK Customer Service Center’s Management Office • Vehicle Control rooftop. The Namdong Financial Center has also received “Barrier-Free” certification. We plan to acquire Target Head Office and Branches Vehicles Suji IT Center Barrier-Free certification for all newly constructed buildings. Facilities Establishment of Greenhouse Detailed ① Install inverters for heating/air① Replace with eco-friendly, highly ① Improve facilities and equipment for Status of Eco-Friendly Building Construction conditioning fuel-efficient vehicles (compact cars, energy efficiency Gas and Energy Reduction reduction plan ② Increase installation of highly electric cars) ② Improve energy waste factors Target Category Eco-friendly Certification Energy Efficiency Grade Completion efficient LED lighting ② Train on eco-drive practice (control ③ Train on the operation of greenhouse ③ Install exhaust/waste heat recovery of sudden stop/start habit) gas/energy target management system 기준연도 IBK Customer Service Center devices ③ In-house overhaul of ④ Consolidate inspection/management Acquired green certification Grade 2 (existing building) Mar. 2012 2011 (Hannam-dong) ④ Upgrade the freezer steam implementation status with the activation of the energy officer pressure ④ Recommend using public system 2012 Incheon Namdong Financial Center Acquired preliminary certification Grade 1 Dec. 2012 ⑤ Adjust the air ratio of boiler transportation when traveling short ⑤ Make the green IT campaign a habit ⑥ Phase out the air compressor distances ⑥ Organize and operate a green IT 2013 ⑦ Hold meetings for energy ⑤ Cyclically manage various vehicle implementation/inspection unit 2014 Scheduled to Complete Eco-Friendly Building Construction conservation each month consumables (fuel efficiency ⑦ Improve the IT system for the ⑧ Consolidate energy officer activities improvement effect) enhancement of energy use efficiency 2015 Category Eco-friendly Certification Energy Efficiency Grade Completed -20% ⑨ Encourage all employees to ⑥ Encourage controlling the use of air ⑧ Realize green IT with the continuous General Affairs Dept Newly constructed building of comply with the cooling/heating conditioner and maintaining proper adoption of new IT technologies Acquired preliminary certification Grade 3 Jun. 2014 IT Planning and Management Dept Gwangju branch (no building name) temperature and save energy temperature Safety Management Office Newly constructed building of Acquired preliminary certification Grade 3 Dec. 2014 Cheonan branch (no building name) 58 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Equal Sharing | Employees 59 IBK is firmly committed to undertaking social contribution services continuously Jong-Hee Kim Green Visit Dept. Manager Korea National Park Service “Since 2012, the Korea National Park Service and IBK have been endeavoring to remove inconveniences to enable the socially alienated class to enjoy the national parks’ beauty by signing a Social Contribution Business Agreement for the Socially Alienated Class. We mainly promote national park ecological tourism among disabled people, North Korean defectors, and low-income brackets as well as for the school excursion of underprivileged adolescents. As one of the most meaningful accomplishments of the programs implemented with IBK in 2012, we educated multicultural families; 11 of them are currently working as natural environment commentators.” Communities IBK is launching social contribution activities with the mindset of serving its customers. We try to create a venue for sharing with more stakeholders with long-term social contribution activities rather than one-off activities. 60 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Beneficial Sharing | Communities 61 Fortification of Financing Support for the Financially Alienated for Ordinary People Class ●Expansion of Smile Finance support ●Consideration of socially underprivileged people Setting up a Teller Window for the Financing of Ordinary People Contribution to the IBK opened a teller window for financial support for ordinary people and a stronghold branch for the Community financing of ordinary people at two branches in 2012. Based on these, we plan to set up a Financial Team ●Building and developing for Ordinary People consisting of one team leader and three team members and four teller windows at systematic infrastructure branches and two stronghold branches. ●Launching engagementtype social contribution Status of Stronghold and Teller Window activities Category Place Main Duty Stronghold branch 14-8 Daejo-dong, Eunpyeong-Gu, Seoul (Bulgwang Station branch) Loans for ordinary people (Dec. 2012) MISSION & VISION Teller window(Oct. 2012) 231-4 Noryangjin-dong, Dongjak-gu, Seoul (Noryangjin branch) Consulting on products Serving the Alienated Class and Communities Development and Sales of Financial Products Exclusive for Ordinary Spearheading the Green People Environment In 2012, we developed the IBK Collegian Tuition Loan, which assists collegians through no interest-bearing ●Proactively engaging in loans, IBK Steppingstone Rent Fund for alternative loan from the secondary financial sector’s high interestFortification of international society Financial Business for bearing loans to our bank loan, and IBK High-Interest Loan Shift Loan for Young Collegians. We plan to develop ●Eco-friendly social contribution Ordinary People and sell IBK Preferential Jeonse Loan for Workers to provide Jeonse (rent with key money) fund with low interest ●Financing suitable for in 2013. Likewise, we will constantly increase the existing financial products of IBK for ordinary people. ordinary people ●Development of products Status of Financial Products Support for Ordinary People in 2012  Unit: KRW 100 million for ordinary people Supplied No. of Loan Category Details Amount Cases Loan of Fund for Worker’s Support for SMEs’ workers and financially underprivileged class via a Life Stabilization business agreement with the Korea Workers’ Compensation & Welfare 692 18,990 Service National Housing Fund loan Support in the form of Chonsei(key money paying rent) fund and 4,098 10,109 housing purchase fund for the low-income bracket SYSTEM IBK Change Loan of Dreams Converting high interest-bearing loans into low interest-bearing loans for the financially underprivileged class 480 4,648 New Hope Loan Banking sector’s joint financial products for people with low 1,475 19,484 income and low credit rating CEO IBK Collegian Tuition Loan Product that offers tuition support with no interest thru an 28 890 agreement with large corporations IBK Foundation IBK Steppingstone Rent Alternative loan from the secondary financial sector’s high IBK Smile Financial 7 24 Executive Director Loan interest-bearing Jeonse loans to our bank loan Foundation IBK High-Interest Loan Shift Alternative loan from the secondary financial sector’s high Social Contribution 10 133 Committee Loan for Young Collegians interest-bearing loans to our bank loan Management Retail Banking Total 6,790 54,278 Strategy Division Division IBK Love Sharing Management Committee Acquired the Highest Grade in the Performance Evaluation IBK Voluntary Service Retail Loan Dept. for Financial Support of Ordinary People (July 2012) Group Acquired the Shared IBK received an Excellent grade in the Financial Support highest grade, Happiness Dept. Product Personal Credibility Planning Team Management Team Activities Evaluation for Ordinary People conducted by the “Excellence Grade,” among Social Contribution Sports Finance Team for Financial Supervisory Service in July 2012, thanks to its steady 16 commercial Marketing Team Ordinary People Team Contribution Team financial support for ordinary people. In addition, in March 2013, banks we were awarded the Grand Prize in Finance for Ordinary People by the Financial Supervisory Commission. Beneficial Sharing | Communities 63 Support for the Financially Spearheading the Green Environment Alienated Class Active Engagement in International Society’s Carbon Disclosure Rehabilitation Support through the IBK Smile Financial Foundation Project (CDP) IBK set up the IBK Smile Financial Foundation to assist low-income earners and low credibility holders by contributing KRW 50 billion in 2009. Since then, we have been building a network nationwide such as Industrial Leader in Global CDP in the Financial Sector Gangreung, Daejeon, Yeosu, and Jeju including Seoul. As of the end of 2012, we operated 21 chapters, the IBK became one of the Global CDP signatory institutions in 2009 to enhance corporate value and contribute largest among smile financial foundations of banks and corporations; thus, we have enhanced ordinary Amount of Smile Finance to the activation of international green investment. In 2012, we were selected as the industrial leader in people’s accessibility. We also recorded the highest increase rate of 95.7% in assistance amount compared support Unit: KRW 100 million the financial sector in recognition of our efforts to date following 2011. This way, IBK plays a leading role in to the previous year and 3,087 cases of assistance in 2012 among the smile financial foundations in the green and carbon management among Korea’s financial institutions. Year Amount banking sector. Furthermore, we offer the visiting smile financial service wherein we visit merchants – most of whom are one-man owner-operators – and who consequently have difficulties visiting any chapter of 2010 31 Proactively Engaging in CDSB the Smile Financial Foundation. IBK not only provides financial support through the smile financial support 2011 118 IBK engaged in the working-level group of CDSB (Climate Disclosure Standards Board) of CDP in July but also conveys know-how necessary for customer management or management by utilizing specialist 2012 155 2012; it strives for the dissemination of the practice of carbon information disclosure in the major business employees, subsidizes the medical treatment cost, and awards scholarships to smile finance users and their reports of Korean companies. IBK drew up the 2012 annual report based on CCRF (Climate Change employees. In this manner, we offer comprehensive financial services. Reporting Framework) presented by CDSB; we plan to disclose more details on climate change and green Status of Chapters of the IBK Smile Financial Foundation (21 chapters) management externally through such annual report, etc. Gyeonggi 4 Jeju 2 Seoul 7 IBK Received the Industrial Leader Daejeon 1 Award in the Global CDP Financial Sector in 2012 / IBK selected as Busan 2 Operating Agency of CDSB Korea in 2012 Jeonbuk 1 Gyeongnam 1 Daegu 1 Jeonnam 1 Performing Nature Sharing Project with National Parks Together with the Korea National Park Service, IBK cooperates to undertake public beneficial functions as a public agency including support for the socially alienated class. We offer an eco-friendly program wherein the alienated Gangwon 1 class including disabled people, elderly living alone, and children from multicultural families can experience the breathtaking natural views of 20 national parks and historic sites together with natural environment commentators. In particular, the fostering and employment of natural environment commentators generate the Commission Cut for the Socially Underprivileged subsidiary effect of job creation as well. In 2012, some 350 people participated in the program; we aim to increase the number of participants to 6,430 people by expanding the program in 2013. We endeavor to offer benefits to IBK makes an effort to cut down the financial cost of the alienated class by waiving the commissions for bank various classes evenly by distributing the proper number of people by alienated class to reduce the number of account transfer to another bank and e-banking commission for beneficiaries of basic livelihood support and people alienated from cultural and natural benefits. We will strive to offer the basis through which more people juvenile heads of households. To be of help to a community suffering from natural disasters and accidents, we can easily participate, beyond providing physical support. waived the commissions for customers victimized by the Gumi region’s hydrofluoric acid leak in October 2012. Object Details Disabled people, beneficiaries of basic ● e-banking transfer commissions fully waived livelihood support, next poor class, ● Remittance commissions to another bank fully waived Signing Ceremony for the Nature juvenile heads of households, patriots Sharing Agreement with KNPS Customers suffering from hydrofluoric ●C ommissions for issuance of various certificates, bankbook reissuance commissions, / Execution of Nature Sharing acid leak in the Gumi region (Oct. 25, commissions for capitalization before exchange settlement fully waived Program 2012~Apr. 17, 2013) ●C ash withdrawal commissions via another bank’s ATM/CD and commissions for remittance to another bank’s account fully waived 64 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Beneficial Sharing | Communities 65 Status of Nationwide Participatory Social Contribution Activities of Truly Good Meal Social Contribution Activities Service Vehicle of Love Truly Good Meal Service Vehicle of Love To implement social contribution services that are helpful to the alienated class, IBK operates the Truly Good Meal Service Vehicle of Love wherein hearty meals are offered to the underprivileged class. This is our typical social contribution service, with vehicles deployed in three places – Seoguipo, Yeongdeungpo, and Suwon – in 2012. We expanded the service to 20 regions including Busan, Mokpo, Daegu, and Gwangju in 2013 and deployed 23 vehicles for the service. In this way, we operate the service while building a nationwide network. In particular, we have found that it will be difficult to operate the service with only Systematic Building and Development of Infrastructure vehicle support; therefore, we subsidize the meal service cost and fuel expenses so that the service can be operated stably. We will continuously support the service so that it can position itself as a typical social IBK pursues social contribution activities wherein many people can participate. We have secured the contribution activity based on customers’ voluntary sponsorship and local citizens’ voluntary participation. arena where various stakeholders can feel the joy of sharing and serving through the engagement of the community and a variety of stakeholders. We have organized and operated an organization in charge of such work and platform so that warm hearts can spread to places requiring social contribution, for more Truly Good Love of Country Service systematic and strategic social contribution activities. We diffuse IBK’s organizational culture across IBK and IBK tries to relive the spirit of love of country by patriotic martyrs and fallen heroes who sacrificed for a culture of warmly embracing the alienated class in society. Status of Nationwide our country. Toward this end, we offer the convenience of moving the bereaved and visitors of national Activities of Truly Good Love cemeteries located in a steep area by providing moving equipment at seven national cemeteries of Country Service Building and Operating the Stakeholders’ Donation Platform nationwide. Specifically, we provide 37 units of moving equipment including electric carts, electric wheelchairs, security tour vehicles, wheelchair lift buses, and vans suitable for each national cemetery’s IBK opened the Truly Good Donation Portal, a social contribution donation portal, in 2011. The Truly Good circumstances to help the elderly bereaved and instill patriotism in the minds of future generations visiting Donation Portal is an online fund-raising site connecting non-profit organizations and donators. When one the cemeteries for learning. In this manner, we endeavor to keep the spirit of patriotism alive. For disabled becomes a member of the portal, the donation currency, Wing, is paid considering one’s activity index, and people visiting national cemeteries, we also operate electric wheelchairs and wheelchair lift buses to offer one can donate it to one’s desired organization. Anyone can transparently deliver donation by using the convenience in movement so that such benefit can be evenly diffused. We at IBK will do our best to be a portal freely. Thanks to the support of many people, the number of members surpassed 10,000 as of April Truly Good Bank trying to help men of national merit and relive the spirit of patriotism. 2013, and KRW 794,867,579 worth of donations (based on June 2013) was raised through the site. Truly Good Donation receives voluntary service applications regularly through the site. IBK donates KRW 10,000~20,000 Wing per applicant to the organization concerned in matching grant mode. Operation Concept of Truly Good Donation Portal Donator Truly Good Donation Donatee Online Wing provided (Truly Good (Free donation Donation Employees’ Voluntary Service for Donation) points) delivered Truly Good Meal Service Vehicle of Mobile Love / Security Tour Vehicle Offered (Smartphone) to National Cemetery thru Truly Offline Donate to desired PR channel Good Love of Country (Branch teller charitable institutions offered window) through Wing, cash Sponsorship for Communities Support for Areas Damaged by Hydrofluoric Acid Assistance in Crossing up to Dokdo by Swimming Shaping a Social Contribution and Donation Culture Leak in Gumi IBK tries to repay customers and Korean people for their love of IBK by serving and sharing. In the Social By procuring the IBK Love Sharing Fund and IBK’s donation We supported the Project of Crossing up to Dokdo by Swimming at a ratio of 1:1 for areas damaged by hydrofluoric acid leak in Commemoration of the 8·15 National Liberation Day to foster Contribution Committee consisting of each working-level department manager under the executive director, in Gumi, Gyeongsangbuk-do, we provided assistance worth thirst for challenge and the spirit of patriotism among adolescents. opinions on pending issues of social contribution service are exchanged; the development direction is then KRW 100 million for damage restoration work. We will make The project seeks to promote love of Dokdo and respond to Japan’s debated on, and efficient, strategic social contribution services are promoted. efforts to carry out various sharing activities further using our assertion of ownership of Dokdo and distortion of history textbooks in employees’ funds. commemoration of the National Liberation Day every August 15. Operated since 2004, the IBK Voluntary Service Group repays the community for their support and Regular Patronage of Social Welfare Facilities Support for Smiling Fathers’ Camp encouragement with active voluntary services through the vigorous engagement of the IBK President and all IBK regularly offers patronage for 166 social welfare facilities With support for the Smiling Fathers’ Camp to foster a culture of work-home IBK employees. As of the end of June 2013, 1,776 employees provided active voluntary services at 87 volunteer nationwide each month to assist in their operation. We offer compatibility, we seek to help promote fathers’ engagement in child rearing service clubs in various fields, including visit to social welfare centers and facilities for disabled people and house not only monetary support but also continuous voluntary based on a recognition of the need for men’s child rearing and bond of services through the IBK Voluntary Service Group. sympathy and communication within the men’s child rearing community. repair with love. Assistance in Purchase of Fallen Fruits from Sponsoring a Charity Concert to Help Poor Children in the Global We also run the IBK Love Sharing Fund wherein employees voluntarily participate. This Fund is operated in Typhoon-Damaged Farms Village matching grant mode wherein IBK contributes the same amount as that donated by employees; it is used as IBK has conducted activities to purchase fallen fruits from We have held a charity concert to help poor children in the global village financial source for public beneficial services such as helping underfed children, helping children from poor typhoon-damaged farms and give them away to IBK branch at Seoul Arts Center. The concert seeks to contribute to offering equitable customers to share in the pain of owners of the damaged education opportunities and laying the foundation for self-reliance to households in the global village, and aiding in disaster relief efforts through donation. For the transparent farms. We remember the spirit of sharing and consideration enable children to escape from poverty through support for language operation of this Fund, we set up the IBK Love Sharing Fund Management Committee, which deliberates on and by extending a helping hand to those who need it. classes and vocational schools for children in developing countries; thus decides the operation, management, and payment of the fund. ultimately spearheading the eradication of poverty. Support for Concert to Turn Disability into Normality Patronage of Start-ups Contest for Specialized High School Students to Become CEO We make efforts to establish a sharing and considering IBK shapes an environment wherein the outstanding technologies and culture by supporting the concert for sharing the pain of novel ideas of specialized high school and Meister high school students can disabled people frustrated with their circumstances and be explored and rewarded. We endeavor to nurture those students’ start-up delivering messages of hope via music. capabilities and expand such opportunity by sponsoring the contest. 66 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Beneficial Sharing | Communities 67 ● Global Voluntar y Service Activ ities As a typical finan cial institution lea Social Contribution Activities in Photos Korea’s SMEs, IBK in 2012 to fulfill respected bank provided globa its social respons ibi ding banking/fi l voluntary servi lities and to beco nance for ces twice overseas, not on me a half of 2012, the ly domestically 2nd-period Glob . In the first consisting of 63 al Voluntary Se employees visite rvice Group Vietnam; in the d Thai Binh Villag second half, the e in Group consisting 3rd -period Global of 60 employees Service in Vietnam. They visited Phu Tho helped build ho Province repair drinking uses and maint water and sanit ain/ principle that pa ary facilities. Gu rt of the earning ided by the countries – wh s generated in for ere IBK does bu eign ow Up siness – always Tomorr country concern return to the & ed, we have str of J o b diplomat throug engthened ties Project h exchange with as a private Training are local residents, cts to sh mention mone not to ing proje dealing tary support. ● train ave in lements eed to h cation ea dily imp aders n ake edu IB K st th a t fu tu re le W e st rive to m f various dge Es. o knowle e rs at SM co nsisting ies men w o rk ng cla sse s po unit rt with wo uitable by offeri here op ts e q e rs of SMEs, w benefi en work fewer. s to wom t are relatively program lo p m en e ve for self-d ● Free Customer Satisfaction, Financial, and Economic Education ● Shared Ha ppiness Bu We offered financial and economic education to the general s Harmoniz IBK has oper ed with IBK public and students and customer satisfaction education to ated the shar Korean Red ed happines educational and social welfare facilities and SMEs; a total of Cross, UNIC s bus servic including IB EF, and Com e to visit 1,151 people attended 21 sessions. K for about munity Ches school stud 2,000 elem t of Korea – ents annual entary, mid new recogn ly. We spea dle, and high ition on shar rhead effor agencies, off ing by introd ts to develo ering finan ucing the rele p providing a cial and econ vant tour around omic educat the experie ion, and nce centers. ts ional Marke to R e in v ig orate Tradit Campaign es of Love kets by od Packag ● al mar or s to reinvigo rate tradition i Gift Vouche rs for ● Making Fo IBK employ ees de av ’ O nn ur e by IBK en al m ar ke ts as w ell as ckages mad rprivileged tradition s semiannua lly ed food pa to the unde patronizing w elfare facilitie y co nduct a We deliver ds be lo ng ing nile heads of so cial ac tiv el us eh ol d juve some 800 rivileged. W e kets as wel l to 8,000 ho living alone an artfelt the underp itional mar in g elde rly ac ticed he supporting go ods at trad la tions class includ ner, we have pr to pu rcha se g sisterh oo d re . In this man campaign e by forgin e to assist households us patronag tion, we striv as continuo arke ts . In ad di an ned vendin g sharing. iti on al m ion of un m with trad ts in the activat al m arkets m ar ke trad iti on traditional Vouchers of bined Onnuri Gift erating com machines of by in stal ling and op ition al markets ith ATM oths in five trad together w uc he r bo orts expa to nd i Gift Vo ill make eff ATM-Onnur lit an Area. We w co m mercial et ro po ra te th e in Seoul M t to reinvigo s of suppor ts. various form ith trad itional marke er w zone togeth 68 2013 IBK기업은행 지속가능경영보고서 Beneficial Sharing | Communities 69 ● Truly Good Volu ntary Activity Ca mp ● One Company, One Village Sisterhood We offered environ mental educati Relations fish catching ex on, basketball cla perience at the ss, and located in Gapy Mt. Yeonin camp eong, Gyeonggi ground We have been steadily carrying out various support activities employees and to 90 children of children at local SMEs’ in 2012 including village Yut game support for Jeongdang do our best to pla children’s centers y the role of a Tru . We will 1-ri Village – with which IBK forged sisterhood relations warm foundati ly Good Bank off on of society th ering the in Taean-gun, Chungnam in 2005 and assistance to social camp, which nu rough the volun rtures the drea tary service welfare facilities through the purchase of agricultural generation. ms and hopes of the future products from the producing areas. ● IBK-Wide Social Contribution Activities through Employee Engagement To enable IBK to fulfill its corporate social responsibility among Korean people, it has expanded assistance to activity expenses and donations for 94 volunteer service clubs nationwide. We endeavor to activate the sharing culture through cases of sharing by operating a social contribution portal, “IBK Sharing and Consideration,” on the IBK intranet. To foster a sound contribution culture wherein IBK employees voluntarily participate, we have set up the IBK Love Sharing Fund in matching grant mode wherein the same amount donated by the employees is contributed by IBK. We use the fund as valuable financial source for social contribution activities including disaster relief efforts. To help our underprivileged neighbors, we delivered food packages made by our employees to 8,000 households including underfed children and elderly living alone on the occasion of New Year’s Day. IBK also delivered 25 tons of Kimjang (winter Kimchi) made by its employees and subsidiaries to 2,500 homes suffering from difficulties at year-end. ● Sponsorin g the Happ iness Conce We have he rt of the Seou ld the Happi ness Concer ● Practice of Sharing through Sports l Arts Center t at the IBK against adop to eliminat Chamber H tion and to e our societ all IBK ALTOS Women’s Volleyball Team accumulated KRW into happy he lp adopted y’s prejudic members of children gr e 50,000 per score during the 2011-2012 V League season and innocent sm their famili ow iles. This w es without consequently donated KRW 130 million to 3 welfare facilities of adoptio ay, we try to losing thei n. deliver the r in Hwaseong City. During the 2012-13 V League season, true meani ng we increased the donation to KRW 150 million. At the end of 2012, we contributed volleyball development funds to elementary, middle, and high schools with volleyball teams to enable students to nurture their dream of becoming volleyball players despite their poor environment. We also spearhead the talent donation of athletes, such as operation of volleyball experience classes and shooting classes for specialized high school students. 70 2013 IBK기업은행 지속가능경영보고서 Beneficial Sharing | Communities 71 Performance in 2012 ● Economic Performance ● Environmental Performance Net Income Unit: KRW billion Total Asset Unit: KRW billion Total Shareholders’ Equity Unit: KRW billion Status of Energy Use Amount  Status of Raw Materials Use Amount  Unit: box 13,076 13,747 Category of emission sources 2010 2011 2012 Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 1,552 189,531 205,668 11,849 1,390 200,000 12,000 Power use amount (MWh) 66,260 62,706 83,665 Amount of copying 61,961 66,317 69,975 73,037 1,500 174,446 1,121 City gas (LNG) use amount (m3) 765,271 1,401,036 689,418 paper purchased 150,000 9,000 1,000 Kerosene use amount (L) 6,366 5,323 330,467 100,000 6,000 City gas (LPG) use amount (m3) 150,462 528 Status of Fuel Use Amount for Vehicles  Unit: L 500 50,000 3,000 Diesel use amount (L) 427,823 487,062 835 Category of emission sources 2010 2011 2012 0 0 0 *During 2011 and 2012, IBK changed the fuels used for the heating and cooling of IBK 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Gasoline use amount for vehicles 4,077,216 2,451,473 2,746,951 head office and branch offices to city gas (LNG and LPG) and diesel to reduce carbon emissions. Diesel use amount for vehicles 132,576 181,225 215,228 Return On Assets(ROA) Unit: % Return On Equity(ROE) Unit: % Net Interest Margin Unit: % LPG use amount for vehicles 886,147 13,099 2,283 0.84 0.89 2.71 2.58 Status of Water Use  Unit: ton *IBK reduces the no. of vehicles using gasoline and LPG to curtail carbon 12.15 12.26 emissions and enhance user convenience. Our employees try to use public 0.8 12 2.5 2.15 Category Data Collection Scope 2010 2011 2012 transportation, if possible, and, in unavoidable circumstances, diesel vehicles 0.59 8.27 2.0 Water/Wastewater use amount Head office 127,936 127,262 127,318 0.6 9 with relatively less environmental impacts and good efficiency. 1.5 0.4 6 1.0 0.2 3 0.5 GHG Emissions Unit: metric ton, CO2e 0 2010 2011 2012 0 2010 2011 2012 0 2010 2011 2012 44,760 48,126 40,236 39,009 40000 30,893 BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio Unit: % Substandard or below loans Possible Ratio of Appropriation of 30000 29,236 Scope1 Scope2 Total (SBL) Ratio Unit: % Expense Unit: % 12.37 20000 *Scope: head office and branches 12 12.54 11.70 1.83 161.58 159.97 13,867 11,000 9,117 *Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions 150 10000 127.80 *Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of 9 1.5 1.48 1.39 purchased electricity, heat or steam 0 100 2010 2011 2012 6 1.0 0.5 50 3 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ● Social Performance Fringe Benefit System Employees’ Training System  Unit: people Core Management Performance Unit: KRW billion, % Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Type System Outline Category 2010 2011 2012 Childbirth Childbirth leave Leave of absence before/after childbirth(within 110 In-house Collective Training by 4,351 4,250 3,608 5,485 7,773 training training position Maternity system days) Net Income 1,390 1,552 1,121 Job/Function Support Child rearing support ●Leave of absence for child rearing(two years) training 1,571 1,579 3,664 1,749 3,046 Total Assets 174,446 189,531 205,668 ●Family Day operation: Leaving the office on time Business site 2,823 1,501 109 6,209 11,914 Total Loans 123,664 134,635 139,405 every Wednesday training ●Opening of day care center(A Truly Good Day In-house Total Deposits 124,540 138,683 153,345 training 3,932 4,617 2,826 599 634 Care Center) Total Shareholders’ Equity 11,849 13,076 13,747 Life-long learning ●Assistance in child’s education expenses Job training 66 273 abroad ROA 0.84 0.89 0.59 support ●Assisting in children’s school tuition until graduation from college Job training 546 1,250 805 1,440 723 abroad ROE 12.15 12.26 8.27 Family Medical expenses ●Spouse’s comprehensive medical testing(annually Total 13,223 13,197 11,078 15,755 24,090 BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio 12.54 11.70 12.37 Assistance assistance for people aged 35 years or older) Cyber training 81,039 70,795 104,000 98,661 105,593 Substandard or Below Loans Ratio 1.83 1.48 1.39 Support for Specialist’s ●For employees, 24-hour connection, Reading training via 2,931 2,954 8,085 16,881 18,699 Workers psychology confidentiality principle communications counseling program Subtotal 97,193 86,946 123,163 131,297 148,382 Life-long learning ●Employees’ online foreign language education Economic Value Distribution Unit: KRW billion Economic Value Creation support External Financial Training Center training 7,849 11,774 14,040 12,183 14,830 (IBK China Job Master) (953) (4,492) (4,266) (4,639)  Unit: 100 million Medical expenses ●Medical expenses: Up to KRW 10 million in Stakeholder Item Amount Cyber MBA 30 0 33 15,128 support support for the person himself/herself, spouse, Dispatch to domestic Shareholders/Investors Dividend 2,576 15,000 and unmarried child specialist institutions 399 478 660 448 731 Communities Social contribution service cost 689 11,206 ●Comprehensive medical testing system for employees Dispatch to international 11 16 15 15 13 10,000 specialist institutions SMEs Purchase and support amount 1,279 ●Free vaccination for cervical cancer ●Free vaccination for influenza Academic training 13 14 21 20 22 Government Corporate income tax 3,575 5,000 (China E-MBA) (1) (7) (6) (9) (6) Stop smoking clinic ●Offering stop smoking counseling programs and Employees Wage/Salary of employees 7,403 support rewarding system for employees wishing to stop Subtotal 8,302 12,282 14,769 12,666 15,596 0 Operating Net income smoking Total 105,495 99,228 137,932 143,963 163,978 income 72 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 73 GRI Index  Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported N/A Not Applicable ● STANDARD DISCLOSURES PARTⅡ: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  72 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change ◐ 72 EC3 Coverage of the organization's burden in the pension system  EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ◐ EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ◐ EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation ◐ 47 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of EC7 ◐ 51~52 operation ● STANDARD DISCLOSURES PARTⅠ: Profile Disclosures EC8 Supporting and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit  26~27, 39~47, 54~55, 63~64 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts  37~38, 58, 64~66 1. Vision and Strategy Environment Performance Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization  3 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  72 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities  3 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled  72 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source  72 2. Organizational Profile EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source  72 Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements  58, 72 2.1 Name of the organization  6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6  59, 72 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services  6, 33 requirements as a result of these initiatives 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures  8 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved  59, 72 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters  6 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source  72 2.5 Location of organization's overseas operation  7 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water  72 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  6 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ◐ 72 2.7 Markets served 7 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value  EN11 N/A Cover outside protected areas 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization  8 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership  4, 5 EN12 N/A Not Applicable biodiversity value outside protected areas 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  7 EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A Not Applicable 3. Report Parameters EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity N/A Not Applicable Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of EN15 N/A Not Applicable extinction risk 3.1 Reporting period  Cover EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  58, 72 3.2 Date of most recent previous report  Cover EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  3.3 Reporting cycle  Cover EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved  72 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report  Cover EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A Not Applicable 3.5 Process for defining report content  18~21 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions N/A Not Applicable 3.6 Boundary of the report  Cover EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ◐ 72 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report  Cover EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method  3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.  Cover, 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A Not Applicable 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations  Cover, 72~73 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 N/A Not Applicable Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such reAnnex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 3.10  Cover Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the statement EN25 N/A Not Applicable Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 3.11  Cover EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation  59 report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report  74~76 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category  59 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental No Violation Case 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report  Cover EN28  laws and regulations of Law 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's  Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type  4.1 Governance structure of the organization  11 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer  11 Social Performance 4.3 Composition of the highest governance body  11 Labor 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body  18~19 Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives  11 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region  51~52 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided  12 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region  Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations  54~56 4.7  12 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  53 and its committees 4.8 Principles relevant to management  9~10 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements  Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help 4.9  11, 24, 36, 50, 62 LA6  economic, environmental, and social performance monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender  4.10  12 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, environmental, and social performance LA8  54 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization  16~17, 29 or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ◐ 54~55 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12  65 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category  30, 56 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 27, 65 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist  LA11  56 them in managing career endings 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization  18~19 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender  57 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage  18~19 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 20 LA13  6, 11, 50  minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category  4.17  20 responded to those key topics and concerns LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ◐ 54~55 74 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 75 Human Rights Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks Independent Assurance Statement Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1  human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights HR2  screening, and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3 ◐ 56 operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights  53 To the Management of IBK Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken This assurance, as requested by IBK, has been carried out by the Korea Sustainability Investing Forum (KoSIF), an HR6 N/A Not Applicable to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and institution independent from IBK and which does not have any interest in IBK. For this reason, we did not offer HR7 ◐ 54 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor services that may affect our independence and fairness during the assurance period from 2012 to 2013. We have Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR8 ◐ 56 conducted assurance focusing on the management process and reporting process concerned based on the rights that are relevant to operations No incidence of information presented in the IBK 2013 Sustainability Report. IBK is responsible for the information and opinions HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken  infringing rights of native people described in this report other than the assurance opinion. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments ◐ 57 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal  Society Assurance Level and Scope Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs  41~47, 66~69 The level and scope of assurance by KoSIF are as follows: SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption  ● Policy, goal, and performance related to sustainability management as described in the report SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures  15 ● Economic, environmental, and social data management system, relevant process, and tools concerned with SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption  15 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying  15 the collection, analysis, gathering, and reporting of quantitative and qualitative information provided in the SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country N/A Not Relevant report SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes N/A Not Relevant ● Report boundary and process of deciding the reported details SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations N/A Not Relevant ● Extent of application of the principles of materiality, inclusivity, and responsiveness according to the SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities  Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on moderate level of assurance of AA1000 AS (2008) Type 1 SO10  16~17 local communities ● Checking whether the principles and indices of sustainability report GRI 3.1 have been reflected on the Product Safety report Product Safety Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks PR1 Policy for customer’s health and safety ◐ PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety N/A Not Relevant Limitations impacts of products and services PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures  33 KoSIF has conducted site visit to the IBK head office for the assurance, but not to IBK’s branches, sub-branch PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service N/A Not Relevant offices, and offices. In addition, we have not conducted external stakeholder interview during the assurance information and labeling, by type of outcomes activities. We have acknowledged IBK’s non-audited financial data and have checked IBK’s energy use amount PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  30~32 and greenhouse gas emissions – which did not go through third-party assurance – through a comparison PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including  32 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship between the data reported to the greenhouse gas and energy target management system and the original PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes N/A Not Relevant data provided by IBK. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ◐ 27~28 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of N/A Not Relevant products and services. Financial Services Sector Supplement Methodology Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks KoSIF has drawn the assurance conclusion based on the following assurance activities: FS1 Description of policies, with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines  58 ● Review of press/media reports on IBK FS2 Description of procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines  16 ● Review of the reports of other institutions similar to IBK FS3 Description of processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social  requirements included in agreements or transactions ● Interview with the staff in charge of drawing up the sustainability report by visiting the IBK head office FS4 Description of processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and  29 ● Checking the relevant documents, data, and other information provided by IBK including KoSIF-requested procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/business partners regarding environmental and social risk and opportunities  25, 38, 66 documents and data FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by sector  ● Review of the execution of IBK sustainability report-related policy, mechanism, and performance as FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business  37~40, 64 described in the sustainability report FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line  33 broken down by purpose ● Assurance of materiality, inclusivity, and responsiveness according to AA1000AS (2008) FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures ◐ ● Checking whether IBK complies with the principles on description mode, reporting details, and quality based FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has ◐ on the GRI 3.1 Guidelines interacted on environmental and social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental and social screening  FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental and social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the  12 right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in the low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type  64 Assurance Opinion FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people  64 KoSIF judges that the IBK sustainability report earnestly reflects various policies, management systems, and FS15 Policies for the fair design and the sale of financial products and services  13, 30 performance related to sustainability management, guarantees the moderate level of AA1000AS (2008), and FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary  41, 47 meets the principle of Type 1 assurance through the assurance activities mentioned above. 76 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report A Truly Good Bank | IBK 77 Inclusivity We cordially ask for your participation KoSIF has verified that IBK classifies its stakeholders into customers, employees, communities, government, shareholders, and investors, identifies them, and collects stakeholders’ key interests and opinions by building Send to communication channels by stakeholder. KoSIF has not found any major stakeholder group excluded in IBK Shared Happiness Dept. the stakeholder engagement process mentioned in this report. Nonetheless, we found the communication FAX 02-729-6501 channels with civil society groups – such as NGO and NPO – to be very weak compared with other stakeholders. Consequently, IBK needs to collect their interests and opinions systematically by building regular Thank you for your interest in the IBK 2012 Sustainability Report. We will strive further to implement better communication channels. social responsibility management based on smooth communication with you through the sustainability report. Please feel free to send us your opinions on this report; we promise to reflect them on IBK’s sustainability Materiality management activities and report. We cordially ask for your participation, unwavering support, and interest. IBK identifies and reports 21 material issues in 6 sectors through strategy reports, previous year’s sustainability 1. What do you think of this report? report, media analysis, key issues analysis in the banking industry, social norms and CSR-related agencies’ Contents  Good  Fair  Insufficient questions, and employees and external stakeholders’ questionnaire surveys and interviews. KoSIF has Understanding Extent  Difficult  Fair  Easy confirmed that IBK decides material issues on sustainability management through the process of drawing issues. Nonetheless, we have found balance by stakeholder to be lacking (i.e., SMEs, customers, shareholders, investors, NGOs, etc.) in the execution of the questionnaire survey to draw issues. We have judged that IBK 2. Which items or section of this report impressed you? needs to secure a stakeholder pool through which IBK can sufficiently collect various stakeholders’ opinions in Sustainability Management a more balanced manner to reflect systematically the opinions when selecting material issues in the future.  2012 Highlights  CEO Massage  Company Profile  Mission and Vision  Corporate Governance  Ethical Management  Risk Management  Classification of Stakeholder  Materiality Test Responsiveness Warm Serving_Customer KoSIF has confirmed that IBK communicates with stakeholders through the sustainability report concerning  Financial Consumer Protection  Personal Information Protection response activities and performance, according to material issues on sustainability management as drawn by  Customer Satisfaction  Social and Environmental Financial Products IBK. In particular, we believe that various policies and programs to respond to issues to consolidate customer protection, such as financial consumer protection, customer information protection, and customer satisfaction Gradually Expanded Serving_ SMEs – as well as management consulting and green consulting for SMEs so as to respond to the issue of win-win  Financial Support  Tailored Finance  Support for Small and Middle Standing Companies growth and support for SMEs – are IBK’s unique and strategic corporate social responsibilities. We judge that  Support for Green Consulting  Consolidation of SMEs’ Capabilities the response activities and performance on these two issues are described well in the sustainability report. Nonetheless, issues on labor and human rights are relatively insufficient. IBK needs to complement this in the Equal Serving_ Employees next report.  Open IBK  Joyful Workplace  Talent Fostering and Fair Assessment  Eco-friendly Organization Beneficial Serving_ Communities Recommendations  Fortification of Financial Business for Ordinary People  Support for the Financially Alienated Class The following are matters deemed important for the IBK sustainability report in the assurance process, although  Spearheading the Green Environment  Social Contribution Activities they do not affect the conclusion of KoSIF’s assurance: ● We recommend that sustainability management vision and strategies be established, and that detailed 3. Please freely write down your opinion on good things or things to improve in this report. practice tasks be drawn. ● We recommend establishing quantified sustainability goals categorized into short-, mid-, and long-term goals. Specifically, we recommend that IBK establish an effective system such as setting objectives for each material issue and measuring and reporting performance. ● We recommend that solid governance be built including the relevant organization so that sustainability management can be implemented in an integrated manner and across IBK. ● IBK needs to arrange communication channels by stakeholder systematically from the sustainability management perspective (core channel and subsidiary channel) and develop the channels into a system for deciding material issues affecting stakeholders through routine communication. This way, IBK can reflect their interests on the sustainability report. October 15, 2013 Young-Ho Kim 4. In which of the following groups do you belong? Chief Director KoSIF  Retail Customer  Corporate Customer  Private Investor  Institutional Investor  Person in Charge of Companys’ Sustainability Management/CSR  Researcher and Educator  NGO  Media  Government/Public Service  Student  IBK’s Employee  Others ( ) Thanks for you 78 IBK 2013 Sustainability Report Engagement in Global Initiatives IBK, which became a member of the UN Global Compact in 2006, complies with the 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. IBK is actively engaged in CDP to cope with climate change. It was selected as a leader in the banking sector for two years in a row in 2012. Publisher Cho Jun-hee Editor Yoon Jae-seop Edit Choi Jae-seok, Jung Min-uk Date of publication October, 2013 Advisory organization Hankyeoreh Economic Research Institute Design DesignZoo Publishing company IBK Shared Happiness Dept., IBK Head Office 50, Eulji-ro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel 02-729-7977 Fax 02-729-6501 Homepage www.ibk.co.kr This report is printed with soy-based ink TM on environmentally-friendly.
