REFLECTING ON SUSTAINABILITY 2013 TABLE OF Baobab Reﬂected in The Lake of Stars CONTENTS “The Lake of Stars” is the moniker coined by David Livingstone for Lake Malawi. Soaring on the skirts of the stars, the Baobab is amongst the longest-living trees on earth some are more than 2,000 years Highlights 2 old. Nearly every part of the tree is useable for lumber, ﬁshnets, cords Message from Our Chairman and CEO 3 and clothing. The leaves are used as a vegetable, and its fruits are edible. This magniﬁcent surreal specimen was captured reﬂected in Introducing Michelly Rall 4 a pool of water on the outskirts of Liwonde National Park in Malawi. Sustainability Vision, Strategy and Goals 5 GOVERNANCE 7 Our Fundamentals 8 Our Sustainability Structure 9 Corporate Compliance 10 Investing in People 17 GREEN 21 Respecting Our Environment 22 Highlights of Our Global Environmental Sustainability Efforts 26 Sustainable Ingredients and Products 28 GROWTH 33 Partnering in Sustainability 34 Sustainable Innovation in Perfumery 36 Sustainable Innovation in Flavors 38 Sustainable Sourcing of Naturals 40 Touching Hearts and Minds 43 About This Report 44 External Veriﬁcation 45 Our Performance in Numbers 46 GRI Index Table 48 Validations 49 © Michelly Rall Cover: Water, the Source of Life The Bemarivo River in the Antsirabe Nord Province of northeast Madagascar serves as a playground, foot crossing and laundry spot. The river provides means of irrigation and livelihoods for those who ﬁsh. Firmenich | 1 HIGHLIGHTS improved invested succeeded OUR INDUSTRY-LEADING IN THE LIVELIHOODS FUND IN IMPROVING 7 OF OUR SAFETY PERFORMANCE TO SUPPORT RURAL COMMUNITIES TRACKED ENVIRONMENTAL BY A FURTHER 33% AND SUSTAINABLE ECOSYSTEMS INDICATORS engaged launched constructed WITH THE BILL AND MELINDA AN INNOVATIVE PRODUCT A NEW SCHOOL GATES FOUNDATION ON SUSTAINABILITY INDEX FOR 101 IN RURAL HAITI FOR NEARLY HYGIENE AND SANITATION SOLUTIONS TOP INGREDIENTS 500 STUDENTS achieved received awarded 5 NEW THIRD-PARTY MANAGEMENT THE GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY THE PRESTIGIOUS SYSTEM CERTIFICATIONS LEADERSHIP AWARD FOR ROBERT W. CAMPBELL BEST PROJECT AWARD COLLABORATION FOR EHS EXCELLENCE 2 | Firmenich MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO Reﬂecting on Sustainability Firmenich is not just the name of a Fragrance and Flavor company. It is the name of a family that has been personally committed to its employees and clients for the past 118 years. As we publish our eighth annual sustainability report, we reﬂect on our sustainability journey and are reminded that nothing has served us better in achieving our long-term success than the commitment to our values as delineated in the Firmenich Fundamentals. Reaching billions of consumers every day, we provide moments of inspiration and happiness when people experience products that bear the signature of our fragrances and ﬂ avors. Firmenich has a rich heritage of craftsmanYves Boisdron Patrick Firmenich Vernon Sankey ship and creativity, coupled with a real pasChairman of the Board CEO Chairman of the Board sion for winning. We have a tradition of being As of July 1, 2013 a relationship-based business, which drives value for our clients and their consumers by improving their products and enhancing their brands. We have made great progress over the past improve. We welcome your feedback on this year toward our sustainability targets, as report, which has been prepared in accordsustainability is integrated throughout our ance with the Global Reporting Initiative business. Indeed, Firmenich does not have a Guidelines. separate sustainability strategy. It is simply part of who we are and what we do. In this The 6,400 talented and engaged people of report, we provide our results in the areas of Firmenich understand that sustainability is safety, quality and environmental care. We our individual and collective responsibility, also offer reﬂections on a number of new and we warmly thank each of them for makand exciting initiatives that we are working ing sustainability a reality at Firmenich. on. We aren’t trying to make headlines. We are simply working hard every day to deliver As we continue this journey, it is certain that sustainable solutions to our clients, to serve the path ahead will be both interesting and our communities and to make the world a inspiring. better place. As a United Nations Global Compact member, we are committed to transparent and balanced reporting, highlighting not only our successes but also the challenges that we face and areas where we need to further Firmenich | 3 INTRODUCING MICHELLY RALL close to his heart, supporting nonproﬁt organizations and campaigns that reﬂect his passion for conservation and people. Over the years, Michelly has become a good friend of Firmenich. We worked with him on this report and together chose pictures that help our readers reﬂect on our sustainability journey and, hopefully, their own. In His Own Words… Photography is not a job. It is a vocation. To peer ﬂeetingly into the shadows and light of the world has been a privilege. Sustainability is more than just a word for me, it is central to my vision and passion to capture images that impact and make a difference to society. I was born in South Africa, with a wide palette of creative inspiration. Relentlessly curious, I ventured out of this special place to hone my craft in New York, Paris and Milan. Over Our Collaboration with an explorative decade later, I returned to my home soil in Africa, happy with camera in Photographer Michelly Rall hand and a renewed spirit within my soul. Each year, our sustainability report features To create the photographs for this report, I work from an artist who captures the spirit of immersed myself in the communities, farms, our sustainability journey. This year, we feavillages, and forest and savanna ecosystems ture South African photographer Michelly of Uganda, Madagascar, Malawi and South Rall. We ﬁrst met Michelly when he joined a Africa to capture the very essence and fabric Firmenich team in Uganda to capture the of their existence. daily lives of vanilla farmers. Impressed by his art, passion, personal integrity and comMy partnership with Firmenich has shown mitment to the environment and sustainability, me that good businesses that are socially we invited him to join us in Madagascar to responsible ﬁnd ways to use their resources create a visual record of our project to bring to make the world a better place. Each of us the world’s ﬁrst Rainforest Alliance-certiﬁed has a responsibility for the future of our vanilla to market. Michelly accompanied us planet. It is my sincere hope that my photos as we visited farmers in the Antsirabe Nord in this report will in some small way touch region of the country, living among farmers the hearts and minds of the readers of this and trekking through the rainforests on a report and inspire them to take action. weeklong hike along “the vanilla trail.” Michelly is well known for his iconic images of royalty, international celebrities, models and politicians – yet he humbly articulates through his photos a sincere passion for the beauty of nature and “everyday people.” Michelly creates and donates images to causes 4 | Firmenich SUSTAINABILITY VISION, STRATEGY AND GOALS 2015 — Strategic Sustainability Goals (from 2010 Baseline) 50% 8 Countries 1 Million FURTHER IMPROVE OUR INDUSTRYCOMPLETE SUSTAINABLE NATURAL IMPACT THE LIVES OF 1 MILLION LEADING SAFETY PERFORMANCE INGREDIENT SOURCING PROJECTS CHILDREN THROUGH IMPROVED IN 8 COUNTRIES NUTRITION AND HYGIENE -15% REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS IN ABSOLUTE TERMS About Firmenich Firmenich is the world’s largest privately owned company in the Fragrance and Flavor business. Founded and headquartered in Geneva, -15% Switzerland, in 1895, Firmenich has created many of the world’s best-known perfumes and ﬂ avors enjoyed around the world, every day. Our passion for smell and taste and a commitment to our clients lie at the heart of our success. More information about Firmenich is REDUCE WATER USAGE RATE available at www.ﬁrmenich.com. Embracing Sustainability 90% Our vision is to remain an industry leader in sustainability, creating and capturing value with our clients and their consumers worldwide. PARTIALLY POWER 90% OF We are committed to staying at the forefront of helping to solve OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES global challenges, such as climate change, inequality in access to WITH RENEWABLE ENERGY health and education services and inclusive economic growth. We will continue to: 400 Key Create products that make a difference Contribute to our clients’ sustainability strategies Understand consumer needs in emerging economies CREATE A SUSTAINABILITY INDEX Anticipate global environmental trends FOR 400 KEY INGREDIENTS Firmenich | 5 © Michelly Rall © Michelly Rall GOVERNANCE Individual and Collective Responsibility OUR FUNDAMENTALS “Our Fundamentals guide our every action, enabling us to remain true to ourselves and make a difference in an ever-changing world.“ Patrick Firmenich CEO · We listen to our clients and transform CLIENTS their ambitions into reality. We fragrance and ﬂavor · We anticipate consumer desires, continually reinventing the world of smell and taste. our clients’ products for · We deliver the winning combination of our mutual success. products, service and value for money, placing authority and accountability close to our clients. · We create an environment in which each PEOPLE employee is valued, empowered and People are the heart of our encouraged to grow. · We value the diversity and commitment of Company. They are recognized our people, enabling us to shape our future for their passion, talent and with conﬁdence and imagination. integrity. · We unite the ﬁnest talents and encourage an entrepreneurial team spirit to attain our strategic goals. · We create fragrances and ﬂavors that inspire CREATIVITY our clients and consumers worldwide. Creativity is our essence. · We lead our industry in research & innovation, capturing breakthrough ideas around the world. · We constantly strive to discover new ways to improve all that we do. · We strictly maintain the highest level of SUSTAINABILITY personal integrity and ethical values. Our sense of individual and · We practice a sustainable business model for the well-being of present and future collective responsibility generations. ensures our long-term success. · We adopt the strictest international standards on quality, safety and the environment. · We are a family-owned company, committed INDEPENDENCE to our independence. Our independence gives us the · We take a long-term view of our business. · We pursue a policy of ﬁnancial strength, freedom to control our destiny. proﬁtable growth and return on assets. 8 | Firmenich OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE Our Values Our Sustainability Council We are a company with strong core values. Firmenich has been a thought leader in susMARC PFITZER Described in the Firmenich Fundamentals, tainability for many years. Our pragmatic, Managing Director, FSG our values have inherently shaped the way solution-oriented and company-wide approach STEPHANIE DRAPER we have worked in the past 118 years. Our to sustainability, developed with our SustainDirector of System Fundamentals are complemented by the ability Council has also made us the action Innovation, Forum for the Firmenich Code of Conduct, which reinleader in sustainability according to our clients' Future forces our values and sets out the rules for feedback. GUILLAUME TAYLOR daily behaviors and interactions. Founder and Managing The Firmenich Sustainability Council was creDirector, Quadia Integrity is cemented in the foundation of ated in 2007. Composed of long-tenured memFirmenich. We are open and honest in all that bers, with extensive sustainability backgrounds, AILEEN IONESCU-SOMERS we do – in dealing with customers, colleagues, our Council acts as a sounding board for the Ph. D., Director CSL Learning Platform, IMD Global suppliers and the communities in which we sustainability team and for Firmenich as a Center for Sustainability operate. We relentlessly pursue excellence in company, and keeps us abreast of emerging Leadership everything we do. We live our Fundamentals sustainability trends. Our Council members’ every day and measure our success by the diverse backgrounds in nonproﬁts, universities MANOJ KUMAR success of our customers, our people, our and leading companies help us engage with CEO, Naandi Foundation communities and our stakeholders. our stakeholders and capture and then priDARIAN STIBBE oritize our material issues on an annual Director, International basis. Council members are actively involved Business Leaders Forum in speciﬁc projects, share their expertise on a regular basis and meet as a group at least once annually. Our Compliance Group The price of greatness is responsibility. As part of the overall program of corporate govThese are the words spoken by Winston Churchill ernance, Firmenich created a Corporate Com70 years ago. Firmenich has demonstrated a deep pliance division ten years ago. The compliance sense of responsibility throughout its 118-year team encompasses: history. Companies with a sound commitment to values, a strong system of governance and Health, Safety & Environment compliance, and an engaged and inspired workProduct Safety & Regulatory Affairs force will be the greatest contributors to a more Toxicology sustainable world. Firmenich is one of these Quality Assurance and Control companies, and I consider it a privilege to serve here as a steward of sustainability. Internal Audit, Risk Management, and Insurance David Shipman The Corporate Compliance division also spearGroup VP Corporate Compliance heads and coordinates our corporate susPresident, North America tainability efforts. The Group Vice-President of Corporate Compliance reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and, additionally, has an independent reporting line directly to the Audit Committee of the Board. Firmenich | 9 CORPORATE 75% COMPLIANCE IMPROVEMENT IN TRC RATE OVER THE LAST FIVE-YEAR PERIOD Our People Firmenich Wins Prestigious Robert W. Campbell Award for Environment, Health & Safety Health & Safety In October 2012, Firmenich was the proud reciIn FY13 Firmenich achieved its eighth conpient of the international Robert W. Campbell secutive year of Health and Safety perforAward, the highest and most prestigious safety mance improvement. Total Recordable Case award any organization can achieve globally. (TRC) rates fell from 0.63 in FY12 to 0.42 in FY13, which is a 33% improvement over the Established in 2004 by the National Safety previous year and an overall improvement of Council (NSC) in the United States and sup75% against the rolling ﬁ ve-year baseline ported by a network of 22 global partners (FY08-FY13). across ﬁve continents, the Award recognizes organizations that achieve excellence through Lost Time Case (LTC) rates also fell from 0.15 the integration of health, safety and environin 2012 to 0.14 in 2013, which is an improvemental (HS&E) management in business ment of 7% over the previous year and an imoperations. Applications are reviewed by a provement of 74% since FY08. panel of renowned experts and leaders in the business, education, safety, health and enviThis year, 10 sites achieved zero TRC and 17 ronmental ﬁelds. achieved zero LTC. Neil McFarlane, Vice President of Global Health, Safety and Environment, identiﬁed the following cornerstones of Firmenich HS&E practices – which the Award panel TRC Rate 1.66 FY08 0.42 FY13 recognized as exemplary: Rates per 200,000 exposure hours Fully integrates HS&E performance goals with overall long-term business strategy, * TRC Rate = Total Recordable Cases per 200,000 exposure hours. (This is allowing safety performance to improve the sum of Lost Time Cases + Restricted Work Cases + Medical Treateach consecutive year since 2005 ments, which are either work-related injuries or illnesses). Data is for fullUses a bottom-up approach to engage all time permanent and temporary employees (supervised contractors). employees in the values of behavioral safety, to give them the skills and the tools to look at and manage their own safety LTC Rate 0.53 FY08 0.14 FY13 Employs a family values-based system, which ensures that upper management Rates per 200,000 exposure hours is accessible to, and supportive of, HS&E advocates within the company * LTC Rate = Lost Time Cases per 200,000 exposure hours (a recordable work-related injury or illness that results in time away from work of greater than one day or one shift following the day of the incident). Data are for full-time permanent and temporary employees (supervised contractors). Each year, we revalidate our data, making any necessary corrections retrospectively and reporting the corrections. 10 | Firmenich Robert W. Campbell Award Laura Fifﬁck, senior director of the NSC’s Campbell Institute, who took part in the Award review process, commented: “What stood out in our minds … is that the leadership was unbelievable across the board. Every employee we interviewed and talked to cared about safety.” As recipient of the Award, Firmenich is now collaborating with the NSC and the Campbell Institute to effectively share our world-leading philosophy on HS&E. Activities have included the provision of keynote speakers for safety conferences and the publication of articles in leading safety magazines. Firmenich is also 1 participating in the 2013 NSC National Safety Month, which aims to educate people about the causes of preventable injuries and deaths. This year’s theme is leadership and employee Air Quality and Personal Exposure Firmenich team celebrating 1 engagement, so it is a natural ﬁ t with the Monitoring Campbell Award Firmenich approach to HS&E. In FY13, Firmenich embarked on a comprehensive program of air quality and personal Firmenich China Participates in HS&E exposure monitoring in six laboratory sites Culture Expansion Program in Taiwan and eight manufacturing sites. Our goal was In FY13, the HS&E Firmenich China Director to determine if procedures and controls for participated in an event organized by the Taiwan the handling of Volatile Organic Compounds Safety Council and Taiwan Occupational Safety (VOCs) were effective and to compare perand Health Institute as part of our Campbell formance at different sites. Award duties, which include sharing our success with others. The event coincided with the tenth anniversary of the Taiwan Safety Council. The program included a keynote speech at the Taiwan Safety Conference, which was attended by more than 300 senior managers from major Taiwanese companies, and participation in a “Firmenich’s family values-based system transcends South Taiwan safety seminar attended by more employee cultural and regional differences. It is than 200 managers from local companies. not about the company or its culture, it is about the culture in the company.” As part of this program, Firmenich presented the HS&E values, management systems, Neil McFarlane safety performance and best practices that VP Global HS&E were part of its Campbell Award-winning application. Firmenich | 11 Air Quality under Good Control The results from the monitoring and audit programs are being used to help improve our chemical handling and develop more stringent controls worldwide. Pursuing Premium Product Quality An essential goal of corporate sustainability is ensuring that our customers are provided with the quality they expect. Firmenich has a reputation for providing a consistently high level of quality. We have developed a robust reporting sys1 tem to accumulate and evaluate our quality Three hundred and thirty-two personal exposure and 48 area samples were evaluated for “Leading the Corporate Compliance the presence of 92 different ingredients comteam in Southeast Asia, one of my monly used by the company. Samples were responsibilities is to serve as an compared against the published occupaambassador of sustainability and tional exposure limits (OELs) and derivated to help clarify our sustainability no effect level (DNEL) for each ingredient. strategy within my zone. Everyone at Firmenich is empowered to The study concluded that, in general, VOCs co-create their own outcomes in are under good control. Only 12 personal taking sustainable actions.” samples (4%) exceeded reference values, and these were mostly linked to atypical Bee Lay Wong, VP Quality working conditions and nonroutine operaand Corporate Compliance, tions. Some spot exposures were identiﬁed Asia Paciﬁc as requiring further investigation. statistics. We evaluate our quality based upon In parallel, Firmenich conducted a number a number of criteria including a Customer of occupational health audits against our Quality Index (CQI), which reﬂects any sercorporate requirements for occupational vice or product nonconformance that could health and hygiene management. Findings potentially impact a client. showed continuous improvement in a number of areas but highlighted the need for emphasis Supplier Compliance on education and training for lab personnel. All new suppliers complete a sustainability and quality evaluation questionnaire (with detailed questions on social and environmental perGlobal Customer 997.85 FY12 998.22 FY13 formance), used to risk assess their performance. The risk assessment helps, with other Quality Index quality-critical factors, determining which suppliers should be subject to a detailed site (Product Related) audit to further evaluate their compliance. Any nonconformances arising are managed CQI = all customer-accepted, conforming deliveries per through our vendor compliance portal. Forty1,000 order lines nine supplier audits were conducted in FY13. 12 | Firmenich 2 3 © Michelly Rall Ensuring Product Safety Use of Sustainable La Plaine, Geneva, Switzerland 1 All substances used in our ﬂ avors and fraPalm Oil in Our Products Tree fern in the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest which borders 2 grances have to pass through a rigorous the Democratic Republic of Congo safety assessment. Our Product Safety and Firmenich is committed to the sustainable Regulatory Affairs Group (PS&RA) assures management of raw materials and the conLime was Our Flavor 3 of the Year 2013 that all deﬁned safety, regulatory and cusservation of natural resources. In 2011, we tomer standards for all raw materials are issued our Palm Oil Sustainability Position followed. Statement to consolidate our commitment to the sustainable sourcing of this sensitive We believe in global standards and use the and widely used raw material that is linked, same high standards wherever we operate, in some areas, to widespread ecosystem even if less-stringent local regulations exist. destruction. The Position Statement outlines We use our strong inﬂuence in various national our vision that by 2015 all palm oil and and international associations to advocate that palm kernel oil used in our products will be such standards are respected and applied by derived from sustainably cultivated sources. the entire industry. By the end of FY13, most directly purchased The PS&RA Group is devoted to ensuring that palm oil was certiﬁed as sustainable by the all products that Firmenich sells to its cusRoundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). tomers comply with the appropriate requireHowever, Firmenich also purchases some ments regarding their inherent safety as palm oil derivatives, which are contained in deﬁned by customers, industry associations ingredients provided by our suppliers. Our and governmental bodies. This aim is accominnovation centers are working to ﬁnd susplished by studying relevant literature to retainable substitutes for these ingredients. main aware of and follow new regulations, Where substitution is not possible, suppliers complemented by our own toxicological and must, by 2015, only use oil derived from cerenvironmental studies. tiﬁed sources in their ingredients. These measures will signiﬁcantly reduce our footprint in the palm oil industry and ensure that where we need to use such oils, they are derived only from sustainable sources. Firmenich | 13 Individual and Collective Responsibility products. Our Regulatory and Health, Safety and Environmental professionals support our customers in their evaluation of HS&E protection measures. We provide SDS for all of our products, not only in those countries where it is a legal requirement to do so, but also in countries where it is not mandatory. SDS are available in 31 different languages. The Firmenich © Michelly Rall Consultant Medical Group Update on REACH Established in 2006, the Firmenich Consultant Medical Group serves as an expert sounding The objective of the European Union’s Reguboard for the Compliance Management team. lation No 1907/2006 concerning the RegisThis group, composed of four medical doctors, tration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction meets at least once a year to help review of Chemicals (REACH), which came into force internal activities and provide advice on our in June 2007, is to ensure a high level of prointernal safety programs. tection of human health and the environment as well as the free movement of substances, These physicians are experts in their respecwhile assuring the competitiveness of the tive ﬁelds and have been drawn from both European industry. REACH will provide us Europe and the United States. The individuals an opportunity not only to better assure the have differentiated medical specializations safety of consumers but also to further conin the following areas: solidate our commitment to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care program. Clinical dermatology Reproductive toxicology By June 2013, we have submitted registration Chemical pathology and toxicology dossiers covering 10 phase-in substances. Respiratory and environmental medicine This allows us to continue providing our customers with our full product portfolio. Our As we are increasingly confronted with chalREACH team will carry on working until the lenges across multiple areas of technical ﬁnal registration deadline of 2018, supported by expertise within our company – toxicological, our Research & Development, Purchasing, industrial hygiene, occupational disease, adLegal and Perfumery departments. verse consumer reactions – this team of physicians has evolved into an essential independent Information about the hazardous properties advisory group aiming to put Firmenich at the of our products is documented in our Safety forefront of our industry with respect to exData Sheets (SDS) and relevant information is ternal validation of our safety practices. reproduced on product labels and packaging. Information in the SDS – more than 500,000 are released every year – helps our customers to better understand the safe handling of our 14 | Firmenich Industry Driver FIRMENICH PARTICIPATES © Michelly Rall IN MAJOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRY ORGANIZATIONS Engaging with Our Industry Firmenich actively participates in fragrance and ﬂavor industry associations in all of the major markets we serve. Firmenich management serves on the board of directors and scientiﬁc committees of most of the major industry associations. The following are brief descriptions of four leading industry associations with which Firmenich regularly collaborates: International Fragrance Flavor and Extract Association Manufacturers Association (IFRA) (FEMA) The fragrance industry takes its reguFEMA furthers the business interests lation seriously and is committed to of its members through a sound scienundertaking all of its environmental, tiﬁ c program designed to promote social and economic responsibilities the safe use of ﬂavors. FEMA fosters a thoroughly. All of its ingredients and global environment in which the ﬂ avor compounds are rigorously assessed industr y can create, innovate and for toxicity and allergens, and IFRA compete. Its critical objectives include works closely with regulators and maintaining a credible, globally recstakeholders to issue and update comognized scientiﬁc program and a conprehensive safety standards. IFRA also sistent, scientiﬁcally valid approach to independently spot checks fragranced safety evaluation of ﬂ avor ingredients. products to ensure compliance with the IFRA Code of Practice. Research Institute for Fragrance Materials International Organization (RIFM) of the Flavor Industry (IOFI) RIFM’s purpose is to gather and analyze scientiﬁc data, engage in testing and IOFI supports the safe use of ﬂ avors evaluation, distribute information, coopthrough an extensive and respected scierate with ofﬁcial agencies and encourence program and a strong Code of Pracage uniform safety standards related to tice. Through its comprehensive advocacy the use of fragrance ingredients. RIFM strategy, IOFI has become a well-regarded maintains the largest database of fraresource for major industry stakeholders, grance materials available worldwide, both within ﬂ avor and food companies classifying more than 5,000 materials. and among regulators worldwide. Firmenich | 15 By promoting positive collaboration with our competitors, working closely with our customers and actively participating in industry association technical committees, Firmenich can help drive our industry toward sustainability. We recognize the crucial role industry associations have in supporting our business. Firmenich encourages activities that advance the Fragrance and Flavors and the consumer product industries through scientiﬁc organizations such as the European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals (ECETOC) and the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI). Firmenich also plays a signiﬁcant role in the scientiﬁc and regulatory committees governing our industry, including the chairmanships of the International Fragrance Association (IFRA), the Regulatory Affairs and Advocacy Committee (RAAC), the International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI) Science Board, the Flavor and Extract Manufacturer (FEMA) Flavor Regulatory Affairs Committee and the FoodDrinkEurope (FDF) Ingredient Group on Flavoring Issues. Recently, Firmenich took a leading role in helping IFRA and RIFM reshape the fragrance industry’s ingredient assessment program. We have strongly campaigned for more innovative risk assessment approaches that shift the attention away from the use of animal studies and encouraged the incorporation of toxicity screening assays into our assessment program to enable more efﬁcient © Michelly Rall fragrance material evaluation. In particular, Firmenich was instrumental in the integration of BlueScreen™ HC (Gentronix Ltd) methodconsortia and working groups enables us to ology into RIFM’s testing cascade to prioranticipate future needs and proactively deitize materials of concern for genotoxicity velop the most efﬁcient and reliable techand reduce the number of untested materials niques to characterize our ingredients for their in the fragrance palette for this critical composition and environmental properties. health endpoint. In line with its historical culture of innovation, the Firmenich Research Division is highly committed to proposing new scientiﬁc solutions to solve the challenges posed to our industry by rapidly evolving regulations. Our deep involvement in various professional 16 | Firmenich INVESTING IN PEOPLE Engaging Our Employees As a family-owned company, we know that people are the heart of our company and that shared values are essential to success. To achieve our sustainable business goals, we need to attract and retain the best talent, stimulate creative and innovative thinking, and draw fully on the knowledge, experience and diverse backgrounds of our employees. We employ 91 nationalities across the company. “Tell Us How You Feel:” Taking Actions to Strengthen Our Employee Value Proposition In 2012, Firmenich conducted an initial em1 ployee engagement survey that was extended company-wide in 2013. Employees engaged with management to identify a number of gram aims to reward employees, informing “Walk in my shoes” in Singapore 1 new opportunities to inspire and value our them of quarterly ﬁnancial results and fosworkforce. Our Human Resource Department tering company-wide accountability. In 2012, worked closely with Corporate Management employees overwhelmingly welcomed a new to launch initiatives to transform opportuniformat that better engages our employees ties into action plans. In this report we highwith the latest client and people updates. In light a number of these initiatives. parallel, to broaden employees’ understanding of Firmenich's strategy and objectives, we kicked off our ﬁrst webcast series featuring inspiring conversations with top executives. Walk in My Shoes Recognition In January 2013, our top executives led the One of our Fundamentals is to “create an way by being the ﬁrst participants in our environment in which each employee is “Walk in My Shoes” initiative. In this program, valued, empowered and encouraged to senior managers spent time working along grow.” Firmenich launched two new employeefrontline employees to better understand led recognition programs in 2013 to highlight workload and process issues and assess exceptional behaviors: the Firmenich Excelﬁrsthand obstacles and opportunities. This lence Award, a prestigious honor within our initiative fostered knowledge sharing, encompany, which rewards extraordinary procouraged cross-functional collaboration and ject planning, organizing, implementing and better equipped senior managers and frontdelivering; and the Firmenich Spot Award, line employees to take corrective actions which is an immediate, local and managerwhile also strengthening our processes and led highlight of exemplary performance or tools. In the ﬁrst six months, 120 employees and behaviors. 50 senior managers engaged in this program. Career Development Internal Communication on In 2012, to facilitate all aspects of training, Company Performance and Strategy career development and growth, Firmenich All Firmenich employees beneﬁt from our created the Career Discussion Guide for proﬁt-sharing program: The Prime. This promanagers and employees and reassessed Firmenich | 17 that we are not only attracting and hiring the best and most diverse talent but also that we are retaining that talent by creating an inclusive work environment. Our approach supports the goal that all our 1 employees are treated with fairness, equality and respect. Firmenich continually strives to: Build an environment of inclusion Treat all employees with fairness, equality and respect and Attract, retain and engage talented and Princeton, NJ, eLearning training courses. Firmenich also employees in 1 diverse people a culinary kitchen started designing clear development expecFirmenich Laboratory tations, called “career development building We highlight in this report statistics related in Princeton, 2 blocks,” for all divisions and all functions to to gender diversity, which is an area of focus New Jersey, U.S. clarify career development areas, create for our company. speciﬁc action plans and strengthen the career growth and development of our employees. Women’s Empowerment Principles Firmenich is one of 600 companies worldwide, Leadership and Development and the only company in the Fragrance and Our employee engagement survey also led the Flavor industry to have signed the CEO statedevelopment and implementation of executive ment of support of the Women’s Empowercommunications training for many of our senior ment Principles. These seven principles are: managers. The training was considered highly successful and will be followed in the coming 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership year by a broader communications curriculum for gender equality. for mid-level managers. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and Focus on: Diversity and Inclusion nondiscrimination. Throughout its history, Firmenich has demonstrated a strong commitment to people 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being and values. This is expressed in the Firmenich of all female/male workers. Fundamentals. We believe that a diverse work4. Promote education, training and profesforce will help our company realize its full sional development for women. potential and will allow us to beneﬁt from the 5. Implement enterprise development, supcreativity and innovation of people with differply chain and marketing practices that ent experiences, perspectives and cultural empower women. backgrounds. It will also enable us to under6. Promote equality through community inistand and respond to our diverse and changing tiatives and advocacy. customer base throughout the world. 7. Measure and publicly report on progress For Firmenich, inclusiveness is about the exto achieve gender equality. ploration of our individual differences in a safe, positive and nurturing environment. In December 2012, Firmenich hosted the ﬁrst Understanding each other allows us to move Swiss roundtable on the Women’s Empowerbeyond simple tolerance to embrace and ment Principles to advance equality between celebrate the rich dimensions of diversity. men and women. Attendees worked on two key topics: how to communicate the status of We believe that attracting, developing and the Women’s Empowerment Principles imretaining a diverse base of talented employees plementation, and the Women’s Empoweris essential to our success. We make sure ment Principles value proposition. 18 | Firmenich To foster diversity, develop our talents and encourage senior female leaders’ career deIntegrating Adults with Disabilities in Geneva velopment, Firmenich also launched a Senior Leader Mentoring program. This initiative Since 1979, Firmenich has engaged with the state of Geneva to paired six senior female leaders from Geneva, hire physically and intellectually disabled employees. Today, 24 Paris, New York and Singapore to six memwell trained and skilled adults with disabilities occupy various bers of our executive leadership team. On top positions at our Meyrin-Satigny site in Switzerland. These emof these strategic initiatives, Firmenich also ployees are respected and highly valued. runs a number of work-life balance programs. Female Presence at Main Levels of the Firmenich Career Ladder (in %) Professional 49% Management 31% The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) Senior Expert Senior Leadership Sedex is a nonproﬁt membership organization dedicated to driving improvements in Expert People Leadership responsible and ethical business practices Advanced Operational Management in global supply chains. Sedex provides an Experienced Supervision electronic system for collecting and analyzing information on ethical and responsible business practices in the supply chain. Staff 35% Senior Technician Substantially all Firmenich manufacturing sites have been audited against the Sedex Technician SMETA guidelines (and the Firmenich Social Staff Entry Level Accountability Standard) and the audit reports registered on the Sedex website. Sedex provides a secure, online database that allows members to store, share and report on information in four key areas: Labor Standards Health & Safety The Environment Business Ethics Buyers can view and manage ethical Customer information for all their suppliers in one secure place. Sedex Supplier Supplier Supplier 2 Firmenich | 19 © Michelly Rall © Michelly Rall GREEN Managing Our Footprint RESPECTING OUR 6.1% ENVIRONMENT REDUCTION IN ENERGY USE IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Our Performance In 2010, we set a very ambitious sustainability goal to reduce our absolute CO 2 emissions by 15% over a ﬁve-year period. We now realFirmenich continues to make credible and ize how ambitious this goal actually is, given signiﬁcant progress in many key environthat CO 2 emissions as a rate of production mental performance indicators (comparing (kg CO 2 / tonne product) are relatively ﬂat on FY13 against the previous year and against a ﬁ ve-year rolling basis FY08-FY13 (-0.6%) rolling ﬁ ve-year baselines) with improveand have increased by 13% on an absolute ments in performance for seven out of eight basis. The original assumptions used at the of the indicators reported – see table below. time to deﬁne the 15% absolute reduction were We will continue to develop metrics to better largely based on an optimized operational understand our environmental performance footprint, as well as energy efﬁciency gains. In hindsight, the ﬁve-year window we set to and adopt more indicators to ensure that we achieve this reduction was too ambitious. maintain an effective, continual improvement Our future operational footprint is now well strategy. deﬁned and being executed to plan and the Energy Use and Carbon Dioxide (CO2) programs for energy efﬁciency (see a sample Emissions on pages 26 and 27 and in previous sustainaWe remain steadfast in our commitment to bility reports) are starting to deliver the reducreducing CO 2 emissions through a range of tions we need. We will not alter our goal or energy efﬁciency projects and to increasing timescale and will strive to deliver the reduction the use of more sustainable fuel types, as originally stated. where feasible. During FY13, our rate of energy use was reduced by 3.6% compared with the previous year and by 6.1% against a rolling ﬁ ve-year baseline (FY08 compared against FY13). Our Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 emissions rate in kg per tonne of production also fell by 4.5% (compared with 2012) and by 0.6% against the rolling ﬁve-year baseline. FY12 FY13 Annual FY08 vs. Change (%) FY13 Change (%) Total Energy Use (GJ/t) 11.1 10.7 -3.6 -6.1% Scope 1 and 2 CO2 Emissions (kg/t) 818 781 -4.5 -0.6% VOC (kg/t) 1.2 1.2 0.0 -55.6 Total Water Use (m3/t) 23.1 22.5 -2.6 -31.0% 3 Process Water Use (m /t) 8.4 7.1 -15.5 -26.0 Hazardous Waste (kg/t)* 79 75 -5.1 -31.8 Waste to Energy (%)* 30.1 32.3 +7.3 NA * Waste to Landﬁll (%) 9.1 8.3 -8.8 -34.6 * Note Hazardous Waste (kg/t) for FY13 excludes the “one-off” hazardous wastes generated by the December 2012 ﬁre at our warehouse in Argentina, which are considered exceptional (these are however reported in the absolute hazardous waste ﬁgures on page 46 at the end of the report). 22 | Firmenich 3,500 55.6% EXPECTED REDUCTION IN TONNES OF CO2 REDUCTION IN THE COMING YEARS IN VOC EMISSION RATES Reducing Energy and CO2 Emissions Around the World In the last 12 months, we have committed more than 2.6 million CHF to projects aimed at reducing our energy footprint. This funding was used to implement 22 energy efﬁciency projects and six projects involving renewable (solar) energy. These projects will reduce our CO2 emissions by more than 3,500 tonnes per year in the coming years. © Michelly Rall Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) This is the ﬁfth year that Firmenich has been reporting Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions under the CDP. Our FY12 submission scored 74 on disclosure (an improvement on our FY11 score of 72). Also, during this period and for the ﬁrst time, our Carbon Disclosure sub11.4 FY08 10.7 FY13 mission (for FY13) was independently veriﬁed by SGS. We will continue to actively particiEnergy GJ/t of production pate in the CDP. electricity renewable natural gas generated onsite VOC oil incinerating waste We recognize that continuous improvement coal biofuel (wood) indirect heat cannot be achieved at the same rate all of the purchased steam purchased time and despite our best efforts, compared LPG against our FY12 baseline, VOC emission rates have remained ﬂat. In the early years of our 786 781 strategy, we invested heavily in standards and technology to measure and abate VOCs and FY08 FY13 modiﬁed processes to reduce emissions. These initiatives have been implemented, and VOCs CO2 Emissions are much better managed: over a ﬁ ve-year kg/t of production rolling baseline performance period, this indiCO2 Scope1 cator has improved considerably with a reducCO2 Scope2 tion in VOC emission rates of 55.6%. We now see more stable VOC emissions year on year. The intent going forward is to ensure we manage VOC rates at the current stability level. 2.7 FY08 1.2 FY13 VOC Emissions kg/t of production Firmenich | 23 31% 31.8% TOTAL WATER USE REDUCTION REDUCTION IN HAZARDOUS PER TONNE OF PRODUCTION WASTE RATE IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Water Use Rate Waste Comparing against FY12, our total water use We have again this year made excellent prorate decreased by 2.6% and by 31% against gress on waste management. Hazardous waste the ﬁ ve-year baseline. The process water rates have been reduced by 5.1% since FY12 and rate has been reduced by 15.5% since last year by 31.8% based on a ﬁve-year rolling baseline. and by 26% against the ﬁve-year rolling baseWe continue to advance in ﬁnding ways to reline. Our target total water usage rate is a 15% cycle waste. Waste sent to landﬁll decreased reduction by 2015 (against a 2010 baseline). We by 8.8% since FY12. Based on a ﬁ ve-year are well on our way to achieving this goal. rolling baseline, wastes sent to landﬁll have been reduced by 34.6%. Wastes used for energy recovery increased by 7.3% since FY12. 32.6 FY08 22.5 FY13 Environmental Scorecards As reported in FY12, Firmenich launched a Total Water pilot environmental scorecard initiative to encourage environmental improvement Usage amongst our largest suppliers. The scorecards are used to collate and evaluate supm3/t of production plier-speciﬁc environmental data including: domestic energy used, wastes produced, water used process and emission of greenhouse gases. SuppleNC-cooling mentary questions cover topics such as imdomestic = sanitary + gardening cooling = noncontact cooling water * provement projects, ﬁnes and management systems. 110 FY08 75 FY13 The scorecards were received back and analyzed in FY13. In this ﬁrst year of the pilot, all Hazardous Waste suppliers who returned scorecards were kg/t of production provided with feedback on their score as it related to the completeness of their scorecard responses. In future years, scores and feedback will be based on the level and scope of reporting and environmental progress achieved. The pilot has proved a success with basic data being provided by 30 important suppliers. Scorecards will now be used annually to track supply chain perforRecycled Waste 13,175 FY08 12,176 FY13 mance and improvements over time. The scorecards are currently concerned with tonnes supplier-wide performance and will later * Noncontact cooling water is water that collect product-speciﬁc data that will be is used in heat exchangers and does not contact materials from the process used for calculating the product Environthat it is used to cool. Since it does not contact process materials, the cooling mental Sustainability Index, conducting water does not become contaminated product life-cycle analysis and reporting on during use. After use, the water is returned to the sources (e.g., lake, river) Scope 3 carbon emissions. from which it was obtained. 24 | Firmenich 12,176 TONNES OF RECYCLED WASTE Eliminating Freon Wastewater Treatment REDUCING OZONE-DEPLETING GAS WASTEWATER TREATMENT IN CHINA EMISSIONS IN NEW ULM, MINNESOTA, U.S. Firmenich Shanghai invested in a wastewater An aging refrigeration system, for both a walk-in treatment plant upgrade. product cooler and a freezer, in the New Ulm afﬁliate has been replaced with two separate An investment of 300K CHF was made to increase cooler and freezer refrigeration units. Both conplant capacity, upgrade odor treatment, and tain an advanced refrigerant (R404A) that is not advance electrical and pipe work systems considered ozone-depleting. As an added advanand sludge dewatering. The work, which was tage, the replacement units use much less energy completed in December 2012 will improve odor because they have high efﬁciency compressors removal efﬁciency more than 84% and increase and condenser coils and use independent control treatment capacity by approximately 15%. systems. Update on Certiﬁcations As part of our ongoing commitment to certify ”In China, an emerging market of particular signiﬁall manufacturing sites against OHSAS 18001 cance to Firmenich, the compliance team has played and ISO 14001 by 2015, our site in Toluca, an active role in implementing our unwavering comMexico, achieved ISO 14001 certiﬁcation this mitment to Our Fundamentals. I see sustainability year. Eighty percent of our sites are now ceras an exciting, enduring and invigorating journey.” tiﬁed under both OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. Rachael Rui-Feng Chen-Sun, VP, Government Relations and Corporate Compliance, China Firmenich | 25 Highlights of Our Global Environmental Sustainability Efforts 1 Electrical equipment installation 6 Natural gas equipment modiﬁcation Port Newark, NJ, U.S.: Installation of electrical Port Newark, NJ, U.S.: Equipment and operational equipment to improve power quality and reduce modiﬁcations to improve natural gas efﬁciency in air power distribution losses. Estimated annual savings treatment thermal oxidizer. of 1,000 MWh in electricity and 550 tonnes of CO2. 2 Plant steam upgrades Anaheim, CA, U.S.: Upgrades to restore plant steam system efﬁciency. 3 4 New Ulm MN, U.S. 3 R22 compressor upgrades 2 4 1 4 Port Newark, U.S. 6 Anaheim CA, U.S. New Ulm, MN, U.S.: R22 compressor upgrade to increase compressor efﬁciency and eliminate Freon use. 4 4 LED lighting installation Princeton NJ, U.S. Newark and Princeton, NJ; New Ulm, MN; Anaheim, CA, U.S.; Geneva, Switzerland, and Shanghai, Toluca, Mexico China: Installation of LED lighting in ofﬁces, labs, 5 7 warehouses, manufacturing areas and a parking garage. Annual savings of 750 MWh in electricity and 385 tonnes of CO2. Sao Paulo, Brazil 5 5 Solar-powered water heater installation 7 Natural gas line installation Sao Paulo, Brazil, and Toluca, Mexico: Installation of Thirsk, U.K., and Toluca, Mexico: Installation of natural a solar-powered water heater for domestic water. gas lines to boilers and other ﬁred equipment, replacing Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) supplies. These two projects reduced on-site CO2 emissions by 430 tonnes per year and eliminated the hazardous transportation and off-loading risks associated with LPG and the CO2 emissions related to truck deliveries. The process safety risks associated with maintaining LPG inventory on-site were also eliminated. 26 | Firmenich 8 Solar photovoltaic projects 10 Recovery of heat Castets, France; Dahej and Daman, India: InstalGeneva, Switzerland: Recovery of heat from equiplation of solar photovoltaic projects to generate ment cleaning water prior to discharge. The cooled electricity. wastewater is also preferred by the wastewater treatment authorities. Annual savings are anticipated at 3,180 MWh in electricity and 630 tonnes of CO 2 . (This project is still under construction). 7 Thirsk, U.K. Geneva, Switzerland 4 10 4 11 9 Shanghai, China Kunming, China Castets, France Dahej, India 8 8 11 12 Singapore Daman, India 8 11 Downstream meters installation Shanghai, China, and Singapore: Installation of downstream meters on electricity, gas and water supplies. While downstream meters do not directly reduce usage, the data generated is essential to understand usage patterns and identify savings opportunities. We are encouraging our other afﬁliates to develop additional downstream metering projects. 9 Coal-ﬁred boilers conversion 12 Solar-powered water heater installation Kunming, China: Implementation of a project to conSingapore: Installation of a new 3,500 liter solarvert the existing coal-ﬁred boilers to run on biofuels powered water heater. Annual savings of 57 MWh in made from wood waste, rice husk and bark in FY13. electricity and 31 tonnes of CO2. In Brazil and Mexico, Historically, the boilers consumed 4,415 tonnes of coal similar smaller solar systems have been installed and emitted 11,777.7 tonnes of CO2 (annual consumpfor domestic hot water. tion/emissions 2012). Firmenich | 27 SUSTAINABLE INGREDIENTS AND PRODUCTS Environmental Firmenich is now seeking to collaborate with selected suppliers and clients to test Sustainability Index how the index could be used to aid decision making on sustainable sourcing and product Firmenich is seeking to encourage and lead in development. the development of industry standards for the life-cycle assessment of synthetic fragrance Highlights from FY13 and ﬂ avor ingredients and compounds. In FY13, the index methodology was subjected to an external critical review and validation The Firmenich Environmental Sustainability in line with ISO 14040-44 standards. It was Index for Synthetic Materials is an innovative conducted by David Aeron-Thomas from Forum and pragmatic method of modeling, measfor the Future and Michael Z. Hauschild, Prouring and reporting a range of important fessor and Head of the Division for Quantitasustainability indicators associated with the tive Sustainability Assessment at the Technical sourcing, manufacturing, use and ﬁnal disposal University of Denmark in Copenhagen. The of fragrance and ﬂavor ingredients. The index reviewers considered the methods used to scoring allows ranking of ingredients and also carry out the life-cycle assessment, validity illustrates how much each life-cycle stage, or of data sources, interpretation of results and each environmental indicator, contributes to the transparency of reporting. The reviewers the total index score. approved the methodology and general interpretation but also made a number of recomThe index, which was further reﬁned in FY13, mendations for improvement. has already been used internally to help production and supply chain managers underAlso this year, a new, more robust method of stand which materials have the greatest extracting production data internally was impacts and to identify where in the life-cycle tested. Three general chemicals were anaof each ingredient the critical impacts occur. lyzed as benchmarks, and for the ﬁrst time Data collected for the index was also used to data for 10 ingredients were obtained from respond to customer inquiries about the external suppliers to evaluate how the Index carbon footprint of certain ingredients. might be more widely used within the fragrance and ﬂ avor sector. A sensitivity analyPreliminary discussions have also been held sis showed that data-collection methodologies with selected suppliers and clients to determine and boundaries and the reliability of supplier how the index may be used on a wider scale. data were important factors in determining It is intended that the index will be used to: the index scores and its accuracy. Respond to client queries regarding ingredient and compound environmental To date, a total of 101 ingredients have been performance (including the completion of evaluated (50 in 2012 and 51 in 2013). The environmental scorecards) most impactful life-cycle stage varies widely for each ingredient, but generally most Assist perfumers and ﬂavorists in the creation impacts are associated with raw materials, and development of sustainable formulae energy consumption, waste production and Help set targets to reduce the impacts of product properties. ingredients Help compare the environmental performance of similar ingredients from different suppliers Help clients better understand their ﬁnal products 28 | Firmenich Recap on Index Methodology Developed in partnership with Quantis, experts in life-cycle assessment, the index was ﬁrst introduced by Firmenich in 2011. The index is based on quantiﬁed data of three key environmental indicator categories: climate change, water depletion and potential environmental toxicity. Three key ingredient life-cycle stages are taken into account: 1. Sourcing and transportation of the ingredient’s raw materials What Are the Life-Cycle Stage Contributions? 2. On-site synthesis of the ingredient (where impacts would arise from water and energy INDICATORS Environmental consumption and waste generation) Climate Change Water Toxicity 3. Product use and disposal (“gate to grave”) Sourcing Raw Material ✓ ✓ ✓ LIFE-CYCLE STAGE These impact category and life-cycle data are aggreTransport ✓ ✓ ✓ On-site Production gated and normalized to express the ﬁnal index score in Energy Consumption ✓ ✓ ✓ terms of the impacts generated by an average global Water Consumption 0 ✓ 0 citizen over a period of one year. Waste Production ✓ ✓ ✓ Product Use and Disposal An index score of one means that the production of Product Properties Not relevant Not relevant ✓ one tonne of the ingredient has the same impact on the environment as an average global citizen in one year. Different impact at different Ingredient life-cycle stages 38 34 30 26 Raw Material Index Score (person-year/tonne) Transport 22 Waste Production Energy Consumption Product Properties 18 External 14 10 6 2 -2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 Ingredients Ranked 1 to 50 (real data) Firmenich | 29 Knowledge ALL FIRMENICH FRAGRANCE INGREDIENTS HAVE NOW BEEN TESTED FOR BIODEGRADATION Biodegradation and Ecotoxicity For environmental studies, we have not only established new analytical methods to support the ecotoxicological tests, but we are also Firmenich aims to provide clients and conbuilding an in-depth understanding of the sumers, perfumers and ﬂ avorists with a fragrance compound behavior in water. In palette of ingredients that meet the highest addition, we have improved the measurement safety and environmental criteria at the accuracy of reference data used for in-silico leading edge of the current knowledge. tests, which increases the reliability of subsequent predictions. All Firmenich fragrance ingredients have now been tested for biodegradation. Beyond reguWe have decreased organic solvent use in our latory requirements, all compounds that have analytical laboratories by replacing them with the potential to be introduced on the market more environmentally acceptable green subare systematically and proactively submitted stitutes and by using new analytical instruments to the same tests. We have thus provided the that use less solvent and energy. prediction models (Catalogic) with a key contribution. In addition, we have worked to uncover biodegradation pathways that were previously obscure. © Michelly Rall 30 | Firmenich Expertise NEW TECHNOLOGY FOR ALTERNATIVE, SUSTAINABLE INGREDIENTS Partnership with Amyris Firmenich is working in partnership with biotech company Amyris to develop an alternative, sustainable and complementary source of fragrance and ﬂ avor ingredients. Many of the natural ingredients currently ThermaromeTM used in the Fragrance and Flavor industry are in limited supply and can potentially sufSustainable Flavor Encapsulation fer from variation in availability and quality. Synthetic alternatives often require complex Technology chemical conversions of nonrenewable inSustainability is a complex equation, comgredients such as petrochemicals. bining environmental, economic and social considerations. By investing time and experThis innovative project uses microorganisms tise into sustainable innovation, it is possible as “living factories” to convert sugars (from to produce solutions that can solve multiple a variety of different sources) into selected challenges. renewable fragrance and ﬂ avor ingredients that have many fewer sustainability and Firmenich has been working closely with our availability concerns. clients on a new patented natural encapsulation technology (ThermaromeTM) to reduce One of the ﬁrst products being produced is ﬂ avor oil losses when the ﬂ avors are applied patchouli oil, which is a key ingredient in a to particular products. Findings indicate that large number of fragrances. Patchouli is a this technology not only reduces the amount member of the mint family and grows mainly of raw materials used but also reduces odors in Asia and Africa, but like many other natural and the potential of employee exposure to essential oils it is prone to serious supply VOCs in the workplace, thus potentially limitchain problems. For example, in 2010, a voling the need for abatement technologies. canic eruption in Java (one of the best sources The total carbon footprint of the encapsuof patchouli oil) destroyed a signiﬁcant prolated ﬂ avors has been calculated as lower portion of the patchouli crops and dramaticompared to the standard products they cally increased prices. Patchouli plants also could potentially replace. suffer from a variety of diseases, which affect oil yields and quality. The new biotech patchouli would help mitigate such issues. Firmenich | 31 © Michelly Rall © Michelly Rall GROWTH Innovative and Inclusive Business PARTNERING IN 120 Million SUSTAINABILITY TREES PLANTED BY THE LIVELIHOODS FUND. FIRMENICH IS VERY PROUD TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH SUCH AN INITIATIVE our CEO, and on the Board of Directors by Eric Firmenich engages regularly with clients and Nicolas, our Corporate Vice President and Chief suppliers to share best practices and ideas on Financial Ofﬁcer. In the coming year, Firmenich sustainable innovation. Firmenich has also devellooks forward to getting actively involved in the oped several cross-sector partnerships to support Fund's projects. This sort of engagement reits sustainability programs. These partnerships inforces the integration of our sustainability allow us to engage with strategic stakeholders, thinking at all levels of our company. such as NGOs, academia and governments, and enrich our sustainability work with specialized competencies. In FY13, we continued our collaborations with a number of key long-term sustainability partners (see partnership map on page 35) and initiated new partnerships with the Livelihoods Fund, the World Toilet Organization and the Union for Ethical Biotrade. Our decision to engage in new partnerships is driven by our materiality analysis and by the capacity of potential new partners to connect directly with our core business priorities: for example, we will work with the Union for Ethical Biotrade to review our portfolio of natural ingredients and better understand our impact on biodiversity. 1 Livelihoods Fund 1 The Livelihoods Fund Project in the Araku Valley, India The Livelihoods Fund, an investment fund creOur sustainability partners ated in 2011, aims at supporting “the efforts of challenge us every day in our agricultural and rural communities to live in sustainability projects, from sustainable ecosystems which serve as the India to Haiti, to design impactful, foundation for their food security and provide sustainable solutions. the resources that ensure their sustainability.” The Fund supports agroforestry, rural energy Dr. Bérangère Magarinos-Ruchat, and ecosystem-restoration projects that transVP, Sustainability Partnerships form degraded ecosystems back into productive ones for local communities, while increasing CO2 sequestration initiatives. To date, the Livelihoods Fund has planted 120 million trees, and Firmenich is very proud to be associated with such an initiative. Firmenich made a long-term ﬁnancial commitment to the Livelihoods Fund in 2013. Firmenich is represented on the Fund's Advisory Board by Patrick Firmenich, 34 | Firmenich Our Partnership Map DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS KNOWLEDGE PUBLIC AND LEARNING COMMITMENTS PARTNERS EXTERNAL VALIDATION AND REPORTING PARTNERS ENVIRONMENT PARTNERS Firmenich | 35 SUSTAINABLE 2.6 Billion INNOVATION IN PERFUMERY PEOPLE WORLDWIDE WHO DO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO PROPER SANITATION Vision and Strategy to improve access to sanitation in developing countries. The perfumery division focuses its sustainabilSustainable Sanitation ity strategy on four main pillars: eco-design, In 2012, in partnership with the Bill and Melinda ethical naturals, health and hygiene and our Gates Foundation and within the context of people. To further integrate sustainability their Reinvent the Toilet Challenge, Firmenich throughout our business and reach all perfumscientists successfully achieved the identiﬁery functions, cross-functional teams are workcation of the molecules that contribute the ing together on these themes. Looking ahead, most to latrine malodors, a crucial factor in Firmenich will continue developing sustaindeveloping malodor-counteracting fragrance able fragrance solutions and innovations, technologies targeted to the base of the contribute to the improvement of consumer pyramid (BoP) consumers. This research has lives through hygiene and well-being and been published, allowing other scientists to further leverage the exceptional creativity of contribute to the development of safe and our teams on sustainability issues. We aim sustainable sanitation in developing counto continue to be recognized and preferred tries. Our ﬁeld experience will help us create by our partners and our clients for the tangiperforming malodor-counteracting technolble contributions we make to sustainability. ogies that can impact and beneﬁt sanitation and hygiene management. Jack Sim with Patrick Firmenich 1 The World Toilet Organization As part of our research program on malodor control and of our India Base of the Pyramid Project, Firmenich mapped the stakeholders involved in access to sanitation at the BoP. Globally, 2.6 billion people do not have access to proper sanitation. In 2012, we started a 1 dialogue with Jack Sim, the founder and CEO of the World Toilet Organization, who has been involved in sustainable sanitation since Malodor Management 2001 and was named “Hero of the Environment” by Time Magazine in 2008. By breakIn 2012, Firmenich pursued efforts to better ing a taboo on sanitation, his work is helping understand malodors in order to design innoto save millions of lives. Sim visited our vative and affordable fragrance technologies Geneva ofﬁces in January 2013 and offered a to improve sanitation and hygiene conditions very inspiring lecture hosted by our Research in developing countries. Division. With a great sense of humor, Sim shared his belief in social entrepreneurship, Poor sanitation, lack of hand washing with private market solutions and creative marsoap and limited access to safe drinkingketplaces where local entrepreneurs offer water are the main causes for the nearly 1.7 goods and services that are needed, desired billion cases of diarrheal diseases and the and affordable for their customers – especially deaths of 760,000 children under ﬁve years old for the four billion people living at the base of every year. Public and private organizations the pyramid. He also shared the importance of are focusing on the education of populations fragrance in making toilets more desirable 36 | Firmenich Sustainability Award FIRMENICH RECEIVED THE 2013 SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP AWARD FOR ITS COLLABORATION WITH THE NAANDI FOUNDATION for BoP consumers. Our work on sanitation welcomed the program: they were comfortwith Sim and other stakeholders is helping able sharing information with interviewers Firmenich expand its positive social impacts and excited to express their opinions on globally. products that they use and desire. World Corporate Social Responsibility Congress Award for Sustainability The Naandi Foundation and Leadership Our Shared Senses Project In February 2013, during the World Corporate Social Responsibility Congress in Mumbai, India, Firmenich received the Sustainability The Shared Senses project illustrates our Leadership Award with the Naandi Foundation approach to shared value creation by connecting Firmenich with BoP consumers. We have been working for the past three years toward our vision to create an inclusive and participatory approach to better understand consumers who live on three to ten dollars a day in India. Our program is now also starting to be developed in “favelas” in Brazil. In order to better connect to low income consumers, we changed our traditional approach to gaining consumer insight and decided to use consumer interviewers from the target consumers’ own community. We worked with our longtime partner, the Naandi Foundation, to train local populations. This project allowed Naandi students to earn a living and gain valuable work experience, while acquiring new skills on market research and interview techniques. 2 In the course of the past year, we scaled up our project, which now includes regular product testing and produces quantitative in the category of Best Project Collaboration Naandi students 2 conducting olfactive tests and qualitative data on hygiene, home care for our Shared Senses project in India. More with BoP communities in India and body care habits. We have trained 96 than 2,500 applicants worldwide competed students to become interviewers and 16 for this award. We were honored to receive the supervisors to support the project on a daily award for our social innovation supporting basis with the Naandi Mahindra Pride School. low income consumers in India. Firmenich Beyond new professional skills, Naandi stulooks forward to continuing our work with dents are gaining more conﬁdence. They the Naandi Foundation and replicating the successfully conducted more than 1,000 insuccess of this project in other regions. terviews with low income consumers in rural and urban communities throughout India, from Mohali to Chennai. BoP consumers also Firmenich | 37 SUSTAINABLE Salt Reduction INNOVATION Reducing salt in products is another key driver of our innovation platform. Our SaltPrint™ portfolio allows our customers to IN FLAVORS reduce the levels of salt in many different products, such as soups, dressings and meats. Pulses Project with McGill University This year, partnering with the McGill Center for the Convergence of Health and Economics (MCCHE), we started a new multipartner We believe that one of our biggest contribuprogram focused on increasing global contions is helping our customers tackle their sumption of pulses, which are annual legusustainability challenges and meet their minous crops such as lentils and pigeon peas. goals. To fully understand how we can have the most positive impact, we created an inPulses provide a high-value nutritional ternal advisory network comprised of 20 source of plant-based proteins but remain senior leaders to examine how the ﬂ avors underexploited in processed foods. The proindustry could most effectively address the ject, initiated by the MCCHE, calls for inissues faced by our clients in the food and volvement of the public and private sectors beverage industry. Collectively, this “susto address the underutilization of such a tainability ambassadors” network has idennutritious crop. tiﬁed a number of key projects to pursue in FY14, focused around four pillars: health and The vision of this effort is to move from nutrition, sourcing, environment and base of “feeding” people to “nourishing” people the pyramid populations. around the world. This aim will be achieved by enhancing consumption and perception of pulses as a nutritious, plant-based protein source. Successes and Innovations Consumer Insights and Healthier Eating We continue to focus on discovering and comWhy do most healthy products fail to establish mercializing innovations in the ﬁeld of taste consumer preference? Why do some people perception and modulation, targeting our struggle to lose weight despite huge efforts efforts on sweet and salt, as well as on coolwhile others seem to keep a healthy waistline ing, protein and umami. effortlessly? Understanding why and how people make their food choices is critical when Sugar Reduction addressing food-related health issues. In order Globally, the consumption of sugar has steadily to fully understand consumers and their increased, resulting in a rise in health conrelationship to healthy foods, Firmenich is a cerns such as obesity and diabetes. Our cusfounding member of The Global Healthy tomers are looking for new and innovative Choices Behavioral Project, an initiative that ways to address this problem while still aims to fully uncover the basis for consumer providing consumers with the products they preference. know and love. The project, led by MCCHE, uses innovative We have designed a speciﬁ c portfolio of techniques to uncover consumer behaviors toward food (i.e., in-depth psychological asproducts (TasteGEM™) to help food and bevsessment and neurolinguistic programming). erage manufacturers restore the taste proThis deep understanding of consumers’ attiﬁles to foods and beverages with reduced tudes will shed light on the emotional drivers sugar. In FY13, we had tremendous success that shift consumers toward healthier choices helping our customers around the world rein food, which will lead to new and exciting duce the amount of sugar in their products, opportunities for food manufacturers looking including yogurt, chocolate milk, soft drinks to create healthier products. and juices. 38 | Firmenich There are currently four corporate sponsors on board with the project, and a North American pilot has begun with the recruitment of participants for the ﬁrst phase. In addition, we recently received approval from the University of Toronto's Ethical Board to investigate the correlation between behavioral food choices and genetic imprints, which will allow us to make important connections to people’s food choices and their genes. 1 Utilizing our technology and expertise, we are Firmenich Norway 1 Collaboration with McGill University transforming by-products from the seafood industry and maximizing the value created Firmenich has been a corporate partner of the McGill from the marine resources. This contributes to Center for the Convergence of Health and Economics meeting market demand for seafood ﬂ avors (MCCHE) program for two years. MCCHE is a world without adding an extra burden on ﬁsh stocks. leader in promoting the development of a novel, integrative approach to the study of nutrition-related Working with the Norwegian Government global health challenges. This integrative approach Since 1989, we have been a driving force in requires the collaboration of government, academia, ﬁnding ways to better utilize the proteins from NGOs and the private sector, and Firmenich plays an seafood industry by-products, which tradiactive role in the efforts of MCCHE. tionally are put back into the sea or utilized for animal feed. Through a sophisticated biotechnological process, we take these by-products and convert them into ﬂ avor Sustainable Seafood Flavors: and nutritional ingredients. As a result of this work, we were recently recognized by Firmenich Norway the Norwegian government in a white paper to Parliament published in March 2013. “Upcycling” rethinks and reprocesses waste streams to create value. One example of As part of our continued commitment to im“upcycling” within our value chain is found at prove the practices of the ﬁshing industry, our seafood ﬂavor facility in Norway. Our opwe now have an ongoing project supported erations in Ålesund, on the northern coast and partly funded by the Norwegian governwith access to the Barentz Sea, process ment to further develop ways to utilize an 10,000 tons of seafood raw materials (largely additional 180,000 tons of by-products from by-products from the seafood industry) from the Norwegian ﬁshing ﬂeet and to increase around the world. Our focus is on 25 natural the value of marine resources. seafood materials and 11 species of ﬁsh, all of which have been caught in the wild; in fact, 86% of our total seafood raw material is Marine Stewardship Council (MSC™) Certiﬁcation sourced from Marine Stewardship CouncilTM Cod is a popular ﬁsh that is enjoyed around the world. In recent years, overﬁshing has certiﬁed ﬁsheries. The remaining 14% is led to a shortage of cod in Canada and the North Sea. However, in the Barentz Sea the from smaller ﬁsheries that are in the process stock has been well managed, and this is where Firmenich buys all our cod ﬁsh raw of certiﬁcation. material. The Norwegian government has made a great effort to increase the level of cod stock and to ensure its sustainability. The by-products, which seafood manufacturers had previously disposed of into the sea, The cod now caught in the Barentz Sea has been certiﬁed as sustainable by the MSCTM. are made into seafood extracts and ﬂ avors MSCTM certiﬁcation means that a ﬁshery operates in a manner that does not exploit such as shrimp, anchovy, lobster, crab and the stocks or any other marine life or ecosystem, has made efforts to minimize its other popular seafood tonalities for our environmental impact and abides by all local, national and international laws, and customers. These ﬂ avors are used in soups, the relevant scientiﬁc recommendations. stocks, sauces and ready-to-eat meals. Firmenich | 39 SUSTAINABLE Commitment SOURCING OF NATURALS THE SWISS DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION AGENCY AND FIRMENICH SUPPORT VETIVER FARMERS IN HAITI Our work with communities is deeply rooted in the needs and aspirations expressed by “Our partnership with Firmenich in the vetiver the communities themselves. Only by fully value chain in Haiti is an exciting «work under understanding the local challenges and enviconstruction» towards a shared vision. It brings ronment is it possible to devise appropriate, together the perspectives of building a sustainasustainable solutions. ble supply chain and achieving sustained poverty alleviation in southern Haiti, toward a better future Vetiver from Haiti of the farming communities.“ Firmenich has been buying vetiver from Haiti for decades. In 2010, Firmenich made a comBarbara Böni, Deputy Head, Latin America mitment under the Clinton Global Initiative platDivision, Swiss Development Cooperation form to work with vetiver farmers in Haiti to Agency, Foreign Affairs Ministry, develop a sustainable production of vetiver oil. Switzerland In 2012, at the Rio+20 Earth Summit, Firmenich launched a partnership with the Swiss Development and Cooperation Agency (SDC) to “The vetiver farmers I met in Haiti welcomed the further support vetiver farmers in Haiti. We opportunity to complement their artisanal skills with have deepened our partnership with the SDC modern technology. The children from the school in in Haiti to enhance the value chain, increase farmers’ incomes and crop diversiﬁcation Débouchette shared with me their dreams for a and strengthen community ecosystems. brighter future. As my stay in Haiti came to a close, I left the island with a true sense of hope. Each time Our partners, along with the Swiss Federal I smell the beautiful scent of vetiver, I will know Institute of Technology, based in Lausanne, that Firmenich played some small role in touching recently developed a new action plan focused the lives of the people of Haiti.” on renewable energy along with a socioPatrick Firmenich, CEO, Firmenich economic analysis showing the impact using vetiver leaves has on the farming communities, and an environmental analysis to evaluate the expected reduction of CO 2 emissions. Studying vetiver in Haiti 1 “My trip to Haiti with Firmenich has been very successful. It gave me a chance to explore how to engage with local vetiver producers in order to use vetiver biomass as a combustible for distillation of essential oil.” Edgard Gnansounou, Ph.D. Adjunct Professor EPFL Director of the Bioenergy and Energy Planning Research Group – EPFL 1 40 | Firmenich rural vanilla farmer. There is still a lot of stigma Reinforcing Our Engagement around HIV/AIDS. To reach more rural farmwith the Swiss Government ers, we combined the HIV/AIDS and malaria workshops with crop-production trainings, “SDC engages in partnerships with individual which has ensured greater participation in companies for reducing poverty through ditrainings and more voluntary testing. rect interventions – as in the vetiver initiative in Haiti with Firmenich. Companies also have Since the start of our Village Loans and Saving a role in governance and policy – as with the Association (VSLA) program with CARE InterUN Global Compact Swiss Network, in which national, a total of 194 groups have been formed Firmenich plays a key role.” with close to 5,850 members trained, manJean-Christophe Favre, Policy Advisor, aged and monitored by 10 community-based Partnerships with the Private Sector, trainers. Studies have been performed to conSwiss Development Cooperation Agency, ﬁrm that the VSLA program has improved the incomes of individuals and families. Foreign Affairs Ministry, Switzerland Madagascar Firmenich continues to support communities Vanilla from Uganda of farmers by purchasing Rainforest Alliance and Madagascar (RFA)-certiﬁed vanilla and, working with a client, is also establishing 40 drinking water Uganda wells in vanilla farming villages that previIn Uganda, the past 12 months have seen ously had no access to clean drinking water. considerable positive strides in the production During this period, Firmenich also assisted in of sustainable vanilla. Nearly 900 farmers the establishment of tree and crop nurseries have received training in improved crop to help farmers diversify their production management and production. With the estaband is contributing to the development of a lishment of viral disease-resistant cassava health center in the village of Ambodilaluna and nutritional sweet potato nurseries, 288 in Antsirabe, an important center for our farmers have received potato vines, and RFA-certiﬁed vanilla production. cassava cuttings will be provided beginning September 2013. More than 7,500 fruit, timber and wood trees have been distributed to Launch of Sustainable Ugandan farmers and to a demonstration farm estabVanilla-Based Cookie lished at our main partner's facility. Firmenich provided Ugandan sustainable vanilla Radio programs continue to be one of the extract as an ingredient in a premium cookie that most effective ways to reach and educate is being sold to support African social and envifarmers. Within the past year, 35 programs ronmental causes. The story of our sustainable have been broadcast through a number of Ugandan vanilla appears on both the product local radio stations in local languages. The packaging and on the company website and is demand for information on vanilla farming is an excellent example of our customers using a increasing at a rapid rate and demonstrates Firmenich sustainable ingredient as a brand the growing interest in vanilla in the region. differentiator. The programs are also contributing to the campaign to replant vanilla by attracting younger farmers. Approximately 855 individuals have attended HIV/AIDS and malaria workshops and have been counseled and tested for HIV. The reason for this success comes from the fact that our partner has chosen to take the service to the Firmenich | 41 1 2 Cardamom farmer Patchouli and Cardamom from Guatemala Copaiba and Tonka Beans from Brazil Guatemala 1 In Guatemala, Firmenich is working with a In the Brazilian Amazon, Firmenich has develKayapò woman with local supplier run by two young entrepreneurs oped two sustainable sourcing programs, with Tonka beans harvest 2 who promote sustainable sourcing. For the the support of local and global nonproﬁts, of Flavor Leadership Team past two years, they have distilled, exclusively copaiba oil and on tonka beans. As part of volunteer their time and 3 talent on Community Day for Firmenich, patchouli and cardamom esthese programs, Firmenich not only buys sential oils in the Paciﬁc region of Guatemala directly from the producing communities but using equipment provided by Firmenich. The also provides technical training and ﬁnancial patchouli production was ﬁrst implemented support. As a result, each community's income through an integrated cultivation program and has increased by 50-100%. In 2012-2013, later expanded to include a program in which Firmenich bought 31% of its copaiba oil supfree patchouli seedlings are distributed to plies from traditional communities. In 2013, local communities around the factory area. Firmenich started working with Kayapó The goal is to distribute 500,000 seedlings Indians on tonka beans. We trained the into approximately 1,000 families. digenous community, and they now provide 38.5% of our global supply of tonka beans. Our supplier also partners with a network of cardamom planters in the area of Cobán. Citrus Working directly with farmers allows them to Firmenich is a large consumer of citrus oil and pay higher prices directly to farmers and to knows the importance of traceability. In 2012, guarantee an income as the company buys the company started a citrus sustainability prothe entire crop from each farmer. The result gram with some of its larger suppliers in Latin is a supply of high-quality, sustainable carAmerica. The objectives of this program are to damom essential oil exclusive to Firmenich share knowledge with suppliers, evaluate them and its clients. on their sustainability practices, build synergies and identify opportunities to work together on increasing sustainability in our supply chain through technical training, environmental and social initiatives. “In Latin America, sustainability is a key element for Firmenich growth. In this very exciting environment, I am involved in managing responsible sourcing projects in the Amazon and regularly meet with customers and suppliers to develop joint sustainability initiatives in our supply chain.” Luciana Castro, VP Quality and Corporate Compliance, Latin America 3 42 | Firmenich TOUCHING HEARTS AND MINDS Community Involvement ofﬁcially opened a new school in Débouchette. While our sustainability work has become This school was built with funds contributed more and more integrated into our mainstream by the Firmenich Charitable Foundation, business, we maintain and expand our support matched by a grant from the Digicel Founfor our global philanthropic work and our dation. The school consists of ten classsupport for the local communities in which rooms and is considered a standout facility we operate. In September 2012, more than in the south of Haiti. Nearly 500 students 2,220 employees volunteered in 121 projects have already been provided with books and as part of our eighth annual Community Day. supplies, and teachers working under the This has become a key event for our company, National Education Program of the Ministry bringing employees together to express the of Education have touched the hearts and common values we place on individuals and minds of children who otherwise would not sharing our talents and creativity within our have had this opportunity. local communities. Being able to share our skills, energy and positive spirit with those Patrick Firmenich at the opening of the 4 who are less fortunate is an enriching expeFirmenich School rience for all who are involved. in Haiti Examples of Projects Carried Out Around the World This Year Include: Planting 1,000 trees in the rainforest in Mexico Rebuilding a children's playground in Norway 4 Cleaning beaches in Turkey and Japan Encouraging energy-saving measures Giving in China Charitable giving is embedded in our history. We believe that proﬁtable companies have a In the U.S., 100 global leaders from our Flavor social obligation to invest in their local comDivision joined together to paint and refurbish munities and in the world community. In FY13, apartments and landscape common areas at we contributed to more than 170 organizaEva’s Village, a New Jersey service agency tions – providing funds and volunteer time. that provides food, housing and health care Our philanthropic efforts are primarily funded to the underprivileged in one of the poorest through the Firmenich Charitable Foundation. communities in that state. Our giving program has three primary focus areas: Opening a New School in Haiti Working to cure cancer (with an emphasis As part of our ongoing sustainability work on breast cancer research) in Haiti, we identiﬁed the difﬁculties met by Providing improved access to nutrition the local farmers and, in particular, in the and hygiene to those in need rural village of Débouchette, which includes the absence of both adequate facilities and Supporting communities local to our facistaff for primary education. We decided to lities and from where we source natural raw take action, and in October 2012, Firmenich materials Firmenich | 43 ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Boundaries This is our eighth annual sustainability report. The report The Firmenich Code of Conduct is a document designed follows our 2012 report and contains a full year of data based to help our employees make ethical decision in their on ﬁscal year 2013 (FY13) from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. day-to-day work within the company. It is based on our The report covers global operations across the Firmenich Fundamentals and covers ethical points such as conﬂict Group including afﬁliates in 28 countries; it covers our of interest, corruption, antitrust, harassment, conﬁdenmanufacturing sites and nonmanufacturing locations. tiality, governance and polical and community activities. Within the document is a clear statement that Firmenich We focus on key activities and achievements that we will in no way support political candidates or parties either believe are of interest and value to our major stakeholder ﬁnancially or with in-kind donations. Our employees’ groups. Our stakeholders include all organizations or adherence to our Code of Conduct has ensured that groups that could affect our business: employees, shareFirmenich has had zero legal actions for anticompetitive holders, clients, consumers, suppliers, communities in behavior, antitrust or monopoly practices in this reporting which we operate, industry associations, regulators, period and no monetary ﬁnes or sanctions for noncomnonproﬁts, and universities. pliance in these areas. The workplace, human resource (HR) and environmental To highlight our performance, the previous year’s data and data, unless otherwise indicated, covers all operations rolling ﬁve-year data are included in this report. Some of that owned or controlled (production sites, sales ofﬁces, admindata may differ from ﬁgures reported in previous sustainistrative ofﬁces, laboratories or combination of such faability reports. These variations reﬂect improvements cilities). The HR data is reported for ﬁxed and temporary made in the calculation and consolidation methods as headcount. well as changes made once more accurate data became The Firmenich Board of Directors is comprised of four interavailable. The changes in efﬂuent discharge (+6,625 M3) and nal members and ﬁve external members. The board inwater input (+6,098 M3) for 2012 on page 46 were due cludes representatives from the family shareholders, to one site mistakenly using the unit of measurement which ensures that the shareholders have a direct link to gallons instead of gal(US) in our management system. the highest governance body of the company. The link beThe FY12 reported scope 2 emissions differs from the tween the board and the employees is ensured through the ﬁgure reported in the past report since new published Firmenich Code of Conduct, where the process for employelectricity CO 2 emission factors have been updated ees to connect with the highest governance body is faciliduring FY13, effective from January 2012. tated through the Group Vice President of Corporate Compliance, the Group Vice President General Counsel Sustainability Reporting is a and the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources. constant learning and improvement The Sustainability Team is headed by the Group Vice process for our company. Reporting President of Corporate Compliance, who reports directly against GRI indicators and certifying to our CEO, making the Sustainability Team a crucial link our report with SGS provides rigor between our stakeholders (clients, employees, suppliers, and credibility to our report. Sustainability Council, sustainability partners…), the Johan Firmenich Board of Directors and the Executive Team. Project Manager, Sustainability Scope of This Report We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) principles of materiality to this report, which state “information in this report should cover issues and indicators that would substantially inﬂuence the decisions of the stakeholders using this report.” We used the GRI indicators as a guide to develop this report, and we strive to improve the scope and precision of our reporting each year. This is the third year that we are reporting our sustainability work according to the GRI guidelines (version 3.1), and we have therefore made an effort to improve on the indicators from last year. Firmenich is reporting at a self-declared level C+ as deﬁned by GRI, and our report includes strategy, proﬁle, sustainability governance and 21 performance indicators. This report is independently veriﬁed by SGS (see page 45), and the management systems that generate our safety and environmental data are validated by independent experts. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), for the CEO Water Mandate (COP-Water) as well as for the UN Women’s Empowerment Principals. Firmenich Group – www.ﬁrmenich.com Contact: global.sustainability@ﬁrmenich.com Firmenich S.A. Rue de la Bergère 7, Meyrin-Satigny Geneva 1217 Switzerland 44 | Firmenich EXTERNAL VERIFICATION SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA report The apparent discrepancies in the previous years Environment statistics reporting for the running baseline have been noted by the assurors on sustainability activities in the Firmenich who are satisﬁ ed that they actually reﬂ ect improvements in data collection and consolidation methods. Sustainability Report for 2013 The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. Nature and Scope of the Assurance / Veriﬁcation Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011) SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was commissioned by Firmenich to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Conclusions, Findings and Recommendations Report 2013. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability In our opinion, the Firmenich Sustainability Report 2013 meets the Report Assurance methodology, included all text, and data in accomcontent and quality requirements for GRI G3.1 Application Level C+. panying tables, contained in this report. Principles – In our opinion the content and quality of the report adThe information in the Sustainability Report 2013 of Firmenich and its heres to the ten GRI Principles. In future reports we would expect that presentation are the responsibility of the directors and the management areas where basic information has been included will be developed in of Firmenich. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA has not been line with these principles. Opportunities were identiﬁed for considinvolved in the preparation of any of the material included in the eration in future reporting cycles to ensure continual improvement, Sustainability Report 2013. including: Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs • future reporting should be clearer on the decision making process and statements within the scope of veriﬁcation set out below with the regarding stakeholder identiﬁ cation, mapping, engagement and intention to inform all Firmenich’s stakeholders. feedback although some improvements were noted compared to the This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny using our previous Sustainability Report. protocols for: • improved reporting on the identiﬁ cation and prioritisation of • evaluation of content veracity materiality issues. • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative • continue to expand the number and coverage of indicators to demonSustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1/2011) strate a continued aim to improve transparency. The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, Standard Disclosures – All the standard disclosures required for interviews with relevant employees at the Headquarters in Geneva; reporting at an application level C+ were included or referenced in the documentation and record review. Data has been assured at corporate report. level; base data utilized in the calculation of the consolidated ﬁgures Indicators – The required minimum number of core indicators are have not been assured. included in the report. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited ﬁnancial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of the assurance Strengths process. Firmenich continue to address the wider issues of sustainable development as are relevant to their business and industry. Statement of Independence and Competence The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA and veriﬁcation, operating in more than 140 countries and providing Geneva, September 2013 services including management systems and service certiﬁcation; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA conﬁrms our independence from Firmenich, being free from bias and conﬂ icts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualiﬁcations for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with AA1000SA Certiﬁed Practitioner, Lead Quality, Environmental and SA8000 Auditor and experience in the ﬂ avours and fragrance industry. Veriﬁcation / Assurance Opinion On the basis of the methodology described and the veriﬁcation work performed, we are satisﬁed that the information and data contained within Firmenich Sustainability Report 2013 is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of Firmenich sustainability activities in ﬁnancial year ending 2013. Firmenich | 45 OUR PERFORMANCE IN NUMBERS PERFORMANCE KPI FY12 FY13 ENERGY (GJ) Direct Energy (own source) 1,370,111.63 1,380,266.17 Indirect Energy: purchased (inc. electricity, steam, etc.) 712,718.44 757,844.91 Total Energy 2,082,830.07 2,138,111.08 CO 2 EMISSIONS Scope 1: Direct Energy Source 86,092.73 86,590.67 (TONNES) Scope 2: Indirect Source 67,650.02 69,432.71 Total CO 2 emissions 153,742.75 156,023.38 WASTE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL (TONNES) HAZARDOUS (HZ) WASTE* Incinerated (without heat recovery) 3,249.66 2,823.47 Incinerated (with heat recovery) 10,515.87 13,845.29 Landﬁlled 40.64 578.42 Other 957.33 966.03 Total Hazardous Waste 14,763.5 18,213.21 NONHAZARDOUS (NHZ) WASTE Incinerated (without heat recovery) 1,518.41 809.52 Incinerated (with heat recovery) 1,247.64 1,867.90 Landﬁlled 2,962.39 2,594.72 Other 377.88 182.61 Total Nonhazardous Waste 6,106.32 5,454.75 EFFLUENT TREATMENT WASTE Incinerated 1,224.08 1,905.97 Landﬁlled 539.34 731.41 Other 4,401.75 5,340.79 Total Efﬂuent Treatment Waste 6,165.17 7,978.17 TOTAL WASTE Total Waste 27,034.99 31,646.13 (HZ & NHZ) Total Incinerated and Landﬁlled 21,298.03 25,156.70 TOTAL RECYCLED WASTE 12,004.78 12,176.25 EFFLUENT Direct Discharge with Treatment (to surface or ground water) 643,278.65 634,541.28 DISCHARGE (M 3) COD Direct Discharge with Treatment (tonnes) 1,937.07 531.90 Without Direct Discharge (to municipal wastewater) 679,733.02 653,258.73 COD Without Direct Discharge (tonnes) 3,224.77 2,859.05 TOTAL EFFLUENT DISCHARGE 1,323,011.67 1,287,800.01 TOTAL COD CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND 5,161.84 3,390.95 (TONNES) WATER Municipal 1,226,011.58 1,111,395.80 (QTY USED IN M3) Ground 126,732.00 141,182.00 Municipal and Ground 1,352,743.58 1,252,577.80 Surface 3,013,867.00 3,350,146.00 Total Water 4,366,610.58 4,602,723.80 OTHER DATA NOx tonnes 135.71 124.53 SOx tonnes 148.44 153.53 VOC tonnes 220.72 247.50 PRODUCTION QTY (TONNES) 187,967.82 199,717.31 * Hazardous Waste (kg/t) for F13 includes the “one-off” hazardous wastes generated by the December 2012 ﬁre at our warehouse in Argentina. 46 | Firmenich PERFORMANCE KPI FY12 FY13 EMPLOYEE DATA INCIDENTS Lost Time Injury (LTI) 11 10 Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 45 30 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.15 0.14 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 0.63 0.42 Fatalities 0 0 LOST TIME INJURY (LTI) BY REGION Europe 6 2 India, Middle East & Africa 0 0 Latin America 5 2 North America 0 3 North Asia 0 3 South & East Asia 0 0 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASES (TRC) BY REGION Europe 14 10 India, Middle East & Africa 0 3 Latin America 9 6 North America 18 6 North Asia 2 4 South & East Asia 2 1 LOST TIME INJURY (LTI) BY GENDER Male 9 9 Female 2 1 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASES (TRC) BY GENDER Male 42 26 Female 3 4 Firmenich | 47 GRI Index Table GRI REPORTED GRI INDICATOR LOCATION INDICATOR REPORTED LOCATION 1.1 Fully 3 4.3 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ 1.2 Partial 11-15, 19 management/ 2.1 Fully Cover Page, 3 and 5 4.4 Fully 44 2.2 Fully 3, 36-43 4.12 Fully 3 and 44 2.3 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ 4.13 Fully 3, 14-15, 35 facts-figures/ 4.14 Partial 8, 15, 35 2.4 Fully 5, 44 and www.firmenich.com/t/locate/index.lbl? 4.15 Partial 44 locate=europ 4.16 Partial 8, 9 12, 14-17, 31, 34-38, 40-43 2.5 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ 4.17 Partial 8, 9 facts-figures/ EC1 Partial Firnews 2013 2.6 Fully 3 and 5 EN3 Fully 46 2.7 Partial www.firmenich.com/t/locate/index.lbl and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ EN4 Fully 46 profile/facts-figures/index.lbl EN8 Fully 46 2.8 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ EN16 Partial 46 facts-figures/ EN20 Partial 46 2.9 Fully 44 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ EN21 Fully 46 profile/facts-figures/ EN22 Fully 46 2.10 Fully 2, 10 EN26 Partial 11-13, 15, 28-30 3.1 Fully 44 LA1 Partial 47 3.2 Fully 44 LA7 Fully 47 3.3 Fully 44 LA13 Partial 44 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ 3.4 Fully 44 profile/management/ 3.5 Fully 44 HR5 Fully 19, 36-39 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/re3.6 Fully 44 sponsability/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.7 Fully 44 HR6 Fully 19, 36-39 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/responsability/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.8 Fully 44 HR7 Fully 19 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/responsa3.10 Fully 44 bility/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.11 Fully 44 HR10 Fully 19 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/responsa3.12 Fully 48 bility/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.13 Fully 45 SO1 Fully 43 4.1 Fully 44 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ SO6 Fully 44 profile/management/ SO7 Fully 44 4.2 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ SO8 Partial 44 management/ PR1 Fully 28-29 REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL C C+ B B+ A+ G3 Profile Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement Disclosures listed for Level C plus: for Level B Report Externally Assured 1.1 Output 2.1 2.10 1.2 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 Management Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each ­Indicator Category ­Indicator Category Output Disclosures G3 Performance Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Report on each core G3 Indicators & Sector of 10 Performance of 20 Performance and Sector Supplement Indicators, including at Indicators, at least one Indicator with due regard Output Supplement Performance least one from each of: from each of: Econom ic, to the Materiality PrinciEconomic, Social and Environmental, Human ple by either: a) reporting Indicators Environmental rights, Labor, Society, on the Indicator or b) exProduct Responsibility plaining the reason for its omission 48 | Firmenich VALIDATIONS FOOD SAFETY STANDARDS (GLOBAL FOOD SAFETY INITIATIVE) ENVIRONMENT SAFETY QUALITY OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 HALAL KOSHER SEDEX ZONE SITE EUROPE Castets, France Alesund, Norway Geneva (Meyrin), Switz. Geneva (La Plaine), Switz. North Yorkshire, UK Louvain, Belgium Grasse, France NORTH AMERICA Anaheim, California Newark, New Jersey Lakeland, Florida Princeton, New Jersey New Ulm, Minnesota St. Louis, Missouri LATIN AMERICA São Paulo, Brazil Bogotá, Colombia Buenos Aires, Argentina Toluca, Mexico ASIA PACIFIC Shanghai, China Dahej, India Daman, India Cileungsi, Indonesia Kunming, China Ibaraki, Japan Singapore Karawang, Indonesia TOTAL CERTIFICATIONS FY13 21 20 17 20 18 21 24 FY06 0 2 11 11 11 10 0 At the time of this report, the ISO 14001 certiﬁ cate renewal of the site of Sao Paolo, Brazil was under progress. Details for the above mentioned certiﬁcations can be found online at www.ﬁrmenich.com/sustainability Firmenich | 49 MICHELLY RALL’S WORK… IN HIS OWN WORDS Cover: Water, the Source of Life 1 The Bemarivo River in the Antsirabe Nord Province of northeast Madagascar serves as a playground, foot crossing and laundry spot. The river provides means of irrigation and livelihoods for those who ﬁsh. 1 Page 1: Baobab reﬂ ected in The Lake of Stars 2 “The Lake of Stars” is the moniker coined by David Livingstone for Lake Malawi. Soaring on the skirts of the stars, the Baobab is amongst the longestliving trees on earth some are more than 2,000 years old. Nearly every part of the tree is useable for lumber, ﬁshnets, cords and clothing. The leaves are used as a vegetable, and its fruits are edible. This magniﬁcent surreal specimen was captured reﬂected in a pool of water on the outskirts of Liwonde National Park in Malawi. Page 6: Mapping the Vanilla Trail 3 The Firmenich sustainability team use an enlarged, ﬂoor-sized Google map in Madagascar to determine how to best protect ecosystems and enhance forest connectivity, while helping farmers plan their vanilla crops. 2 3 Page 7: Journey from Market 4 A man combines transport of bicycle and river crossing to return from a market. Removal of the native forest for cultivation during the past 50 years has led to signiﬁcant soil losses. Page 16: Spare us a Thought 5 This sign, in the West Coast National Park of South Africa, is inspired by the rare and endangered geometric tortoise, endemic to the area and often a victim of inattentive motorists. Tortoises have existed, virtually unchanged, for more than 200 million years since dinosaur roamed the earth. This ancient family of animals is facing a survival crisis worldwide, as their habitats are under constant threat. 4 5 A global action plan has been launched to prevent their extinction. Page 20: Bamboo Photographed in the Early Morning Light 6 One of the fastest growing plants with a multitude of uses, bamboo plays an integral role in the biodiversity of Thailand’s Khao Sok National Park. Forty of the world’s 1,450 bamboo species thrive here . Page 21: Overberg, South Africa 7 Overberg, has one of the richest ecosystems in the world. As the early morning mist dissipated, this splendid moment arrived when time evaporated and little mattered. 6 7 Page 32: The Dewy Beauty of Flowers With Fragrance... 8 Colorful, edible, butterﬂy-like nasturtium blossoms, a member of the cabbage family, have delighted gardeners and cooks alike for centuries. This image was taken in our eco-garden after a rainfall in Cape Town. Page 33: Cutting Edge 9 Rural villagers are poor but carry their heads with pride. Communities meet outdoors to groom themselves. Hairstyling is simple but stylish. 8 9 A SUSTAINABLE CHOICE OF PAPER This report is printed on FSC-labeled paper, certiﬁ ed to use vegetal inks 2013 © Firmenich Design by www.theoreme.ch and to produce prints carrying the FSC label since 2002. © Michelly Rall
