Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress Company name Universal Kimya Date 16 September 2014 Address 10050 sok. No:17 Çiğli IZMIR Membership date 16.09.2010 Country TURKEY Number of 150 employees Contact name Feray EMIL Contact position General Coordinator Sector Chemicals Contact telephone 00902323280202 no. Brief description of nature of business Our company being within the chemical industry has achieved making environmental protection as its top priority since 1994, when it was first established. As the population of the world increased, we chemists never forgot the responsibilities that were upon us. Since 1994, Universal Kimya has been giving technical and hygienic customer service with our highly qualified personnel to our customers such as: the military, municipal buildings, factories, hospitals, hotels, schools and many more. With our slogan Sustainability is Our Strategy , we are more determined than ever. It helped us to put more effort into tomorrow's cleaner world because We are all responsible for the future Statement of support I am pleased to confirm that Universal Kimya has made a commitment to undertake selfregulatory measures to meet the standards of this conduct set out in the principles and guidance contained in General Principles below in order to ensure the safe production and management of chemicals in domestic and international trade, taking into account their entire life cycle. We recognize our shared responsibility, along with the governments of chemical exporting and importing countries, for the protection of human health and the environment. By the implementation of this code, Universal Kimya expects to increase chemical safety and to enhance the sound management of chemicals in domestic and international trade by providing government authorities and relevant private sector parties with relevant information on chemicals. We also would like mention that Universal Kimya supports public accountability, transparency and the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP (Communication on Progress) policy. With this progress reporrt communication, we express our intent to advance general principles of this code within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making those general principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects. Universal Kimya will make clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public.We have contiuned our progress and commitment actions during 2014 as well. Mr. Emir AGBAS CEO Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Our Policy and Goals Universal Kimya and its employees respect to basic human right principles and support the Universal Decleration of Human Rights. A brief description of our processes or systems We respect the diversity of working styles and make an effort to increase opportunities for female, disabled and elderly employees to work in a comfortable environment. We prohibit harassment of one employee by another employee, supervisor or third party for any reason including, but not limited to: veteran status, race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age and physical or mental disability. Harassment of third parties by our employees is also prohibited. We are committed to providing a safe and comfortable workplace for our employees and safe products for our clients.To promote safety and hygiene in the workplace we regularly provide the necessary resources and training to assist the employee in this area. In the unfortunate event of an accident, we thoroughly investigate the cause and implement proactive measures to prevent recurrence. Additionaly our factory is accredited to OHSAS 18001 (for health and safety) Employees who work in production department also receive regular health checks to improve safety awareness and prevent injuries that might arise because of chemicals used. To remain attentive to the health-care needs of employees, we have a HR representative who makes sure that our employees have physical examinations and health consultations. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Action implemented ; during 2014 individual agreements offered and signed by all employees informing them of their work place rights .Female employee percentages state at %60 .Free meals and free transportation to work is provided to all employees. Planned for next year: sustain the levels for female employees at min %60 . We are planning to continue the training and seminars to make our employees more conscious about health and safety at work Measurable results or outcomes At present, women represent about 60% of our employees; We maintained the health of the employee is essential to the safe operation of production.We provide free lunch( three meals) to all our employees and free transportation to work.No work place accidents occured in 2014 as a result of our safetly precoutions.  Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy Our Policy and Goals We are aware of that all commercial enterprises can rightly be termed members of society, and as such, we make it our principle to act fairly, observe all laws and regulations, respect the integrity of local cultures and customs, and perform our business activities in compliance with a code of social ethics. Action: In the HR survey to our subsidiary offices, we check if they observe the domestic laws about the discrimination, particularly about the employment of individuals with disabilities, and address any issues that may arise. . A brief description of our processes or systems System: We anticipate that the interns are also jobseekers and employ the suitable interns in different kind of departments of our company. System: We do not use directly or indirectly forced labour or child labour. We expect our suppliers and partners to act the same. Sytem: We conclude a labor agreement with employees, that guarantees employees’ right to organize labor terms and conditions. System: We pay employees a salary and overtime pay, both of which are complied with the law and we also limit the maximum volume of overtime work per month and year. System: We have a recruitment standard for employing university or national college graduates requiring that all new employees be 18 years old or more. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Action: Each employee is given a specific job related agreement covering his/hers responsibilities and rights during 2014.All manufacturing workers are given security devices such as gloves, protective uniforms, masks by the company. Measurable results or outcomes Performance: The proportion of female employees in management positions continues to grow year by year ( stay at %60 level min) Each employee is given 23 hours of training in 2014. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy Our Policy and Goals Company policy requires adherence to all applicable laws and other governmental and industry standards for protection of the environment. Additionally since we stepped in the sector, we have taken an active attitude to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities and been striving to solve global environmental problems as well as strengthening our R&D efforts and the effectiveness of our operations. Our goal is to progress continuously with the structure of questioning domestic and overseas suppliers to produce environmentally friendly cleaning supplies. . A brief description of our processes or systems System: Our company co-operates with government officials and competent international organizations for the purpose of information exchange. Furthermore we encourage our clients in operating sustainably. We train our clients about sustainable operation hints & tips. System: Additonally, our factory is accredited to ISO 14001 (for environment). System: Where regulations allow, we use recycled plastic in our packaging and all our cartons. The labels are made from recycable materials. System: We make the most of natural light. We are planning to replace our light systems with LED systems to decrease light usages electricity by %50 .We planned to complete this change in two years by increments.. System: We recycle all packaging and paper disposals and ensure that we rinse out the corrosive containers first. System 2014 : European CE certification is updated for disinfectant which also covers enviromental production technics.We are certificated Halal production authorized Company Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our production processes are designed to operate in atmospheric pressure and at room temperature as well as being more focused on producing concentrated chemicals which will both have a much more lower carbon footprint. We encourage our stakeholders in operating sustainably through our concentrated cleaning chemicals which will travel fewer chemical miles. By producing concentrates we also reduce packaging waste,We advice our clients to recycle packaging after rinsing them. We plan to co-operate our clients and work with suppliers to increase the sustainable production opportunities Measurable results or outcomes Fluorescent lamps are replaced with LED lamps ,we changed our transportation to partial shipments by cargo to prevent half empty truck shipments. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy Universal Kimya has zero tolerance of corruption and committed to be complied with all laws relevant to the corruption. Our Company policy stipulates conditions that transaction with clients and other parties should be based on an objective assessment of price, service and quality. A brief description of our processes or systems Universal Kimya prohibits our employees from personally accepting payments from other parties in connection with Company operations. Additonally, our factory is accredited to ISO 9001 (for assuring quality at all stages of company operations). This means that we are subject to an assurance programme and are audited against rigorous standards. Universal Kimya with its internal control practices provides training and necessary efforts to identify potential risk areas. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have a a Code of Business Conduct and personnel agrements with employees describing Anti-Corruption policy and responsibility criterias which are stricktly applied in 2014 as well  Measurable results or outcomes Personal agreements received for all employees mentioned the corruption policy. No cases of corruption is observed in 2014 during internal audits. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Through our website and PDF version undimend.
