11 4 /A ,K a b a a y e P a g o d a R o a d , B a h a n Tsp ,Ya n g o n ,M y a n m a r P h :+ 95 (1 )5468 35, 5 55645 , F ax + 95 (1)5468 35.w w w.oepg .com .m m Dear Global Compact: Here at Ocean Emerald Pearl Ltd., will continue to be a part of this exciting movement of Global Compact on maintaining the most valuable Ten Principles. This is our 3rd year with Global Compact and we are going strong. In the past couple of years have been filled with many challenges in every area; however, as the county continues to gear itself into a Market economy, we are pacing ourselves to meet with the valuable goals of Global Compact. OEPG strongly supports these goals and encourage to every employee and vendor we deal with to practice the principles. Thank you for having us part of the Global movement. Sincerely, Hla Soe Naing Director, OEPG 114/A Kaba Aye Pagoda Rd.,Bahan Township, Yangon, Myanmar Breakdown of our success in Ten Principle and how we achieved them: Human Rights: 100% We are able to maintain this goal 100% due to the company principles we have put in place when we established the company. Human rights abuse is zero tolerance at OEPG. We are in compliance with both local and international human rights laws and are bound by Buddhist principles as well. Labour: 100% OEPG employed total of 19 employees and none of them is a minor. We encourage equal opportunity to all of our hiring candidates. Our employee selection is solely based on education and experience only. We do not accept any discrimination on sex, religion, ethnicity or age. Environment: 80% Due to current technological limitations in placed by Myanmar municipal authorities in areas such as waste disposal and processing methods, we are not able to succeed as much as we would like to in this area but our nature of daily business operations are very minimal or none impact to the environment around us. Our principle is to reuse and recycle whenever possible. Anti‐Corruption 70% It’s still almost impossible to do business in Myanmar without corruptions. Public employees are earning less than $50 per month. It will take some time to achieve this goal.
