General Information Communication Title: Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer: TNS East Africa will continue to support the UN Global compact and push its agenda by continuously reporting in a transparent manner on the company's good business practice to encourage Capacity building by creating awareness of ethics, integrity and Corporate Social Responsibility. One of the TNS East Africa strives to work as a team through collaboration in all its departments and clients. ERIC REINGEWERTZ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER HUMAN RIGHTS: Assessment, Policy & Goals. WPP companies will uphold the principles contained in the United Nations Global Compact. TNS East Africa has acquired an independent survey/link which is operated by a private company on where the staff can confidentially report ethical issues, unusual accounting, transactions or circumstances or unacceptable treatment of employees that give them cause for concern without fear of reprisals. Implementation: Right to speak “Right to speak” is consistent with our core values, which include honesty, integrity and respect for people. It appeals to the high ethical standards of our businesses and employees. Measurement of outcomes: TNS East Africa evaluates performance through the yearly Appraisal system whose objective is to establish rational standards for employee’s performance to create the most productive workforce possible, remove, discrimination of personalities and to motivate and reward them. Performance appraisal is based on how well an employee meets certain performance standards on set objectives. All employees are appraised by their immediate supervisor or HOD. The appraisal helps in evaluating the salary increment, promotions and need for further training. LABOUR: Assessment, Policy & Goals. No corporate contributions of any kind, including the provision of services or materials for less than the market value, may be made to politicians, political parties or action committees, without the prior written approval of the WPP Board. TNS East Africa does not offer any times of personal inducement to secure business. This is not intended to prohibit appropriate entertainment or the making of occasional gifts of minor value unless the client has a policy which restricts the same. Implementation We will not undertake work which is intended or designed to mislead, including in relation to social environmental and human rights issues. We will not give, offer or accept bribes whether in cash or otherwise, to or from any third party, including but not restricted to government officials, clients and brokers or their representatives. We will collectively ensure that all staff understands this policy through training, communication and by example. ENVIRONMENT: Assessment, Policy & Goals WPP sets quantitative targets for reducing our key environmental impacts. We aim to minimizet he environmental impacts associated with the advertising and communications campaigns we creat for clients. Our operating companies are encouraged to help achieve this goal Implementation TNS East Africa has implemented use of PDA’s & tablets instead of paper usage in most of its departments. Our goal is to completely do away with printed materials by 2015. Measurement of Outcomes The staff have realized that there is more quality and deliverable on time when the electronic data is being used. Staff are being trained on the usage of online filing of documents, online usage of calendar hence saving our environment. ANTICORRUPTION: Assessment, Policy & Goal WPP does not condone corruption at any given time. Implementation: There is a set policy on the same which is available to each employee. Measurement of Outcomes We will not have any personal or family conflicts of interest within our businesses or with our suppliesrs or other third parties with whom we do business.
