Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info 2013 Artwork: artist’s concept of a eukaryotic cell. Corporate Responsibility Report Table of Contents Table of Contents Introduction Pg # Governnment and Academic People Care Pg # Corporate Mind 16 Research Laboratories Overview 3 The Promega Culture 38 Investments in the Future 17 CEO Letter 4 Employee Health 41 Quality Process and Product 18 Corporate Mind Pg # Promoting Wellness through 42 Product Reach Healthy and Active Lifestyles Future Investments 8 cGMP Manufacturing Facility 18 Investing in Employee Education, Corporate Governance 9 Planet Aware Pg # Training and Advancement 46 Responding to Climate Change 23 Corporate Values 9 Human Rights and Diversity 47 Planet Aware Energy Consumption 23 Creative Approach 10 Community Touch Pg # Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Supporting Education and Supply Chain Management 11 27 51 Product Distribution Knowledge Product Reach Pg # Reducing Impacts from People Care 29 Community Wellness 55 Business Travel Supporting Good Science 13 Preserving Natural Capital 31 Creativity 57 Pharmaceutical and 14 Biotechnology Industries Additional Information Pg # Minimizing Waste 31 Community Touch Forensics and Paternity Laboratory 14 Report Parameters 60 Water Conservation 33 Clinical and Molecular Diagnostic Key Indicators 61 16  onnecting with Customers C Laboratories 34 without Paper Index 62 Applied Biotechnology 16 and Agriculture Less is More with Packaging 35 Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 2 Table of Contents Overview Corporate Mind Promega has a rich history of focusing on the long-term vision with an eye toward leaving a positive impact. We believe that success is not measured solely by short-term profits but by Product Reach finding lasting synergies between organizational focus and the wellbeing of humanity. Our products have empowered scientists to address the challenges facing Planet Aware global health for over 35 years. To meet the ever changing needs of researchers worldwide, we are making significant investments in facilities and capabilities that will provide a solid foundation for decades into the future. People Care As we grow, we are mindful of how natural resources are used and integrate the values of sustainability across all aspects of our business. We appreCommunity Touch ciate the communities in which we work and give back by supporting education, community wellness and the arts. With the expansion of our manufacturing base and global branches, we look not only to improve our business practices, but also maintain our culture, values Additional Info and vision that have made Promega successful and unique. Manufacture of a Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 3 Maxwell® Instrument. Table of Contents Corporate Mind Letter from the CEO Nature perpetuates life into the future through regular cycles: birth, growth, reproduction, death. There are times of transition, quiet times, and times of great activity that can lead to new capabilities and increased survival advantages. These same cycles, the ebb and flow of activity, are apparent in the lives of people, communities, institutions and businesses. Product Reach As we continue to grow our business for the first 100 years, we find these cycles a natural part of our work. Examples include the birth of a new cGMP (current good manufacturing practices) facility, growth of our scientific life science technologies, continued support to customers as they reinvent their workflows, and even the demise of molecular tools no longer needed. Planet Aware The billion year lessons of nature can provide insights and inspiration for our own lives and our work. Thanks to the artful work of cinematographer Louie Schwartzberg, we can now see the unseen and perhaps learn new ideas to chart our future. This special time lapse segment* offers a window of wonder and reveals the unseen events of nature, the “mystical moment” in which life is regenerated and the cycles begin again. We hope you find this look at one aspect of nature inspiring in your own work and develop a greater People Care appreciation of the natural communities that support us all. *Licensed Imagery provided by: Moving Art by Louie Schwartzberg. Community Touch William A. Linton, Chairman and CEO Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 4 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Corporate Mind 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artwork: artist’s rendering of a protease (yellow) cleaving a protein. Artist’s rendering of Table of Contents a protease (yellow) cleaving a protein. Corporate Mind Product Reach Corporate Mind Promega Corporation is a biotechnology leader, providing Planet Aware innovative solutions and technical support to life science researchers and industry. We offer over 3,000 products to People Care enable scientists worldwide to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics and human identification. Founded in 1978, the company is headquartered in Madison, WI, USA, with branches in 15 countries, over 50 global distributors as Community Touch well as manufacturing branches in San Luis Obispo and Sunnyvale, California, USA; Shanghai, China and Seoul, South Korea. In 2013, revenue grew 9% to 346 million dollars (US), number of employees increased 5%, and our building footprint increased by 37% to over 1 million square feet globally. We have 1,285 full-time positions worldwide, and The Feynman Center, above, added 260,000 ft2 to Promega’s global 49% of our full-time employees are women. building footprint. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 6 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Our building footprint increased by 37% to over Community Touch 1 million square feet globally. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 7 Future Investments Table of Contents Our focus on investing in the future continued in 2013 through In 2013, investment in research Corporate Mind scientific innovation and expansion of global capabilities to increased 17% over the prior year, strengthen the new product pipeline and improve our technical capabilities. These investments are vital for meeting resulting in 30 new product offercustomer needs and generating long-term, sustainable growth of Promega far into the future. ings in cellular analysis, genetic In 2013, investment in research identity and integrated solutions Product Reach increased 17% over the prior year, product lines. resulting in 30 new product offerings in cellular analysis, genetic identity and integrated solutions product lines. One new product, the ADCC Reporter Bioassay, was recognized by The Scientist and included in its 2013 Top 10 Planet Aware Innovations. This bioassay is “transforming biologics drug development by allowing the biotech industry to more easily and reproducibly characterize mAb biologics”, according to one scientist on the selection committee. In a rapidly changing world, standing still often means you People Care are moving backwards. At Promega, we are always innovating. We are committed to developing systems, facilities and infrastructure that will create and grow products to meet Reception Desk. Promega South Korea. customer demands in the years to come. In 2013 Promega opened a 260,000 square feet state-of-the-art cGMP facility Community Touch on the Madison, WI, campus for manufacturing high-quality will provide company-wide support for new production IVD products. The Feynman Center, named after Nobel Prize equipment and processes. Equipment and spaces in the winner Richard Feynman, has been designed to inspire his da Vinci building will allow for design, fabrication and testing curiosity, love for life and thrill of discovery. In August 2013, of machine components and control systems using state-ofoperations in South Korea moved into a larger facility to the-art techniques. These new facilities and the continued support the growth and needs of the region. In early 2014, implementation of SAP globally will enable Promega to meet an engineering facility in Madison, WI, the da Vinci Building, growing needs of the scientific community. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 8 Corporate Governance • R  ecognition and reward of achievement through Table of Contents creativity, risk taking, process improvements and Promega is governed by a Board of Directors, the Corporate innovation. Leadership Team and global Branch managers; this groups Corporate Mind comprises 38 individuals, 8 of whom (21%) are women. As the • Balance of work and life activities. guiding force of the company, these groups are responsible • Adaptability and flexibility in the workplace. for setting company strategy and providing organizational • C  ontribution to the advancement of science and to oversight. the improvement of life in the world community. Promega is an equal opportunity employer and richly benProduct Reach President & CEO Board of Directors efited by the diversity of its workforce. We follow a global 2 Internal Members (CEO & Scientific Officer) code of conduct, and employees are reminded annually 4 External, Independent Members of this commitment. This code of conduct is also always Corporate Branch 1 External Legal Advisor Leadership General available and accessible on the corporate intranet site and Team Managers can be read in detail there. Planet Aware Compensation Audit Committee Committee 3 External Members 12364MA 1 External Member (CEO) 2 External Members People Care Corporate Values Promega Corporate Mission Statement. To provide the Corporate Vision most innovative biological reagents and integrated systems Promega Corporation is built on a vision where: Community Touch used in research and applied technology worldwide. • Innovative research tools accelerate scientific discovery. Our Values. In carrying out our mission, we strive to preserve and pursue these core values: • L  ife science research can lead to the cure and prevention of many diseases. • H  onesty, integrity and respect for all employees, • The work environment nurtures creativity. customers and suppliers. • T  he corporation appreciates and values the contributions Additional Info • Open access to information for all employees. of each employee. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 9 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware Creative Approach Although meticulous and rational, scientists must also maintain imagination in their work if they are to discover the mysteries of the unknown. In response People Care to the needs of such individualists, we have a long and creative tradition of doing what is best versus what is expected. This independent spirit and determination has led to a number Community Touch of firsts that continue for Promega in each of its multiple roles as a business, a member of the community and an employer. In an environment where acquisition is the norm, we have maintained independence and instead, forged selective, global partnerships. Artist’s rendering of Additional Info an antibody molecule. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 10 Table of Contents Supply Chain Management Corporate Mind Promega recognizes the effect and importance that our suppliers have in the scope of our corporate responsibility Promega values suppliers of and strives to work with companies that have similar commitments. Over 50% of our suppliers have sustainability goods and services that adhere or corporate responsibility programs established or in development. We focus on sourcing from local suppliers to to the highest social, ethical and Product Reach support local communities and reduce effects from shipping. environmental standards. Currently 49% of suppliers are based within 250 miles or our corporate headquarters. In the coming year, Promega will update qualification and selection processes and communications shared with our Planet Aware suppliers to align with our principles of sustainability and corporate responsibility. People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 11 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Product Reach 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: artist’s rendering of a luciferin substrate binding to NanoLuc® Luciferase. Artist’s rendering of Table of Contents luciferin substrate binding to NanoLuc® Luciferase. Product Reach Corporate Mind “ We high-quality take great pride in producing novel scientific tools and reagents of and performance that allow scientists and clinicians all Product Reach over the world to make breakthrough discoveries that impact both basic and applied areas of research and development. —Marty Rosenberg, Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer ” Planet Aware Supporting Good Science When the first restriction endonucleases cleaved DNA at These tools have expanded greatly from DNA modifying and discrete sequences were isolated, researchers realized that cloning enzymes to reagents and systems for proteomics, People Care they could now freely manipulate DNA and create precellular analysis, drug discovery and forensics and even dictable recombinant molecules. The biotechnology era instruments for measuring results or isolating molecules. became reality. Promega realized that providing pre-isolated, Scientists cite use of Promega products in thousands of high-quality restriction enzymes to researchers would support research, applied and translational peer-reviewed publications their scientific inquiries by allowing them to focus on their each year. Furthermore our scientists collaborate with their Community Touch research questions and not the tedium of preparing their peers in academia, industry and government laboratories to own restriction enzymes. develop novel research tools, protocols and technology By continuing to provide high-quality reliable “tool kits”, platforms. Our prodwe continue to give researchers more freedom to focus on ucts support many life specific questions at the leading edge of scientific discovery science research areas or clinical practice. The end result is better science, using and industries includbetter tools, for faster answers. Additional Info ing: pharmaceutical and Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 13 biotechnology industries, forensics and paternity research, Forensics and Paternity Laboratories Table of Contents clinical and molecular diagnostics, applied biotechnology and age agriculture, and academic and government basic Forensics and paternity laboratories deal with tremendous research. caseloads and tight turnaround times, so for them throughput Corporate Mind is critical, as are reliable results. Additionally, they often need to work with unusual or difficult samples that are limited. These researchers and technicians need to know that they Scientists cite use of Promega will get the maximum results from their valuable sample inputs. Maximizing DNA and RNA yields, flexible bench-top products in thousands of research, automation and qualified reagents that are contaminant free Product Reach are critical for these for forensics laboratories if they are to applied and translational peersucceed with projects like identifying a mummy buried in the reviewed publications each year. 17th century or isolating DNA to identify a body recovered in a shark. Using the Latest DNA Analysis Technology to Explore Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries History. In the 17th century, during the Thirty Years’ War Planet Aware that ravaged central Europe, an area in the south east of Pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries thrive on Switzerland known today as Grisons or Graubünden was success. Scientists in the pharmaceutical sector need relistrategically important because of its Alpine passes to and able assays and reagents that allow them to query hundreds from Italy. One of the politof thousands of test compounds at a time. They need assay ical leaders, fighters and People Care technologies that yield reliable data and predict outcomes powerful figures to emerge in vivo so that “false hits” and late development failures are from this period was Jörg minimized. Scientists in the biotechnology sector need better Jenatsch, who is credited analytical and functional tools to characterize large molecule with securing the inde“biologics” drugs. Promega serves customers in both of pendence of Graubünden. Community Touch these segments by continually developing and improving our However in 1639 he was technology platforms, including our luciferase chemistries assassinated in Chur during that are the foundation of biochemical and cell-based assays. Carnival, and his body, comSuch assays can be reliably miniaturized when throughput is plete with bloody clothing, critical, and they are reliable when low variability and assaywas quickly buried in Chur to-assay performance are critical. Either way, these assays Cathedral, Graubünden’s The Cathedral of Saint Mary of the still yield the same high-quality results that are seen in the capital. A body presumed Assumption. Located in in Chur, Additional Info hands of the basic researcher. Graubünden, Switzerland to be that of Jörg Jenatsch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 14 was exhumed from Chur Cathedral in 1959 by the anthroDNA Identification of Human Remains Obtained from Table of Contents pologist Erik Hug, who identified the skeletal remains based a Tiger Shark. While on deep sea fishing trip off the coast of on the clothes buried with it and examination of the skull, the Bahamas, a vacationing angler made a gruesome catch: Corporate Mind which indicated there had A tiger shark that contained a human leg. He immediately been a blow to the head. reported his finding to the Royal Bahamas Defense Force who transported the shark to an area for further investigaIf this circumstantial evition. In collaboration with the Royal Bahamas Police Force dence could be combined (RBPF), they removed the human remains from the shark and with DNA evidence, a began analysis to identify the victim. The RBPF suspected more definitive identificaProduct Reach the victim was one of tion of the remains could two friends reported be made, giving support to missing from a boat some of the history of this after their engine quit famous figure. To identify Dr. Cordula Haas. ©Bündner Tagblatt and they had tried to Sabine-Claudia Nold. the remains as those of swim ashore. Positive Jörg Jenatsch several Planet Aware identification was not things would be required: Reference DNA samples from possible without DNA living descendants, access to original material for DNA analysis. Reference analysis, and a researcher committed to performing the samples were obtained careful forensic analysis. Three living male descendants of from living relatives Jenatsch’s great grandfather were identified and provided of the two missing People Care reference DNA. Subsequently the skeleton was re-exhumed persons, and the for collection of bone sample material in 2012. PowerPlex® 16 System Dr. Cordula Hass, Zürich Institute for Legal Medicine, led a for STR analysis was team that worked to identify the 400-year-old bones based used to compare the on Y-chromosome DNA analyses using the PowerPlex® Y23 The tiger shark caught off the coast of New reference samples with Community Touch Providence, Bahamas. Photo courtesy of samples obtained from System. The Y-SNP analysis provided exact matches at the the scene of crime officers, Royal Bahamas loci tested, but those matches alone were not enough to the remains found in Police Force. confirm the identity of the remains. Y-STR analysis produced the tiger shark. DNA 3 mismatches compared to the reference DNAs. Likelihood from one of the reference samples suggested maternity, analysis indicated that the remains of in the gravesite at providing a presumptive identification of the remains and Chur Cathedral are 20 times more likely to be those of Jörg bringing some closure to this missing persons case. Jenatsch than those of some other random person. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 15 Additional Info Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories Learning about Influenza in Real-Time. Influenza left Table of Contents its mark with the pandemic of 1918, taking the lives of ~50 Clinical and molecular diagnostics laboratories need accumillion people, three percent of the world’s population at racy, 100% reliability and speed. These laboratories often Corporate Mind the time. Today, vaccines targeted against the virus responface limited sample availability, so nucleic acid or protein sible for influenza are effective at preventing widespread isolations must work well the first time, and results must infection, but the flu remains a major public health threat, be unfailingly accurate. We support these laboratories with killing as many as 500,000 people per year. Developing high-quality reagents and systems that are manufactured effective vaccines and drugs against influenza requires a under the highest quality standards and rigorously tested. better understanding of how the virus works. Product Reach One approach is to study the behavior of the virus in mice. Applied Biotechnology and Agriculture Scientists can infect the lungs of mice with a luminescent, or Applied biotechnology, which includes food safety testing and glowing, version of influenza, and using a powerful technique water purification, and agriculture are becoming increasingly called bioluminescence imaging can see the virus in real time, molecular in analysis. As food processing plants look for making it possible to more sensitive ways to detect the presence of contaminants watch the virus as it Planet Aware quickly, they are turning to ATPand PCR-based assays and infects the lungs of methods rather than slower culture-based methods. live mice and monitor the impact of potential therapies on the infecGovernment and Academic Research tion process. Laboratories People Care Dr. Andrew Mehle and Basic researchers, whether in academic laboratories or colleagues at the Unigovernment research centers, remain a significant customer versity of Wisconsin segment for Promega. These researchers are often the recently modified the early adopters of new technologies or platforms that later influenza virus with Community Touch become miniaturized or automated for use in more comDr. Andrew Mehle from the University of the small NanoLuc® mercial settings. One powerful example of the willingness of Wisconsin-Madison. luciferase gene that academic researchers to adopt new technologies to develop doesn’t affect the behavior of the virus. The luciferase protein powerful ways of exploring fundamental biological questions also gives off an extremely bright signal. This provided Mehle is illustrated by the work from the laboratory of Dr. Andrew the necessary sensitivity to detect and study the virus much Mehle at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, WI, USA, earlier in the infection process than was previously possible. to study influenza. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 16 Additional Info Table of Contents Mehle’s results, published in the December 2013 issue of Patents (Issued and Pending Applications) Corporate Mind the Journal of Virology, suggest that the use of NanoLuc® luciferase and bioluminesCellular Analysis 364 cence imaging in mice Genomics 99 will become an invaluable research tool for studying Genetic Identity and Other 85 the properties of influenza Proteomics 31 Product Reach and other emerging viruses that pose a threat to public Total 579 health. Quality Process and Product 3D model of NanoLuc™ Luciferase. Promega Madison was first certified to international stanPlanet Aware dards for quality management systems in 1998 and, along Investments for the Future with the European distribution headquarters, is currently certified to the ISO13485 standard, required for the developTo sustain our contribution to scientific exploration and ment, manufacture, testing and delivery of medical devices application, we will continue to invest in the development around the world. Currently 15 Promega locations meet and discovery of new technologies. In 2013, we invested People Care various ISO standards. over $39 million (US) in research and development and filed 49 new patent applications. Because of sustained We take great pride in the products we produce and in global investment in research and development, we have ensuring that our customers receive safety data as well as an extensive intellectual property portfolio. comprehensive technical data sheets on the use of Promega products. A high level of integrity is applied in all product Community Touch We also work with academic institutions and other entities to claims and product use information as the incident table license and develop promising technologies. As a member of below demonstrates. the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation Research Tool Subscription Program, we have the opportunity to take a first look at new technologies from the university. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 17 Additional Info Table of Contents cGMP Manufacturing Facility Product Responsibility Corporate Mind 2013 Promega Corporation has completed construction on a and Noncompliance state-of-the-art 260,000 ft2 facility, designed to serve cusIncidents regarding product health and 0 tomers in need of molecular biology reagents for in vitro safety codes diagnostic (IVD) assays. As a manufacturing facility built to Incidents regarding product information handle regulated products, the Feynman Center meets strict 0 and labeling design and regulatory requirements. The manufacturing area Product Reach Incidents with marketing commnuication of the Feynman Center also allows both growth of cGMP 0 regulations manufacturing and accommodates flexible manufacturing Breaches of customer privacy and loss of to meet specific customer needs. The building includes both 0 customer data fixed and flexible manufacturing spaces, with manufacturing suites that can be easily enlarged or reconfigured to meet Incidents concerning provision and use 0 of products or services specific client needs. State-of-the art construction elements Planet Aware include failsafe redundancies to ensure uninterrupted power and dedicated, purified water for production ensure highest quality manufacturing processes. However, the Feynman Center bypasses the mold of a tradiPeople Care tional manufacturing facility, assimilating detailed design and aspects of the outside world to convey a sense of warmth, passion for discovery and a vision for the future. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 18 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Dispensing lab (Feynman Center). Feynman Parking Lot Artwork. Product Reach Planet Aware People Care “We wanted the capabilities of the Feynman Center to not only meet today’s regulations and capacity for Community Touch flexibility, but also anticipate what’s to come and continue to serve the latest applications of molecular tools.” —Bill Linton, CEO The Promega Feynman cGMP Manufacturing Center. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 19 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Planet Aware 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: artist’s rendering of histone molecules. Artist’s rendering of Table of Contents histone molecules. Planet Aware Corporate Mind activeaimparticipants “ We for value in our lives, connecting people and nature, and to be in the cycles of life we are in. Our future and heriProduct Reach tage depend on how well we integrate with these cycles, privately and in business. ” —Peter Quick, General Manager Promega Germany Planet Aware Promega has a long history of focusing on growth to provide and incorporate some of the efficiencies seen in nature by opportunities to make a positive impact in the world. using geothermal heating and cooling, solar water heating, An emphasis of the last few years has been to assure a use of natural light, and air filtration from plants. Additional foundation that will allow growth for many years into the expansion plans continue at corporate headquarters and future. As a result, operations in China, South Korea and branches around the world. We knew when setting the 2014 People Care the United States, specifically the states of California and environmental goals that these expansion plans would make Wisconsin, have expanded. In 2013, we celebrated the achievement challenging. Yet some goals are so worthy that opening of our largest facility, the Feynman Center. All new even partial achievement is outstanding. facilities are designed to minimize environmental impact Even with expansion, our carbon footprint has been reduced by 7% since 2010 as indexed to revenue. This Community Touch achievement results from the ongoing focus to improve company-wide operational efficiencies and increased awareness of our environmental impact. Our journey toward sustainability incorporates all aspects of our business and requires employees to make more environmentally conscious decisions on a daily basis. We are continually evaluating ways Additional Info to use our growth to adopt more sustainable techniques and improve our efficiency. Corridor in Shanghai’s new building. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 21 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch “Thoughtful consideration of environmental impacts are integrated in design of Promega buildings by incorporating some of the Additional Info efficiencies in nature.” Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 22 Table of Contents Responding to Climate Change Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Carbon Footprint ProgressGoal Toward Goal Global leaders are calling for reduction in greenhouse gas emis12377MA 93 sions. We support the move to limit anthropogenic greenhouse SCOPE 3 84 Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue Corporate Mind 81 gas emissions with our internal goal to reduce emissions by 10% 76 76 73 67 by 2014 as indexed to revenue. We actively track contributions to climate change from all operations globally. We take into account SCOPE 2 direct (scope 1) emissions from fuel combustion, (scope 2) emissions from purchased electricity, and indirect (scope 3) emissions SCOPE 1 from business travel, outgoing distribution, water and paper usage. Product Reach 2008 2013 2014 GOAL Figure 1. Status toward 2014 greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal. Increase in 2013 is related to new facilities. Although we have seen an increase in emissions since 2012 from new facilities, our greenhouse gas emissions have decreased 20% as indexed Carbon Footprint Indexed to Planet Aware Building Carbon Emissions IndexedFootprint to Bldg Footprint to building footprint since 2008. 20% Reduction 33 Since 2008 31 30 31 29 6 26 Tons of CO2/Ft2 Although we have seen an increase in emissions since 2012 from new facilities our greenhouse gas emissions have decreased 20% People Care as indexed to building footprint since 2008. Energy Consumption 12369MA 2008 2013 Emissions from energy generation are the largest contributor to our Figure 2. Greenhouse gas emissions as indexed to Community Touch carbon footprint, accounting for 70% of total emissions. Energy is a building footprint. focus as we look for opportunities to improve efficiency when building new facilities and improving existing operations. We encourage every employee to minimize energy consumption on a daily basis. Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions. We strive to reduce impacts from energy consumption using a two-pronged Additional Info approach. First, we focus on reducing actual energy usage through Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 23 Table of Contents CarbonGlobal Carbon Footprint Footprint Composition 2013 improved efficiencies in our facilities. Second, we generate electricity from rooftop solar panels or purchase it from renewable sources. 20% 52% Electrical Usage 1% Natural Gas While new facilities incorporate energy-minimizing systems, we Air Travel 0% Corporate Mind still see growth in electricity usage as a result of expansion. Our Auto Travel 3% facilities worldwide implemented the following improvements in Rail Travel 2013 to reduce actual electricity usage: 10% Water Paper 12379MA • P  romega Biotech Ibérica retrofitted office lighting with LEDs 14% Distribution that will reduce energy usage by over 50% while providing a better working environment for employees. The Figure 3. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. Product Reach old lighting was donated to a training center at a Global Energy Usage local church in need. Global Energy Usage (Actual and Per Sq. Ft) 82 • P  romega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, installed motion sensors in labs, office spaces and restrooms. 59 57 56 57 51 508 NATURAL GAS In addition, more energy efficient lights were installed in man468 436 432 Million BTUs of Gross Planet Aware 398 ufacturing spaces. 338 ELECTRICITY 12375MA 54 52 56 56 57 69 2008 2013 Indexed to Square Feet People Care Figure 4. Global energy composition and usage indexed to building footprint. Increase in 2013 is related to new facilities. Promega France installed film on glass windows to reduce heat and energy loses and added motion detectors to lights in restrooms. ElectricityProgress Electricity Toward Progress Towards Goal Goal Community Touch Thousands of kWh / Million in Revenue Initiatives to reduce future consumption: 71 6? 65 63 58 58 • C  omputer power management software is being implemented 52 56 in all Promega locations. This will allow us to reduce energy consumption during off-peak hours and track energy consumption of desktops and monitors. Additional Info 12370MA • A  dding a building automation system across all primary build2008 2014 GOAL ings at our corporate headquarters will allow us to intelligently Figure 5. Status toward 2014 electricity goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 24 control mechanical equipment and lighting to eliminate Table of Contents wasted energy. We recognize that using renewable energy eliminates greenCorporate Mind house gas emissions that otherwise would have been emitted during energy production. • B  ranch locations throughout the world continue to switch to 100% renewable energy sources: ❖❖ Promega GmbH since August 2013 Product Reach ❖❖ Promega Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany, since September 2011 ❖❖ The Euro Hub was the largest purchaser of renewable energy in 2013 Solar arrays on the Da Vinci building to be opened in 2014. ❖❖ Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo since Planet Aware opening in 2011 • T  he Aviation Operations building in Madison, Wisconsin, has over 250 solar panels generating over 260,000 ❖❖ Promega Italia in Milan since kWh since installation, preventing over 220 tons of November 2010 CO2 from being generated. To see the current produc❖❖ Promega Biotech Ibérica in tion of this system, please visit this live dashboard. People Care Alcobendas, Spain, since 2008 ❖❖ Any additional energy needs at this facility ❖❖ Promega Biotech AB in Stockholm, come from 100% renewable energy sources. Sweden, since opening in 2007 We are committed to investing in training specifically related to energy efficiency and renewable energy. A number of Community Touch facilities specialists at our headquarters have been trained in energy efficiency through the Wisconsin, USA, program Focus on Energy, and help lead efforts to identify opportuUse of renewable energy has nities for improvements. increased 16-fold since founding our program in 2008. Heating Promega, Not the Planet. Natural gas is used primarily at our manufacturing sites for heating and producPromega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 25 Additional Info tion-related processes, and some branch offices use natural gas Natural NaturalGas Progress Gas Progress Toward GoalGoal Toward Table of Contents Hundreds of Therms / Million in Revenue for heating. Natural gas is our largest source of direct-air emissions 6? and second in overall emissions for Promega. 27 Corporate Mind 25 24 22 While thoughtful design has minimized the increased demand, 20 20 we are still seeing additional consumption from new facilities. 16 At our Madison, WI campus, unusually cold weather increased heating demand in 2013, and had a significant impact on usage. Improvements at international branches are helping offset effects 12371MA 2008 2014 GOAL of expansion: Product Reach Figure 6. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue • P  romega France reduced natural gas usage by nearly 30% by compared to 2014 goal. Increase in 2013 is related to adding a new heat pump in 2012. new facilities. • P  romega AB in Sweden added an ethanol-burning heater in October 2013 to supplement heating Planet Aware with renewable fuel. We are evaluating further upgrades and enhancement to our heating equipment to reduce effects from natural gas use. Direct-air emissions are monitored from combustion of fuel purchased for heating and emergency generators in North America. All of these emissions are People Care below threshold levels set by local and federal organizations. We continue to evaluate options to further reduce direct emissions globally. To minimize heating requirements and related Community Touch emissions, we use geothermal wells and solar water heaters in many facilities. We also have incorporated heat capture technologies in our new Feynman Center to repurpose heat generated from other operations. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 26 Additional Info Table of Contents Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Product continue to be committed to finding ways to reduce emisDistribution sions from distribution while assuring the same high level of service to our customers. We invest great effort to Corporate Mind ensure that our products To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipget to customers quickly ments, data were collected from Promega-owned global and safely. We focus on distribution hubs on weight, distance and mode of transreducing air emissions by portation in 2013. In previous years where data using more efficient modes were unavailable, emissions related to outgoof transport when posing logistics have been estimated according to revenue growth. Product Reach sible and decreasing the weight of packaging materials. Because of product Efficient Product requirements for temperaDelivery with Our Helix™ ture regulation and customer On-Site Stocking System. expectations, about 90% Our state-of-the-art, In 2013, Promega was recognized Planet Aware of our shipments are sent on-site inventory by Genomic Health for Supplier Excellence. via air. Our logistics teams management system, Helix™, further reduces emissions from dist“ We inherently recognize that our customers are ribution. The Helix™ program uses timePeople Care aware of the interconnectested RFID technology tivity of all our actions. They know that that tracks product use the world is an ever increasingly smaller in real time, resulting in less frequent bulk place. It is a closed system. What we do replenishment shipments. Community Touch impacts everyone, everywhere. Our This automated inventory management system global logistics teams are mindful of ensures that customers this as we work to create value, deliver have uninterrupted access our products on time, and leave a to supplies while reducing ” the impact on our planet. gentler impact on world around us. Additional Info —Ralph Titus, Director, Global Logistics, Madison, WI, USA Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 27 Table of Contents In addition, Promega purchases carbon Corporate Mind credits to offset the greenhouse gas emissions from energy use of all Helix™ units as well as emissions from initial Product Reach unit shipment and product distribution through this stocking system. In 2013, Helix offset over 640 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting the following projects: Planet Aware • N  ez Perce Reforestation Project in Idaho, USA • U  chindile Mapanda Reforestation in Tanzania (shown right) People Care To see more information and learn how to participate, please visit: www.promega.com/helix Community Touch In 2013, Helix offset 640 tons of emissions worldwide. Additional Info Planting seedlings as part of the Uchindile Mapanda Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 28 Reforestation Project. Table of Contents Reducing Impacts from Business Travel Business Travel Carbon Footprint Business Travel Carbon Footprint As a global company, travel is essential to building strong cus2880 3016 tomer relations and general business operations. Reducing travel 2701 2097 2378 Corporate Mind to customer sites is difficult, but with the availability of video Tons of Carbon Dioxide RAIL 10 9 1691 8 conferencing, Promega is working to reduce our travel emissions. 9 9 Business travel via air, automobile and rail make up just over 10% AUTO 7 of our current carbon footprint. AIR 12372MA Air Travel. Emissions from air travel have increased the last few 2008 2013 Indexed to Revenue years as a result of emphasis on building stronger connections Product Reach with customers and collaborators as well as support of global Figure 7. Sources of gross travel emissions and emissions indexed to revenue. Increase in 2013 is related to new operational initiatives. Efforts are made to use the most fuel efficient facilities. mode, which includes use of rail travel where possible because of its efficiency. Since 2010, we have seen a 5% reduction globally in travel emissions as indexed to revenue and significantly more Planet Aware at specific branch locations. Location Emission Reduction Promega Australia -50% Promega Biotech Ibérica (Spain) -46% People Care Promega Beijing -34% Promega KK (Japan) -19% Table 2. Promega sales branches showing the largest emissions reduction from business travel since 2008. Community Touch Automobile Travel. To reduce environmental impacts of automobile travel, we actively look for more fuel-efficient vehicles. Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, Promega AG in Switzerland and Promega KK in Japan have moved to a more efficient and ecologically sound fleet. Since 2008, our global automobile fuel efficiency has improved by 10%. In the United States, enrollment Additional Info in the Emkay GoGreen fleet program enables increased use of Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 29 Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Table of Contents high-efficiency vehicles and plants trees each year to offset any unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions generated from Promega 855 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue fleet travel in the United States. 4 686 677 Corporate Mind 607 631 576 3 2 2 2 Since our enrollment in 2009, we have 2 offset over 1,600 tons of CO2 by plant2008 2013 12373MA ing trees through the Emkay program. Indexed to Revenue Product Reach Figure 8. Net emissions from automobile travel and indexed to revenue. To reduce the environmental impact of employee commuting, alternate transportation programs have been implemented in a number of locations worldwide. The goal is to encourage use of public Planet Aware transportation, ridesharing or biking to work. By installing electric vehicle charging stations in parking garages in the new Feynman Center, we encourage adoption of People Care electric vehicles. Furthermore, we are evaluating expansion of the program to other locations. Community Touch All buildings at corporate headquarters in Madison have bicycles for employees to use and resources to support cyclists such as pumps and bike repair kits. Many locations worldwide have similar programs in place. Promega Biosciences in California and Promega UK have expanded their programs to encourage cycling or alternative transportation use by employees. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 30 Additional Info Table of Contents Preserving Natural Capital Non-Hazardous Waste Progress Toward Goal Minimizing Waste 31% Recycling Increase Cubic Feet in Thousands Corporate Mind Since 2010 Since founding our sustainability program, we now recycle more 142 143 150 50 than we send to the landfill thanks to increased employee aware127 136 124 122 112 114 ness, better recycling programs and detailed evaluation of waste 104 111 99 GOAL Incineration/Landfill/ Recycling/Waste streams. Since 2008, overall recycling levels have increased by 542 501 502 471 438 452 403 45%. Employees are continually reminded of the mantra “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed this effort through recycling 12378MA 78 58 66 66 66 83 Product Reach at all locations and composting at some sites. 2008 2013 2014 The continuing success of our Figure 9. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste and pipette tip box recycling program progress toward 2014 goal. diverts over 4,700 pounds from the landfills, roughly 20,000 pipette tip Planet Aware boxes annually. Segregating the trays from our automated Maxwell® Instrument also recycled over 750 pounds, roughly 23,000 trays in 2013. Even in the construction of the Feynman Center, we focused on minimizing waste and recycled 93% of construction waste. Since 2008, overall recycling levels People Care have increased by 45%. Community Touch Promega encourages reuse by providing tumblers to all employees worldwide and using metal utensils in cafeterias and kitchenettes. Compostable and recyclable takeout containers have replaced polystyrene materials. Additional Info • P  romega BioSystems in Sunnyvale, CA, has helped pilot an innovative composting program in their community and seen Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 31 Table of Contents waste reduced by 80% through comprehensive recycling and composting. In 2013, hand dryers were installed to eliminate Global Hazardous Waste per Revenue Global Hazardous Waste waste and paper towel consumption. 42 36 Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue 40 BIOLOGICAL • P  romega France focuses on reducing waste 656 681 32 40 Corporate Mind 618 from purchase vendors and outgoing products 582 483 40 where, as a Recylum member, they ensure that 399 all electrical equipment sold can be recycled CHEMICAL free of charge at end of life. 12376MA 2008 2013 takes many forms Product Reach “Sustainability for Manufacturing Operations beyond the typical conFigure 10. Hazardous wastes as indexed to revenue. siderations of waste stream, manufacturing, packaging and logistics. Our philosophy also Planet Aware includes focus on refurbishing existing and repurposing used equipment where possible. This is one way we are good stewards of the environment at a time when society in general ” People Care has migrated toward a disposable mentality. —Chuck York, Vice President Manufacturing Operations Community Touch Managing Hazardous and Infectious Wastes. Being in the biotech industry, manufacturing processes often require work with potentially hazardous substances. We understand the responsibility that comes with the use of these products as well as the obligation to reduce waste and ensure proper disposal. We strive to use less hazardous materials and chose the most environmentally responsible disposal method. Promega Biosciences has partnered with a Additional Info hazardous waste handler where 90% of waste is treated for reuse, reused as fuel or recycled. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 32 Table of Contents Previously this waste was just being incinerated. Promega Biosciences has been recognized locally for voluntarily efforts to reduce Water Usage Progress Toward Goal Water usage progress toward goal pollution, improve resource conservation and sustainability. Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue 64 66 64 66 We recognize the value of absolute reduction in our waste stream 58 63 59 Corporate Mind and continue to regularly analyze hazardous waste reduction opportunities. Promega Biosciences has partnered 12368MA 2008 2014 GOAL with a hazardous waste handler Product Reach Figure 11. Waste usage indexed to revenue and progress where 90% of waste is treated for toward 2014 target. reuse, reused as fuel or recycled. Planet Aware Water Conservation Clean water is a vital yet scarce resource and billions of people worldwide go without it every day. Many Promega locations globally incorporate design features to conserve and insure proper disposal of water. Our offices in Sydney, Australia, People Care use rain water collected for cleaning, flushing toilets and irrigating plants. Similarly, our Madison-based global headquarters building collects rainwater and uses rain gardens for Community Touch natural filtration. Promega actively measures water usage and evaluates initiatives to save water in activities from manufacturing, landscaping and daily office activity. Water usage is a Additional Info challenge with new facilities that Rain gardens in the prairie swale at mean greater demand, but in existPromega headquarters. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 33 Table of Contents ing buildings, we saw water usage reduced by 40% in 2013, saving Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal 3.5 million gallons over 2012 levels. Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Reams per Million in Revenue 576 Corporate Mind In existing buildings, we saw water 87% Reduction usage reduced by 40% in 2013, saving Since 2008 3.5 million gallons over 2012 levels. 98 107 65 88 48 96 96 12374MA 2008 2013 2014 GOAL Product Reach Figure 12. Global paper usage indexed to revenue since 2008. Our new Feynman Center incorporates greywater flushing in restrooms and bioretention ponds to minimize impacts from water usage and stormwater runoff. Promega Biosciences is acutely aware of the value of water in San Luis Obispo, California, and initiated water conservation projects from automatic and low-flow faucets Planet Aware to a custom water recirculating system for distilled water. Since 2008, water usage has decreased by 40% at this facility. Connecting with Customers without Paper By using modern technologies and emerging media channels, we People Care have enhanced communication with our customers and reduced the need for printed materials. Using iPhone®/iPad® and Android™ mobile applications, blogs, electronic catalogs or online support, communications reduce paper needs and allow real-time conCommunity Touch nections with customers. In 2008, we committed to move away from printing. With significant efforts and investment, Promega transitioned from most paper catalogs, instrucAdditional Info tion manuals, print marketing Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 34 Table of Contents and a majority of other corporate communications to elec• P  romega sends electronic copies of various docutronic formats. Since 2008, paper usage has decreased by ments to customers that do not want a printed copy, Corporate Mind over 80%. Some additional efforts to reduce paper and its resulting in a savings of over 5,000 pieces of paper a effects include: month. Recycled Paper and Duplex Printing: Many global loca• E  uropean branches offer electronic invoices to customtions have transitioned to use recycled paper and duplex ers as another way to reduce unnecessary printing and printing. These efforts provide value to the environment paper usage. by reducing air emissions, combating deforestation and • P  romega Singapore no longer prints program materials Product Reach limiting waste. for regional sales and marketing meetings, and minimizes printed brochures for • P  romega Italia uses office paper from scientific exhibitions. In its place, iPads and 100% recycled content and participates online tools are used when interacting with in a campaign sponsored by Group Porcustomers. tucel that plants trees for all paper needs. Planet Aware Electronic Documents: Less is More with Packaging • F  ield Application Specialists in North America along We face unique challenges in packing our products with many with branches in Europe and Pacific Asia have adopted being temperature sensitive, involving dry ice, gel ice and iPads to better serve customers while eliminating the foam coolers. Despite these challenges, we are committed People Care use of printed resources. to searching for innovative ways to reduce packaging, use environmentally friendly materials, and design for recycling or reuse. Environmental sustainability, product protection and quality are all key priorities for our packaging. Over 25 years ago, Promega was one of the first companies Community Touch to fund a program for customers to return polystyrene foam coolers for reuse. This program has since been adopted by many other companies as a way to divert waste from the landfill. We continue to evaluate the best way to handle these materials as we strive to reduce life cycle impacts Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 35 Additional Info Table of Contents from distributing our products. In the last few years, we also have moved to unbleached shipping boxes, started Corporate Mind using sustainably harvested materials, and biodegradable and recyclable air pouches to offer product protection with the least Product Reach environmental impact. We are making progress on the challenge of capturing environmental metrics for all product and shipment packaging. Using a newly implemented ERP system, Planet Aware we have greater capabilities for entering data on packaging weights and material types to help us better understand the environmental impact of our packaging. This focus will continue over the next few years to help us understand and prioritize opportunities for packaging material reduction. People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 36 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: rod-shaped bacteria in culture. 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report People Care Rod-shaped Table of Contents bacteria in culture. People Care Corporate Mind Product Reach “ Promega all employees has a high-performance culture that offers rich opportunities for to contribute at their best and to thrive with vitality, passion and attention to their wellbeing. ” —Nancy Rau Heckman, Director of Human Resources Planet Aware Work should be more than simply a job; it should be an avenue for employees to grow and find personal fulfillment. We believe this can occur when there is an alignment among individual strengths, interests and overall company vision. People Care At Promega, we are proud that our work helps to improve the lives of others and the selflessness of our employees is what makes this possible. We appreciate the contribution of our 1,285 employees and heavily invest in their wellbeing and growth. Community Touch Each of our 18 worldwide locations embraces these beliefs and provides support in ways that meet individual regional needs. Employees have flexibility in how they work and the freedom to act where individual differences are respected. We The Promega Culture strive to provide a work environment where individuals can be challenged and innovative. Employees are encouraged to As with all activities in a business, the overarching princiAdditional Info be creative where they are inspired and support passions in ples that guide the culture and daily values must be clearly their work, personal interests and community involvement. articulated to provide context for decision making. OrganizaPromega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 38 tions are as unique as individual people, with personalities, Table of Contents values and direction. Understanding the psychology of the organization – the “cultural DNA” – is critical to predicting the course of action that the organization is likely to take Corporate Mind in maintaining the integrity of its operations. For Promega, these include the following principles. • T  he organization exists to support the personal aspirations of its employees and others who work with us in meeting our goals. Product Reach • T  he underlying structures should support the primary goal of personal development, including: ❖❖ Organizational reporting and decision making This video discusses our commitments to employees and what makes Promega a unique employer. ❖❖ Physical work environments, which include Planet Aware design, lighting, communication systems and that simplify this research and give more reliable and access to information accurate results. ❖❖ Giving priority for the things people need to do Surveys taken of our employees indicate that their greatest their best work. satisfaction comes from the people they work with and the nature of the work they are doing, which aligns with the con❖❖ Capital structure that supports the primary People Care tribution to society resulting from our products and services. organizational goals and values. Economic While personal economics (compensation and other financial metrics give us guidance on sustainable busirewards) are important, they are not the drivers for excellent ness practice, but are not the primary drivers performance and job commitment. The organizational core for business decisions. values support the central role of purpose in employee’s Community Touch ❖❖ Selection and support of employees entering satisfaction. the organization that reflect the values of the enterprise. Promega was named one of the • T  he nature of the work is based on the premise that life science research and related discoveries have Top 15 Best Places to Work by been and will continue to be important to society and “The Scientist” in 2013. Additional Info human development. Our contribution to this field is to design and supply products, systems and procedures Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 39 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Our Work Environment. To inspire and support our employees, we create Product Reach unique workspaces with features such as original and rotating art exhibits, third spaces to evolve thinking, ample natural lighting, space to exercise and meditate, and local healthy dinning options. Employees also work in similar, Planet Aware nonhierarchical space to foster collaboration and teamwork. We strive to bring the outside into our buildings and encourage an appreciation of the natural beauty. This was accomplished People Care in the Feynman Center by incorporating native plants and materials from the surrounding prairie, and a winter garden with thousands of plants inhabiting a living wall, adding life and warmth to the Community Touch building (shown left). Locations globally use natural lighting, local resources and art to provide unique and comfortable work environments. We have focused significant time and investment to provide an environment that is nurturing, stimulating and Additional Info The Living Wall of the aligned with Promega culture. Cross Roads inside the Feynman cGMP Manufacturing Center. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 40 Table of Contents Surveys taken of our employees indicate that their greatest satisfaction Corporate Mind comes from the people they work with and the nature of the work they are doing, which aligns with the contribution to society resulting from our products and services. Product Reach Employee Health and local medical facilities to provide health care that Wellbeing extends beyond physical health. Our hope is for is convenient and affordable. our employees to experience the richness of life with work, Planet Aware family and personal growth. • Promega Corporate Headquarters is a Benefits. We offer comprehensive benefits programs at all nonsmoking campus global locations based on country norms. Benefits programs to prevent the health generally include medical, dental and vision coverage availhazards associated with able to full-time employees and their families. Employees secondhand smoke. People Care are also offered shortand long-term disability insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance and paid time off. These • P  romega added a benefits are a significant investment to ensure the wellbeing Director of Integrative of our employees and their families. Practices in September 2013. Her approach includes both traditional mediWellness Center. An onsite Wellness Center at our Corcine and integrative modalities such as biofeedback, Community Touch porate Headquarters, staffed by a nurse practitioner and imagery, meditation, healing foods, yoga therapy, and integrative physician, offers convenient care services and advice on wise use of herbs or other supplements. wellness consultations to Promega employees, spouses, and Employees can request private consults to address partners. In 2013, our Wellness Center has had over 2,350 concerns such as pain, fatigue, digestive issues, insompatient visits and administered 383 flu vaccines in Madison, nia, stress management, anxiety or depression and the WI and 21 more when staff traveled to our offices in Sunnymanagement of long-term issues such as cancer, heart Additional Info vale, California. Branch locations use benefits programs disease and autoimmune disorders. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 41 showcasing the important role of health and wellness at all Table of Contents global locations. In 2013, our Wellness Center Wellness Education. We value health education, and Corporate Mind had over 2,350 patient visits and our Wellness Team regularly offers programs and camadministered 383 flu vaccines in paigns throughout the year to encourage active and healthy lifestyles. Campaigns in 2013 aimed to educate Madison, WI. employees and promote actions like nutritious eating, increased physical activity and weight management. Product Reach Employee Safety. The Promega Environmental Health and Past communications have Safety programs are committed to establishing, maintaining covered wellness topics such as and continuously improving our working environment for the advanced directives, nutrition for safety and wellbeing of all employees and the communities children, snacking smart, healthy in which we operate. We are proud to have accident rates recipes, smoking cessation, Planet Aware well below the industry average and have been recognized financial planning, stress relief, for our commitment to safety at many locations. back care, knowing your pet and trigger point therapy. Over 560 employees had Health Risk Assessments completed in 2013 to better understand their body and health status. Promoting Wellness through Healthy and Each year we sponsor a Wellness & Safety Fair in Madison Active Lifestyles with approximately 30 vendors and 200 employees attendPeople Care We strive to create a ing in 2013. culture of wellness as we believe a healthy and vibrant workforce is more productive. Mental We strive to create a culture of Community Touch and physical wellness are equally important wellness as we believe a healthy with facilities provided and vibrant workforce is more at our headquarters for meditation, yoga, exerproductive. cise and other activities to meet individual needs. In July 2013, Promega was highlighted in a Huffington Post article Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 42 Additional Info Table of Contents Participation in the many and varied wellness and education programs etc.) is very important. Having healthy options at Corporate Mind programs offered by Promega can have a dramatic impact lunch is also very important. The key for me was having a on the quality of life of our employees. Here is one example supportive environment. Promega has provided all of the of the lasting life style changes that can happen. tools and they have been very helpful. -Promega Employee M.R. “The Road to Improved Health” Product Reach Spring 2012. At the age of 42, being overweight and having A  nnual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run. Each fall Promega hypertension, I started to think about taking steps to improvsponsors a fun walk/run for our employees and their faming my health. Two factors were critical. First, Promega is ilies. In addition to promoting healthy and active lifestyles, very supportive of healthy lifestyles and a large number of food and monetary donations are provided to The Second its employees are active in one way or another. My journey Harvest Food Pantry. started gradually with changing what I ate and easing into Planet Aware exercise. Shortly thereafter, the couch to 5K program was • P  romega also supported 7 running teams based out offered. I though, why not? This is the catalyst that I needed. of Madison in 2013 with 66 individuals participating in events that supported charitable causes. After about 4 months, people started to notice, and that provided additional incentive and motivation. I took advantage of the weight management class that Promega offered and People Care this provided further encouragement. Winter 2013. Since my initial weigh-in, I have lost about 60 pounds, although I need to lose 20-30 more. My blood pressure is normal and my blood chemistry has improved Community Touch significantly. I have completed one 50 mile bike ride and 3 10K races. My goals for 2014 are to participate in a half-marathon, a 100 mile bike ride and a sprint triathlon. I think that Promega was critical to making me decide to improve my health. The fact that there are so many incentives (know your numbers, fitness classes, weight management Annual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 43 Additional Info Spanish ‘Race of the Companies’. In December 2013, Outdoor Activities. Many locations hold social events Table of Contents a small team represented Promega Ibérica in the “Race outdoors to encourage an appreciation of the natural world of the Companies” (Carrera de las Empresas) in Madrid, and active lifestyles. Promega AG in Switzerland holds events Spain. This an annual event with more than 9,000 particilike skiing or snow shoeing day in winter and a hiking day Corporate Mind pants participating in a 6km or a 10km run in the center of in the mountain in the summer. Madrid. The Promega team came in 24th out of 130 teams Relaxed Body and Mind. Promega locations in their category. in Mannheim, Germany, offer free massages to employees each month, and Promega Sweden has a massage chair onsite for employees. Product Reach On-Site Amenities. All North American locations offer on-site facilities and programs to support employee wellness. Global locations offer health club reimbursements and financial support for participation in sports if the facility does not offer an on-site fitness room. Spanish ‘Race of the Companies’ Planet Aware Singapore “Green One” 5K. Employees at Promega People Care Singapore participated in the Green One 5K walkathon in 2012 to encourage environmentally friendly activities such as walking instead of driving. The on-site exercise facility in the Feynman Center at the Madison campus.  ike to Work. Promega supports avid employee BikeB Community Touch to-Work groups worldwide from Wisconsin to the United Our corporate campus offers basketball and volleyball courts, Kingdom. Bike racks and repair kits are available at every fully equipped fitness rooms, as well as walking, jogging and building in Madison and at several locations globally. Addibiking, and cross-country skiing on groomed ski trails in tionally, Promega offers bicycle commuter benefits providing the winter. A Health Promotion Specialist was hired in 2013 $20 per month tax free for cycling related expenses in the serve as a resource, provide exercise prescriptions and help United States. employees develop fitness goals. To promote health in body, Additional Info mind and spirit, the Zen Zone is available on our corporate • P  romega Biosciences in California is Bike Friendly Busiheadquarters with a steeping pool, steam room and sauna. ness and has won local bike month challenges in the past. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 44 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Fresh and Local Produce. By serving fresh and local produce from our on-site community garden in Fitchburg, Wisconsin, we support a culture of wellness. With vegetables from our garden and produce Planet Aware from a network of local farms, we are able to serve healthy, organic menus across our campus. Our community garden also provides plots for Promega employees to People Care use in producing their own food and promotes the sharing of gardening skills. At Promega Biosciences in California, USA, a “Produce Swap” was Community Touch initiated in 2013 for employees to share excess produce from their home garden with other employees. All funds generated were donated to the local food bank and over 1,800 lbs. of produce was donated from fruit trees on the Promega BioAdditional Info sciences property. Many herbs, spices and seasonal vegetables are produced for the Madison campus from an on-site garden. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 45 Table of Contents Achieving a Work-Life Balance. We recognize the signifidevelopment courses such as the Coaching for Leaders cant role of family and encourage the strengthening of these program for high-potential senior leaders, and The Emerging Corporate Mind connections. From on-site child care in Madison to social Leader and Management Essentials programs to assist the gatherings tailored toward children, Promega appreciates the new supervisor. Customized training for departments and fulfilment families provide and the importance in supporting areas is available as well as organizational development future generations. services that include talent management resources and consulting and individually targeted leadership development either on campus or with external academic or training Product Reach partners. Globally, we invest significant time and capital in our employees. In 2013, $1.1 million dollars invested in training. With informal and internal training investments unable to be tracked, this number does not capture the entire value Planet Aware invested in training. Much of the training is focused on maintaining our high standards in Quality-System-Regulated (QSR) areas. This has provided automated and just-in-time visibility into the training status by individual employee as Spanish Children’s Holiday Party well as by training requirements. People Care Scientific Training is an area of significant investment at Investing in Employee Education, Promega. The Scientific Training Department designs, develTraining and Advancement ops and implements scientific training for employees around Training and development programs are designed to keep the globe, which is delivered in live and virtual classrooms. In employees abreast of the latest technologies, scientific trends 2013, the number of attendees of live courses and webcasts Community Touch and customer needs to stay competitive in the marketplace. numbered 1,978 with a total of 35 webcast We are committed to the personal and professional growth courses and 18 live classroom courses. Live of all employees throughout the many phases of their career, courses were offered at facilities in Madison, and to foster the skills, competencies and talent of our workWI and Lyon, France at PETAL, the Promega force. Our services include innovative programs, resources, Europe Training and Applications Laboratory. workshops and tools that prepare employees and managers PETAL training addresses the training needs of European, to perform successfully in their jobs, including professional Middle Eastern and African employees. PETAL helps reduce Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 46 Additional Info travel due to its central location in Europe, and with video develops productive relationships around the world and Table of Contents conferencing equipment, scientists and trainers are able to works cooperatively among different customs and cultures. participate from off-site locations. Issues that we take very seriously include: Corporate Mind • P  ETAL is committed to operating sustainably by using • Protection of children from exploitation local caterers and selecting companies that strive to • Protection of all workers from compulsory labor minimize waste. Since 2012, over 350 plastic trays each year were not sent to the landfill by selecting • Payment of at least minimum wages a company that uses recyclable cardboard boxes • Safe working conditions instead. Product Reach Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and With dedicated training departments and comprehensive insures that our employees and community members are training facilities in the United States and in Europe, and treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations coordination with our branch offices in Asia, we make every for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that meet effort to provide all employees with the resources they need or exceed international human rights and labor standards. to advance their career. Planet Aware Human Rights and Diversity Respecting Human Rights. As a member to the UN Global Compact, Promega follows all regulations regarding People Care employment and has zero tolerance for violations of human rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in how our business Community Touch “ Globally training schedules Promega offers flexibility to adapt work and to each employee’s family situation and personal interests, which adds to a unique and stimulating atmosphere. ” —Gijs Jochems, General Manager, Promega Spain Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 47 Additional Info Table of Contents Valuing Diversity. As a global company, we believe in and pracCorporate Mind tice equal opportunity and affirmative action. We acknowledge and honor the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals. We pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment that respects diverse Product Reach traditions, heritages and experiences. With offices in over 15 culturally diverse locations, the organization benefits from the unique cultures and experiences of all employees. Women represent approximately Planet Aware 47% of employees worldwide and occupy 38% of management positions in the United States. People Care Promega Biotech Ibérica in Spain has been recognized by the city of Alcobendas Community Touch with the Municipal Award for Reconciliation and Equal Opportunities. Additional Info Employees at Promega headquarters fill the Cross Roads area of the Feynman Center. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 48 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Community Touch 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artwork: artist’s rendering of active mitochondria. Artist’s rendering of Table of Contents active mitochondria. Community Touch Corporate Mind “ You You cannot measure success purely by quarterly financial statements. Product Reach must look at many years and see how a business makes a positive impact on a community in enhancing creativity, education and opportunities from growth. ” —Bill Linton, CEO Science tells us that any action has a reaction. As such, we As a life sciences company, we are fortunate. It is our job to Planet Aware know Promega is not an entity unto itself, but is possible in investigate and help others investigate the workings of life. part because of the action and reaction from our surrounding While we may see life at the molecular level, life lessons seem People Care communities. We value the support of these communities, to hold true at any size. The community of a cell includes both and we make it our business to give back and foster the group and individual dynamics. Cells exhibit both flexibility inspiration and energy that only comes with community. and continuity. We include this understanding in the values that encourage our community engagement and support. Promega incorporates a level of internal autonomy that Community Touch allows meaningful support at a local level around the world. In working to make a meaningful contribution to the community each year, Promega has both established community organizations as well as contributed to additional groups and initiatives. We support areas which can, like life science, foster discovery and enrich our lives. Promega centers most of its community engagement and support on education and Additional Info knowledge, community wellness and creativity. The annual Promega family picnic at the Madison, WI, USA, headquarters. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 50 was the second year of this sponsorship and recognized Table of Contents Supporting Education and Knowledge the following winners: We embrace the perspective that shared knowledge across • D  r. Jinsong Li, a Research Investigator from Corporate Mind global networks ensures that scientists and science can fulfill Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell their potential. Education brings growth, discovery and rich Biology, Chinese Academy of Science context for the future. Each year Promega supports established educational efforts as well as the individual efforts • Dr. Li Yu, a Professor from Tsinghua University, China of Promega scientists who volunteer to teach throughout the community (over 1,100 hours in 2013), and classes for The award includes a cash prize and travel costs for a visit to the United States. Promega continues to interact with Product Reach Promega staff and customers in working with the tools of molecular biology. the winners, to share scientific knowledge and to find areas of collaboration. In 2013, over 72% of overall philanthropic contributions were geared toward educational efforts. Initiatives supported by Encouraging Student Efforts to Improve Quality Promega include: of Life. The Promega International Scientific ScholarPlanet Aware ship, developed in collaboration with the University of Collaborating with the Marine Biological Laboratory. Wisconsin—Madison, supports undergraduate science The nonprofit Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) is one students pursuing unpaid international internships that of the largest biological laboratories in the world and an improve the quality of life in the world. This award aims to international center for research, education and training. propel students’ professional advancement in the fields of Their offerings include highly competitive summer courses science and simultaneously help them develop cross-culPeople Care and research programs that attract thousands of scientists tural skills. and students from a variety of institutions across the globe. The Promega Discovery Fund will provide financial support The Scientific Internship Scholarship comprises $100,000, over the next three years and explore how Promega tools allotted over the course of four years. Individual scholarships and technologies could help MBL course instructors. of $5,000 will be provided to support student efforts to use Community Touch science to improve quality of life abroad. Recognizing Innovative Scientists in China. In recognition of important collaborations from innovative researchers Supporting Young Scientists in Spain. Promega Biotech in China, Promega partnered with the Chinese Society of Cell Ibérica, in Madrid, Spain, launched a new program to support Biology (CSCB) to select and grant The Promega Innovayoung scientists in sharing their scientific tion Award. This award is provided to two scientists whose results through micro-funding grants to pay ground-breaking work advances life science research. This for publishing fees in scientific journals or Additional Info registration to speak at conferences. The iniPromega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 51 campus and were able to engage with a panel of Promega Table of Contents professionals about the different career paths in the life sciences industry. Corporate Mind Promega locations worldwide strive to support education and create interest in science. A few examples of efforts in 2013 include: • P  romega supports local scientific courses and events such as the XIV Curso Verão Product Reach Recipients of the Promega International Scientific Internship Award and JIm Hemocentro Rib Preto, a summer course on Cali, Research Director from Promega Corporation, which made this scholargenomics, proteomics and cellular analysis. ship available. Photo: Pauline Zhu. The XV 2013 Annual Scientific Meeting of the Butantan Institute, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ) seminar tiative is called “Fondo de Patrocinios Promega” and since on Advanced Topics in Proteomics and others were also being launched in 2013, the program has already benefited supported in 2013. Planet Aware 16 young scientists. • P  romega Australia supports The Smith Family “Learning for Life Program” that aids disadvantaged children to develop Giving Lorne Genome Meeting Awards in Australia. vital life skills and stay engaged in education. Promega Australia has been giving awards • P  romega GMBH in Germany sponsors the international to student scientists for over 20 years at the People Care learning platform Honey Bee Online Studies (HOBOS). Lorne Genome Meeting. The recipients receive The project of the University of Wuerzburg a monetary prize and the opportunity to present is centered around a honey bee stock and in front of many local scientific delegates. The award session designed to stimulate the students’ urge to has been very popular, making the exposure and opportunity research worldwide. valuable to the students. Community Touch • P  romega Biosciences chemists frequently make presentations at schools and provide onsite tours of the Touring Promega: A Day in the Field for UW-Madison organic chemistry labs and manufacturing facilities in Students. In 2013, university students looking for insights California, USA. on science-based professions beyond academia spent the day with Promega employees from a variety of fields, learnServing the Community: The BioPharmaceutical ing and exchanging ideas regarding scientific practices in Technology Center. The BioPharmaceutical Technology biotechnology. Fifteen juniors and seniors from the UniverAdditional Info Center Institute (BTC Institute), Promega Corporation and sity of Wisconsin-Madison toured the Promega corporate Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 52 Table of Contents many other sponsors coordinate the Annual International Bioethics Forum, geared to the general public, typically attracting roughly 300 participants. It brings together Corporate Mind a diverse group of renowned presenters, and focuses on the sharing of information drawn from the worlds of the natural and social sciences, as well as discussion of related social and ethical issues. In recent years, topics related to the exploration of human consciousness and in 2014, this investigation extends to intelligence in other Product Reach forms, 3.8 Billions of Wisdom: Exploring the Genius of Nature. Scholarship registrations are supported by revenue generated from sponsorships and registration Students participate in hands-on activities in the BTC Institute laboratories. fees, with 20–30 attendees receiving financial support each year. Training Support Program Aids Instructors. Knowing Planet Aware In addition to programs for adults, including the Bioethics that teachers are always looking for news ideas and the latest Forum, the Stem Cell Symposium and a wide array of information for their curricula, Promega offers educational training opportunities, the BTC Institute also serves younger resources such as complementary lectures and lab teaching students and their teachers. One of the highlights of these guides on topics ranging form DNA purification to emerging efforts is the Biotechnology Field Trip Program, which infectious diseases. The Training Support Program offers instructors teaching courses using DNA, RNA, protein or People Care provided 3,000+ middle and high school students from Wisconsin and Illinois with hands-on, molecular biology-based cell-based techniques at high school, undergraduate or laboratory experiences in academic year 2012–2013. graduate universities 50% off Promega products. For more information, please visit www.promega.com. Community Touch lovemythestudents “Iand [field trip] program and the staff is outstanding. This is a high-quality program always enjoy the experience. Each time I bring students, several make career and educational goals based upon this field trip. It is transformational. —Ann Brown, Science Teacher, Sun Prairie High School ” Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 53 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Caring for Future Innovators Planet Aware at Woods Hollow Children’s Center. People Care Promega is a significant supporter of the Woods Hollow Children’s Center, which was developed to provide affordable and vital early Community Touch childhood education and care for the community surrounding our headquarters in Madison, Wisconsin. With gold-standard accreditation, Woods Hollow offers a rich experience with diverse curriculum and a setting that allows Additional Info children to explore and create. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 54 Table of Contents Sharing Knowledge through the Promega Webinar Series. The Promega Webinar Series is a program that In 2013, 35 Promega employees provides noncommercial live webinars to scientists around Corporate Mind the world free of charge. Scientific topics range from basic participated in the Million Pound science concepts to highly technical research presentations. This communication channel allows unique interactions Challenge and raised 20,110 between young and senior scientists in the areas of genomics, pounds of food. proteomics, genetic identity and cellular analysis. Product Reach Community Wellness Fun and Fundraising for Movember. To raise funds for Promega defines community wellness in a broad sense from the Movember Foundation, teams at Promega Madison and strengthening the physical and mental needs of the individual Promega Biosciences grew mustaches during November to addressing a multitude of social needs in the community. 2013. The Movember Foundation is an official global charity that uses the power of “Mo” to raise funds and awareness for Planet Aware In support of the diverse interests of Promega employees prostate and testicular cancer and mental health challenges. and the various needs of the community, each year Promega The energy was contagious with women even getting in the matches employee giving in the annual United Way and Comact and sporting a “Mo” for a good cause. munity Shares campaigns that are offered on the Madison, WI, campus. Similar programs are also offered at Promega People Care branches to encourage contributions and volunteering. Participation in the Million Pound Challenge. To help combat hunger in the Madison, WI, area, Promega participated in the Million Pound Challenge, sponsored by the Community Touch Princeton Club. For every one pound of weight a participant loses during the challenge or for every one hour of exercise done, ten pounds of food are donated to the food bank. Promega employees have taken part in this challenge since 2010. In 2013, 35 Promega employees participated in the Million Pound Challenge and raised 20,110 pounds of food. Promega Biosciences employees participating in the Movember The Promega team came in 20th place out of 283 teams. Foundation fundraising. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 55 Additional Info Encouraging Environmental Protection and Fitness Community Action Team in California. At Promega Table of Contents with Chinese Academy of Sciences. Promega Beijing Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, an employee-led “Comsponsors a walking challenge each spring munity Action Team” works to support local organizations Corporate Mind for employees of the Institute of Zoology at by involving employees in fundraising activities, matching Chinese Academy of Sciences to encourdonations and encouraging volunteering. In 2013, fundraisers age environmental protection and fitness. benefited thirteen organizations including Making Strides Promega provides awards for employees Against Breast Cancer, the Red Cross, United Way, SLO that walk 5 kilometers daily during the period and around Women’s Shelter and Special Olympics. 400 employees participated in 2013. Product Reach Supporting Individuals with Special Needs. In Mannheim, Germany, the Promega Euro Hub works with ATW Mannheim, a company that supports psychologically handicapped people to bring them back into a stable working environment. We have similar arrangements in Wisconsin and in the United Kingdom to Planet Aware provide employment opportunities to individuals with disabilities, assembling and reusing packaging. Promega corporate headquarters also supports an in-house aluminum can recycling program to benefit young adults People Care with special needs in Wisconsin. Adam Can Recycling is a start-up business that will enable these young adults to be self-employed and active members of society. Promega Beijing Walk. Community Touch “ Asedge  a global company, we leverage our capabilities to provide knowland tools in science for community growth and development. We help individuals and communities achieve their aspirations to become global citizens who are responsible and want to make a difference in Additional Info their communities here. ” —Nicholas Ng General Manager, Promega Singapore Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 56 Table of Contents Global Philanthropy and Volunteerism. ideas that have no specific roadmap is an important characteristic to reinforce. As a result, Promega has a long history • E  mployees at Promega Italia volunteer of supporting creativity within the company and surrounding and support local charities such as community. Corporate Mind the “Italian Food Bank Network” and “OPERA SAN FRANCESCO PER I Quarterly Art Exhibits. Quarterly public art exhibits on the POVERI ONLUS”. Promega corporate campus serve a dual purpose of sharing the creativity of featured artists while introducing the com• In 2013, Promega Australia supported munity to international perspectives. Throughout the years, disadvantaged children through World exhibits have featured work of artists from around the world. Vision Australia, The Salvation Army, Product Reach cancer research and the New South In 2013, the Promega Quarterly Art Show exhibited the work Wales Police Association. of Dr. Lilian Nabulime, an artist, senior lecturer, and former • A  t the International Symposium on Human IdentificaHead of the Sculpture Department at Makerere University in tion, Promega made donations to The National Center Uganda. Dr. Nabulime believes strong messages can be delivfor Victims of Crime, The Innocence Project and Oxfam ered through art, to educate, empower and liberate women as well as men. In her work, Dr. Nabulime uses everyday objects Planet Aware International in lieu of a giveaway for each customer that played a game. from Ugandan women’s lives, such as soaps, sieves, cloths and mirrors, to raise awareness and promote discussion • P  romega UK operates an annual program to support about sexual practice and HIV/AIDS. Her work embodies a local charities that has recently included ”Naomi powerful social agenda and explores the politics of gender, House” for terminally ill children, ”Guide Dogs for the race and disease in modern Africa. People Care Blind” and ”MacMillan Nurses” supporting cancer patients at home. Lilian Nabulime says “Through art, one can effectively communicate social/political messages across a diversity of tribes • P  romega AG supported Doctors with languages and cultural bases. Art can transcend the Without Borders. temporal limits Community Touch • T  erso Solutions in Madison, WI, donated money to of languages Habitat for Humanity and entered a team in their charity and speech, and golf tournament. that’s the challenge I would like Creativity to portray in my sculptures.” U  nderstanding science involves continual experimentation. Promega 2013 Spring Art Show featuring some of The ability to think creatively and be comfortable forming Additional Info Lilian Nabulime’s work. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 57 Supporting the arts is common at many global and science is what drew Promega to sponsor the Cool Table of Contents locations with Promega UK supporting local Science Image Contest, hosted by The Why Files at the artists through a local gallery company called University of Wisconsin—Madison. Corporate Mind Little Van Gogh. Financial support of the gallery places art on the office walls, rotating every 6 weeks, and the pieces are available for purchase. Supporting the Center for Investigating Healthy Minds. To support discussions on the combination of neuroscience, environments, economics and healthcare Product Reach to promote happiness and health, Promega contributed company space and provisions for a dinner celebration, hosted by the Center for Investigating Healthy Minds at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. This center conducts rigorous scientific research on healthy qualities The above image shows a piece of rat brain cortex cultured in a petri dish. It of mind, such as kindness, compassion, altruism, forgivewas one of the entries in the 2013 Cool Science Image Contest. Submitted Planet Aware by Brian Jenkins, Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biochemistry. ness, mindfulness and well-being. Dinner attendees included participants of the event Change The Why Files was created at the University of Wisconyour Mind Change the World 2013, a series of panel discussin-Madison with collaborations from the National Institute sions on well-being in relation to global health and happiness, for Science Education with support from the National Science People Care led by His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama. Change Your Mind, Foundation. From 105 submissions, 10 were chosen as Change the World was cohosted by the Center for Investiwinners. Promega will continue to sponsor the contest in gating Healthy Minds at the Waisman Center and the Global 2014 in hopes of showing the world the beauty behind Health Institute, and moderated by Arianna Huffington and scientific discoveries. Daniel Goleman. Backing Established Creative Venues. Promega supCommunity Touch Promega Sponsors the 2013 Cool Science Image ports numerous cultural venues in the community such as Contest. Scientific images are a critical form of data and, the Madison Contemporary Art Museum and the American in many ways, provide insight into nature’s mysteries and Players Theatre (APT). With the nationally recognized APT, help us understand how the world works. While valuPromega supports the educational program of the Shakeable to research, scientific images can also be inherently spearean company as the actors travel to schools around beautiful, a quality that nonscientists do not often have a the state, bringing the theater experience to thousands of chance to see first-hand. The concept of beauty in detail students. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 58 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artwork: artist’s rendering of enzymes modifying a protein. Table of Contents Additional Information 2013 Report Parameters Corporate Mind Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is Areas that have not been measured in this report due to lack Product Reach completed on a calendar year basis with the information in of current information are: this report covering January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. This is the sixth Promega report in this area, following the • P  ackaging material usage: By implementing a new initial report released in July of 2009. This process of reporting system for gathering and tracking data, Promega will will continue on an annual basis. Corporate Responsibility have a better understanding of gross packaging matereporting attempts to focus on the environmental and social rial usage by type and the impact from these activities. Planet Aware impact of Promega operations worldwide using the frame• Staff commute work established by the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 • Effluents to water Guidlelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In the coming years, we will transition to the GRI • Supply chain analysis G4 Guidelines. Carbon footprint calculations have been made using People Care the emission factors provided by the World Resources With more timely processes for gathering information Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy and worldwide, Promega has seen improved accuracy and business travel. The reported emissions from distribution transparency in its key indicators for environmental and were calculated with the conversion factors provided by social impact. Promega has experienced increases in the Defra’s 2012 Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors and scope, materiality and comprehensiveness but recognizes Community Touch have incorporated new methodology for domestic shipments, that there is still significant room for growth. Information has resulting in slight changes for previous years. Lastly, the been gathered from all 21 Promega branch and subsidiary Environmental Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator has locations worldwide. In some instances, additional or more been used for calculating the life cycle impact due to paper accurate information was gathered for previous periods, usage. Current and previous years’ carbon footprints have resulting in slight variations from reported indicators in been calculated using the most updated information and previous reports. Estimations for previous years’ indicators emission factors from the resources above. has been made where information was unavailable using Additional Info revenue as a factor. Artist’s rendering of enzymes Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. modifying a protein. 60 Table of Contents Key Indicators Economic 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Revenue (US Dollars) $221,650,835 $233,888,141 $260,201,139 $284,453,280 $318,919,508 $346,176,572 Corporate Mind Number of Employees 958 972 1,117 1,197 1,223 1,285 Building Footprint (Sq. Feet) 631,589 631,589 708,387 709,977 738,459 1,009,254 Environmental 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 20,684 19,575 21,179 21,684 21,289 26,171 Product Reach (Tons of CO2) Emissions Per Million in Revenue 93.3 83.7 81.4 76.2 66.8 75.6 (Tons of CO2/Dollars) Emissions Per Building Footprint 32.7 31 29.9 30.5 28.8 26 Planet Aware (Tons of CO2/Sq Ft) Energy Consumption: Electricity (kWh) 15,742,438 15,255,183 16,363,009 16,363,009 16,647,068 20,127,561 Natural Gas (Therms) 589,034 573,652 564,715 570,723 508,964 821,733 People Care Water Consumption 14,241,376 13,678,029 17,104,304 18,235,195 19,850,170 23,080,018 (Gallons) Total Paper (Reams) 127,631 22,894 27,798 18,522 28,141 16,488 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 223,642 215,826 245,078 270,357 270,490 301,417 Community Touch (Cubic Feet) Incinerated (Cubic Feet) 7,854 5,797 6,556 6,632 6,623 8,326 Land filled (Cubic Feet) 112,227 111,336 124,178 127,396 122,025 143,330 Recycled (Cubic Feet) 103,561 98,693 114,344 136,329 141,842 149,762 Chemical Waste (Pounds) 145,395 144,449 177,238 165,679 154,083 138,229 Additional Info Infectious Waste (Pounds) 9,316 9,431 9,261 9,164 12,779 13,749 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 61 Table of Contents GRI Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the world’s most widely recognized sustainability framework for organizations to use when measuring and reporting on economic, environmental and social performance. The 2013 Promega Corporate ResponCorporate Mind sibility Report is based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, and the following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # Introduction 1.2 3 Product Reach CEO Letter 1.1 4 Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # Overview 2.1, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, EC 1 6 Planet Aware Future Investments 2.10 8 Corporate Governance 2.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.5, LA 13 9 Corporate Values 4.8 9 People Care Corporate Vision 4.8 9 Creative Approach 10 Community Touch Supply Chain Management EC 6 11 Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Supporting Good Science 13 Research and Development at Promega 2.2, 2.7 13 Additional Info Investments in the Future 17 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 62 GRI Index (Continued) Table of Contents Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Corporate Mind Quality Process and Product 18 cGMP Manufacturing Facility PR 2, PR 4, PR 5, PR 7, PR 8, PR 9 18 Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Product Reach Overiew 21 Responding to Climate Change EN 16, EN 17, EN 18 23 Energy Consumption EN 3, EN 4, EN 5 23 Planet Aware Heating Promega, Not the Planet EN 19 25 Tracking and Reducing Impacts from 2.10, EN 26, EN 29 27 Product Distribution Reducing Impacts from Business Travel 29 People Care Preserving Natural Capital EN 13 31 Minimizing Waste 2.10, EN 22 31 Community Touch Water Conservation EN 8 33 Connecting with Customers without Paper 34 Less is More with Packaging EN 27 35 People Care GRI Section # Page # Additional Info Overiew LA 1 38 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 63 Table of Contents GRI Index (Continued) People Care GRI Section # Page # Corporate Mind The Promega Culture 38 Our Work Environment 40 Employee Health EC 3, LA 3 41 Product Reach Employee Safety 42 Promoting Wellness through Healthy and Active Lifestyles 42 Investing in Employee Education, Training and Advancement EC 3, LA 3 46 Planet Aware Human Rights and Diversity EC 3, LA 3 47 Community Touch GRI Section # Page # Overview SO 1 50 People Care Supporting Education and Knowledge 51 Community Wellness 55 Creativity 57 Community Touch Additional Information GRI Section # Page # Report Parameters 2.8, 2.9, 3.1-3.11 60 Key Indicators 61 Additional Info Index 3.12 62 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 64 GRI Index (Continued) Table of Contents Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report will be addressed below. In 2013, we had no incidents or issues Corporate Mind in the following areas: • F  ines for non-compliance with environmental laws and • L  egal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, regulations (EN 28) and monopoly practices ant their outcome. (SO 7) • Incidents of discrimination and action taken. (HR 4) • F  ines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. (SO 8) • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Product Reach people and actions taken. (HR 9) Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 65 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal Product Reach 12377MA 93 SCOPE 3 84 Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue 81 76 76 73 Planet Aware 67 SCOPE 2 People Care SCOPE 1 Community Touch 2008 2013 2014 GOAL Figure 1. Status toward 2014 greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 66 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Carbon Footprint Indexed to Building Footprint Carbon Emissions Indexed to Bldg Footprint Product Reach 20% Reduction 33 Since 2008 31 30 31 Planet Aware 29 6 26 Tons of CO2/Ft2 People Care Community Touch 12369MA 2008 2013 Figure 2. Greenhouse gas emissions as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 67 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint 2013 Carbon Footprint Composition Product Reach 20% 52% Electrical Usage 1% Natural Gas Air Travel Planet Aware 0% Auto Travel 3% Rail Travel People Care 10% Water Paper 14% Distribution 12379MA Community Touch Figure 2. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 68 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Global Energy Global EnergyUsage Usage (Actual and Per Sq. Ft) Product Reach 82 59 57 56 57 51 508 NATURAL GAS Planet Aware 468 436 432 Million BTUs of Gross 398 338 People Care ELECTRICITY 12375MA Community Touch 54 52 56 56 57 69 2008 2013 Indexed to Square Feet Figure 3. Global energy composition and usage indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 69 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Electricity Progress Toward Goal Electricity Progress Towards Goal Product Reach Thousands of kWh / Million in Revenue 71 6? 65 63 Planet Aware 58 58 56 52 People Care Community Touch 2014 GOAL 12370MA 2008 Figure 4. Status toward 2014 electricity goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 70 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Natural Gas Progress Toward Goal Natural Gas Progress Toward Goal Product Reach Hundreds of Therms / Million in Revenue 27 6? 25 24 22 Planet Aware 20 20 16 People Care 12371MA Community Touch 2008 2014 GOAL Figure 5. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue compared to 2014 goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 71 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Business Travel Carbon Footprint Corporate Mind Business Travel Carbon Footprint Product Reach 2880 3016 2701 2097 2378 Tons of Carbon Dioxide RAIL 10 1691 Planet Aware 9 8 9 9 AUTO 7 People Care AIR 12372MA 2008 2013 Community Touch Indexed to Revenue Figure 6. Sources of gross travel emissions and emissions indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 72 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Product Reach 855 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 4 686 677 607 631 576 Planet Aware 3 2 2 2 2 People Care 2008 2013 12373MA Community Touch Indexed to Revenue Figure 7. Net emissions from automobile travel and indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 73 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Non-Hazardous Waste Progress Toward Goal Product Reach 31% Recycling Increase Cubic Feet in Thousands Since 2010 136 142 143 150 50 Planet Aware 124 127 122 112 114 104 111 99 GOAL Incineration/Landfill/ Recycling/Waste 542 501 502 471 438 452 People Care 403 12378MA 78 58 66 66 66 83 Community Touch 2008 2013 2014 Figure 8. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste and progress toward 2014 goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 74 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Global Hazardous Waste per Revenue Global Hazardous Waste Product Reach 42 36 Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue 40 BIOLOGICAL 656 681 32 40 618 582 483 40 Planet Aware 399 CHEMICAL People Care 12376MA Community Touch 2008 2013 Figure 9. Hazardous wastes as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 75 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Water Usage Progress Toward Goal Water usage progress toward goal Product Reach Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue 64 66 64 66 63 58 59 Planet Aware People Care 12368MA Community Touch 2008 2014 GOAL Figure 10. Waste usage indexed to revenue and progress toward 2014 target. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 76 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Corporate Mind Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Product Reach Reams per Million in Revenue 576 Planet Aware 87% Reduction Since 2008 98 107 65 88 96 96 12374MA People Care 48 2008 2013 2014 GOAL Community Touch Figure 11. Global paper usage indexed to revenue since 2008. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 77 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2014 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • 05/14 • 12447811
