Communication on progress 2013 A Sveaskog will be the most proﬁtable forest company in the short and long term. This Sweden’s largest forest owner will be achieved among other things by being best at combining proﬁtable forestry with environmental responsibility. Sustainability awareness is a natural part Forest assets of Sveaskog’s business and is clearly stated in the owner’s, the Swedish state, owner policy. Sveaskog has been reporting on its sustainability initiatives in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines since 2008. GRI is an international standard for presenting and reporting and a way of working in order to govern sustainability initiatives internally as well as fulﬁlling the assignment from the owner. Sustainability reporting is also a way Sveaskog’s land area of providing an open and transparent Total 4.0 million hectares description of the business and its challenges, presenting sustainability targets and target performance, and increasing knowledge of the company. The 2013 Sustainability report is submitted by Sveaskog’s Board of Directors. The report meets GRI’s application level B+. Productive forest land Contents Produktionsareal Production forestsexklusive excluding nature Introduction 2 naturhänsyn* 2,4 conservation* 2.4 miljoner hektar million hectares Naturskydd Nature och naturhänsyn protection inklusive and conservation including CEO’s comments 3 fjällskogsregionen montane 0,7 0.7 forest region miljoner hektar million hectares Chairman Göran Persson 4 Other Övrigt0.90,9million hectares miljoner hektar Targets and performance 5 * Consideration for nature at felling 0.23 million Assignment, strategy and objectives 7 hectares. Business and organisation 9 Forest assets 11 Risk and sensitivity analysis 13 Principles and control mechanisms for sustainability 17 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment 19 Environment and conservation 21 Swedish forest owner Total delivery volumes structure, % 000s m3sub Climate initiatives and carbon footprint 24 Share of productive forest land Social responsibility 26 About the sustainability report 30 12000 12,000 11,268 10,834 10,605 10,721 10,807 Corporate governance report 31 10000 10,000 Board of Directors 35 Group management 37 8000 8,000 GRI G3 Index 39 6000 6,000 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 45 4000 4,000 2000 2,000 0 Financial calendar 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Enskilda Private ägare 50% owners 24 April Interim report January–March Privata forest Private companies skogsbolag 25% 25% and AGM Sveaskog 14% Sveaskog 14% In 2013, Sveaskog’s timber delivery volumes solid under bark (sub) were on a par with the previous Övrigaprivate Other privataowners ägare 6% 6% 16 July Interim report January–June year and amounted to 10,807 thousand m3sub Staten3% State 3% 22 Oct Interim report January–September Övrigapublic Other allmänna ägare owners 2%2% Jan 2015 Year-end report 2014 Sveaskog owns 4.0 million hectares Reports can be accessed at of land, of which 3.1 million hectares is productive forest land. www.sveaskog.se 1 V E R I G E S L Ewith A Sbusiness DAN D itsA Sroots KOGSF inÖ RtheE TAforest G Sveaskog sells sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel to approximately 170 customers primarily in the pulp, paper and sawmill industries. Sveaskog also develops the forest and land for customer-speciﬁc concessions and new business, as well as hunting and ﬁshing. The subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor AB is the Swedish market leader within forest regeneration and seedlings The forest with all its assets is Sveaskog’s core business. Conducting forestry operations and developing new business opportunities and applications for wood raw material and forest land are a major responsibility. Sveaskog’s vision is to be the leading forest company which means being the most proﬁtable forest company, being the preferred choice for business partners and employees, leading development and innovation in the industry and being best at combining proﬁtable forestry with environmental responsibility. Sveaskog owns land with a book value of approximately SEK 31.5 billion, has annual sales of SEK 6.1 billion and approximately 700 employees throughout Sweden. Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. The main geographic market is Sweden 170 customers 6.1 billion 693 employees kronor in sales 10,000 felling sites 36 ecoparks 14% of Swedish 31.5 billion kronor forest land in forest book value 8,200 different leases The country’s leading timber suppler and an important industry partner SAWLO G S Product Customers Market % of sales ® FSC -certiﬁed wood raw material Approximately 70 customers such Primarily Sweden. such as spruce sawlogs, pine as sawmills and other wood sawlogs, small-dimension sawlogs, processing companies who 44% standard lengths and hardwood supply among others the building sawlogs. sector and the furniture industry. P U LPWO O D AN D C H I PS Product Customers Market % of sales Fresh pulpwood and cellulose Approximately 30 customers in Sweden and chips of which a high the pulp and paper industry Northern Europe. proportion is FSC®-labelled. which manufacture packaging, 39% graphic papers and newsprint. BIOFUEL Product Customers Market % of sales Forest-based fuel in the form Approximately 70 customers Sweden. of branches and tops (felling primarily heating plants, CHP residues), thin trees and energy plants and forest industry. 17% wood. 2 CEO’s comments Improved earnings a sign of strength for Sveaskog We started 2013 in difﬁcult conditions: a strong currency which affected our customers in the export-dependent forest industry and continued weakening demand mainly for newsprint and graphic papers. The pulp and paper industry faced its greatest transformation in modern times and at the start of the year output from Swedish sawmills was at its lowest level since the 1990s. During the year several sawmills and paper machines were shut down in Sweden. The positive aspect of hard times is that they force efﬁciency improvements and a renewed attitude to how a business should be run. In Sveaskog we have been working since 2012 with a leaner, market-aligned and customer-oriented organisation. Over the past year we have put time and energy into identifying and implementing improvements in our day-to-day operations. A new way of working with ideas and continuous improvements has also released a latent energy in our employees. Their innovative strength has been harnessed and rewarded. We continue to work Per-Olof Wedin, with ongoing improvements, business development and President and CEO. innovation in order to remain the leading forest company in the future. Improvement work has been highly signiﬁcant in reducing our costs and getting closer to our customers. During the year we started development projects and closer cooperation with several customers with the aim of better meeting It is with pride that I can present customers’ speciﬁc demands, creating new solutions and improved earnings for 2013 despite increasing proﬁtability in the entire chain from forest to tough market conditions. ﬁnished product. Improved earnings despite lower prices It is with pride that I can present improved earnings for 2013 despite tough market conditions. Operating proﬁt Targets for sustainable business: from continuing operations, the ﬁgure that best shows how our ongoing business is developing, improved by SEK 130 • Increased proﬁtability – proﬁtable operations with good ethics. million to SEK 978 million despite reduced prices. The • Customers’ preferred choice and most knowledgeable partner. improvement is mainly due to increased deliveries from our • Leader in innovation and efﬁciency – increased revenues from new areas own forests, but also to lower costs. for forest and land and increased efﬁciency in operations. We sold 10.8 million m3sub wood raw material during the • Leader in sustainable forestry – forestry without signiﬁcant impact and year, a little more than in 2012. An average of 6% lower low carbon dioxide emissions selling prices reduced our net sales to SEK 6,056 million • The most attractive employer and client – good leadership and (6,307). Sales of sawlogs, pulpwood and chips showed a employeeship as well as more even gender balance and more employees volume increase of 2% while deliveries of biofuel fell by 8%. with non-Swedish backgrounds. 3 Return on equity amounted to 8.8% which Reporting Initiative (GRI) and are audited. Chairman is over the target of at least 7%. On the During 2013 we sharpened our targets other hand, a yield of 3.9% is not on the and taken a ﬁrm grip on what we call Göran Persson target of 5%. This should be viewed from sustainable business – a holistic view of the perspective of price levels that are our business covering both proﬁtability and What do you see signiﬁcantly lower than when the target good ethics, being a knowledgeable, as the greatest was set and that the target is over a innovative and attractive player, and challenges for the Swedish forest business cycle. ensuring sustainable development for industry? forestry. Our vision is to be the leading “The forest creates Increase use of wood raw material forest company which means, among other jobs, prosperity and is Sveaskog and Sweden have never before things, being best at combining proﬁtable extremely signiﬁcant had forests so rich in timber. Our forest forestry with environmental responsibility. for Sweden. But the assets consist of 3.1 million hectares of One of our targets includes getting forestry things that kept us out productive forest land and the standing right 99% of the time which means felling in front yesterday are volume on managed land amounts to 237 without any major environmental impact. not what we’re going million m3fo. By optimising management We will reduce our carbon dioxide to win with tomorrow. of the forest assets we will be able to emissions by at least 30% by 2020 and We must strengthen the forest industry’s increase deliveries of timber in the coming also create climate beneﬁt by increasing competitiveness together.” years the forest’s signiﬁcant ability to bind Which areas do you think should be most To increase the value of the forest and carbon dioxide. prioritised? the dividend to our owners we allocated One challenge is our skills supply. “Productivity in Swedish forestry has gone down resources in 2013 to innovation and Continued development efforts for our in recent years. There needs to be more research business development aimed at a broader employees are therefore a prioritised issue and ideas to reverse this trend. We also need to use of wood raw material. We do a lot at Sveaskog and we are working to recruit ensure that the paper industry continues to within the company but are also dependent more women and people of other nationﬂourish, otherwise there is a risk that a base on cooperation with others, both customers alities. We have set a target to increase the industry will disappear forever. Applications for and other players as well as research in number of employees with a non-Swedish wood raw material must be broadened.” different areas. We also seek a clear forest background and that by 2020 the How should this happen? policy which harnesses the values in the workforce will be at least 30% women. “We need a wider understanding in society that Swedish forest – economic, environmental the forest is important for us Swedes and the and social. Stable and reliable partner forest must receive positive special treatment. All Sveaskog is in good shape and, even if stakeholders must contribute, we must cooperate Game grazing damage greatest threat there is much to do in many areas, and have a dialogue. In about 130 other countries We shoulder great responsibility for the development and earnings in 2013 show there are national forestry programmes which Swedish forest, this is an inherent part of that we have strengthened our position as safeguard their own industry.” Sveaskog. It is our most important asset the leading forest company. Our customers and if we care for it well it will give us much know that we are a stable and reliable Sweden is perhaps the country with the in return. partner, even when things get tough. The greatest proportion of renewable energy in The greatest threat to the forest today market situation in 2014 is still difﬁcult to the system. What more can we do? “Sweden has all the conditions needed to be a is the serious damage caused to young assess but it looks as though the sawmill model for other countries when it comes to growing trees by grazing elk. At today’s crisis has bottomed out and there is light at biofuel. Let us learn the lesson from the developlevels of damage Sveaskog is losing more the end of the tunnel. We see indications ments we made in the district heating network than 850,000 m3 of timber annually just that building activity in Europe has where today in principle all houses and premises in growth reduction caused by grazing speeded up. A stronger market combined are heated with renewable energy. It was a carbon damage. with continued work with a proﬁtability dioxide tax which drove this development. We We have an action programme to get focus and close cooperation with customust be able to do something similar within the this down to a manageable level. The mers are the foundation for a good result transport sector.” highest priority is to achieve the culling in 2014. target for elk. What do you think about the state of the forest? “We have never had as much forest in Sweden as Targets for sustainable business we have now – and it is increasing, too. In other Sustainability has been a strategic issue words we have plenty of raw material which is for Sveaskog for many years. We apply the renewable and also a good climate solution. The principles of the UN Global Compact, Stockholm, March 2014 way from the fossil society to the renewable report our work according to the Global Per-Olof Wedin, President and CEO society is through a broadening of the forest’s different applications. Our forest resources are totally decisive in this transition.” 4 Targets and performance Sustainable business Sveaskog’s target is that the company’s operations should be most knowledgeable and preferred partner. Innovation and efﬁciency, sustainably managed. This is based on a long-term proﬁtable sustainable forestry and being an attractive employer and client are business run with good ethics and where Sveaskog is the customer’s areas where Sveaskog will lead the industry. Economic targets and performance 2013* Return on equity Yield Equity ratio Dividend % % % SEKm 15 6 60 5,000 5.4 55 54 4,473 52 12.4 49 5 Target 50 47 12 11.3 11.0 4.4 4,000 Dividend in excess 3.9 4 40 of dividend target 8.8 3.3 Target 9 3.2 3,000 3 Dividend according Target 30 to dividend target 6 2,000 1,739* 4.7 2 20 3 1,000 1 10 487 435 450 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Return on equity was 8.8%. The Yield amounted to 3.9%. The target The equity ratio amounted to 49%. * Including consolidated value for dividend target over a business cycle is 7%. over a business cycle is 5%. The target over a business cycle is of Ersättningsmark i Sverige AB. 35–40%. Target: At least 60% of profit after tax, excluding non-cash adjustments * Decided by Annual General Meeting according to IFRS. For 2013 the proposed dividend is shown. By proﬁtably developing forest land and managing it sustainably, value is created for many stakeholders. Bengt Karlsson is one of Sveaskog’s employees on a technical outing to Kosta in Småland in 2013. 55 Other targets and performance 2013* GOOD ETH ICS Target description Target/Indicator Value 2013 Target 2017** Brand index Conﬁdence in Sveaskog 64 67 CUSTOM E RS’ PR E FE R R E D AN D MOST KNOWLE DG EAB LE PARTN E R Target description Target/Indicator Value 2013 Target 2017** Satisﬁed customers Customer satisfaction index, sawmill customers 74 80 Customer satisfaction index, pulpwood customers 45 55 Customer satisfaction index, biofuel customers 61 65 LEADI NG I N I N NOVATION AN D E FFICI E NCY Target description Target/Indicator Value 2013 Target 2017** Increased revenues from new areas Increased revenues other than timber Work in progress for forest and land business Increased efﬁciency Average cost of felling, change % –5.8 –10 LEADE R WITH I N SUSTAI NAB LE FOR ESTRY Target description Target/Indicator Value 2013 Target 2017** 99% of environmental values met in Consideration index 95 99 forestry without signiﬁcant impact Carbon dioxide emissions reduced CO2 emissions tonnes per delivered 12.7 9.5 by at least 30% by 2020 thousand m3sub TH E MOST ATTRACTIVE E M PLOYE R AN D CLI E NT Target description Target/Indicator Value 2013 Target 2017** Good leadership and employeeship Employee satisfaction index 69 70 Leadership index 70 72 Contractor satisfaction index 70 (2012) 72 Supplier satisfaction index 67 (2012) 70 At least 30% women by 2020 and Gender balance 20 24 more employees with non-Swedish backgrounds * Decided by the board. ** At end of the business plan period. 6 Assignment, strategy and objectives Sustainable forestry is good business Vision Strategy for being the leading forest harvested this is done using long-term felling Sveaskog’s vision is to be the leading forest company calculations that beneﬁt long-term growth company which means: Being the leading forest company is both and maximise timber extraction. The forest is • Being the most proﬁtable forest company about conducting successful forestry and managed for the greatest possible long-term over both the short and long-term broadening the use of the forest. Developing proﬁtability, ﬂexibility and increased positive • Being the preferred choice for our proﬁtable business for timber and biofuel is effects on climate. At the same time business partners and employees therefore one of the key strategies. The Sveaskog contributes to strengthening • Leading development and innovation in focus is on proﬁtability before volumes, biodiversity by using 20% of its productive the industry adjusting the offering and services through forest land for nature conservation in • Being best at combining proﬁtable forestry close cooperation as well as developing the ecoparks, nature conservation forests and by with environmental responsibility biofuel business. showing consideration for nature when Being the most proﬁtable forest company felling. Sveaskog’s assignment in the short and long-term demands high The proﬁtability of the forest land is Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state and efﬁciency in the value chain from forest the strengthened through different types of land its assignment is to be an independent customer. Delivering the right quantity and concessions and customised leases for player in the timber market with its core quality at the right time creates customer business activities and recreation. In addition, business within forestry. Operations shall be value and keeps costs down. Effective concessions create new business based on conducted on a commercial basis and logistics is key for forestry. Through the possibilities of the forest land. generate a market return. Closely related continually improved production, innovative When working on being the leading forest activities may also be conducted provided solutions and advanced business models for company, employees and corporate culture that they contribute to increasing the purchasing, Sveaskog strengthens its are decisive. Work is therefore ongoing to company’s return. Sale of land on market offering for customers and contractors, strengthen a culture and a method of terms shall enable reallocation of land suppliers and operations. working characterised by customer focus, holdings and add-on purchases for private Sveaskog’s greatest asset is the forest innovation, simplicity and transparency. To forestry, particularly in rural areas. Sales of land and by developing this proﬁtably and ensure a long-term skill supply Sveaskog is land shall be carried out until 10% of the managing it sustainably value is created working to improve attractiveness and area owned by the company at its formation for many stakeholders. When the forest is diversity in the company. in 2002 has been sold. Strategy for being the leading forest company Increase efﬁciency in Develop proﬁtable Increase Targets for the value chain from business for timber proﬁtability of sustainable forest to customer and biofuel forest land business Increased proﬁtability Improve logistics from forest to customer Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Strengthen leading position within sustainable forestry Leading in innovation and efﬁciency Leading within Develop employees and culture to be the leading forest company sustainable forestry The most attractive employer and Customer focus Innovation Simplicity Transparency client 7 Being the leading forest company is about both conducting sustainable forestry and being the customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner. 8 Business and organisation A natural cycle with a customer focus Wide range of wood raw material its own forests with purchases from other forest owners, imports During 2013 Sveaskog delivered 10.8 million cubic meters of wood and timber exchanges. Imports are mainly from the Baltic countries. raw material of which the majority came from our own forests. The Most of the raw material comes from north and central Sweden raw material consists of sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel from different where Sveaskog has its largest forest holdings. tree species and in different dimensions. Access to wood raw material is a competitive factor for Sveaskog Deliveries 2013 and the range is adapted to customers’ requirements. Sveaskog During 2013 Sveaskog delivered 4,322 (4,224) thousand m3sub conducts felling at about 10,000 locations around the country which sawlogs, 5,126 (5,018) thousand m3sub pulpwood and chips and makes logistics and transports critical areas where improved 1,359 (1,479) thousand m3sub biofuel. In total 10,807 (10,721) efﬁciency means lower costs. To meet customers’ demands for a thousand m3sub. regular ﬂow of timber, Sveaskog complements the raw material from From seedling to felling Sawmill Pulp mill Heating plant Old forest Newly planted forest Felling Soil scarification and 70–100 years planting 0–3 years sawlogs pulpwood biofuel Middle-aged forest Thinning 30–70 years sawlogs Young forest pulpwood Cleaning biofuel 6–20 years Delivery volume, sawlogs Delivery volume, pulpwood and chips Delivery volume, biofuel 000s m3sub 000s m3sub 000s m3sub 5,000 6,000 1,800 5,499 4,261 4,308 4,224 4,322 5,234 5,124 5,126 5,018 1,461 1,498 1,479 3,983 5,000 1,500 4,000 1,339 1,359 4,000 1,200 3,000 3,000 900 2,000 2,000 600 1,000 1,000 300 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 3 3 3 Sveaskog delivered 4,322 thousand m sub Sveaskog delivered 5,126 thousand m sub Sveaskog delivered 1,359 thousand m sub sawlogs during 2013, 2% more than in 2012. pulpwood and chips during 2013, 2% more biofuel during 2013, 8% less than in 2012. than in 2012. 9 170 customers Sveaskog’s timber business, volumes Sveaskog has a total of approximately 170 customers of which about 70 for sawlogs, 30 for pulpwood and chips and some 70 for biofuel. Most customers buy from more than one range. Wood raw material Timber business Customers Customers are mainly Swedish sawmills and pulp and paper mills which process the wood raw material into building Wood products materials, furniture, packaging and newspapers. Biofuel is Sawlogs industry such as sold to heating plants, CHP plants, forest industries and Own forests 40% sawmills pellets manufacturers to produce electricity, heat, green chemicals and biofuel. Forest properties Pulpwood Pulp and paper Sveaskog owns 4.0 million hectares of land and water and is Purchased and chips industry timber 47% actively engaged in the purchase, exchange and sale of forest land. Most property transactions are within the land sale programme (see page 11), an assignment which the Energy producers company has from Parliament and which is intended to Timber such as heating exchanges Biofuel, etc. strengthen private forestry. plants, CHP 13% plants and As well as returns from forestry the forest can generate industry other revenues. Sveaskog leases land and water for hunting and ﬁshing, for example, and develops and broadens leases for businesses such as wind power and ecosystem services. Organisation Operations are conducted in three geographical market Leases 2013 areas, North, Central and South. Concessions and leases were managed during 2013 within the framework of the Properties business area. During 2014 the Properties Contract number business area will be integrated with the market areas while Fishing 1,600 property management matters will be handled centrally by the Hunting 3,100 Legal and Properties staff. Support for operations is provided Other 3,500 by corporate staffs. Total 8,200 The subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor AB produces and sells forest cultivation materials and provides silvicultural services. Sveaskog also holds interests in companies where there is not a group relationship. The holding in the wood products Left: At Hasselfors sawmill, part of Setra Group, the timber is processed. company Setra Group AB (publ) is the largest. Right: Nordic Paper is a niche manufacturer of kraft paper and greaseproof paper. During 2013 they bought large quantities of raw material from Sveaskog. Tomas Gustén is manager, ﬁbre raw material. 10 Forest assets Long-term increased value of the forest Sustainable management, regeneration of forest with high growth now becoming sowing and planting – as well as thinning and felling are the starting point for ready for felling. Sveaskog has excluded and fertilising. During 2013 Sveaskog has strengthening and developing the value and 20% of productive forest land (below the carried out soil scariﬁcation, sowing, planting, returns from the forest in the long term. montane forest region) for nature concleaning and fertilising on a total of 66,300 Sveaskog’s strategy is to focus on silviservation. hectares (79,000). The amount of sowing as cultural activities which have the greatest a regeneration method rather than natural effect and inﬂuence the return on forest Sustainable felling levels regeneration has increased. capital. The basis for sustainable forestry is that Annual growth on productive forest land is The value of the forest assets is affected long-term growth is at the same level or about 11.3 million m3fo (11.3) or 4.3 m3fo per by growth in the forest and felling as well as exceeds extraction. Optimised felling hectare (4.2). Overall, the standing volume in the purchase and sale of forest properties. contributes to an increased return on the the productive forest land amounts to 247 The annual timber harvest and how it is forest capital. The way Swedish forestry has million m3fo (249) or 93.0 m3fo per hectare distributed over time are the most important been conducted since the middle of the 20th (92.9). In recent years timber extraction has factors for setting an economic value on the century has nearly doubled the standing been 60–70% of growth in managed areas. forest capital. The total return includes items volume and the annual felling volume. This means that the standing volume other than continuing operations such as Sveaskog makes long-term felling increases each year, resulting in an increase land sales and lease income as well as the calculations based among other things on in the forest capital. change in value of forest capital for the year. the age structure of the forests, standing The book value of the forest at 31 December volume, tree species and growth. New Land sales 2013 was SEK 31.5 billion. calculations from 2013 show that the felled Sveaskog works actively with purchases, volumes will increase. Timber extraction exchanges and sales of forest land. The age of the forests corresponds on average to 60–70% of Sveaskog endeavours to improve the Age distribution across the Swedish forests growth. structure of forest holdings through efﬁcient is uneven. The major part of the forest is leasing and customer structure. 0–50 years. The silvicultural techniques used Investments and growth The land sale programme is based on a at the end of the 19th century and beginning The value is also affected by the growth and parliamentary decision from 2001 that of the 20th century created thin forests with value-adding initiatives that are taken over Sveaskog must divest 5–10%, corresponlow productivity. Restoration work was time. These include silvicultural activities, ding to 218,000 to 436,000 hectares, of its started in 1950 which has led to large areas such as regeneration – with soil scariﬁcation, own lands (calculated on the land holdings in Sveaskog’s forests – age and species Tree species, proportion Age category distribution of forest land for The age of the forests of total land all Sweden, Sveaskog* and all owners, % Age distribution across the Swedish forests is uneven. Forests aged 0–50 years are over25 represented. The silvicultural techniques used 23 at the end of the 19th century and beginning of 22 22 21 the 20th century created thin forests with low 20 20 productivity. Restoration work was started in 17 Sveaskog 1950 which has led to large areas of forest All owners with high growth which are not yet ready for 15 felling. A relatively large proportion of the Swedish forest over 100 years is set aside for 10 10 10 9 nature conservation. Sveaskog has excluded 8 7 7 7 20% of productive forest land (below the 5 5 montane forest region) for nature conservation. Pine 63% 5 4 Spruce 29% Deciduous 8% 0 0-19 20-39 40-59 60-79 80-99 100120140+ Source: Sveaskog. 119 139 * 3% comprises tree groups and edge zones left when thinning and felling for which age is not determined. Source: Swedish Statistical Yearbook of Forestry 2012 and Sveaskog. 11 2002 when the programme was started). calculated to be available for felling every The intention is to strengthen private year during the calculation period. forestry. A parliamentary decision from June The calculations have a signiﬁcant effect 2010 states that sales shall continue until on operating proﬁt, but do not generate any 10% is reached, which is expected to occur cash ﬂow. The sum of the next hundred in 2018. years’ discounted cash ﬂow is the value of During 2013 a total of 8,853 hectares was the biological asset standing forest. The level sold. for income is based on a ten-year historic average. For costs a three-year series is Book value at year-end applied. The calculated cash ﬂow for each At 31 December 2013 Sveaskog’s forest year is discounted to present value. In the assets had a book value of SEK 31,531 calculation for 2013 a nominal interest rate million (30,507), of which SEK 29,375 of 6.25% has been used, the same as in the million (28,424) represents the calculated previous year. fair value of the standing forest according to In addition to the value of the standing IAS 41. The remaining SEK 2,156 million forest, the forest lands have their own value (2,083) is the acquisition value of the land. for concessions such as hunting, ﬁshing Sveaskog uses the international accounting and outdoor activities through tourism rules for forest assets in this valuation (IAS companies, wind power and ecosystem 41 Agriculture). services. Calculations of the value of the forest The change in value of the standing forest assets are updated every quarter based on for the year is described in Note 15 of the long-term felling calculations. The calculation Swedish annual report. is made on those volumes which, from a forestry perspective, are expected to be available for felling in the next one hundred years. Selling prices and costs are aggregated for the volumes and range that are Sveaskog makes long-term felling calculations based among other things on the forest’s age distribution, standing volume, tree species and growth. Sveaskog’s forest capital Sales in the land sale programme by year 2012 2013 Year Number of transactions Sold area (ha) Total land area, million ha 4.06 4.04 2002 13 1,451 of which productive forest land, million ha 3.13 3.12 2003 220 29,166 of which managed, million ha 2.68 2.65 2004 263 41,509 Reported value, SEKm 30,507 31,531 2005 247 43,984 Taxable value of forest land, SEKm 55,031 55,135 2006 235 39,913 Standing volume*, million m3fo 249 247 2007 238 37,060 Standing volume*, m3fo/ha 92.9 93.0 2008 239 32,692 Net growth*, million m3fo 11.3 11.3 2009 267 34,979 Timber extraction from own land, million m3sub 5.83 6.02 2010 155 23,406 Timber extraction as proportion of net growth 2011 84 18,639 on managed land*, % 64 66 2012 55 12,868 * Managed land 1 m3fo (forest cubic meter) corresponds to approximately 2013 23 8,853 0.82 m3sub (cubic meters solid under bark). Total 2,039 324,520* * Total sales up to and including 2013 correspond to 7.44% of Sveaskog’s land holding at the start of the programme in 2002. 12 Risk and sensitivity analysis Biological growth of Sveaskog’s forest assets The extensive storm fellings in recent years concessions for hunting, ﬁshing and provides opportunities for stable cash ﬂows show the weather and climate risks and their eco-tourism as well as eco-friendly profrom felling, property sales and concessions. consequences. At the same time, Sveaskog’s tection against insects when planting and This limits Sveaskog’s economic risks. Other large and widespread holdings provide a processing seedlings are some examples. risks are systematically inventoried. spread of weather and biological risks. Sveaskog also invests in wind power in Sveaskog’s forest holdings are insured cooperation with energy companies, Major spread of risks against extra costs via direct insurance and development of biofuel and examines other Sveaskog is exposed to ﬁnancial, legal, in the reinsurance market. business opportunities such as ecosystem market-related, operational, public opinion Sveaskog works to develop the different services. These activities provide a broader and social risks as well as risks to the forest values of the forest among other ways by income base, but can also represent risks. capital in the form of biological, weather and creating additional sources of income with climate risks. the forest as a base. The focus on granting Risk management process at Sveaskog Identify, Evaluate control Identify remedial Prioritise Implement, follow-up evaluate risks of risks actions actions remedial action Since 2009, risk management The identiﬁed risks are reIdentify remedial actions for Each remedial action is Remedial actions are taken has been an integrated part of viewed on the basis of the assessed risks. evaluated on the basis of its according to priority and the annual operational plan. All controls in place. The controls effect and how timeand resource availability. Once an signiﬁcant risks are identiﬁed, are evaluated on the basis of cost-demanding the action action has been taken, the reported and compiled in quality and risk coverage, is. Remedial actions are result is measured in order to environmental and quality level of formality, division of prioritised on the basis of assess whether the action systems. responsibility and other what generates the greatest was sufﬁcient to manage the Consequences are linked features. beneﬁt per action. risk, and what beneﬁts the to each risk and these are remedial action had. described and evaluated. Responsibility for risks and governance Sveaskog’s Board is responsible for the company managing risks in the right way and ensuring compliance with adopted principles for ﬁnancial reporting and internal control. The CEO has overall responsibility. Risk assessments are made on the basis of process descriptions. The Accounts and Treasury staffs are assigned by the CEO to be responsible for an inventory of risks and for conducting the risk management processes. Operational responsibility rests with each market area, but is followed up centrally. 13 Sensitivity analysis: Sveaskog’s assessment of signiﬁcant risks and their impact Comments on assessment of probability and impact WEATH E R, CLI MATE H IG H PROBAB I LITY AN D E NVI RON M E NTAL Weather, climate and environmental risks productivity development for the industry on a par R I S KS Storm fellings are a risk and storm-felled and with competitors in other countries. MAR KET R I S KS thereby damaged timber comprises an average of OPERATIONAL B IOLOG ICAL approximately 5% of annual felling. The forest is Operational and legal risks RISKS R I S KS affected by climate change, including an increased Operational activities are exposed to risks. These can storm frequency, changes in precipitation and take the form of inadequate operational support or FI NANCIAL R I S KS vegetation boundaries. Soil contamination is a risk routines. This can result in the risk of economic loss where the company can have a responsibility as or loss of proﬁts and lead to reporting that conSOCIAL R I S KS PU B LIC OPI N ION R I S KS LOW PROBAB I LITY property owner or former operator. Decontaminatravenes the law or good practice, which in turn can tion can involve major costs. reduce future market conﬁdence. Biological risks Financial risks Damage to the standing forest caused by game, Financial risks comprise ﬁnancing risk, interest rate insect damage, as well as root rot and other fungal risk, credit/counterparty risk and currency risk. Work diseases are the biggest biological risks for a forest to reduce ﬁnancial risks is conducted in accordance owner. Preventive measures such as game manwith a ﬁnance policy adopted by the Board. LOW I M PACT H IG H I M PACT agement, mechanical protection against insects Additional information about Sveaskog’s ﬁnancial risk and other measures are costly. situation is provided in the Annual Report in Note 28. Market risks Public opinion risks Social risks Development for the sawmill and pulp and paper Opinions about the use of the forest which restrict Timber purchases involve risks linked to illegal felling, industries is important for forestry proﬁtability. forestry can affect proﬁtability and the value of forest corruption and labour law. Contractors who carry out Customers with a weak ability to pay are a risk. land. Negative opinions can impact conﬁdence in the assignments and do not meet their commitments, as The growing market for biofuel leads to new sales company and thus customer relations and cooperwell as other infringements of the company’s code of outlets. Internationalisation requires income and ation. conduct are also a risk. Management of signiﬁcant risks WEATHER, CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Risk Governance and management Climate change Tract adaptation, adapted thinning Changed climate can increase the and clearing, developed forcing in risk of storms, cause changes in poor conditions and work with precipitation, worsen forcing processed seed and seedling conditions and change vegetation material. boundaries Insurance. Storm felling Silvicultural measures that reduce Direct economic loss through lower risks: thinning, planting, increased operating proﬁt, reduced value of proportion of deciduous trees, ﬁnal forest capital, cleaning up puts a felling at economic maturity. Good strain on the organisation, damage crisis organisation and logistics. from bark beetle. Ability to move felling resources to storm-felled areas. Insurance against damage. Contaminated soil within Mapping, strategy for prioritising Sveaskog’s holdings areas, liability investigations, working Responsibility for contaminated soil with surveys and decontamination. and need of decontamination with potentially major costs. 14 BIOLOGICAL RISKS Risk Governance and management Spruce bark beetle Fast processing of storm-felled Population in the north has grown timber and standing trees and the control area has been recently attacked. extended. In the south attacks have subsided, leading to a reduced control area. Pine weevil Chemical protection and use Gnaws the bark off conifer of mechanical plant protection, seedlings which leads to Conniﬂex and development of deteriorated regeneration. Multipro. Root rot Preventing attacks by treating Value of standing forests stumps during felling with spores. decreases, trees die. Fungus attacks Inventory of extent of disease. MARKET RISKS Fungus on young stands of pine Felling damaged trees. Trees with causes trees to die. resin top disease not left as seed Risk Governance and management or care-demanding trees. Sawmill industry Active choice of customers and New pests established Monitoring At times poor proﬁtability leads credit insurance. Priority given to If, for example, the nun moth, the to closure of sawmills and loan cooperation with customers with mountain pine beetle or other losses for Sveaskog. Restruclong-term survival and proﬁtability pests become established in the turing may lead to fewer potential. country, large-scale destruction customers in local areas for Prioritise product development could result. Sveaskog’s forest holdings. and innovation. Game grazing damage Hunting, measures to increase Pulp and paper industry Expand market and customer Game which graze on trees and access to feed, increased A few, dominant companies capital. More efﬁcient logistics seedlings reduce forest growth. knowledge of game populations. means a lack of competition and increased exports. New and few alternative business product range such as biofuel opportunities. increases market potential. Prioritise product development and innovation. Energy sector Be an effective provider of Elimination of companies and advanced, customer-oriented customers in Sveaskog’s business concepts that provide traditional markets. added value and increased proﬁtability for all parties. Prioritise product development and innovation. OPERATIONAL AND LEGAL RISKS Risk Governance and management Legal risks Clear rules, controls, follow-up and audits. Activities that contravene the law and good practice. Inadequate routines and structure Documented routines and work processes in all parts of the business. Inadequate systems support, routines and organisation lead to Ensure high quality of systems support since information systems ﬁnancial loss, loss of proﬁt, loss of market conﬁdence and difﬁculties comprise a key part of operations. Training courses which increase in skills supply. knowledge of Sveaskog’s working methods. Loss of FSC® certiﬁcation Documented routines and work processes in all parts of the business. Lack of quality in silvicultural activities and consideration for nature as well Internal and external audits as well as training for continual improvements. as deﬁciencies in work and follow-up of social responsibility can result in Sveaskog losing its FSC® certiﬁcate, which would have a signiﬁcant impact on the timber business. 15 Management of signiﬁcant risks (cont.) PUBLIC OPINION RISKS Risk Governance and management Opinions about the forest Active in the forest debate Opinions about the use of the forest which restrict forestry can affect proﬁtability and the value of forest land. Reduced conﬁdence Code of conduct, internal The brand and conﬁdence in the routines, active information company can be affected and thus work and ongoing dialogue customer relations and cooperation. with stakeholders. Photo: Shutterstock SOCIAL RISKS Risk Governance and management Timber imports from Sveaskog’s code of conduct as undesirable origins well as certiﬁcation and clear Purchase from, for example, guidelines for tracing and Russia and the Baltic countries documentation of purchased raw can present risks linked to illegal material, which govern the comfelling, corruption and labour law. pany’s actions and follow-up. Contractors Code of conduct, guidelines for Contractors which fail to meet procurement of contractors as FINANCIAL RISKS commitments can constitute a well as follow-up and control of risk linked to working environcompliance reduce risks. ment, health, safety, labour law. Risk Governance and management Corruption Code of conduct, clear guideFinancing risk A well-diversiﬁed loan portfolio of Unclear guidelines and routines lines, internal control, possibility Assets are partly ﬁnanced with lenders and investors with good lead to a risk of bribes, bribery to report violations anonymously external loans. This constitutes a ﬂexibility and competitive pricing. and corruption risk if a large borrowing requirement arises in a tight credit market. Interest rate risk Sveaskog’s policy is an average The risk that Sveaskog is ﬁxed interest term on the loan exposed to a disadvantageous portfolio of 12–48 months. interest rate situation with a large loan portfolio. Credit risk The ﬁnance policy regulates The risk that a counterparty is maximum credit exposure in the unable to fulﬁl obligations. investment portfolio. For commercial credit exposure some major customers are exempted, otherwise credit insurance is taken out for other customers. Photo: Shutterstock 16 Principles and control mechanisms for sustainability Renewable raw material a sustainable business Sveaskog’s forest management contributes to society in several respects: economically, environmentally and socially. The wood raw material is one of the most important raw materials in the Swedish economy and the forest industry exports goods for over SEK 100 billion per year. With the forest as its business, Sveaskog plays a signiﬁcant role in maintaining and developing Economy Environment the value of forest land but also in utilising and harvesting in an effective and considerate manner. The forest is a key natural asset for mankind since it contains a large part of the landscape’s biodiversity and counteracts climate change by binding carbon dioxide. Long-term business based on a sustainability perspective is a natural part of Sveaskog’s operations. This is also clearly expressed in the owner, the Swedish state’s, owner policy. Social responsibility Governance of operations is described in the corporate governance report on pages 31–34. Sveaskog reports on sustainability in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The guidelines are a way to govern sustainability initiatives internally and openly describe operations and challenges, report on target performance and increase knowledge of the company. Economy Environment Social responsibility A proﬁtable Sveaskog contributes to the To be a leader in sustainable forestry also Sustainability initiatives are supported by the positive development of society by directly involves safeguarding and developing values code of conduct which in turn is based on and indirectly generating employment other than the renewable raw materials the UN Global Compact. In order to be the throughout Sweden and often in rural areas. which are produced. These include forest leading forest company, Sveaskog’s objective Proﬁtability is achieved among other things biodiversity, good water quality and the is to be the most attractive employer and by being the customers’ preferred and most forest’s ability to bind carbon dioxide which client which is a key prerequisite for knowledgeable partner and by leading the counteracts climate change. ensuring skills supply and developing way in innovation and efﬁciency. The assignemployees and the corporate culture. ment from Parliament also includes selling GRI indicators forest land in order to encourage private EN3-4, EN11-14, EN16-18, EN20. GRI indicators forestry which often provides support in rural LA1-2, LA4, LA6-7, LA10-LA14, HR1-9. Responsibilities PR3-5, SO2-3. areas. • To set a good example in the development GRI indicators of sustainable utilisation of the forest’s Responsibilities EC1-3, E6. various natural resources • Responsible business based on the code • To maintain the forest’s long-term of conduct Responsibilities production capacity • Good leadership and employeeship • To safeguard the long-term value of the • To limit negative impact on the aquatic • To work to achieve greater equality and forest environment diversity • To increase the return on forest capital by • To protect valuable cultural environments • To establish a culture and way or working developing the use of both forest land and • To preserve and strengthen biodiversity characterised by a customer focus, wood raw material innovation, simplicity and transparency • To pursue sustainable forestry Prioritised activities 2014 • To strengthen attractiveness and diversity • To manage and develop the forest holdings • Measures to reduce carbon dioxide in order to ensure resources over time • To provide returns to the owner emissions (see pages 24–25) • To be a long-term and trustworthy supplier • Measures to minimise environmental Prioritised activities 2014 of wood raw material impact from felling (see pages 21–23) • Long-term skills supply • To invest in new and innovative technology • Leadership development • To sell land at market prices • Employeeship development • As a proﬁtable business to create job • Implement governing values opportunities, especially in rural areas • Close and developed cooperation with • Development of the market for ecosystem contractors (see pages 26–29) services Prioritised activities 2014 • To work according to the adopted strategy to be the most proﬁtable forest company (see page 7) 17 Direct economic values Sveaskog generates and distributes value to different stakeholders. Value per stakeholder is shown below. SEKm Stakeholder 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Value generated Revenues From customers 7,044 7,773 7,257 6,619 6,361 Value distributed Operating expenses To suppliers and contractors –4,505 –5,087 –5,048 –4,850 –4,468 Employee wages and beneﬁts To employees and social security costs –540 –523 –578 –535 –552 Net interest expenses To loan institutions –283 –234 –246 –317 –291 Tax To the Swedish state –385 –321 –220 –117 –131 Dividend to shareholder To the Swedish state through (paid during the year)* Ministry of Finance –89 –487 –856 –4,473 –435 Value retained 1,242 1,121 309 –3,673 484 * Previously the proposed dividend was reported, but since 2010 the dividend paid during the year has been reported. Follow-up Sveaskog follows up its sustainability initiatives regularly both internally and externally. Internal: External: • Each quarter in area-speciﬁc business follow-ups • Auditors review the Sustainability Report • Internal audit/self assessments in the ﬁeld • External audit according to ISO 14001 of the integrated • Annual follow-up of framework agreements with external business management system suppliers • External audit of FSC certiﬁcation • Annual surveys (customer, employee, contractor, supplier and brand) Sveaskog’s certiﬁcates • ISO 14001 • FSC® forestry certiﬁcate own forest FSC® is an independent international organisation • FSC® forestry certiﬁcate group for certiﬁcation of responsible forestry. The aim is • FSC® traceability certiﬁcate socially beneﬁcial, environmentally appropriate and economically viable responsible forest manage• PEFC traceability certiﬁcate ment. FSC®’s logotype on products represents • PEFC forestry certiﬁcate group independent certiﬁcation of forestry and product • AEOF customs simpliﬁcation/security and protection manufacturing according to FSC®’s rules. The raw material Sveaskog sells may not come from controversial sources. Use of traceability certiﬁcates provides information about where the timber comes from. Forest products are divided into two categories: FSC® 100% which means that all wood raw material in the product comes from FSC®-certiﬁed forests and FSC® Mix Credit which means that most of the product’s wood raw material comes from FSC®-certiﬁed forests and the rest of the raw material comes from controlled sources, controlled wood. The Controlled Wood stamp provides assurance that the non-certiﬁed timber for example is not illegally felled and does not come from controversial sources. 18 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment The forest an asset for many stakeholders Wide variety of stakeholders Materiality assessment Sveaskog’s operations affect many different stakeholders. The Sveaskog has identiﬁed the key issues for the company and its numerous applications for forests, land and water lead to a constakeholders from a sustainability perspective (see diagram below). siderable need for dialogue with many people and organisations in Dialogues are an important source for the materiality assessment order to understand the various stakeholders but also to set priorities and contribute to setting priorities both in the operations and for for the business. Stakeholder dialogues are ongoing and provide determining the content of the sustainability report. valuable information and basis for decision. Dialogues and meetings with external stakeholders are reported in Stakeholder surveys the environment and quality management system. This reporting Sveaskog conducts regular surveys among customers, employees, provides structure for the dialogues and facilitates systematic contractors and suppliers as well as surveys to assess public follow-up of issues. conﬁdence in the company in a brand survey. Examples of stakeholders who are affected to a considerable Surveys were carried out in 2012 and 2013. Results show that degree are the reindeer herders whose animals graze on Sveaskog’s customers, suppliers and contractors expect Sveaskog to work with land. Laws and regulations govern consultation with reindeer herders issues such as business ethics, optimised transport and logistics, the and these are applied throughout the entire reindeer herding zone. role of forestry in Sweden as well as issues linked to skills supply and Sveaskog follows the FSC®’s principles with speciﬁc commitments working environment. The employee survey conducted in 2013 concerning relationships with local communities and regularly showed continued good average results. The index measured how consults with the Sami villages affected by forestry operations. satisﬁed employees are with their total work situation and if they feel During 2013, 70 consultations took place with the Sami representjob satisfaction. atives corresponding to 280 working days. Stakeholders Sveaskog has structured stakeholder dialogues which are documented. This overview shows the key issues for the ten principal stakeholders. Lending instituCustomers Owner tions, lenders Employees Contractors Issues Product quality, effecMarket return, proﬁtFinancial targets, Skills development Developed coopertive logistics, renewable ability, sustainable stable ﬁnancial ﬂows, and supply, working ation, renewable vehicle fuels, technical business responsible business, environment and energy, contract/ development, FSC®, new business opportuhealth, organisation remuneration issues Sveaskog’s role in nities and working environthe market, reliability, ment long-term relationships What is FSC® certiﬁcation, Financial targets, Reports ﬁnancial Internal training proLong-term cooperation, measures delivery corporate governance targets, ﬁnance policy, grammes, supports partner contractors, Sveaskog precision, develops report, sustainability prioritises long-term internal mobility, active cooperation projects, doing? new fuels, timber report business relationships recruitment, working information and evaluatraceability, market and customers with environment initiatives tions prices, code of proﬁtability potential and develops the conduct organisation Dialogue Customer Satisfaction AGM, board meetings, Company presentaPerformance reviews, Contractor Satisfaction Index, business dialogue with Chairtions, business employee survey, Index, business opportunities development man of the Board discussions manager days, trade development discussions union cooperation, discussions workplace meetings 19 The materiality assessment is an aggregate of the issues that Sveaskog regards as strategically important and the issues that stakeholders regard as most important. Hunting, fishing and outdoor activities Business ethics Local work and assignment providers Biodiversity Coexistence Financial results High Equality and diversity Climate effects Skills supply Elk grazing damage Significance for stakeholders Working environment and health Discrimination Research and development Low Use of land and water Low High Significance for Sveaskog and opportunities to influence The order of the aspects within each of the four ﬁelds has no signiﬁcance. In conjunction with objectives for sustainable business the materiality assessment is being reviewed and since skills supply involves many challenges over the next few years, Equality and diversity have changed place with Working environment and health. Timber Tourism companies, Reindeer Nature conservasuppliers hunters, anglers, etc. herders Authorities tion organisations Issues Ability to pay, market Grants land for leases, Considerate silvicultural Swedish Forestry Act, Biodiversity, nature prices, renewable lease prices, forest measures and connational environmental conservation energy, quality of felling and land for outdoor cessions that do not objectives assignments, skills activities, affect reindeers’ winter supply, working environgrazing – coexistence ment, information about services What is Good liquidity, market Leases, investments in Formalised conAnnual audits, Environmental prices, FSC® planning recreation areas and sultations, better maps, business management objectives, FSC® Sveaskog for felling assignments, ecoparks, roads and projects to develop system, follow-up membership, nature doing? develops new fuels, signs, SVP Forestry land usage of goals and key conservation strategy, information activities Herman Sundqvist’s indicators, SVP SVP Forestry Herman blog* Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog* Sundqvist’s blog* Dialogue Supplier Satisfaction Ecopark inaugurations, Consultations about Consultations reExcursions, cooperIndex, FSC® cooperhunt leader meetings, silvicultural measures, garding ecoparks and ation, SVP Forestry opportunities ation, forest days consultations, business cooperation within inaugurations, annual Herman Sundqvist’s discussions, SVP Swedish FSC® general meetings, SVP blog* Forestry Herman Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog* Sundqvist’s blog* * Sveaskog’s SVP Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog started in spring 2012. It is a discussion forum and provides a natural contact between employees, industry professionals and the forest-interested public. 20 Environment and conservation Consideration in the forest landscape Sveaskog works with nature conservation at nature conservation tools contribute in contributes about 220,000 hectares of different levels – from landscape to individual different ways to realising this goal: ecoparks, conservation area. It consists of those trees/ forest and right down to saving small habitats nature conservation forests and consideration tree groups, edge zones and sensitive in the stands to be felled. At the same time for nature remaining in production forests biotopes that remain in the forest after active efforts are made to create biologically (see table). The ecoparks comprise approxforestry activities. Sveaskog’s forest holdings, rich aquatic habitats and deal with historical imately 145,000 hectares below the montane including ecoparks and nature conservation contamination from earlier activities. forest region and include both set-aside areas forests, can be seen on a map at www. and forests with production targets. The sveaskog.se. Nature conservation land ecoparks contribute to meeting the 20% goal Nature conservation in the form of formally with approximately 80,000 hectares of Habitat management protected areas, such as nature reserves, and conservation area. The nature conservation A large part of biodiversity is adapted to landowners’ own voluntary set-asides, are forests contribute an additional 300,000 natural disturbances such as ﬁre, forest important components of sustainable forestry. hectares. Most of the nature conservation grazing, ﬂooding, dammed wetlands and Sveaskog manages 20% of productive forest forests in the northern part of the country are storm felling. Effective conservation must land below the montane forest region as left to develop freely. Further south major permit and emulate natural disturbances on nature conservation land. This corresponds to habitat management is conducted in order a large scale within designated forests to 600,000 hectares of Sveaskog’s over three to restore or strengthen natural values. preserve the diversity associated with these million hectares of productive forest. Three Consideration for nature in production forests habitats. For species that are dependent on Sveaskog’s initiatives to protect and develop natural values 20% nature conservation land below the montane forest region Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2013 Size Third party measurement Cooperation 36 ecoparks 33 ecoparks have been inaugurated 80,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, 50-year agreement with out of 36 planned. Ecopark agreements of 145,000* County Administrative Board the Swedish Forest Agency, with the Swedish Forest Agency are in WWF (Effect 20) place for 30 of these ecoparks Nature conservation forests Reported at www.sveaskog.se 300,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, WWF (Effect 20), Swedish Forest County Administrative Board Agency, County Administrative Board and Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (deciduous forest restoration) Nature consideration when Control self-assessments 220,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency Method development with felling follow-up, FSC® audit Swedish Forest Agency Nature conservation in montane forest region Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2013 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Sveaskog’s montane forest Nature reserves and ecoparks formed c 100,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, Dialogue with Swedish region boundary is based on the and quality assurance of nature County Administrative Board, Forest Agency Swedish Forestry Act and FSC®. conservation forests is underway. FSC® audit Restoration Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2013 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Restoration of wetlands The objective of 100 restored – – Swedish Wetlands Foundation, and aquatic landscapes wetlands has been achieved. Five Swedish Ornithological Society aquatic landscapes identiﬁed. Work on action plans underway. * Additional 30,000 ha of ecoparks located in montane forest region. 21 spruce and beech, long undisturbed periods Nature consideration when felling samples of the self-assessments that are are often the key to success. These species All forestry operations affect the landscape obligatory after each measure has been can tolerate darkness and in the spruce and and biodiversity. The biggest direct effect carried out. All reports of deﬁciencies are beech forests there is little or no need for takes place at felling and leaving key habitats registered in the environmental and quality habitat management. Over time, several for ﬂora and fauna untouched is part of management system and result in urgent light-demanding species such as willow, Sveaskog’s 20% nature conservation remedial measures as well as corrective aspen, oak, birch and pine are clear losers in undertaking. These include functional edge action to reduce the risk of repeated error. pristine forests. When the spruce and beech zones, sensitive biotopes, retention trees and Deﬁciencies reported relate for example to grow the forests become dark and cold, the avoiding hauling damage. The objective is to hauling damage, damage to sensitive light-demanding tree species disappear in the meet 99% of these values at felling without a biotopes, damage to ancient monuments and long term due to the lack of light. major negative environmental impact. cultural environments, inadequate planning To conduct habitat management in forests compensated by a machine team, the quality with light-demanding tree species is of great Follow-up of reported non-conformances of thinning, felled natural value trees, stump importance for preserving biodiversity. Habitat Guidelines and instructions are developed height which is too high, and thinned areas. A management is used as a collective term for a continuously in order to ensure that Sveaskog common type of “positive non-conformance variety of management practices designed to meets its undertakings and certiﬁcations. report” is that a machine team has departed maintain or develop the biodiversity of the Conformance is checked by external and from the plan in order to avoid causing forest. internal audits, external opinions and random hauling damage. During the year an extra Raslången Ecopark is Sweden’s most southerly ecopark and the only one of its kind in the southern deciduous forest belt. Skåne and Blekinge meet here by the long and clear deep lake Raslången, which gave the ecopark its name. 22 focus was placed on developing measures Environmental data (such as changed working methods) to prevent hauling damage as well as damage 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 to cultural environments and ancient Production monuments. The certiﬁcation company Den All deliveries, 1,000 m3sub 10,834 11,268 10,605 10,721 10,807 Norske Veritas (DNV) performed the annual Deliveries from own forests, 1,000 m3sub 5,629 5,694 5,704 5,962 6,255 external audits for FSC®, ISO 14001, FSC® Biofuel deliveries, 1,000 m3sub 1,339 1,461 1,498 1,479 1,359 group certiﬁcate and CoC (FSC and PEFC). Biofuel deliveries, TWh 2.7* 2.9* 3.0* 3.0 3.0 The audits resulted in observations about Energy consumption handling of rules and external views, Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,602 1,895 1,750 1,781 1,806 application and lack of documentation. Renewable fuels, TJ 109.1 Indirect energy consumption, MWh 14,472 10,551 10,143 9,509 9,254 Water conservation projects Emissions to air Sveaskog conducts several water conFossil CO2, ktonnes 123 145 133 134 138 servation projects, known as aquatic Of which direct emissions, ktonnes 19 20 18.5 14 13 Of which indirect emissions, ktonnes 104 125 114.5 120 125 landscapes. An aquatic landscape is deﬁned NOX, tonnes 1,339 1,677 1,541 1,516 1,600 as a catchment area (forest landscape) with SOX, tonnes – 334 217 262 331 high conservation ambitions for aquatic Land environments. In an aquatic landscape Total land area, million ha 4.3 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.0 Sveaskog intends to be responsible for water Of which productive forest land, million ha 3.3 3.3 3.1 3.1 3.1 by preserving and enhancing the value of Proportion of unfelled total growth, % ** 41 44 44 39 40 water and restoring damaged areas. * 2.0 is used as the conversion factor between volume in m3sub and energy content in MWh. ** Incl. uncultivated forests. Historical environmental debts There are contaminated areas after earlier forest industry operations, mining operations and various leases. Sveaskog has an environmental responsibility for some of these areas. Svenska Skogsplantor has a number of Skissbild nurseries with a serious contamination situation due to historical use of pesticides. Some of these are in need of environmental measures. In 2013 Sveaskog carried out oil decontamination at a former engineering workshop in the municipality of Hudiksvall. Svenska Skogsplantor has also carried out decontamination at the Deje nursery in Forshaga municipality. Svenska Skogsplantor’s work with contaminated areas is taking place in accordance with the company’s strategy which is that nurseries where there is a potential environmental risk and decommissioned nurseries that are of interest for other applications are given priority for further examination. In an aquatic landscape Sveaskog accepts responsibility for the water by preserving and enhancing water values and restoring damaged areas. 23 Climate initiatives and carbon footprint A growing forest binds carbon dioxide The growing forest and use of wood play carbon dioxide, water and sunlight. When the a signiﬁcant role in counteracting climate forest binds carbon dioxide it functions as a change. When renewable wood raw material carbon sink. The forest can be a carbon sink Climate strategy in brief is used it often replaces ﬁnite and fossil to a varying extent during its life cycle, during • Increased forest growth within resources, for example in building materials, different times of day and depending on framework of sustainable forestry packaging and energy. Research and where in the country the forest is growing. • Increased carbon dioxide sequestration development means that a growing number But taken overall, the forest’s ability to through increased forest growth of products are based on wood raw material. sequester carbon dioxide is positive for the This applies for example to car interiors, climate. • Preparedness for climate change by making adjustments in forest manageclothes, medicines and food. ment The growing forest binds carbon dioxide Forest utilisation creates climate beneﬁts through photosynthesis. In this process Sveaskog’s climate strategy is based on the • Expansion of wind power to 4–5 TWh on Sveaskog’s land within ten years. carbohydrates are formed with the aid of ability to do several things simultaneously which help to counteract climate change. • Reduced own emissions of carbon By managing the forest using the same dioxide from fossil fuels by at least 30% by 2020. sustainable methods as today, but doing Largest fossil CO2 emissions (thousand tonnes) Sveaskog more, the effects can be increased. As a result, the forest will bind more carbon Sveaskog’s carbon footprint in 2013 100 dioxide and Sveaskog will produce more amounted to 138,000 tonnes (134,000) 82 78 81 renewable wood raw material. Forestry is of carbon dioxide. Timber transports 80 71 72 also adapted for undesirable future climate accounted for 59% of Sveaskog’s carbon 60 effects such as storms and warmer weather. dioxide emissions in 2013. Efﬁcient 47 45 Sveaskog contributes to society’s changelogistics to reduce the number of trans41 41 41 40 over to renewable energy systems, primarily ports and the use of renewable fuel are by developing utilisation of forest-based important areas to reduce emissions and 20 biofuel and by contributing to the developalso reduce costs. ment of forest-based fuel and wind power. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Investments and activities Forestry Skogsvård och Timber VirkesClimate impact and emissions Sveaskog assesses that emissions and avverkning and felling transporter transports Sveaskog’s target is to reduce its own therefore climate impact can be reduced emissions by at least 30% by 2020 by 10% in a few years through improved Total carbon dioxide emissions from Sveaskog in 2013 amounted to 138,000 compared with 2010. Activities to reduce transport planning, more effective timber tonnes. Timber transports accounted for own emissions are primarily carried out exchanges, developed rail transport and most of emissions, 59%. within logistics and felling processes timber vehicles and training in effective Source: Analysis by Skogforsk and Sveaskog 2013. where the largest emissions are found. and fuel-efﬁcient driving of lorries. The forest and its climate potential Swedish forests bind carbon dioxide Carbon uptake Kolupptag The forest binds most carbon dioxide when growth is greatest, i.e. when it is young and middle-aged. One cubic metre of forest binds on average just over one tonne of carbon dioxide per year. Since the Swedish forests grow by a total of 110 million cubic metres a year, this means that they can bind up to 140 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. Carbon release Kolavgång On balance the Swedish forests, including products made from wood raw materials, help to reduce the Kolavgång Carbon release amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by 60 million tonnes per year. This is equivalent to Sweden’s total carbon dioxide emissions from fossil sources. Year År 0 20 40 60 80 24 Sveaskog’s carbon footprint (all ﬁgures in tonnes of carbon dioxide/year) 78,000 Carbon footprint – a deﬁnition tonnes The carbon footprint is deﬁned as a measure of emissions of carbon dioxide that occur as a result of one or more activities in operations. 41,000 The carbon footprint includes emissions from both direct tonnes and indirect use. Direct* emissions come from machinery and vehicles owned 8,000 5,000 2,000 or leased by Sveaskog and the heating of nurseries. Indirect tonnes tonnes Taken overall, tonnes Sveaskog’s emissions come from operations carried out by contractors operations within transport, harvesting, silviculture and road building. This Forestry Transports have a positive Road Electricity Travel also includes business travel by bus, plane, train, rental and and felling (timber building and heating climate effect. (soil scariﬁcation, transports private cars, and emissions from energy production of the planting, other electricity purchased. The indirect carbon dioxide emissions fertilising, logistics). cleaning, accounted for most, 90%, of the total carbon emissions in thinning, 2013. felling). * The breakdown of direct and indirect emissions is in accordance with GRI guidelines. ** Calculated after the results of the study on the role of –2 million tonnes** forests in climate work, 2008, by the Swedish University The estimated net ability of Agricultural Sciences SLU and GEOpartner AG. of Sveaskog’s forests to take up and sequester carbon. The growing forest binds carbon dioxide through photosynthesis. In this process carbohydrates are formed with the aid of carbon dioxide, water and sunlight. 25 Social responsibility Commitment to success Development of culture Target performance is shown on page 6. contractors see their cooperation with Sveaskog’s operations concern many Sveaskog’s employees, together with their Sveaskog is tested in the Contractor stakeholders which entails a responsibility managers, have a responsibility for their skills Satisfaction Index (CSI) and in the most as an employer, client and supplier to development. Well-conducted performance recent measurement, in 2012, Sveaskog contribute to proﬁtable and responsible reviews provide a good base for participation received a high grade. The CSI amounted to forestry. and are often essential for a manager to be 70, which was slightly better than in 2010 A success factor for a company’s longaware of an employee’s training requirements when it was 69. term development is to ﬁnd new ways to do and ambitions for further development. business and improve both itself and Internal mobility is important for an increased Responsible forestry customer relationships. One key part of exchange of skills. In 2013, 60% of vacancies A good timber business starts with responSveaskog’s culture is to share, to learn from were ﬁlled with internal candidates. The sible forestry. All Sveaskog’s own forests are each other and to be eager to do things in number of training days per employee FSC®-certiﬁed, which guarantees the forestry new ways. amounted to six, both for salaried employees is conducted responsibly. When felling for a During 2013 Sveaskog intensiﬁed its and for wage-earners. third party on his land, the FSC standard is efforts to systematically capture and Sveaskog took part in job fairs, offered also used. Imports are subject to disseminate the good ideas to be found in the summer jobs to students in forestry study a requirement for timber certiﬁcation. company. A nomination campaign with the programmes and had a number of students Traceability in timber purchases is a very theme Improvement of the Year has been carrying out their thesis work. These activities important issue for both Sveaskog and its conducted to reward people or groups whose give students an opportunity to form an customers. The FSC traceability certiﬁcation ideas have become tangible action. The opinion about Sveaskog as a company and means that the origins of the forest products categories were Sveaskog’s four key values: give Sveaskog a chance to get to know can be traced. This helps consumers and Customer focus, Innovation, Simplicity and potential employees. Sveaskog is actively companies to make responsible purchases. Transparency. Employees were asked to involved with the board for upper secondary This certiﬁcation is called Chain of Custody nominate candidates and a jury made up of school agricultural education programmes (CoC) and with such a certiﬁcate the group management chose the winning and in joint industry projects to attract more customer can feel secure that their customers contributions. young people to choose machine operator as in turn get what they want. This is a responsa career. During the year some 50 students ibility throughout the entire production chain Code of conduct leads the way from various upper secondary school Nature and a competitive advantage in the timber Sveaskog’s code of conduct stipulates how Resource Use programmes did work market. employees and the company should behave experience at Sveaskog, mostly in the various Sveaskog conducts supplier surveys and in relation to each other, to customers, practice forwarders available for the students the Supplier Satisfaction Index (SSI) in 2012, contractors and other stakeholders. The code to give them as much machine training as when it was last measured, amounted to 67 of conduct was revised in 2013 and the possible. (70). governing values clariﬁed. Notiﬁcation of Working with dedicated and skilled violations can be made both on Sveaskog’s contractors is central among other things Demands on suppliers intranet and on the website. During the year when it comes to felling and managing the Sveaskog’s aspiration is to have a positive four notiﬁcations were received. Three were forest. In recent years Sveaskog has impact on business by making demands external and related to road maintenance, systematically developed its cooperation on human rights in the supply chain. transport using foreign vehicles and hunting with selected contractors among other things Collaboration with local contractors and parties. One notiﬁcation was internal and with the concept of partner contractor. How suppliers is important for the development related to ethics. All these matters were investigated and are now closed. Attractive employer and client One of Sveaskog’s objectives is to be the most attractive employer and client. This is about both retaining and developing employees as well as being an attractive choice for potential new employees. Sveaskog works with a number of different activities in order to achieve this objective. The winner of Sveaskog’s “Improvement of the year 2013” in the Customer Focus category was Malå sawmill’s improvement group. 26 of Sveaskog’s operations. changing. More and more people are moving equality in the company. Every year Sveaskog The code of conduct, general CSR to the cities. The population in central offers schoolchildren summer jobs within requirements (linked to the UN Global Norrland is declining which is already planting and other activities. The teams of Compact) and detailed demands on conaffecting infrastructure and municipal young people consist of half girls and half tractors govern assessments. Follow-up takes services. In several of these municipalities boys. Sveaskog’s forest network for women place through self-assessments and internal Sveaskog has large forest holdings with celebrated its tenth anniversary during the audits. Information on non-conformances is planned future felling levels. year. In 2013 the proportion of women in the reported in the environment and quality There is increasing competition from other company amounted to 20%. management system. industries, where for example the mining In new procurement processes and sector particularly in Norrbotten and VästerGood results in employee survey renegotiations Sveaskog works to get botten competes with better salary conditions. Sveaskog conducts its employee survey, framework suppliers to sign the CSR It is difﬁcult to say how this affects what known as VIS, every second year. The 2013 requirements. This means that the Global young people choose to study in school but survey shows that Sveaskog continues to be Compact’s principles also cover suppliers’ the trend continues for those upper seconat a high level in the Employee Satisfaction operations. In 2013, all new framework dary schools which offer the Natural Index (ESI). 69% of employees are very suppliers signed the CSR requirements which Resource Use programme to receive fewer pleased with their work situation and feel job means that 49 out of 54 (91%) have signed ﬁrst-hand applicants. satisfaction. This is the same level as when the requirements. A follow-up with site visits the survey was conducted in 2011. The was conducted during the year. High targets for equality 2020 leadership index which weighs up different In 2013, the Board of Sveaskog adopted the leadership factors has a value of 70 which is Risks related to corruption target that there should be at least 30% good but could be improved. In order to identify the risk of corruption a risk women among employees by 2020 and more analysis is performed, see page 16. Sveaskog employees with a non-Swedish background. Leadership development works with internal control, the code of In order to succeed Sveaskog works in An extensive leadership programme was conduct, guidelines and demands on business different ways, in terms of both where started in 2013 with the aim of providing partners and the possibility to report contacts are created with the younger managers with increased: infringements anonymously. For new generation and how the actual recruitment • knowledge about leadership employees, training in the code of conduct is process takes place. In job advertisements at • communicative skills provided by the manager responsible. This least one women must be included as a • ability to create commitment among applies both in Sweden and in the Latvian contact and in interviews both a man and a employees subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. women take part. • self-awareness. In 2013 Luleå University of Technology Equality and diversity carried out a pre-study of equality in The participants said that the programme Greater diversity is key if Sveaskog is to meet Sveaskog. The aim of the study was to lived up to its goals and that they feel greater future skills supply needs. Demographics are provide suggestions on how to improve security in their managerial role. Sveaskog’s target is that the proportion of women in the company will rise to at least 30% by 2020. 27 Working environment All employees have access to the company Sveaskog reports work-related injuries, i.e. the A good working environment is an integral health service and are offered regular health number of notiﬁed work-related injuries that part of conducting sustainable business and check-ups. The company health service is an on the reporting date are expected to result in includes both employees and contractors. important partner for Sveaskog in its efforts sickness absence. In 2013 work-related A good working environment is also a key to adjust working duties and provide injuries amounted to 4.4 (9.5) per 1,000 competitive tool for Sveaskog. The working rehabilitation. In order to promote employees’ FTEs. environment must be safe and stimulating health there is an exercise subsidy. In comparison with the labour market as a and characterised by respect for and whole, Sveaskog has a relatively low level of conﬁdence in employees. Work-related injuries and accidents sickness absence, 2.6% (2.1). Employees A formalised and active working environThe most common work-related injuries occur being put on the sick-list due to stress does ment organisation is in place and bases its in conjunction when moving on foot over occur. Every manager is therefore tasked with activities on the Swedish Work Environment terrain through slipping or sprains. Other taking stress-preventing measures where this Act as well as central and local collective common accidents take place in conjunction is required according to VIS results. agreements. The work is followed up at local with work with forest machines during service level. and climbing on and off. Sveaskog’s employees Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise speciﬁed. All employees Relation between men’s and women’s salaries included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included. Wage earners Women/men 11/298 13/292 17/283 16/252 21/250 Employees Women’s median salary 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in relation to men’s, % 92 92 95 91 86 Permanent employees 721 720 726 702 693 Salaried employees Average number of employees, incl. temporary employees* 958 964 1,008 949 899 Women/men 99/278 110/277 113/283 113/285 108/277 Number of wage-earners 328 320 314 288 293 Women’s median salary in relation to men’s, % 96 95 98 99 99 Number of salaried employees 393 400 412 414 400 Number of part-time/ The comparison does not take into account that different requirements are made permanent employees 7/721 8/720 9/726 9/702 15/693 for different positions but only provides an overview of salary structure per Number of full-time/ agreement area. Salary information and number of employees refer to permanent permanent employees 714/721 712/720 717/726 693/702 678/693 employees in Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). Number of HR managers 101 99 102 93 95 Average age, years 47 48 48 48 48 Employees within different age groups –29 92 101 122 97 94 Number of permanent employees by region (market area): 30–49 417 406 415 403 384 50– 449 457 471 449 421 Market area/ Market area/ /region 2012 2013 /region 2009 2010 2011 Employee turnover, % 6.6 6.9 6.6 5.9 6.2 Proportion recruited internally, % 63 72 50 79 60 North * 239 214 Norrbotten 140 136 141 Average no. of employees* in Västerbotten 98 98 98 market areas and business area Central * 233 257 Södra Norrland 74 80 79 Properties 587 612 629 597 ** 545** Bergslagen 161 183 184 Average no. of employees* in staffs 118 104 107 118 116 South * 139 131 Götaland 153 134 133 Average no. of employees* in subsidiaries 253 248 272 234 239 Stockholm ** 55 54 Stockholm 60 61 61 Latvia/Lithuania 33 34 Latvia/Lithuania 33 26 28 * Total number of hours worked/1,650. ** Including Properties business area. Finland 3 3 Finland 2 2 2 * Including employees in staffs stationed within the market area. ** Stationed at the head ofﬁce in Stockholm. Breakdown of employees in the group 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employee turnover by market area (number) Women, %* 19.4 19.4 20.2 19.9 19.7 By market area By age group Women/men Men, %* 80.6 80.6 79.8 80.1 80.3 North 19 <30: 2 (2) 10/43 Women/men Central 13 30–50: 11 (20) on the Board, %** 50/50 67/33 67/33 50/50 43/57 South 14 >50: 40 (39) Women/men Stockholm 1 in group management, % 43/57 33/67 33/67 30/70 36/64 Baltfor 5 Women managers, % 21 25 23 27 26 Finland 1 * Relates to average number of employees. ** Elected by annual general meeting. 28 Health and safety Total sickness absence of employees’ total regular working hours, %. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence during the past two Sickness absence total % 2.4 2.4 2.0 2.1 2.6 years. Sickness absence women % 3.1 2.5 2.4 3.4 3.1 ** Work-related injuries: accidents, travel accidents, Sickness absence men % 2.2 2.3 1.9 1.8 2.5 work-related illnesses which on reporting date are expected to lead to absence. Also includes minor Long-term sickness absence % of total sickness absence 60.7 51.2 41.4 36.1 49.7 injuries at a ﬁrst-aid level. Contractor’s accidents Long-term health %* 33.3 40.7 42.9 43.3 44.4 are not included. Injuries are not reported by region by region, but follow-up takes place in the local Notiﬁed work-related injuries**/1,000 average employees 11.5 8.3 6.0 9.5 4.4 safety committees within each market area. Notiﬁed work-related injuries, according to GRI*** 7.3 7.2 11.5 5.4 *** Total number of injuries divided by hours worked x 200 000. Total absentee days due to work-related injuries **** 256 66 52 261 33 **** All absentee days (of planned working days) started Sickness absence due to work-related injuries % 0.10 0.03 0.02 0.13 0.02 with two days after the work-related injury. Further training programmes Sveaskog offers various further training programmes in order to ensure that employees have the skills they require for the company to be able to meet its strategic targets. This also means that employees are offered personal development and opportunities for life-long learning. Yes Partly No Internal courses X Financial contribution for external study X Long leave of absence in accordance with current legislation X Pension planning for future retirees X Further training for those who intend to continue working X Severance pay X Severance pay which takes age and service period into account X Assistance with ﬁnding new employment X Assistance in adjustment to non-working life X Excursion in Omberg Ecopark in 2013. 29 About the sustainability report Sustainability report guidelines which govern operations. The undertakings resulting from Sveaskog describes its sustainability initiatives and reports its perforcertiﬁcation and various memberships, including FSC® and Global mance with regard to economic, environmental and social targets in a Compact, are of major signiﬁcance for sustainability work. To support sustainability report which is published in March each year and relates to the issues that are most signiﬁcant for Sveaskog’s external and internal the period 1 January – 31 December. The report is prepared in accordstakeholders to take into account and report on the work is based on a ance with Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G3) and externally materiality assessment. All GRI’s performance indicators are analysed assured. The report thereby adheres to the owner’s guidelines for external on the basis of how important they are for the work with sustainable reporting. development and what control Sveaskog has over them. Analyses of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organisation indicators with comments are provided on pages 38–44. The report working in co-operation with the UN Environment Programme. The includes a total of 27 of GRI’s core indicators and 10 additional indicators, organisation has drawn up global guidelines for how companies report which are listed with page references in the GRI index. All GRI’s proﬁle information related to sustainable development. Detailed information about disclosures are reported. GRI and its regulatory framework is available at www.globalreporting.org. Sveaskog complies with GRI’s guidelines and reports the results Boundaries achieved for the reporting period against the background of the underThe information applies to the whole of Sveaskog, a group which in takings, strategies and sustainability governance. The intention is to addition to forestry operations includes the wholly owned subsidiaries present, measure and accept responsibility towards stakeholders, both Svenska Skogsplantor AB and Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. The sawmill group within and outside the company, for what has been achieved in the work Setra Group AB, which is owned to 50% by Sveaskog AB, is not included towards sustainable development. in the sustainability report except for the part of the ﬁnancial result for Direct responsibility rests with managers in the line organisation. Setra Group AB which affects Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. Coordination and follow-up of work with the sustainability objectives and Sveaskog has two members on Setra Group AB’s board and is thus able targets adopted by the Board and the CEO take place in a sustainability to inﬂuence Setra’s sustainability work. council chaired by the Deputy CEO. Sveaskog’s Board submits the sustainability report and the audit committee prepares work with the Global Compact report. Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2005 and The 2013 sustainability report meets GRI G3’s application level B+ thereby assumes a clear stance on issues related to human rights, social and is reviewed by the audit ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. GRI conditions, environmental responsibility, freedom of association and guidelines are implemented in internal work on sustainability issues and anticorruption. Global Compact is derived from the Universal Declaration the information within most of the performance data meets GRI’s criteria of Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, in the so-called indicator protocols. the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and The Board’s signature of the 2013 Sustainability Report is provided the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how multinational enterprises below and the Auditors’ assurance report on page 45. should conduct responsible business. More information about Global Compact is available at www.globalcompact.org. Scope of the report Sveaskog works to substantiate how these principles are reﬂected in Sveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report of sustainability the business. Each year the “Communication on Progress” (CoP) report is initiatives, where both negative and positive development is clearly stated. submitted to Global Compact presenting the GRI indicators associated Sustainability work is based on the code of conduct and the policies and with the principles. Signature by the Board of Directors The undersigned hereby submit Sveaskog AB’s (publ) sustainability report for 2013. The sustainability report describes Sveaskog’s sustainability initiatives and is prepared in accordance with Guidelines for sustainability reporting, issued by Global Reporting Initiative. Stockholm, 4 March 2014 Göran Persson Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Johan Hallberg Chairman Board member Board member Board member Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Mats G Ringesten Board member Board member Board member Eva-Lisa Lindvall Sture Persson Employee representative Employee representative Per-Olof Wedin President and CEO 30 Corporate governance report Sveaskog applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the NOMINATION PROCESS Code, but in accordance with the State’s ownership policy and According to the State’s owner policy and guidelines for state-owned guidelines for companies in state ownership has deviated from the companies, the principles below apply to state-owned companies Code as regards preparation of decisions on nominations to the which are unlisted. These principles replace the Code’s rules for Board and auditors and with regard to reporting on Board members’ preparation of decisions on nomination of board members and independence in relation to the state as major owner. The principles auditors. for the nomination process for board and auditors in wholly owned state companies are described below. Nomination of the Board The nomination process is coordinated by the unit for state ownerCLEAR ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES ship at the Ministry of Finance. Nominations for members are Sveaskog is a limited company whose sole owner is the Swedish presented in accordance with the Code’s guidelines in the notice of state. Governance of the company is based on the articles of the annual general meeting and on the company’s website. The unit association, the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Code of for state ownership also provides proposals for chairman of the board Corporate Governance and the State’s ownership policy and and a person to chair the annual general meeting. guidelines for state-owned companies. The company has a clear delegation of responsibility. Nomination of auditors The owner is responsible for the appointment of auditors and a ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING decision is made at the annual general meeting. The practical work of The Annual General Meeting of Sveaskog AB was held on 22 April procurement is handled by the board’s audit committee together with 2013 in Konserthuset, Stockholm. Members of parliament are the company. Auditors are appointed for a mandate period of one entitled, pursuant to the State ownership policy and guidelines for year. Ahead of appointment of auditors information about the companies with state ownership and special regulations in the proposal is provided in the notice of the annual general meeting and articles of association, to attend Sveaskog’s annual general meetings. on the company’s website. The meeting was also open to the public. During the annual general meeting there was an opportunity to ask questions about the BOARD OF DIRECTORS company’s operations. The 2014 Annual General Meeting will be In accordance with the articles of association, the board shall consist held on 24 April in Stockholm. of a minimum of ﬁve and a maximum of nine members. In addition, there are two employee representatives with two deputies. The Organisation and governance 2013 • Owner guidelines • Owner policy OWNER • General meetings • Articles of Association BOARD • Policies • Property Committee • Remuneration • Group organisation Committee • Audit Committee • Governance of operations CEO (Targets and governance principles) GROUP MANAGEMENT • Risk management • Internal control INFORMATION AND BRAND FOREST AND ENVIRONMENT • Reporting External ACCOUNTING, IT AND LEGAL AFFAIRS HUMAN RESOURCES Audit • Roles, responsibilities and control systems BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION MARKET AREA MARKET AREA MARKET AREA BUSINESS AREA SVENSKA NORTH CENTRAL SOUTH PROPERTIES * SKOGSPLANTOR AB * Ceases to be a business area during 2014 31 articles of association do not contain any regulations on the appointand property sales. The property committee held six meetings. The ment or dismissal of board members. The company’s legal counsel is property committee comprises Göran Persson, Birgitta Johanssonthe secretary to the board. The CEO is not a member of the board Hedberg and Eva-Lisa Lindvall. but makes presentations at board meetings. Composition of the Board The work of the Board Sveaskog’s Board has seven members elected at the annual general According to the Board’s formal work plan, in addition to its statutory meeting of whom three women and four men, as well as two meeting, the Board shall normally hold eight meetings per year. The employee representatives and two deputies for them. Deputy board formal work plan stipulates which matters should be examined at members take part in all meetings. each meeting and which speciﬁc issues should be submitted to the Board. The formal work plan states that the chairman, on behalf of The Board the Board, shall consult with representatives of the owner on matters The Board comprises the Chairman of the Board Göran Persson, of material signiﬁcance to the group. The formal work plan also Board members Eva Färnstrand, Johan Hallberg, Thomas Hahn, contains details of the role of the chairman in the Board and on Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg, Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson, Mats G assignment of responsibilities and tasks between the board and the Ringesten and employee representatives Eva-Lisa Lindvall, Sture CEO. During the 2013 ﬁnancial year the Board held ten minuted Persson with Per Eriksson and Lars Djerf as deputies. A detailed meetings, including two strategy meetings. For information about presentation of the Board is provided on pages 35–36. At the 2013 each Board member’s attendance at Board and committee meetings, Annual General Meeting Göran Persson was re-elected as Chairman see page 33. During the year the Board, in addition to processing and all Board members were re-elected except for Carina Håkansson standing items on the agenda, made the following decisions: (i) to who had declined re-election. adopt a felling plan based on new felling calculations, (ii) to adopt targets for sustainable business, (iii) to carry out a major land Remuneration to the Board exchange with SCA and (iv) to initiate a review of the Properties Fees to the Board are determined by the annual general meeting. business area. At the strategy meeting in June the Board discussed Fees to Board members on board committees are also decided at the measures to meet both economic and structural changes within the annual general meeting. During the year remuneration to the board industry. comprised a total fee of SEK 1.3 million. Allocation of fees can be The Board also received a report on the company’s guidelines and seen in Note 8, on page 56 of the Swedish annual report. The Board checks to counteract bribery and breaches of competition law. did not participate in any incentive programme. Board committees SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has three committees: remuneration, audit and property IN CONJUNCTION WITH FINANCIAL REPORTING FOR 2013 committees. The committees prepare matters ahead of a decision in The Board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated in the the board. Guidelines for the work of the committees are found in the Swedish Companies Act and in the Swedish Code of Corporate Board’s formal work plan. In addition, there are special instructions Governance which also contains a requirement for annual external for the property committee and the audit committee. The Chairman provision of information regarding how internal control, the part that of the Board is chairman of both the remuneration and the property relates to ﬁnancial reporting, is organised. Internal control relating committee. The chairman of the audit committee is Board member to ﬁnancial reporting is intended to provide reasonable assurance Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson. Issues examined are minuted and a regarding the reliability of external ﬁnancial reporting in the form of report presented at the next board meeting. year-end reports, interim reports and annual reports and that external ﬁnancial reporting is prepared in accordance with legislation, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE applicable accounting standards and other requirements on a limited The remuneration committee deals with issues related to recompany. The following description has been prepared in accordance muneration and terms of employment for senior executives. The with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and application remuneration committee had four meeting in 2013. The remuneration instructions. committee comprises Göran Persson and Mats G Ringesten. Framework for internal control AUDIT COMMITTEE Sveaskog applies COSO’s framework for documentation and analysis The tasks of the audit committee include responsibility for preparing of internal control. The following description of how internal control the work of the board on quality assurance of the company’s ﬁnancial is organised in relation to ﬁnancial reporting, follows this structure: reporting, to regularly meet the company’s auditors in order to be • Control environment informed about the focus, scope and results of audits, as well as to • Risk assessment discuss co-ordination between external auditors and internal control • Control structures activities and the approach to the company’s risks. • Information and communication The audit committee held eight minuted meetings, of which the • Monitoring activities external auditors took part in ﬁve. The audit committee comprises Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson, Johan Hallberg and Sture Persson. Control environment During the year the committee especially prepared the work of quality The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining an effective assuring the valuation model for standing forest, the company’s system for internal control and risk management. The Board has processes for property accounting and current corporate governance appointed an audit committee which prepares matters related to risk issues. The company’s efforts to ensure good IT security were also assessment, internal control, ﬁnancial reporting and audit for examined. examination by the Board. Responsibility for maintaining an effective control environment and PROPERTY COMMITTEE day-to-day work with risk management and internal control relating The task of the property committee is to examine issues relating, to ﬁnancial reporting is delegated to the CEO. Managers at different among other things, to property acquisition, property management levels in the company have corresponding responsibility within their 32 respective areas. The most signiﬁcant parts of the control environresponsible for a number of central controls combined with a ment relating to ﬁnancial reporting are handled in the governing controller activity at local level. Operational responsibility rests, documents relating to accounting and ﬁnancial reporting and in the however, within the market areas, business areas and other operating accounting handbook which is published on the intranet. areas. The Board believes there is no need for a special review function in the company. Risk assessment and control structures The Board is responsible for ensuring that the company manages AUDIT its risks in the right way and that adopted principles for ﬁnancial The task of the auditors is on behalf of the shareholder to examine reporting and internal control are complied with. Risks in connection the company’s annual accounts and bookkeeping as well as the with the ﬁnancial reporting are loss or misappropriation of assets, administration by the Board and the CEO. The Board communicates unlawful beneﬁt of another party at the company’s expense and other with the auditors through the audit committee, and by auditors being risks relating to material misstatement in the ﬁnancial statements, for present at board meetings when issues ahead of year-end accounts example relating to recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, and annual accounts are examined. The auditors meet the board at revenues and expenses or discrepancies in disclosure requirements. least once a year without the CEO or anyone else from group These issues are prepared by the audit committee before considermanagement being present. ation by the Board. A number of items in the income statement and At the 2013 annual general meeting PricewaterhouseCoopers AB balance sheet have been identiﬁed where the risk of material was appointed as auditors until the 2014 annual general meeting has misstatement is signiﬁcant. These risks can mainly be attributed to been held with authorised public accountant Martin Johansson as measurement of standing forest, accruals and the IT systems which auditor in charge. Remuneration to auditors is speciﬁed in Note 6 on support operations. page 55 of the Annual Report (in Swedish). Information and communication Quality of ﬁnancial reporting Sveaskog has information and communication channels designed to In order to ensure the quality of ﬁnancial reporting, the Board has promote the completeness and accuracy in ﬁnancial reporting. For appointed an audit committee. The Board also ensures the quality external communication there are guidelines designed to ensure that of ﬁnancial reporting by examining and deciding on interim reports, the company meets high requirements for accurate information to the year-end reports and annual reports at board meetings. market. GOVERNING VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT Monitoring activities The CEO and management govern the company on the basis of the Monitoring is performed in accordance with the Board’s formal work following keywords which permeate the entire operations: plan and the instructions to the CEO. • Customer focus • Innovation Special review function • Simplicity The Board considers that Sveaskog’s signiﬁcant risks and risk areas • Transparency are covered by the process of risk management applied by the company. The accounting and ﬁnance functions are assigned by the Based on the above values, during the year company management CEO to be responsible for risk inventories and for conducting risk produced a revised code of conduct which was adopted by the Board management processes. The accounting and ﬁnance function is also on 10 December. The purpose of the code of conduct is to ensure Board of Directors 2013 Committee work and fee General meeting elected members Function Elected Fee, SEK Attendance Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Property Committee Committee fee Göran Persson Chairman 2008 400,000 10/10 x x 50,000 Thomas Hahn Member 2007 150,000 9/10 Eva Färnstrand Member 2008 150,000 10/10 Johan Hallberg Member 2012 0 10/10 x Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Member 2001 150,000 8/10 x 40,000 Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Member 2006 150,000 10/10 x 40,000 Mats G Ringesten Member 2009 150,000 10/10 x 10,000 Carina Håkansson* Member 2010 150,000 2/3 Employee representatives Eva-Lisa Lindvall Member 2007 – 10/10 x Sture Persson Member 2003 – 10/10 x Per Eriksson Deputy 2010 – 9/10 Lars Djerf Deputy 2013 – 8/9 * Resigned from the Board at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. 33 that Sveaskog conducts good business with good ethics. During Management the year an Ethical Council was also set up consisting of the CSR Sveaskog is led by the CEO in accordance with instructions decided Manager, SVP Environment and General Counsel to which employees by the Board. The CEO is not a member of the Board but gives can turn to receive support on ethical issues. presentations and provides the Board with information as a basis for Ethical issues were given a lot of room at the managers meetings its work. The CEO’s responsibility includes ongoing business activities held during the autumn as well as at several local meetings. Two and contacts with the chairman of the Board and external stakeextensive training programmes were also carried out during the year holders. The CEO also leads the work of group management. In one on competition law and one on anti-bribery legislation. During addition to the CEO, group management consists of the CFO (also 2014 this work will be followed up with obligatory web tests within deputy CEO), heads of the market areas, the CEO of Svenska ethics, competition law and bribery legislation. Skogsplantor AB, the heads of the staffs Information and Brand, Human Resources, Forestry and Environment. The CEO’s assistant CORPORATE CULTURE is co-opted. Sveaskog had 693 permanent employees at year-end. Since 2012, The gender distribution is four women and seven men. In 2013 the forest operations with forestry and sales of raw material as the management included the then Properties business area which will main assignment, have been conducted in three market areas: North, be integrated into the market areas and central unit in 2014. Group Central and South. In addition, there were two business units in 2013: Management 2014, see pages 37–38. Properties which is responsible for leasing transactions and land sales, and Svenska Skogsplantor which produces and sells forest REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES cultivation materials and provides silvicultural services. The market Sveaskog complies with state guidelines for remuneration to senior areas and the business units are supported by corporate staffs. In executives. The board submits proposals to the annual general December 2013 it was decided to integrate the Properties business meeting on principles for remuneration to senior executives. The area with the market areas and with one central unit. Sveaskog also proposal is presented on the website in conjunction with the notice holds interests in companies where there is not a group relationship, of the annual general meeting. Senior executives in Sveaskog only where the holding in wood products company Setra Group AB is the receive ﬁxed remuneration. No bonus or incentive programmes exist. largest. Remuneration to the CEO and senior executives is speciﬁed in Note 8 on page 56 of the annual report (in Swedish). Board meetings 2013 Board meeting 10 December Board meeting 29 January • Reports from committees • Reports from committees • Financial report • Financial report • Budget • Special review function. • Insurance policy • Year-end report 2012 • Finance policy BER JA N U • Auditors’ review CEM ARY Board meeting 5 December DE • Follow-up of Properties business area FE • Review of biofuel market • Decision on property deal R M BE BR VE RY NO UA Board meeting 13 March • Reports from committees Board meeting 22 October • Financial report • Reports from committees ER MAR • Proposed dividend • Financial report O CTO B • Annual report • Audit plan • Auditors’ review CH • Auditors’ information to Board without presence of group management • Interim report • Ahead of Annual General Meeting • Signiﬁcant accounting issues 2013 • Focus of business plan work • Strategic personnel issues SE PTE • Information about compliance work • New felling calculations IL APR MB Board meeting 22 April Board meeting 4 September ER • Reports from committees • Reports from committees • Financial report • Financial report • Climate change risks and AU • Interim report opportunities G U AY ST M Statutory Board meeting • Climate impact in our forests 22 April • Overall focus in business JUL E plan Y JUN • Development strategy Board meeting 11–12 June • Owner strategy SunPine AB • Reports from committees and Setra Group AB • Financial report Board meeting 19 July • Targets for sustainable business • Financial report • Strategy discussion • Interim report • Adoption of information policy • Decision on property • Status report business plan work sales and acquisitions • Forest policy update 34 Board of Directors Board members elected at Annual General Meeting Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Born 1956, elected 2006. BSc Economics. Former CEO of Göran Persson Företagarna, authorised public accountant and manager within PwC, Chairman of the Board Healthcare Director Stockholm County Council, County Council Born 1949, elected 2008. Prime Minister 1996–2006, Leader of Director in Norrbotten, CEO of Piteå-Tidningen and Director of the Social Democratic Party 1996–2007, Minister of Finance 1994– Roads. Deputy Chairman of Svenska Kraftnät, Board member of 1996, Member of Parliament and Vice Chairman of the Standing Softronic AB (publ) and Dedicare AB (publ). Since the mid-1990s Committee on Finance 1993–1994, Member of Parliament and has had a number of directorships in both listed and unlisted Chairman of the Agricultural Committee 1991–1992 Minister for companies, state-owned companies, hospitals, universities, Schools 1989–1991. Chairman of Remuneration Committee (RC) foundations and organisations. Chairman of the Audit Committee and Property Committee (PC). (AC). Eva Färnstrand Mats G Ringesten Born 1951, elected 2008. MSc Eng from the Royal Institute of Born 1950, elected 2009. MSc Econ from the Stockholm School of Technology (KTH). Board member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Economics. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Engineering Sciences, IVA. Chairman of the Board of Infranord AB, Sciences, IVA. Senior Partner Neuman & Nydahl 1996–2011. member of the Board of Indutrade. Previously Plant Manager of Previously director and head of Corporate Strategy & Business Södra Cell Mönsterås, CEO of Tidningstryckarna AB, Business Area Development at AB Volvo, Senior Vice President with responsibility Manager SCA. Previous directorships Domsjö Fabriker, Södra Cell, for Group Strategy & Business Development at Procordia AB, Handelsbanken’s regional bank in Stockholm City, Schibsted Trykk various leading positions within the Shell Group. Previous directorand Proﬁlgruppen AB. ship include V&S Group, Pandox AB, Kongsberg Automotive A/S, VSM Group and Pharmacia Diagnostics. Member of the RemunerThomas Hahn ation Committee (RC). Born 1964, elected 2007. PhD Agronomics from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU. Researcher at Stockholm Resilience Centre. Team leader for Adaptive Governance. In 2013 Employee representatives also Secretary to the Committee of Inquiry on the Value of Ecosystem Services, SOU 2013:68. Previously Chairman of Eva-Lisa Lindvall Economists for the Environment and involved in The Millennium Born 1951, elected 2007. Board member, Association of Managerial Ecosystem Assessment. and Professional Staff. Planning Manager, Sveaskog. Member of the Property Committee (PC). Johan Hallberg Born 1974, elected 2012. MSc Econ from the Stockholm School of Sture Persson Economics. Employed at Government Ofﬁces of Sweden as Born 1957, elected 2003. Board member, Swedish Forest and Wood Investment Director/Under Secretary in the Unit for State Company Trade Union. Harvester operator, Sveaskog. Member of the Audit Administration. Member of the Board of Teracom Group AB and Committee (AC). Infranord AB. Previously investment banker within HSBC Investment Bank in London, Stockholm Corporate Finance and Lenner & Per Eriksson Partners, Chairman of the Board of Teracom Group AB, Springwell Born 1966, elected 2010. Deputy, Akademikerföreningen. AB and Oak Capital Group AB and member of the Board of Metria Business Manager Property Development. AB and Arbetslivsresurs AR AB. Member of the Audit Committee (AC). Lars Djerf Board 1968, elected 2013. Deputy, Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Union. Harvester operator. Born 1947, elected 2001. BA, Psychology Degree at Lund University. Chairman of Almi Företagspartner Sörmland AB and the Swedish Linnaeus Society, deputy chairman of the Swedish Financial Auditors Supervisory Authority, member of the Board of Vitec AB and Copenhagen Economics. Former President and CEO of FöreningsAudit ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB with Martin Johansson as Sparbanken and Lantmännen. Member of the Property Committee Auditor in charge. (PC). 35 Skissbild From left: Göran Persson, Thomas Hahn, Eva Färnstrand, Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg, Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson, Johan Hallberg, Mats G Ringesten, Eva-Lisa Lindvall, Lars Djerf, Per Eriksson and Sture Persson. Carina Håkansson resigned from the Board at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. 36 Group Management Per-Olof Wedin Fredrik Klang President and CEO. Born 1955. Employed since 2011. MSc in SVP South Market Area. Born 1970. Employed since 2000. Master Mechanical Engineering from the Royal Institute of Technology, KTH. of Forestry Science and PhD from the Swedish University of Previously CEO of Svevia, the former National Road Administration Agricultural Sciences. Previous positions include Regional Manager Production, Head of Stora Enso business area Uncoated Magazine Sveaskog Götaland, District Manager Sveaskog Västra Götaland and Paper and Pulp, head of Stora Enso Transport and Distribution Unit, Head of Silviculture Västra Götaland, AssiDomän Forestry. CEO of Grycksbo Pappersbruk, management positions at SCA and Modo. Member of the Board of Setra Group AB. Tommy Nilsson SVP North Market Area. Born 1954. Employed since 1999. Master Per Matses of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of Agricultural Deputy CEO and CFO. Born 1958. Employed since 2010. MBA from Sciences. Previous positions include Forest Manager at DomänÖrebro University. Previously CFO, Executive Vice President and verket (the Swedish Forestry Service), CEO of sawmills and Account Administrative Director at Apoteket AB, Finance Director at Postgirot Executive at AssiDomän in Northern Norrbotten, Market Area Bank AB and Finance Director at Posten AB. Member of the Board Manager at Sveaskog in Norrbotten. Member of the Board of of Setra Group AB. Bottenvikens Stuveri AB and ESS. Nina Arkeberg Lena Sammeli-Johansson PA to the CEO and co-opted member of Group Management. Born CEO of Svenska Skogsplantor AB. Born 1959. Employed since 1967. Employed since 2011. MSc in Business Administration and 1985. Master of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of Management. Previous positions include Assistant to CEO of Svevia, Agricultural Sciences. Previous position at Svenska Skogsplantor the former National Road Administration Production and Assistant to including Nursery Manager, Regional Manager of south Norrland CEO of Stora Enso Grycksbo Bruk. and Marketing Manager. Chairman of the Committee for Seedling Protection in Forestry and the Swedish Forest Nursery Association. Linda Andersson SVP Communications and Brand (parental leave in 2013). Born Herman Sundqvist 1971. Employed since 2004. BA in communications science at SVP Forestry and Environment. Born 1963. Employed since 1994. Jönköping University. Previously information adviser at Gullers Grupp Master of Forestry Science and PhD from the Swedish University of PR agency, Media Relations Ofﬁcer at Vattenfall and Media Agricultural Sciences. Previous positions include Forest strategy Relations Manager at Posten AB. Member of the Swedish Forest manager for Sveaskog and Silviculture manager for AssiDomän Industry Federation’s Communications Council. Forestry. Chairman of Skogforsk and member of the Board of KSLA and the Forest Industry’s Forest Committee as well as SweTree Viveka Beckeman Technologies. General Council, SVP Legal Affairs and Property. Born 1971. Employed since 2012. LLB Lund University. Previously General Hans Welff Counsel at Aditro Holding AB, lawyer at law ﬁrm Vinge and Clerk SVP Central Market Area. Born 1958. Employed since 1990. Master at the Court of Appeal and law clerk at the Helsingborg District of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of Agricultural Court. Sciences. Previous positions include Regional manager, Sveaskog Norra Bergslagen and Silviculture manager for AssiDomän Forestry, Karin Ericsson Bergslagen. SVP Human Resources. Born 1956. Employed since 2001. BSc in Sociology from Umeå University. Previously Personnel Manager, Jan Wintzell Administration Manager, Personnel Secretary and Welfare Ofﬁcer SVP Business Development and Innovation. Born 1961. Employed at Norrbotten County Council. Board member of the SLA Forest since 2013. Master of Forestry Science from the Swedish University Section and Chairman of SLA Norr. of Agricultural Sciences. Previously a number of leading positions at Pöyry since 1992, ﬁrst in Helsinki and then ten years in London after which he started Pöyry Management Consulting’s ofﬁce in Stockholm in 2004 where he worked until 2013. 37 From left: Per-Olof Wedin, Per Matses, Linda Andersson, Viveka Beckeman, Nina Arkeberg, Karin Ericsson, Fredrik Klang, Jan Wintzell, Lena Sammeli-Johansson, Tommy Nilsson, Herman Sundqvist and Hans Welff. Jens Otterstedt Monica Berglund was Head of the was acting SVP Properties business Communications and area in 2013. Brand during 2013. 38 GRI G3 index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting Key: according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G3) P = page and where the information can be found. All page references below refer to Sveaskog’s Annual Report/Sustainability Report 2013, in Swedish W = www.sveaskog.se/About Sveaskog (C) = Core indicator (A) = Additional indicator Fully reported Content index 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent 1.1 Statement from the CEO of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy P 2-3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities P 4-5, 19-22, 26 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation inside 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services P 1, 8-9 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries joint ventures P 8-9, 72, 75 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations P 1, 39 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P 2, 6, 72 2.7 Markets served P 2, 8-9, 11-12 2.8 Scale of the organisation P 8,17, 41 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership P 8, 45, 47, 62-63 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period none 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period P 39 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report P 39 3.3 Reporting cycle P inside, 39 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report back cover 3.5 Processes for deﬁning report content P 28-29, 39 3.6 Boundary of the report P 28-29, 39 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P 28-29, 39, GRI index P 39-44 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability P 39, respective indicator 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles P 39, respective indicator 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statement P 39, respective indicator 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report P 39, respective indicator 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in this report GRI index P 39-44 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to external assurance for the report P 39-40 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation P 72-75 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organisation P 72-76 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members P 72-77 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body P 28-29, 72-75 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) P 56-58, 72-75 4.6 Processes for avoiding conﬂicts of interest in the Board ** ** There are no specific routines or processes to avoid conflicts of interest, but the Swedish Companies Act applies. 39 Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent 4.7 Processes for determining the qualiﬁcations and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics P 72-75, W – Owner policy 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation P 26-27, 35, 39, W 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles P 2-3, 26-29, 35, 39, audit report 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance P 72-75 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation P 30-32, 35, 39 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social characters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses P 2-3, 26-27, 30-32, 39 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organisations ** 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation P 28-29 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P 28-29 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group P 28-29 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting P 28–29 ** Sveaskog is a member of several industry organisations. The Forestry Research Institute of Sweden, Forest Stewardship Council, UN Global Compact, Eustafor, AEIBOM, Svensk Vind, SLA, Forest Based Sector Technology Platform, The Haga Initiative (starting 2014). ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Economic impact For Sveaskog it is of major importance that the company is when climate change is included in the equation. The risks profitable, is able to issue a dividend, to pay tax and to be a good associated with changing weather and temperature conditions and secure employer (EC1). include more frequent storms and less precipitation resulting in a Climate change represents major risks and opportunities for a shortage of water. If vegetation zones move, nature conservation forest owner. Renewable fuels from the forest are a key part of and habitat protection must be adapted (EC2). the transition from the fossil-dependent society to a renewable Sveaskog has extensive provisions for pensions as well as society. Sveaskog has interests in the company Sunpine AB and paying monthly premiums. Provisions are regulated by Swedish its production of fuel from tall oil. law, collective agreements and special agreements. For a more Demand for wood is expected to increase since wood as a detailed account of EC3 see Note 23 on page 65 of Sveaskog’s building material is a good choice from a climate aspect since it annual report (in Swedish). continues to store carbon dioxide. Increased growth in the forest Sveaskog uses contractors for forestry operations and provides more wood raw material but also increased carbon transport and most of the contractors are local, which makes dioxide sequestration. From a long-term perspective there are Sveaskog a significant local employer. Local contractors were therefore major business opportunities for wood raw material procured in 2013 for approximately SEK 1,940 million. (EC6). Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance P 4-5, 13, 26-27, 68, W Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (C) P 27 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. (C) P 19-22, 24-25, 33, above EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations (C) P 65-66, above Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operations (C) P 35-36, above 40 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Environmental impact Protection of biodiversity is a key issue for Sveaskog. All forestry as nature reserves and landowners’ own voluntary set-asides, are activities, transports and other activities related to forestry can key parts of sustainable forestry. Sveaskog has decided to affect biodiversity. manage 20% of productive forest land below the montane forest Felling changes the landscape and can result in damage to region as nature conservation areas. This corresponds to 600,000 biodiversity. Sveaskog’s nature conservation ambitions include hectares of Sveaskog’s over three million hectares of forest and setting aside key biotopes and other forests with high natural this has been achieved by establishing special ecoparks, set-aside values. Nature consideration is exercised at felling by leaving nature conservation forests and through general and strengthened sensitive biotopes, edge zones, tree groups and individual trees consideration for nature on other forest land (EN11, EN13-14). untouched. Sveaskog works to reduce fossil emissions of carbon dioxide. Cleaning can change light conditions by streams, for example, Felling and transports account for the largest emissions of and therefore affect the micro climate. Soil scarification and greenhouse gases and other pollutants. Future increased use of planting change species composition, which also results from ditch renewable fuels in plant nurseries and road transports, an maintenance. Planning of ditch maintenance includes a special increased proportion of rail transports and continual efficiency nature conservation assessment when we also review opportunimprovements will reduce emissions by at least 30% by 2020. ities to restore habitats by filling in some ditch sections. Forest For the subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor emissions mainly take roads can affect biodiversity by culverts which obstruct migration place from heating greenhouses. Work is underway to replace of fish and disturb other aquatic species. Planning is based on oil-fired boilers with heating using biofuel. No direct emission natural conditions (EN12). reductions were achieved during the year (EN3–4 and EN16–17, Nature protection in the form of formally protected areas, such EN20). Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance P 4-5, 19-22, 28-34, 39, 72-75, W Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (C) P 32-34 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (C) P 32-34 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased and managed, in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (C) P 30-32, W EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected area and area of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (C) P 30-32, above EN13 Habitats protected or restored (A) P 30-32, W EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impact on biodiversity (A) P 19-22, 30-32 Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (C) P 32-34 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (C) P 32 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (A) P 32-34 EN20 NO, SO and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight (C) P 32 41 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Labour practices and decent work Issues related to employees, labour law, working environment, employed for shorter periods than 12 months, been contiguously participation and skills development are important to Sveaskog absence for at least three months or changed manager during the (LA1–2, LA4–7 and LA10–12). Work is underway to strengthen past 12 months, the result is 96% (LA12). both leadership and employeeship in the Group. In this work the Systematic working environment initiatives are conducted. dialogue between manager and employee is central. Performance These include all employees in Sweden being represented in reviews are one tool. All employees must have at least one safety committees. In the subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, this performance review per year. work is conducted with the aid of a working environment According to the most recent employee survey, VIS 2013, 88% consultant, although based on the same working environment of all permanent employees had a performance review during the targets as those applying in the rest of the Group. The proportion past 12-month period. Disregarding those who have been represented in safety committees is over 75% (LA6). Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance P 4-5, 19-22, 26-29, 35-38, 39, 72-75, W Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region (C) P 37, not 8 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region (C) P 37 Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (C) See page 43 Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes (A) above LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and work-related fatalities (C) P 37-38 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category (C) P 35 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings (A) P 38 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (A) P 35, above Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity (C) P 37, 72-75 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category (C) P 37 42 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Human rights Sveaskog’s production and silvicultural activities are conducted to Global Compact and reports on how the principles on human rights a large extent by contractors. Extensive demands are made on are made tangible and complied with. Dialogue with employee environment and social issues and these are followed up. organisations is important. At Sveaskog there are no obstacles to Non-conformances are registered in a environment and quality trade union affiliation or collective agreements. However, there is management system. no collective agreement in Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. Within the Group Training in policies and guidelines is important and takes place 656 of a total of 693 employees are covered by a collective at organised training days. During the year 12% of employees agreement (95%). (HR5) participated in training related to human rights. An estimated 130 Sveaskog has employees in the age group 15–18 for planting employee training hours were dedicated to these issues (HR3). work in Sweden. . The Swedish Work Environment Authority The number of incidents of discrimination is followed up annually. statutes regulate the type of work minors are allowed to do. The No notifications of discrimination were made in 2013 (HR4). working environment managers and union safety officers ensure Reindeer herding takes place on Sveaskog’s lands and compliance with laws and statutes. Since CSR requirements are Sveaskog consults in accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act made on suppliers in this issue, there is no risk of child labour in and FSC® undertakings with reindeer herders regarding forestry Sveaskog’s operations. At Sveaskog Baltfor SIA there are no activities. No notification of violations of the rights of indigenous employees below the age of 18. (HR6) people was made in 2013 (HR9). The risk of forced or compulsory labour in Sveaskog’s operInvestments outside Sweden are modest and the risk of ations, including Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, is small. Operations are negative impact is therefore low. Investments in Sweden include conducted primarily in Sweden and comply with Swedish labour infrastructure and R&D projects. No significant investment legislation (HR7). decisions were made in 2013 (HR1). Sveaskog supports the Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance P 4-5, 19-22, 26-29, 39, 72-75, above, W Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening (C) P 36 HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken (C) P 36 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained (A) above Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (C) above Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights (C) above Child labour HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labour and actions taken (C) above Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced and compulsory labour (C) above Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken (A) above 43 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Society Corruption is a threat against free competition and Sveaskog One tool for preventing corruption is to train employees in the dissociates itself from corruption and bribes in the code of code of conduct. An estimate made after a review of the list of conduct and works with risk analysis of the business units. participants at various training days is that 12% of employees It is particularly in the subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA’s work attended training in the organisation’s policies and routines with purchases of timber in the Baltic countries and Russia that relating to anti-corruption during the year (SO3). risks of corruption exist. During 2013 a random check was carried out at a supplier (SO2). Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance P 4-5, 19-22, 26-29, 35-36, above, W Society SO2 Business units analyses for risks related to corruption (C) above SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s anti corruption policies and procedures (C) above SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Product responsibility Sveaskog’s forests are certified according to the Swedish FSC® PR4). Sveaskog has routines for evaluating and maintaining standard. Raw material, for example imported wood raw material, customer satisfaction, including business development discussions may not come from controversial sources according to the FSC®’s and customer surveys. The results of the surveys provide a basis definitions and Sveaskog has two traceability certificates. 2013 for improvement and development work at both national and audits showed that work within Sveaskog generally functioned regional level (PR5). The customer survey has so far been well. Although non-conformances were indentified within some conducted every second year by an external supplier. areas. Efforts to improve these areas are underway. (PR3 and Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance P above 4-5, 19-22, 26-29, 30-32, 39, W Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures (C) P 27, 35 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary code concerning product and service information and labelling by type of outcomes (A) P 31 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (A) P 28, above 44 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Sveaskog’s Sustainability Report To the readers of the Sveaskog AB (publ) Sustainability Report 2013 Introduction vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable We have been engaged by the Management of Sveaskog AB (publ) assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s to undertake a limited assurance engagement of the Sveaskog Standards on Auditing and Quality Control, and other generally Sustainability Report for the year 2013 on page 17–30 and page accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed 39–44 in Sveaskog Communication on progress 2013. consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant matters that might be identiﬁed in Responsibility of the Board and Management an audit. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance The Board of Directors and Executive Management are responsible opinion. for the ongoing activities regarding environment, occupational health The criteria on which our procedures are based are the parts of & safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability accordance with applicable criteria. Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria Responsibility of the Auditor suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion below. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by Limited Assurance Conclusion FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainnothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that ability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance the Sveaskog Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all material procedures. respects, in accordance with the above stated criteria. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement Stockholm, 4 March 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Martin Johansson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 45 Sveaskog AB, reg. no. 556558-0031 Stockholm Torsgatan 4 SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel +46 8 655 90 00 Kalix Torggatan 4 Box 315 SE-952 23 Kalix Tel +46 923 787 00 www.sveaskog.se Contact: Charlotte Jönsson charlotte.jonsson@sveaskog.se Tel: +46 8 655 92 74
