Sustainability Review 2013 Bridges over the Anacostia River, Washington D.C., U.S. Skanska’s home markets United States Sweden Finland Norway Denmark Poland Latin America Czech United Kingdom Republic Slovakia Hungary Romania Nordic countries 43% of revenue Employees: Around Revenue Commercial 17,000  Construction, 81% Home markets Construction Residential Development Property Development Infrastructure Development Revenue: SEK 61.9 bn  Residential Development, 14% Revenue:  Commercial Property Development, 5% Sweden Earnings:  Infrastructure Development, 0% Norway Order backlog: Finland Denmark Other European countries 19% of revenue Employees: Around Revenue Commercial 16,000 Revenue: SEK 27.3 bn  Construction, 93% Home markets Construction Residential Development Property Development Infrastructure Development  Residential Development, 3% Revenue:  Commercial Property Development, 4% Poland Earnings: Order backlog:  Infrastructure Development, 0% Czech Republic Slovakia Hungary Romania United Kingdom The Americas 38% of revenue Employees: Around Revenue Commercial 24,000 Revenue: SEK 53.8 bn  Construction, 97% Home markets Construction Residential Development Property Development Infrastructure Development  Residential Development, 0% Revenue:  Commercial Property Development, 3% United States Earnings: Order backlog:  Infrastructure Development, 0% Latin America Skanska’s strengths Positions Employees Financials –Leader in home markets –Shared values –Financial synergies – Diverse operations covering various –Retaining and developing employees –Attractive business model geographical markets and sectors –Standardized processes and work methods –Solid balance sheet –In-depth knowledge of the local market –Project development and execution skills –Solid cash flow –A strong brand –Risk management focus Entré Lindhagen is the jewel of Lindhagensgatan in Stockholm. Skanska’s new head office and Nordea’s offices are Activity Based Workplaces, designed for efficient and flexible working. Sweden’s most energy-efficient office – energy use is 50 percent lower than the national standard – is aiming for the environmental certification, LEED Platinum. With 55,000 sq m and neighboring 170 homes, the investment of SEK 2.5 billion is one of Skanska’s largest project investments ever. Skanska is one of the world’s leading project development and construction groups, concentrated on selected home markets in the Nordic region, other European countries and in the Americas. Making the most of global trends in urbanization, demographics and energy, and with a focus on green construction, ethics, occupational health and safety, Skanska offers competitive solutions – not least for the most complex assignments. The interaction of its construction and project development operations in the various markets generates added value for Skanska’s shareholders. 2013 Revenue Operating income Key ratios SEK M EUR M USD M Revenue 136,345 15,7593 20,9283 Operating income 5,139 5943 7893 3 Income after ﬁnancial items 4,904 567 7533 1 3 Earnings per share, SEK/EUR/USD 8.43 0.97 1.293 Return on equity, % 17.4 17.4 17.4 Order bookings 2 119,968 13,8663 18,4143 Order backlog 2 139,602 15,6914 21,5954 Employees, number 57,105 57,105 57,105 1 Earnings for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average  Construction, 89%  Construction, 65% number of shares outstanding. 2 Refers to Construction operations  Residential Development, 7%  Residential Development, 10% 3 Average 2013 exchange rates: EUR = 8.65, USD = 6.52  Commercial Property Development, 4%  Commercial Property Development, 18% 4 Exchange rates on 2013 balance sheet day: EUR 1 = SEK 8.90, USD 1 = SEK 6.47  Infrastructure Development, 0%  Infrastructure Development, 7% Comments by the President and CEO Profitability and margins improved in 2013 for both the Group as a whole and in our construction operations. Our commercial property development continued to create value and further improved our results. In residential development, we had stronger results and paved the way for increased profitability. ” Profitability and margins improved in 2013 for both the Group as a whole and our construction operations. Our commercial property development continued to create value achieving an all-time high with leasing totaling 330,000 square meters. The global economy remained weak in 2013, which left an imprint on most At the same time, we have established ourselves in the market for commerof our home markets. Despite this, we strengthened our position in a numcial property development in the U.S. and in a number of regional markets ber of our home markets, with favorable order bookings for construction in Poland. operations in Sweden, Norway, Poland and the UK, and in building conWe are already seeing the results: in the U.S., we signed new contracts struction in the U.S. We also took advantage of our strong financial position to lease 129,000 square meters in 2013, the jewel in the crown being the to grow our project development operations further. lease in Boston taken by global consultancy company PwC. Sales of U.S. Many people had been looking forward to an upturn in the economy in commercial projects during the year amounted to about SEK 1.5 billion. 2013, with business picking up. That did not quite happen, but nonetheless, In Poland, we also strengthened our presence in the market for comwe can see the early signs of a turnaround which will offer us great oppormercial property. We have begun three new projects – including one in tunities going forward. Kraków, where we are now established as a recognized property developer. The energy boom in the U.S., with its lower energy prices, also provides We signed new leasing contracts for 94,000 square meters in the Nordic hope of increased growth. Some manufacturing industries are already countries and 107,000 square meters in the rest of Europe. As a result, we moving back from low-cost countries and energy-intensive industries are achieved an all-time high with leasing totaling 330,000 square meters. increasing their investments. Our business model involves utilizing the positive cash flow from conAt the same time, the global trends of urbanization and population struction operations for investments in project development, and this growth are creating demand for energy, water, housing, workplaces, in turn generates construction contracts. Capital employed in our own healthcare and educational premises and improvements in infrastructure. projects now amounts to SEK 26 billion, which in 2013 alone generated In construction, we have restructured our Norwegian and Finnish operaconstruction contracts to a value of SEK 14.8 billion. tions with a positive result. The markets in the Czech Republic and Slovakia Since the year 2001, we have actively supported the UN Global Comhave weakened noticeably, resulting in writedowns of our assets there. The pact, a UN body that is the world’s largest sustainability initiative and where residential operations in the Nordic countries are steadily improving as a Skanska is one of several thousand companies and non-profit organizations result of our efficiency measures. (NGOs) who are meeting the strict requirements. Further evidence of the After this brief review of 2013, let us look back at the recession we have UN’s confidence in us is our close cooperation in renovating the UN headgone through in recent years – the deepest since the 1930s. The fact that quarters in New York. The value of the project now totals SEK 9.7 billion. Skanska has not only made it through the downturn, but also come out The breakthrough in the Hallandsås Tunnel shows that we deliver on stronger, is proof that our business model works well even when the market our promises, whatever difficulties we may face. Both rail tunnels are now conditions are far from ideal. This makes us a reliable partner for our clients complete, which will substantially increase train capacity on Sweden’s West and suppliers, and not least, a good employer for our workforce. In addiCoast Line beginning in 2015. tion, we have delivered results and dividends at a consistently high level Early in 2014, we moved into our new head office, Entré Lindhagen in throughout this period for our shareholders. Stockholm. This is one of our largest property investments ever and also During these years we have also been able to expand our project a showcase for the state-of-the art technology we use in our continuous development businesses. We took a major step into the U.S. Public Private efforts to make our office spaces greener. As a result, energy use in our new Partnerships (PPP) market with the contract to extend and operate the headquarters is 50 percent lower than that required by Swedish building Elizabeth River Tunnels. This leaves us well positioned to benefit from the great regulations. opportunities the strong long-term trend towards PPP in the U.S. will offer us. 4 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2013 Johan Karlström, President and CEO of Skanska, speaking with Skanska colleagues at the university hospital project Nya Karolinska Solna. We are seeing great interest from potential clients in both our green soluContributing to society is something that we at Skanska want to do. Being tions and our Activity-Based Workplace approach, in which we achieve a profitable is just not enough. Companies within our industry and of our reduction in office area by utilizing the premises more efficiently. I am also size need to take responsibility. Our clients, subcontractors and employees convinced that this inspiring office environment is promoting greater coopexpect it of us. eration and creativity. This is why I think our clients should demand much more of us than is Step by step, we are moving closer to our vision of zero worksite accidents. usual in construction contracts. The cities of Örebro and Östersund are now For the seventh consecutive year, we have reduced the number of worksite doing so and Gothenburg and Malmö both require social responsibility to be injuries, but we cannot afford to rest on our laurels. I encourage all of our a part of their procurement of services. employees to take responsibility for their own safety and that of their coworkWe have similar examples from other countries. In the UK, we train ers and to make sure that we always meet our strict safety requirements. offenders coming towards the end of their sentences for work and employWe have also set ambitious goals in the area of diversity and inclusion. ment on a number of energy projects in London. The Offender program is By 2020, we want to be recognized as a leader in our home markets in terms highly successful, with the relapse frequency falling from 70 percent to of diversity – in other words, we want to reflect the diversity of the commu7 percent among those who have been given this opportunity. And in the nity and have an open and inclusive culture enabling everyone to thrive and U.S., we involve various minority groups in our projects, which is also a contribute to their full potential. requirement of most public contracting authorities. Committed and knowledgeable employees are the key to our success in a I am very proud that we are able to contribute in this way through initiabusiness where more or less every project is unique. To point out that everytives that go beyond regular construction contracts, and I know that our one has a part to play, we have a saying: “It starts with me.” We all have a employees feel the same. I hope that these good examples will also inspire personal responsibility to develop the business and to develop ourselves. other clients and decision-makers to take similar initiatives. But we cannot do it alone. Or to put it more accurately, we can do so Put great demands on us and we will show you that we are capable of much more for the community if everyone pulls together. adding value to our communities on many levels. Social responsibility is becoming an increasingly important factor in winning new business. Our many years of work on worksite safety, business ethics and environmental sustainability are attracting more and Stockholm, February 2014 more attention. In recent years, there has been increasing evidence that our clients are choosing us not simply on the basis of price or technical expertise. In Sweden, for example, we offer unemployed people training, education and work experience to enable them to gain employment and a career in connection with the regeneration of a residential area developed during the 1960’s and 1970’s. Areas like this are often characterized by unemployment and segregation. The regeneration of these residential areas is a significant market estimated at about SEK 650 billion. And since this is often taxpayers’ money, I think everyone would agree with me when I say that the community Johan Karlström needs to get the greatest possible benefit from these investments. President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2013 Comments by the President and CEO 5 Mission, goals and strategy Mission Global market trends Skanska’s mission is to develop, build and maintain the physical environment for living, traveling and working. The world is currently experiencing the highest Vision growth in urbanization in history; now more than Skanska’s vision is to be a leader in its half of all the people in the world live in cities. At home markets and to be the customer’s the same time, people are living longer lives and first choice in construction and project demanding a higher standard of living, leading to development. growing energy needs in the society. These global trends are increasing the need for new and more Overall goals sustainable solutions for the future. Skanska will generate customer and – Infrastructure shareholder value. Roads Power and energy Skanska will be a leader, in terms of size Water and waste management and profitability, within its segments in – Healthcare the home markets of its construction – Housing business units. – Education Skanska will be a leading project developer in local markets and in selected product areas. 6 Group overview Skanska Annual Report 2013 ” The bar is constantly being raised for new and more sustainable solutions in the growing cities of the world. Profitable growth 2011–2015 Strategy To focus on the core business in All four business streams will grow in construction and project development terms of profit. in selected home markets. Activities in project development To focus on recruiting, developing and operations will increase. retaining talented employees and to take steps to achieve increased diversity. Operating margins in Construction will average 3.5–4.0 percent over a business To be a leader in identifying and cycle and thus be among the best in the systematically managing risks. industry. To be an industry leader in sustainable The combined return on capital development, particularly in occupational employed in Skanska’s three project health and safety, the environment development operations will total and ethics. 10–15 percent annually. To take advantage of financial synergies Return on equity will total 18–20 percent within the Group by investing the cash annually. flow from construction operations in project development. Net operating financial assets/liabilities To utilize potential efficiency gains will be positive. found in greater industrialization of the construction process and coordination The company will be an industry of procurement. leader in terms of occupational health and safety, risk management, employee development, green construction and ethics. Skanska Annual Report 2013 Group overview 7 The Skanska Sustainability Agenda Sustainable development is that which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It requires companies to find ways to reward their shareholders but not at the expense of other stakeholders. In short, it is about maximizing positive impacts on humans, the planet and the economy, and minimizing negative ones. Page 27 Energy Environmental Agenda 28 Carbon 29 Materials We use natural resources with care 30 Water We respect the local environment 30 Local Impact Sustainability Social Agenda Economic Agenda We care about our people We choose projects with care We help build communities We choose like-minded partners We play fair We create shared value Page 19 Safety and Health Page 31 Shared value Reference to Employees, page 32–35 Reference to risk management, page 12–15 21 Ethics 22 Skanska in the community 16 Sustainable development – The Skanska Sustainability Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 ” The social role for companies is increasingly important. At Skanska, our management and our employees are proud of being a positive force in society. We know we can make a difference. Noel Morrin, SVP Sustainability & Green Support Sustainability is integral to everything Skanska does, Given the increasing expectations placed on corporate and as a business it is striving to reach a point where reporting by stakeholders – and recognizing the conconsiderations of economic, environmental and social tinuing development of international and voluntary impacts underpin all its operations and customer offerreporting frameworks – Skanska this year decided to ings. To this end, Skanska’s business plan, Profitable adopt an external reporting platform that will provide Growth 2011–2015, formalizes its ambitions to be an it with access to global best practice in this field. This industry leader in sustainability, particularly in green will, from 2014, allow it to improve the gathering and building, safety, ethics, people development and risk management of sustainability data from all its global management. operations, and will provide stakeholders with a more This section is organized around Skanska’s Sustainrobust picture of its sustainability performance than ability Agenda, highlighting progress in 2013 across its ever before in the materially-significant topics of safety, social, environmental and economic pillars. Each pillar energy, carbon and community. poses particular external challenges and opportunities, and this text describes how Skanska is responding to these, providing evidence of progress, leadership and best practice. Every year, Skanska delivers around 10,000 contracts Global leadership for customers in its home markets around the world. Skanska has been a supporter of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) for Consequently, global statements and consolidated over a decade, and its Communication on Progress is uploaded annually statistics do not tend to reflect the wide variety of work to the UNGC website as a public statement of its commitment. In 2013, and activities that Skanska undertakes and the many Skanska embarked on a project with UNGC and the Royal Institute of positive impacts it creates. This makes communicating Chartered Surveyors (RICS) to explore how the global construction, Skanska’s overall sustainability performance a chaldevelopment and real estate sectors can best implement the lenging process. Ten Principles. LIVING Social Agenda Environmental Agenda BUILDING Economic Agenda CHALLENGE SM Skanska’s health strategy focuses on areas including diet, The Bertschi School Science extension in Seattle, USA, Up to 1,500 people are working on the construction of exercise and stress. The picture shows Stretch & Flex is the world’s fourth fully-certified Living Building. New Karolinska Solna in Stockholm, Sweden. warm-up exercises in Malmö, Sweden. Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – The Skanska Sustainability Agenda 17 Aiming for Deep Green Construction and project development affect public finances as well as people and the environment, and Skanska is shouldering greater responsibility by developing more and more sustainable solutions. All of Skanska’s commercial property development projects and most of its public private partnerships (PPPs) are green. In the construction business the demand for green is increasing in all home markets. In Sweden green projects account for more than one third of total revenues and within UK for around two thirds. The built environment is responsible for a large portion buildings tripled in size. Globally, the green market of greenhouse gas emissions and the UN Intergoverndoubles in size every three years.” mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) clearly estabGreen construction is a precondition for growing or lishes the human impact. retaining market share. “We already have the technology and expertise to develop long-term green solutions and to guide our What will Skanska’s next step be? clients to make wise choices,” says Staffan Haglind, “Research shows that people function better in green Skanska’s Green Business Officer. buildings. This is evident in the lower levels of sick leave Staffan Haglind, Skanska Color Palette™ is a tool to visualize a project’s and higher productivity in offices or faster learning in Green Business Officer greenness. The aim is to move towards Deep Green schools. Apart from the fact that most people think it’s or future-proof projects, in other words a zero or only ‘the right thing to do,’ this type of social responsibility marginal negative impact on the environment. The also generates substantial value for owners and users. new head office of sporting goods company Brooks in That’s why we’ll be focusing even more on this in the future.” Seattle called Stone34, which was built and developed by Skanska, is an example of a project with very green Global leadership credentials. Skanska is an active member of Green Building Councils (GBC) in Europe “Greener offices provide excellent commercial opporand the U.S. 2013 saw the launch of the World Green Building Council’s tunities. By following the requirements in the Seattle “The Business Case for Green Building” report, of which Skanska is a prinDeep Green Pilot Program, the building permit was ciple sponsor. It is a first significant attempt to collate all credible evidence expanded to include an additional floor.” about the business case for green buildings into one definitive resource “And we are seeing rapidly growing interest in being that lays out a number of distinct sets of evidence – green buildings offer green. During the recession in the United States in good financial benefits based on both positive human impacts and cost2007–2011 the total building construction market efficient operation. declined, while the corresponding market for green Stone34 illustrated by the Skanska Color Palette™ Expected to be 75 percent better than local baseline Preliminary Carbon Footprint established Waste diversion currently 97 percent Expected to be 75 percent better than local baseline Skanska’s Color Palette™ is a proprietary tool for measuring and communicating our Journey to Deep Green™.Deep Green projects have near-zero impact on the environment – far beyond compliance with existing codes, standards and voluntary certification schemes: – Net Zero primary energy for Buildings or net positive primary energy for Civil/ Infrastructure – Near Zero carbon in construction – Zero waste – Zero unsustainable materials Stone34 – developed by Skanska for Brooks Sports – is the first – Zero hazardous materials commercial property project and only the second building in all to – Net Zero water for buildings or zero potable water for construction participate in the City of Seattle’s “Living Building Pilot Program.” 18 Sustainable development – The Skanska Sustainability Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Safety Target – Zero The safety of those that work for Skanska is of paramount concern, as demonstrated through its accidents safety values of caring for its people, increasing competence and developing a culture of learning and continuous improvement. It is these values that drive Skanska’s Safety strategy to deliver improving safety performance year on year. Activities within Safety By 2015 Skanska is committed to be the leader in conPersonal –In Skanska Safety Week 2013 employees were invited to struction safety in all its home markets. The Skanska safety share a personal safety pledge with colleagues. This was folSafety Road Map (SRM), introduced in 2011, provides pledges lowed up at a global management meeting where the Senior a means for every part of the business to plot its route Executive Team shared their collective and personal safety towards this aim. It provides guidance and support for pledges and all attendees made their safety pledge as part of all business units on their journey by focusing on five their next personal safety step. key safety topics: culture, competency, communications, contractors and controls. Since its launch in 2011 ” all Skanska business units have used the Map to assess The Senior Executive Team their status and to act in a systematic way. We will conmembers commit to not walk tinue to use the SRM, both for driving change and as a by any unsafe situation on site basis for sharing good practice and knowledge The Global Safety Leadership Team (GSLT), includwithout intervening. ing members of Skanska’s Senior Executive Team, oversees progress on strategic safety issues. Local safety “Learn –During Skanska Safety Week 2013, over 5,000 employees leadership teams monitor the progress of business units and Lead and contractors took part in a series of safety workshops and advise the Business Unit President and executive in Safety” held in Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia. The theme of team. The Safety Performance Network comprised of workshops ”Learn and Lead in Safety – take the next step” focused on heads of safety from each business unit offers advice how individuals have a part to play in the safety of Skanska to the GSLT and investigates items of concern. For workplaces. Over 200 one-hour workshops were held, all example the GSLT identified that increased focus led by local senior managers, with the participation of the was required across the business at the fixed facilbusiness unit executive teams and Skanska’s Senior Execuity sites which include quarries, concrete and asphalt tive Team members. and manufacturing facilities and that working safely around vehicles and construction plant remains a key Safety Peer –Skanska began a program of Safety Peer Reviews in 2013, safety hazard. Both of these topics are being addressed Reviews initially in Norway, Finland and Poland. Three review teams through the Global Safety Performance Network and consisting of senior line managers and a safety specialist visbusiness unit input. ited a number of jobsites in the host business unit as part of Safety leadership is a key element of building the the two-way learning experience. They provided feedback safety culture that Skanska desires. As part of this, to the host teams and took away good practice ideas to the Skanska Injury Free Environment program share with their own business unit. continues in Skanska USA and Skanska UK. Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) 2007 –2013 Number of lost time accidents times 1,000,000 hours divided by total labor hours. 8 7 6 Global leadership 5 Skanska is an active member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Net4 work. At a conference in October 2013, during a session on Workplace 3 Safety, Skanska shared experiences of its journey to Zero Accidents with 2 an audience of Nordic company representatives. The meeting was also 1 told how Skanska had developed and was using its Safety Road Map. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 19 Health IFE is based on a belief that safety is a value and is not Within the construction industry more than twenty compromised by cost or schedule and that any frequency of accident is unacceptable. Actively communicattimes more workers die from the long-term effects of ing and sharing good practice is necessary to improve work-related ill health than die from accidents. Skanska performance. Skanska does this in a variety of ways, takes occupational health seriously and has a strategy of including webinars, videos, expert seminars and newsletters. Combining safety webinars with other topics addressing both the Fit for Work and Fit for Life issues. for example Building Information Modeling (BIM) has proven to be successful and popular, attracting attendees from both inside and outside Skanska. Skanska supports its supply chain for example in Activities within Health the UK with the Supply Chain Sustainability School Active –Skanska Norway has introduced a program for reducing requirements, working with its competitors as part Health musculoskeletal disorders in the workforce. In-house physof industry bodies to promote change and talk with Intervention iotherapists and nurses monitor individuals, help identify clients about better safety can deliver better results for health hazards and evaluate production tools. This knowleveryone. edge has led to early intervention with suppliers to evaluate and reduce the health impacts of new tools. Safety Performance 2013 Skanska’s ultimate goal, is to achieve zero fatalities and Substitution –At the New Karolinska hospital in Solna, an alternate chemizero lost time accidents at its workplaces. The company of Hazardous cal anchoring system for fastening of concrete walls was has set a milestone to achieve zero fatalities and a maximaterials introduced requiring fewer health checks, no extra protecmum of one day lost time accident rate of less than one tive clothing and the waste could pass through the standard accident per million hours worked by 2015. waste management system. The system works well and the In 2013 the lost time accident rate reduced from 2.9 to case study is now shared at the EU chemical substitution 2.7, a marginal improvement that continues the longdatabase at www.subsport.eu www.subsport.eu term trend of the past seven years with a 55 percent reduction since 2007. The three work-related fatalities at Skanska jobsites The Skanska Health Group which combines specialists in 2013, one in operations in the U.S., one in Slovakia in safety and health from across Skanska shares good and one in Poland, were a reminder that reducing the practice in all health issues. One focus for the Health accident rate is not enough and there is still significant Group is the way in which health hazards are identified improvement to be made. Whilst the safety performance and addressed during the design and pre-construction progresses, Skanska is not satisfied with its performance phases and how through better training, education and and further advancement is needed. communication any residual health risks can be mitigated at the jobsite e.g. by substituting one method of working or material for another. Increasingly the formulation of tools and processes provides a common framework for Skanska business units to manage health issues and the development of the Health Heat Map is such a tool. It allows each business to assess the work-related health hazards and what measures it is taking to mitigate the effects. Skanska UK has built on this tool to design a full health matrix repliFirst Aid training at the Green Day worksite in Poland cating the Skanska Safety Road Map format and making it an integral part of periodic reviews. The Fit for Life element of the strategy focuses on lifestyle issues with diet, exercise and identification of work related stress high on the agenda. Fit for Work focuses on operational risks in construction such as dust, vibration and musculoskeletal disorders. 20 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Ethics Target – Zero Skanska believes its ethical values are the basis on which it can develop better solutions, projects ethical and customer outcomes, and therefore provide a competitive edge. Unethical business conduct has breaches serious consequences – among many things, it hinders fair market structures and distorts competition. This can adversely impact both Skanska and the communities in which it has operations. Activities within Ethics every day, by every one of our employees. Therefore it Code of – The Group Ethics Committee manages the anonymous last is important that all employees understand and live Conduct resort reporting tool Skanska Code of Conduct Hotline, by the ethical values expressed in the Skanska Code of Hotline launched in 2010, and to which around 80 reports where Conduct. made in 2013. All reports that are received via the Hotline To remain a trusted and successful company, Skanska are evaluated and investigated to determine what action is determined to become recognized as a role model in might need to be taken based on their nature and scope. ethics by 2015 and includes a goal of zero ethical breaches as one of its “Five Zeros.” Ethics – In 2013, the first version of Skanska’s Ethics Scorecard was Regular training is undertaken to embed this comScorecard introduced. The Ethics Scorecard uses evidence from brand mitment in Skanska’s operations. All employees receive surveys, employee feedback, ethical investigations and Code of Conduct training every two years, with new training activities to help Skanska’s management develop employees trained within three months of recruitment. the right activities to build and maintain a strong culture Each home market has its own Ethics Committee that of ethics. is responsible for identifying and reviewing issues and disseminating best practice. Managing – IMD Business School has developed a business case that The Skanska Leadership Profile includes an “Ethics a corrupt deals with how we managed the ethical challenges in the and Values” core competency which is used for evaluatmarket Czech market. The case is used in training of managers to ing and developing all office-based employees. Used as show the complexity and consequences of leadership decia selection criteria for both recruitment and internal sions. It contributes to share the experience from the Czech promotions, the Ethics and Values competency helps market and at the same time to increase each managers provide employees with a clear understanding of what is value-based leadership choices. expected to meet Skanska’s strategic aims. It is becoming apparent that ethics is a growing and important differentiator when Skanska’s clients are selecting suppliers. For example, Skanska has signed a With around 57,000 employees, and around 100,000 framework agreement with an international pharmasuppliers and 250,000 subcontractors, Skanska’s conceutical company for all construction work on all its struction and development businesses have a large facilities in Sweden. The client was focused on finding impact on individuals and society in general. This repa framework partner with high ethical standards that resents an opportunity to take the lead in business ethcould reduce the risk associated with its construction ics as well as a responsibility to make the right decision, activities. Golden Rock Award Skanska believes in recognizing and rewarding the right types of behavior. Each year it awards the Golden Rock Award for “Living Global leadership our Values” to an employee who Skanska was one of the founding members of the Partnering Against has demonstrated high ethical Corruption Principles for Countering Bribery initiative (“PACI principles”), standards. In 2013, the award the product of a Task Force of the World Economic Forum in partnership was awarded to Stansław Kita with Transparency International and the Basel Institute on Governance. of Skanska Poland. Stanisław is The PACI Principles aim to provide a framework for good business practices living the values in his daily work, and risk management strategies for countering bribery; a framework on developing people in diverse which Skanska continues to place great importance. teams, involving subcontractors in the safety work and caring for environment and wildlife. Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 21 Skanska in the community As well as delivering sustainable reward to shareholders, companies need to understand and engage with local stakeholders, such as communities, and find innovative ways to add value to society. Skanska actively encourages the cooperation and participation of local communities around its projects, and uses training, apprenticeships and education to leave a positive and lasting legacy. Activities in the community Skanska’s commitment to being a responsible member –“Skanska in the Community” internal network of the communities requires it to execute projects well In 2013, the “Skanska in the Community” internal netand, where possible, make a wider contribution to work was formed to allow representatives from each society. business unit and the corporate team to regularly share With around 10,000 contracts delivered each year experiences and good practices. for its customers, the effectiveness of connecting with local communities can contribute significantly to their Chile – Positive social impacts successful completion. Building a business case for In Chile, the El Totoral wind farm project created jobs for local community involvement, rather than relying just local people in a sparsely populated and low-income on corporate philanthropy, is the approach adopted area. Since the employment had only temporarily by Skanska in its Corporate Community Involvement increased the local incomes, it was agreed that transfer(CCI) policy, Skanska in the Community. rable skills should be taught as a legacy of the project. In Skanska’s preferred approach to community involveaddition to training workers in construction crafts, they ment respects the significant cultural differences that were also taught basic skills such as literacy, numeracy exist across its home markets. It has a global policy but and how to drive. also recognizes that a “one size fits all” approach rarely works well. With this in mind, after significant internal United – Working with local communities near and external analysis, a clear direction was identified: Kingdom the M25 motorway Skanska will focus its community engagement more The involvement of and communication with local comon education, especially in the areas of safety, technimunities during the planning and construction phases cal skills and our green agenda. Transferring expertise were of great importance for Skanska UK on the M25 to local communities from kindergarten through to highway widening project around London. Dedicated lifetime learning is a key aspect of the company’s longsite-based community relations teams were responsible term community strategy. for proactive outreach to local residents and stakeholdCCI is monitored and evaluated to ensure that ers, through letters, emails and phone calls, visits, public Skanska’s resources are effectively deployed to the exhibitions, local charity events and educational engagemaximum benefit of the business and the communities ment. The community relations team responded to more that it engages with. Community activities are coordithan 5,000 individual contacts from the public, and nated by local business units in the home markets and received more than 500 expressions of thanks from road supported by a Group-wide network of CCI experts users and residents. who exchange experiences and best practices. USA – Providing disaster relief Experience shows that it is much more important for a company such as Skanska to supply expertise and physical resources following natural disasters than to simply raise money, although this too can be important in specific circumstances. After the flooding on the eastern seaboard of the United States in October 2012 caused by hurricane Joining forces for the Community Sandy, Skanska employees volunteered to assist in the clean-up of several communities in the New York area. Skanska UK has joined the UK charity, In previous years, local-based Skanska employees have Business in the Community, which actively supported relief work in regions devastated by supports companies to build resilient earthquakes such as Pisco in Peru and in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. communities, diverse workplaces and a more sustainable future. The organization will support Skanska in further developing its community involvement work. 22 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Training in traffic safety Polish children are learning about traffic safety and how to behave to Skanska reflectors. The training sessions are held in the vicinity of projects avoid the risk of accidents around construction sites. 2013 was the seventh and are highly appreciated by both children and adults in local areas. In consecutive year that Skanska employees went out to teach pre-school 2013 Skanska employees provided traffic training for more than 6,000 chiland school children about accident prevention and safe behavior. Initially dren throughout Poland. Close to 100 children are killed and around 4,000 the focus was only on traffic safety, but today it also includes safety walkare injured annually in traffic accidents in Poland. The campaign has been ing past construction sites. One aspect is the importance of being visible referred to as a best practice model. in traffic and using reflectors. All of the children are also given their own Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 23 Resident builders in Vivalla, from the left: Ahmad Nuur Osman, training as a bricklayer; Omar Gahayr Golle, training as a plumber; Niklas Törnström, taking a carpentry course and getting work experience at Vivalla; and Abdalla Hussein, training in groundwork. Resident builders upgrade Vivalla and get job training Vivalla, a “Million Program” housing area in Örebro, is being upgraded Niklas Törnström is getting carpentry experience after a period of unemfrom both a community and an environmental perspective. Skanska and ployment. the municipal housing company ÖrebroBostäder (Öbo) have entered into “It feels great to be working in construction right here where I live. My a four-year partnership to upgrade the area which was built in the 1960s. future as a carpenter starts here.” The aim is to reduce energy consumption from 215 kWh today to 66 kWh Ahmad Nuur Osman from Somalia is training with Puts & Tegel, the comper sq m and year. pany working on the façades for the project. Another important goal is to create long-term job opportunities for resi“This is great! My supervisor is teaching me everything about bricklaying. dents in the area by involving them in the reconstruction and allowing them And my wife is really happy that I’m working,” says Osman. to get a foothold in the labor market. A number of Vivalla residents will Omar Gahayr Golle is getting plumbing experience with LG Contracting, be offered a chance to get involved in the project as resident builders, another of the project’s subcontractors. “Boendebyggare.” Skanska is working with Öbo and the public employment “Right now I’m learning professional Swedish so I can understand the agency to offer up to six months of supervised work experience and training plans. In five years’ time I may have my own plumbing firm or a permanent aimed at creating jobs at Skanska or with subcontractors. position at LG Contracting,” he says. The program will offer 50–80 people practical experience and in 2013 Abdalla Hussein has not worked in Sweden before but thinks it’s good to around 15 were given work or supervised work experience. be able to learn a trade. He’s doing groundwork, driving a plate compactor and taking laser measurements. 24 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Career guidance Mentor’s career program called Authentic Career Experience. Schools to Skanska was designed to make the connection between knowledge gained in school and practical applications. Starting in autumn 2013 and spring 2014, Skanska USA is partnering with Mentor Foundation USA to work with the mentoring program will involve 25 students from Virginia. Divided into school students to inspire them and increase their interest in studying and two groups, the students will visit Skanska’s Alexandria offices once a month having a career in business. The initiative also aims to curb truancy and subto conduct a project study with Skanska employees as their mentors. stance abuse. The partnership started in 2012 when architecture students Skanska in Sweden has also partnered with Mentor. A number of Skanska visited Skanska’s 11th Street bridges project in Washington D.C. together employees are participating in a career mentoring program for young with Mentor’s founder and chairman HRH Queen Silvia of Sweden. people ages 13–17 in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Schools to Skanska is a mentoring program created by Skanska based on School students awarded prize for environmental initiatives To stimulate environmental awareness and promote local green initiatives, Skanska Latin America has for a number of years been inviting municipal schools in Argentina to compete in the Skanska Award in Environmental Education. In 2013 numerous schools in different locations throughout Argentina where Skanska has operations – from Jujuy in the north to Santa Cruz in the south – took part in the competition. The 16 winning schools were awarded 10,000 Argentine pesos each to turn their proposals into reality. The winning entries included proposals on conserving water resources, building greenhouses from recycled materials and creating vegetable gardens, as well as various recycling projects. The photo shows the winners at school no. 8 Escolástico Zegada in Jujuy. Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 25 Getting into the job market can be hard – especially if Breaking the vicious cycle you have a past conviction. Skanska UK offers young offenders a training program that guarantees training, employment and a new life for those who undergo and complete training at the end of their prison sentence. “We have a rigorous selection process because we want to be sure the program is successful. That’s why it’s important for us to select ambitious and motivated individuals. And we only take them on when we have a recruitment need,” says Skanska’s Eric Milne, who runs both the selection and training processes. Lighting up London The ten-week course provides certification in construction work and employment as a skilled worker. The program is part of the National Grid’s gas and electricity network in the London area. At the South East Electricity Substation Alliance (SEESA) in the southeast of the United Kingdom, Skanska is responsible for construction management, design and construction of 132 kV and 400 kV transformer stations. Since 2008 eight people with past convictions have been trained and employed at SEESA. Four are still working there while the others have taken jobs elsewhere. A life-changing opportunity Tony Bryson was taken on in 2011 and is now certified for construction work at the National Grid’s transformer stations. He is currently based in Bramford, Ipswich. “I decided I was going to start a new life and this was a life-changing opportunity. Skanska has kept its promises,” says Tony. Erol Collin has been with Skanska for six years and remembers how thrilled he was to be selected. “I was over the moon when I got this chance. It really feels like you can develop if you take the opportunities offered and are ambitious. It has helped keep me on the right path, which was especially important when I was first released,” says Erol. Positive outcome despite everything Hugh McCarron was employed in 2012 and is now working on the expansion of New Cross National Grid transformer station in London. He is hoping for a future as a supervisor or foreman. “They really give you a chance – the people are brilliant. Being in prison was hard, but at least the job at Skanska means that something positive came out of it.” The crucial mentoring is provided by foremen and works managers out at the work sites. “We help them get qualified for employment. It’s very important to break the vicious cycle. And we’re proud when they get a job and don’t go back to crime,” says Steve Pratt, Skanska’s works manager at SEESA. Eric Milne has been awarded Skanska’s Golden Rock Award in the “Living Our Values” section in recognition of his work on the Young Offender Program. Erol Collin, Tony Bryson and Hugh McCarron Skanska has trained 116 and helped 75 former conhave served their prison sentences and are now trained and employed at Skanska. victs to get jobs since it first partnered with National Grid in 2005. 26 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Energy Target – Net zero Energy efficiency remains a key issue within the built environment, accompanied by ever stricter primary building regulations and growing market demand. Skanska aims to reduce the amount of energy energy used by its projects, and believes there is significant potential for developing near Zero Energy and positive energy buildings. Activities within Energy The goal of Skanska’s Color Palette™ – net zero primary Hungary Green House, Commercial Property Development Europe energy (for buildings) and net positive primary energy –Designed to use 45 percent less energy than the (for infrastructure) – will be achieved at different paces, Hungarian building code, the first building to be certified depending upon market economies and geographic LEED Platinum in Hungary and the first project carbon footfactors. print of its kind in the country. Green Building Information Modeling (BIM) has increasingly been used by Skanska as a means for movSweden Klipporna, Commercial Property Development Nordic ing towards Deep Green buildings. Using Green BIM to –An office building that, when complete, will have model a project’s energy performance helps to identify energy consumption comparable to passive house stanchoices that optimize the building’s life cycle energy dards. This will be achieved through a combination of buildefficiency during the early design phase, when changes ing design, innovative energy saving techniques and can be made without incurring high costs. By allowing renewable energy sources. for revisions to be made during the design phase, project teams can ensure that customers’ green ambitions Norway Schweigaardsgate 21–23, Skanska Norway beyond compliance are realized while relevant build–The first building certified under the new BREEAM NOR ing codes or baselines are adhered to in a technical and scheme provided by the Norwegian Green Building Council cost-effective way. under license from BRE Global. The building provides an energy In some markets, energy performance guarantees performance that is 37 percent better than the local standard. (EPG) remain an important part of Skanska’s approach, whereby Skanska commits to pay for any energy use in Finland Finnoo Center, Espoo , Skanska Finland excess of the guaranteed level. EPG contracts typically –Skanska is co-developing a green center for the Finnoo area include an improvement element, meaning that the using BIM energy modeling to provide nearly Zero Energy building becomes increasingly efficient throughout its Building (nZEB) that optimizes mass and orientation lifespan. alongside energy efficiency and renewable energy Skanska’s patented Deep Green Cooling technology technologies. – utilizing ground storage to cool buildings – has been developed and is now used by Skanska Commercial Property Development Nordic, and in 2013 its use in Global leadership other markets began. Work on Deep Green heating and Skanska is a signatory of the World Business Council for Sustainable power is ongoing. Development’s Energy Efficiency in Buildings Manifesto, meaning it is committed to mapping and improving energy consumption in its own head offices and selected regional offices. Skanska’s own offices represent some of the greenest buildings in each of the company’s operating regions, as confirmed by independent green building ratings. Nordic countries The Americas Finland Skanska Talo, Helsinki LEED CS Platinum United States Empire State Building, New York LEED CI Platinum Denmark Tower, Copenhagen LEED CS Platinum 1 United States Atlanta, Georgia LEED CI Gold Sweden Entré Lindhagen, Stockholm LEED (CS + CI) Platinum 1 United States Seattle, Washington LEED CI Gold Sweden Gårda, Gothenburg LEED CS Platinum United States New Haven, Connecticut LEED CI Silver Sweden Väla Gård, Helsingborg Skanska Deep Green and LEED NC United States Orlando, Florida LEED CI Gold Platinum United States North East Civil Queens, New York LEED CI Gold Sweden Skanska, Uppsala LEED CI Gold (tenant adaptation) United States Tampa, Florida LEED CI Gold Sweden Österport, Malmö LEED EB:OM Platinum United States Rockville, Maryland LEED CI Gold Other European countries United States Arlington, Virginia LEED CS + CI Platinum Czech Republic City Green Court, Prague LEED CS + CI Platinum United States Parsippany, New Jersey LEED CI Gold 1 Czech Republic Three concrete pre-fabrication plants ISO 50 001 United States Houston, Texas LEED (CS + CI) Platinum 1 and Skanska railway division United States Carteret, New Jersey and Cortez, Solar power generation system Hungary Green House, Budapest LEED CS + CI Platinum Colorado Poland Malta House, Poznań LEED CS Platinum + CI Gold 1 1 designed to achieve Poland Green Horizon, Łódź LEED CS Gold + CI Gold 1 Poland Deloitte House, Warsaw LEED CI Silver United Kingdom Hollywood House, Woking LEED CI Platinum Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda 27 Carbon Target – Near zero The built environment is responsible for approximately 30 percent of greenhouse gas (GHG) embodied emissions globally. Carbon reduction efforts have traditionally focused on energy efficiency and carbon renewable technologies. However, as buildings become more energy efficient in use, the measurement and reduction of embodied carbon is attracting the attention of forward-thinking clients. Activities within Carbon Near zero carbon in construction is Skanska’s ultimate Sweden Sjisjka wind park, Skanska Infrastructure Development goal. To capture and reduce the embodied carbon associ–Various design measures were adopted to reduce the ated with projects, it has developed and implemented embodied carbon emissions, such as prefabricated contools for project-level footprinting. Using these, crete (which reduced the amount of concrete required and Skanska can present alternative solutions leading to In 2013, the project’s carbon footprint by around 30 percent) and financial savings and embodied carbon reductions. Skanska’s re-use of excavated material on site (which reduced carSkanska has developed its own GHG emissions emissions were bon emissions from road surfacing by around 40 percent). reporting process, and continues to improve its Scope 1 All prefabricated components, aggregate, construction accuracy and completeness. Skanska’s Nordic Units 397,586 metric tons equipment and vehicles were brought to the site by rail. externally verified their 2012 Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 2 Scope 3 business travel emissions for the first time 51,323 metric tons. United Olympic Park, Skanska UK in 2013, joining Skanska UK which already verifies Kingdom –The Olympic Park North Park Structures, Bridges and its carbon emissions. Collectively, these represent Highways (Lot 1) project was highly commended in the about 50 percent of Skanska’s business. CEEQUAL 2013 Award for Energy and Carbon. Embodied Skanska has participated in the Carbon Disclosure carbon emissions were reduced by designing out carbonProject since 2008, and views it as an important means intensive materials, such as concrete and steel, and by to communicate its commitment. In 2013, it became the incorporating construction materials with recycled conhighest scoring company in Sweden, remained the highest tent. All vehicles were switched to run on a biodiesel blend construction company in the Nordic region for the fourth that consisted of 50 percent waste rapeseed oil from the consecutive year, and achieved a leading position in the local catering industry. Nordic 260 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. Hungary Green House, Skanska Commercial Property Development Europe Global leadership –The Green House project was designed to achieve LEED Skanska AB is the only construction company and only Nordic company Core & Shell Platinum certification – the highest level posactive in the EU Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change (EU CLG). The sible – and was the first LEED Core & Shell Platinum premission of the EU CLG is to communicate the support of business for the certification in Hungary. The project conducted an embodEuropean Union to move to a low carbon society and low climate risk econied carbon footprint which was the first of its kind in the omy, and to work in partnership with the institutions of the EU to make this country, and will be used as a benchmark to help realize a practical reality. carbon savings on future Skanska projects in this market. Norway Carbon footprinting is applied more widely than ever: Veitvet School, Skanska Norway The number of Skanska Project Carbon Footprints 2008–2013 One of 50 pilot projects in the FutureBuilt program that is helping develop carbon neutral urban areas and high-quality architecture in Norway. Green BIM modeling allowed the 81 embodied carbon of various design options to be compared, helping to reduce carbon 36 60 emissions from energy 4 1 2008 3 2009 use, construction 2010 2011 2012 2013 materials and operaSkanska uses in-house and external tools to perform project carbon footprints for projects tional transport by in all of our home markets. As a result we have developed substantial internal expertise 42 percent compared and the number of project carbon footprints performed is constantly rising as we see how to current standards. to extract economic and environmental value from them. 28 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Materials Target – Zero waste The construction sector is estimated to be responsible for more than a third of global resource Zero unconsumption and to contribute 40 percent of the total volume of solid waste to landfill. sustainable Therefore, the built environment, and more specifically the design and construction of buildmaterials ings and infrastructure, must be central to any attempt to use resources more efficiently. Zero hazardous materials Activities within Materials Skanska’s Deep Green approach to materials focuses on Czech Open Garden, Skanska Czech Republic zero waste, zero unsustainable materials and zero hazRepublic –Many materials with low-environmental impact were incorardous materials. With over 10,000 different materials porated in this NGO office building and environmental eduused in the construction, operation and maintenance of cation facility, such as hemp straw insulation which is a fully buildings, including some that are considered harmful renewable material that sequesters carbon and can be easily to the environment and people, there is an increasing reused or composted at the end of the building’s lifespan. emphasis on selecting materials that are not only sustainably sourced but also minimize or eliminate harmUSA Atlantic Yards, Skanska USA Building ful substances. –Construction of Atlantic Yards, the first off-site modular In 2013, research by Skanska and the Royal Institute high-rise building in Brooklyn and the tallest in the United of Technology (KTH) in Sweden resulted in a 3-step States, is predicted to create 50 percent less waste than if guide to defining sustainable materials. The guide has built using traditional on-site methods. been tested in the procurement units in the Nordics and the UK. The guide defines sustainable materials as United The Walbrook Triangle, Bloomberg UK, Skanska UK those that: Kingdom –A concrete solution involving technical and logistical innova– are non-hazardous and contain renewable, recycled tions was developed to incorporate sustainable features in and/or reused resources to the maximum defined by the design. The concrete used had 65 percent recycled conproduct quality or durability tent, the maximum level for that use, and steel reinforcing – have a declared product transparency, such a product bars consisted of 100 percent recycled content. declaration which recognizes product and material content, the chronological history of the entire supply chain, and the environmental impact of harvesting, extraction and manufacturing Global leadership – provide sustainable options at the end-of-use. For the fifth year in a row, Skanska is the only development and construcSkanska UK executed several projects in 2013 that tion company to participate in the non-profit CDP Forests program, a placed BES 6001 Responsible Sourcing standard global review of the impact of large companies on five forest products requirements on the materials used, including the commodities including two widely used in Skanska – timber and biofuels. Walbrook Building, Brent Civic Centre and the Crossrail contract, the largest civil project in Europe. Sweden Total average amount of waste diverted from landﬁll New Karolinska Solna (NKS) 2008–2013 University Hospital Percentage of waste diverted from landﬁll 2008–2013. Infrastructure Development Target for 2013 was to reach 94%. The outcome in 2013 was 94%. % 100 For NKS – a LEED Gold, ultramodern 90 university hospital – materials are 80 being evaluated on their sustainabil70 ity and hazardous properties. 60 Building Information Modeling 50 (BIM) is used to track the final 40 location of materials once built 30 in to provide the client with a log book for future renovation, 20 demolition and decontamination 10 thereby making it easier to identify 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 appropriate actions. Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda 29 Water Local impact Target – Target – Net zero Zero The water challenge in the built water use When managed well, construction environmental environment is to use as little as (for buildings) has the potential to have a signifiincidents possible of different water types Zero potable cant positive impact on the local in the most appropriate way. water for environment. construction (for civil/infrastructure) In some Skanska markets water stress and scarcity is Local impacts can include dust, noise, additional trafan existing and growing challenge. Changes in rainfall fic, light pollution, emissions and pollution caused by also increase the vulnerability of the built environment discharges to air, water bodies and soil. Some developto, for example, flooding. As a developer and construcment can affect local biodiversity, but if managed cortion company, Skanska must be able to adapt its prodrectly this impact can be positive. ucts and services while reducing its own direct impacts. The globally-recognized ISO14001 Environmental Skanska’s vision is net zero water use for buildings Management System (EMS) and Skanska’s risk manand zero potable water use for construction for civil/ agement system are the primary means of controlling infrastructure. This encourages a beyond compliance local impacts. All Skanska’s operations are certified to mindset which leads to solutions that are likely to be ISO14001 since 2000. Newly acquired or newly estabmore resilient to climate change and future environlished businesses have to get certified within two years. mental regulations. In Sweden, Skanska developed Green Workplace Our approach to water is threefold: first, to increase (Grön Arbetsplats), an internal environmental scheme water efficiency in our construction processes and in aligned with ISO 14001 for construction sites, offices, operational phase of the structure; second, where applipermanent asphalt and concrete facilities. The criteria cable, to substitute potable water for alternative quality surpass Swedish building regulations in several imporgrades, and reuse and recycle water; third, to utilize our tant aspects. Each site is certified for three years after expertise and risk management to help our customers which it must be reassessed. address changing rainfall patterns brought about by climate change. Poland UK Atrium 1, Skanska Commercial Property Development Europe HMP Thameside, Skanska UK This prison was built on brownfield government land and Skanska undertook substantial site remediation prior to construction. A biodiversity plan was developed to improve the quality of watercourses and create new riverbank, wetland, wet woodland and hedgerow habitats. In 2013, the kitchen and training workshops received the BREEAM Prisons eco-certification award. ISO14001 Major Non-Conformances (MNCs) identiﬁed Skanska’s Atrium 1 project in Warsaw The frequency of MNCs in 2005–2013. is designed to be Number the greenest office 10 9 building in Central 8 and Eastern Europe. 7 Using a range of 6 5 green solutions, 4 water consumption 3 was cut by 70 percent 2 1 compared to the ref0 erence building. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 30 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2013 Shared value Large corporations have an important role in society. Skanska’s successful business model creates significant direct and indirect job opportunities at the local level and also contributes to many forms of tax revenue. Activities within the Economic Agenda Skanska’s philosophy is to act correctly towards customers, Romania –Green Court Bucharest, Skanska Commercial Property employees, suppliers and other partners, local residents, Development Europe government agencies and other key stakeholders, and Skanska entered the Romanian market only when it was satthus create benefits for both shareholders and society isfied that it could work there in accordance with its Code of in general. Conduct and satisfy growing demand for high performance Some specific examples of how Skanska’s activities and green offices projects contributed to the economic agenda in 2013 are provided on this page, but the economic aspects of USA –NW 14th & Everett, Skanska Building Skanska’s performance are covered elsewhere in the The renovation of this historic Portland building into a LEED Annual Report. Platinum certified commercial building created an estimatIn the UK, Skanska led the establishment of the Supply ed USD 130 million in economic benefits for the city. Chain Sustainability School, a virtual learning platform helping construction suppliers and subcontractors Chile –El Arrayan wind farm, Skanska Latin America develop their sustainability knowledge and competence. The project will create over 175 jobs during construction In 2013, Skanska (on behalf of the Supply Chain Sustainand up to 15 permanent positions once in use. Major green ability School) was the overall winner at the Chartered construction projects such as this help provide local jobs and Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) Supply Chain stimulate economic development. Management Awards. In 2013, Skanska led two large research projects workCzech –The Open Garden, Skanska Czech Republic ing to maximize the value of Green BIM (Building InforRepublic All site workers were from the Czech Republic and over mation Modelling) across the supply chain. In Finland, 50 percent of construction materials were produced in the BIMCON program is using Information and Comthe country. munications Technology (ICT) to promote productivity and profitability in the construction industry supply Global leadership chain. In Norway, the Sam-BIM project is researching Skanska chairs the United Nations Environmental Program Sustainable Buildhow Integrated Project Delivery systems can be impleings and Climate Initiative (UNEP–SBCI) Task Force on Greening the Building mented in the context of the national building industry, Sector Supply Chain, aimed at achieving greater global resource efficiency. and aims to establish Green BIM as a standard part of the design and construction process. Sweden Revenues shared by many Sundbypark, Skanska Commercial Property Development Nordic Sundbypark in Sundbyberg was developed and built in 2002. Thanks to flexible solutions, the tenant adaptations will be both easier and less expensive 75% Suppliers for the current owner AMF Fastigheter. Most of Skanska’s revenue goes to “The building is still in good condisuppliers; many are local. This benefits wider society in the form of salaries, tion. The materials and surfaces are pensions, other compensation and taxes still fine today. We’re not replacing 20% Employees any bathrooms or glazed sections. The 20 percent of Skanska’s earnings go to building is easy to work with. Moving salaries and other remuneration for the Group’s employees. Their taxes contribute walls is made easier by the placement of to developments in the wider society cooling baffles, fittings and suspended 5% Other ceilings,” says Per Helgesson, Property Revenue remaining after suppliers and employees are compensated goes to fund Manager at AMF Fastigheter. corporate taxes, shareholder dividends and “The air and cooling systems are future investments amply sufficient which means it’s no problem for us to create new work stations.” Skanska Annual Report 2013 Sustainable development – Economic Agenda 31 Business success is built by people Skanska’s future success is dependent on committed and high-performing employees who share the company’s values. Employees have a central role to play in achieving the ambitious targets in the business plan for profitable growth in all business streams for the period 2011—2015. As an employer Skanska works in a structured way to through the Talent Review process to mention some. attract, develop and retain the best employees. This work Managing and encouraging diversity is one of the core is based on platforms that are linked to the company’s competencies in Skanska’s Leadership Profile (SLP). strategy and that have been created and will continue to A company that offers excellent development opporbe developed for a number of years. tunities for all is also more attractive to both current Skanska will need to employ a large number of new and potential new employees. The company’s attraction employees in the next few years. They will need to be is evident in the fact that Skanska continues to be introduced to the way Skanska works in line with the considered the most desirable, attractive and reliable company’s values and with a focus on contributing to employer among engineers, specialists and leaders in the development and success of the clients and of society. Poland. In Sweden Skanska is ranked by graduate One important aspect is to increase diversity, and to engineers as the strongest brand. intensify efforts in this area a new diversity and inclusion vision has been developed. The aim is to be a leading Internal development company in this area in all home markets by 2020. Developing Skanska’s own talent is another very important investment in the future; to secure replacements for Global recruitment people who change jobs and to pass on Skanska’s method Skanska is a global employer with global recruitment of working and its fundamental values to all employees. needs. To strengthen Skanska’s brand as an employer, To get a clear view of management capacity and internal there is a constant emphasis on clearly defining what talent, the Group conducts a Talent Review every year Skanska offers its employees. Since 2011, the Group’s aimed at ensuring the long-term supply of managers external website has featured Skanska Recruit, a shared and specialists. This involves an extensive evaluation of global system to establish an external and internal all managers and a number of other key individuals in labor market. In 2013 around 3,000 job vacancies were each business unit. The Talent Review identifies indiadvertised for which candidates can apply externally vidual needs for professional development and includes or through Skanska’s internal national or international planning to ensure there are strong successors available labor markets. 15,000 new employees were recruited for critical positions. The results of the Talent Review during the year. provide the basis for further action based on individual strengths and development needs. Increased diversity To be a leader Skanska needs employees who reflect the Evaluation of upper management community and client base; in other words, a balanced In 2013 a new model was created to evaluate the comgender base and people with various backgrounds, ages pany’s upper management, called Global Assessment and experience. The top priorities are to increase the Policy. The performance and potential of upper manpercentage of women and ethnic minorities at leadership agers is assessed based on a number of parameters in levels and to create an inclusive working environment a globally uniform way. The new evaluation process is where everyone can contribute to the best of their abillinked to development activities within the business ity. This process is now being intensified and Skanska units and at the Group level. is making systematic efforts to increase diversity and To ensure access to future leaders, a succession inclusion, set goals, and measure and follow up progress. planning process takes place within the business units The progress made in increasing diversity and inclusion at the Group level and in close cooperation with the followed up annually through employee surveys and company’s Board of Directors. To equip the future leaders with tools to drive strategy, change, customer focus and Female employees cooperation as an aligned company – One Skanska – the % 2013 2012 company offers a multitude of development activities Skilled workers 2 2 and programs. White collar employees 26 25 Identifying and developing Skanska’s existing talent is a top priority. SLP is aimed at all white-collar workSenior executives 14 14 ers in all of the business units. SLP aims to develop and Skanska AB Board 13 13 assess the leaders and thereby provide Skanska with the Total 12 12 leadership required to achieve its goals. 32 Employees Skanska Annual Report 2013 Anna Linder – a team builder Anna Linder, District Manager, Roads and Civil Skanska Sweden, Stockholm. Anna started at Skanska as a project engineer in 1999 and advanced to be Project Manager for land and foundation work from 2006 to 2013. This included working on the New Karolinska Solna university hospital and the Ingenting project, the Swedish National Police Board (RPS) in Solna and Järvastaden in Sundbyberg. Education: MSc Engineering, Civil Engineering at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Stockholm 1998, as well as numerous Skanska courses in everything from leadership and ethics to environment and explosives. Anna is also one of Skanska’s 30 or so accredited CEEQUAL Assessors. CEEQUAL is the international system for environmental certification of roads and civil engineering projects. Teamwork is what drives Anna and she has been awarded Skanska’s internal global Golden Rock Award for Build Winning Teams. Anna is thorough in everything she does and in her CV she puts her philosophy into words. ” That everyone involved in a project – clients, suppliers and employees – work together to achieve the goals set for safety, customer satisfaction, quality, timeliness, the environment and finances. As District Manager I’m responsible for ensuring that the project members have what they need to achieve these goals. I also believe that everyone should be happy, feel good and have fun at work. What do you do to make your philosophy a reality? “The most important thing is that everyone is involved from the beginning. Together we discuss different solutions, plan and set tough goals. Then we follow up on a regular basis and adjust the plan if necessary. By setting goals together, everyone is motivated and participating. I also try to give people challenges so they can grow in their roles.” In 2010, through Skanska Unlimited, you were in New York for the water project Cat/Del. What did you take away from it? “It’s a fantastic project and it was an exciting experience, but the best thing was seeing the great similarities in how we work, that we are One Skanska. Our Five Zero visions, including safety and ethics, are the same everywhere. That makes you proud and everyone I met was proud to be working for Skanska.” What is it like being a woman in a male dominant industry? “Out at the production sites there are very few women. In my district at the moment there are 43 people and only two are women. And there aren’t many female line managers either unfortunately. A change is on the way, but there is still a shortage of female role models to show what fun it is to work in the construction world. I hope I can inspire young women to come and work for us.” Skanska Annual Report 2013 Employees 33 15,000 new employees ”It’s been a very enriching experience for me; I’ve learned a lot more about Skanska and were recruited gained a big network. I’ve also during the year. had the opportunity to work in new areas; in new teams, languages and cultures. Rafael Sampaio, Controlling Coordinator Skanska Latin America, who is on a Skanska Stretch exchange at Skanska Financial Services and Skanska Group staff unit Controlling, Stockholm, Sweden. Global initiatives for our employees. SLP is directly linked to the profitable growth strategy, as well as the focus areas and prioritized actions that are Skanska Unlimited – an exchange program through which key in reaching the established targets. 20–30 employees a year are given the experience of working in The expectations for and requirements of the employees another part or the world for 3–6 months. Participants can expect to are clearly expressed. The ability of leaders to take responacquire new skills, discover new ways of working and build up a network sibility for their own development and lead others in line within the Skanska Group. with the company’s values is as important as having the right skills in various specialist areas. Good leaders Skanska Stretch – a development program involving leadership ensure both their own development and the development training and 6–12 months of work abroad for promising young of the people they are leading. employees who are in the early stages of their career. SLP has been used since 2012 in annual evaluations and The goal is to develop leaders who have a solid understanding of professional development planning for 24,000 employees. Skanska and of leadership in an international context. So far around This makes it the most comprehensive Group-wide 90 employees have had this opportunity since the program was investment in management development in Skanska’s launched two years ago. history. Mobility and exchanging experiences Skanska STEP – Skanska Top Executive Program is tailored to STEP STEP Skanska Skanska’s senior executives. The aim is to build up their knowledge The Leadership Profile permeates most of the work car2011 Top Executive Program and leadership skills, enabling them to make the greatest possible ried out at the Group staff unit Human Resources. An contribution to profitable growth and build networks for knowledge important aspect of the unit’s work is to increase mobility exchange and strategic work. The program was developed and is and provide opportunities for people to exchange experiexecuted in cooperation with IMD in Switzerland, one of the world’s ences with other employees in different business streams leading management schools. and units. It is crucial for Skanska to be able to utilize synergies between the various areas of operation and to capitalize on the Group’s full potential. Stimulating Seop – Skanska employee ownership program – offers all permanent mobility and experience exchange between different Skanska employees the opportunity to purchase shares in the company units is therefore essential in understanding how to work within the framework of a stock purchase program. toward common goals and to understand the various In 2013 Skanska’s Board of Directors decided to extend the Seop stock purchase units and markets. Several programs are used for this program for a third round starting in January 2014. The employees participating in Seop now constitute the fourth largest shareholder in Skanska. purpose globally and at the regional and local levels. Greater affinity and dedication Skanska Recruit – the recruitment tool that facilitates the One way of creating greater affinity and dedication to the creation of an external and internal labor market. The tool enables company and of retaining employees is the three-year employees to match their competence and their career aspirations with Skanska employee ownership program (Seop), which is the opportunities that Skanska offers globally. open to all permanent employees. Participation in the program requires a personal investment, and the allotment Skanska Talent – Skanska’s global tool used to evaluate of additional shares is tied to how well each unit meets employees and to define personal targets and plans for development. its yearly targets. This provides each participant with the opportunity to receive a personal reward for the company’s Global Assessment Policy – Skanska’s model and process to success and for their own efforts. In 2013 around evaluate the Company’s upper management. 8,800 people took part in the program. Skanska Leadership Profile – aims to develop and assess Skanska’s leaders and thereby provide Skanska with the leadership required for achieving its goals. 34 Employees Skanska Annual Report 2013 ”Iourwantdecisions to discuss and challenge just like in the ”Stretch has given me a global view of leadership. If you have common United States. Here in Poland expectations and solutions, I hope to gain a better picture multicultural teams often make of how Skanska’s project develfor a productive and innovative opment is affected by local environment. markets and different cultures. Carolyn Desmond Project Developer, Skanska Commercial Property Development USA Anna Roos, Project Developer, Skanska Sweden, on a Skanska Stretch exchange at on a Skanska Stretch exchange at Skanska Property Poland. Skanska Commercial Property Development USA in Houston. An investment in personal and professional development Adam McDonald, Commercial Manager Skanska UK, who is on a Skanska Stretch exchange at Skanska USA Building in New York. Started at Skanska in 2003. Education: Degree in construction engineering from Loughborough University, UK, 2003. During my vacations I worked at Skanska because I wanted to learn more about the business. Member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). What aspects of your professional role would you like to develop further? “I want to continue to develop in all areas; I really believe you never stop learning. One area where I’d like to develop in particular is being a better listener. If we aren’t able to stop and listen to what clients, colleagues and the people in our industry have to say, we can’t take proper advantage of the business opportunities. Once we understand what the needs are, we can focus on making our clients more successful – an important priority in our business.” What is the most rewarding aspect of the Stretch program? “Working overseas and leadership training are both incredibly rewarding and they complement each other to provide you with a holistic perspective. Stretch is a life experience that has helped me grow as a person. I feel lucky to have had the opportunity to experience so many different cultures within Skanska. I’ve met people from every business unit in the leadership training and gained more in-depth knowledge about Skanska USA Building. The experience has given me a solid understanding of the global Skanska.” What do you think this will mean for your personal development and for your career? “Skanska has given me many opportunities to develop and grow in my role as a business manager as well as on a personal level. I am motivated by the fact that Skanska has invested in my career and personal development, and I’m going to channel that into taking a leading role in one of the areas of operation and deliver great results.” Skanska Annual Report 2013 Employees 35 Skanska AB www.skanska.com Warfvinges väg 25 SE-112 74 Stockholm Tel: +46 10 448 00 00 Fax: +46 8 755 12 56
