SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTENTS Foreword by President of the Executive Board 3 Why do we report? 4 How do we report? 4 1. IDENTITY 5 1.1. BANK PROFILE 6 Intesa Sanpaolo 6 Banca Intesa 6 Mission 6 Values 6 Strategic approach to sustainability 7 Joint initiatives 8 1.2. GOVERNANCE AT BANCA INTESA 9 Corporate governance 9 Risk management 10 1.3. RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 13 Dialogue with stakeholders 13 Stakeholder map 14 Materiality and materiality matrix 14 Table of goals 15 2. SUSTAINABILITY 19 2.1. GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE 20 Market position 20 Retail banking 20 Corporate banking 21 2.2. STAKEHOLDER VALUE ADDED 23 Stakeholder map 23 CUSTOMERS 23 Support to economy 23 Financial inclusion and education 24 Customer satisfaction 25 EMPLOYEES 27 Equal opportunities 27 Human resource development 28 Employee satisfaction 29 COMMUNITY 31 Community development 31 Support to children and youth 32 SUPPLIERS 34 Transparency and equality in supplier selection 34 Promoting sustainability in the supply chain 34 ENVIRONMENT 35 Responsible resource management 35 Responsible financing 36 3. GRI CONTENTS AND INDICATORS 38 2 FOREWORD BY PRESIDENT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD In the year of significant business challenges and a weakened economic environment, Banca Intesa succeeded in achieving stable results while meeting its responsibilities towards the community, its customers, employees, shareholders and all other stakeholders. Integrating the sustainable business concept in both the long-term strategy and its daily activities, the Bank continued recording further progress in corporate social responsibility, achieving a balance between its business, social and environmental goals. The Bank’s third annual CSR report offers an overDuring 2012, we launched new CSR projects and view of all our efforts to take even better care of the products, while improving existing activities and needs of all our stakeholders. For the first time, our initiatives. In response to citizen needs, we created report is aligned with the standards of international products such as loans for financing medical services reporting methodology Global Reporting Initiative and those that include insurance in case of job loss. (GRI) that enabled us to present and evaluate the At the same time, we supported economic developresults of all our projects and activities in a more sysment through our traditionally largest participation tematic and quality manner, and, what is even more in the Government’s programme for economic recovimportant, to improve performance tracking. ery, the development of innovative products as well as favourable lending from international credit lines. The fact that we not only aligned our report with Furthermore, continuous work on improving customthis advanced reporting framework, but also met the er support enabled us to take the leading market porequirements of the B level of reporting in our first sition by customer satisfaction and loyalty. Also, we document of this kind serves as additional confirmaprovided economic certainty and a simulative work tion of our commitment to constantly improve our environment for our employees while continuing to CSR practices and strengthen dialogue with all stakecontribute to community wellbeing by investing in holders. This dedication will remain the basis of our culture, health care, education and sports, as well as sustainable operations in the period ahead. by strengthening our corporate volunteering. In the field of the CSR management model, we adopted a number of strategic documents including the Policy of Environmental Protection and Energy EfSincerely, ficiency as part of efforts to be even more responsible towards the environment by managing our direct and indirect impacts. Seeking to promote the culture of social and environmental responsibility in the entire supplier chain, we also included CSR criteria in Draginja Đurić the process of procurement and supplier selection. President of Banca Intesa Executive Board 3 WHY Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.1), according to which Reporting Level B is met. DO WE REPORT? The Report content is defined in accordance with the GRI principles of materiality, sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness and completeness. The Report is designed to address directly major stakeholders, covering topics that are of the highest importance to For Banca Intesa, sustainability reporting presents them and thus become part of Banca Intesa’s priorities. a valuable instrument for monitoring the results In order to provide a detailed, clear and transparent inachieved in relation to the corporate values and sussight into the activities that it implemented during 2012 tainability goals set at the level of the Bank, as well with the aim of creating social and environmental value as its parent group, Intesa Sanpaolo, to the Bank’s added, the Bank applied the GRI principles of balance, CSR strategy, as well as to its Code of Ethics. In addicomparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and relition, the Report also creates a platform for improving ability in compiling the Report. dialogue and exchanging views with all stakeholders, providing them with a possibility of monitoring and Individual organisational units of the Bank contributed assessing the Bank’s performance in comparison to to the process of information gathering and processing the previously set sustainability goals and decisions through CSR ambassadors, selected representatives of owing to regular and consistent disclosure of infordepartments, offices and units, who closely cooperated mation. with the Marketing and Communications Department in the preparation of the Report. The indicators and the measurement system were developed in accordance with standard performance indicators, obligations arisHOW ing from international methodological frameworks for reporting and the Bank’s desire for each step on the sustainability path to be measurable. Most of the inforDO WE REPORT? mation was gathered directly and assessments, measurement methods and information sources were specifically stated where needed. The Report is published annually and refers to the activities of Banca Intesa ad Beograd. Sustainability Report 2012 is Banca Intesa’s third annual corporate social responsibility report and the first Previous reports: to include, in addition to the reporting principles of the 2010: http://www.bancaintesa.rs/code/navigate.aspx?Id=598 United Nations Global Compact, 22 indicators of the 2011: http://www.bancaintesa.rs/code/navigate.aspx?Id=598 C C+ B B+ A A+ Independent Required level determination Verified by Report verified by Report verified by Report verified by third party Optional Verified by external source external source external source GRI Contact person in charge of Sustainability Report 2012: Jelena Krsmanović, Media Relations Manager jelena.krsmanovic@bancaintesa.rs 4 1. IDENTITY 5 1.1. paolo group. The operation of the leasing company is not covered by this Report. BANK PROFILE www.bancaintesa.rs 1991 One of the first private banks in Serbia, with the head office in Belgrade. INTESA SANPAOLO 2005 Becomes a member of Banca Intesa group, now named Intesa Sanpaolo. With a history of more than 400 years, Intesa Sanpaolo group provides 2006 Intesa Leasing founded. customerswith safety and the best financial solutions, believing that the ability to 2007 Becomes the leading bank in Serbia by all create real value for community as a whole is the way to sustainable development. key performance indicators. 2008 Panonska Banka acquired and the num Intesa Sanpaolo is one of the leading banking groups in ber of employees increased to 3,000. Europe and the largest in Italy. Created by the merger of Novi Sad becomes the second the leading Italian banks, Sanpaolo IMI and Banca Intesa, seat of the Bank. the Group holds the leading position in Italy in terms of providing financial support to retail and corporate customers and serves 10.9 million customers through its business network of 5,300 branches. MISSION Intesa Sanpaolo focuses its business operations on CenBanca Intesa’s mission is to provide excellence in banking tral and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Northern and financial services for its customers, leveraging on deAfrica, where it serves 8.3 million customers in 12 counveloping its presence in all the areas in which it operates. tries through a network comprising more than 1,500 branches. Intesa Sanpaolo also supports corporate cusThe Bank encourages a style of growth that focuses on tomers through its international network covering 29 sustainable long-term results and on establishing a trustcountries, with an emphasis on the Middle East, Northbased process that stems from customer and shareholdern Africa, the US, Russia, China and India. er satisfaction, from its employees’ sense of belonging www.intesasanpaolo.com and listening to the needs of local communities. CORPORATE VALUES BANCA INTESA INTEGRITY We pursue our goals with honesty, fairness and with a sense of responsibility in full compliance with the rules and principles of ethics mandated by the profesIn addition to providing financial support to its customers, Banca Intesa sion. takes care of the needs of all other stakeholders, as well as the wider community, EXCELLENCE We are committed to continuous improvesupporting a better quality of life, prosperity and the development ment and cultivation of creativity with the aim of innovaof the economy and society at large. tion. EQUALITY We oppose any kind of discrimination and Banca Intesa is the leading financial institution in the Serrespect gender, race, religious, political, language and intelbian market, the Bank whose power is trusted by around lectual differences, as well as age difference. 1.6 million customers – individuals, entrepreneurs, SMEs, TRANSPARENTNOST Transparency is the basis for all our large companies and local governments. As a member of activities, communication and contracts with the aim of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, the Bank provides reliability that enabling our customers to make independent and consciis a result of business stability and knowledge of one of entious decisions. the leading international banking groups. RESPECT FOR EACH INDIVIDUAL We carefully listen and work on improving the relations with each of Banca Intesa is the leader in the domestic market by all our customers. key indicators of banking performance, while its comprehensive offer of modern banking products, a wellINDIVIDUAL VALUES The value of each individual developed business network of nearly 200 branches, as guides our modus operandi: we use listening and well as the expertise and commitment of its employees dialogue techniques as tools for continually improvmake it the Bank of choice for customers across Serbia. ing relations with all stakeholders. RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES We strive to careStriving to complete its offer of financial services, in 2006 fully use all resources and to promote the conduct Banca Intesa founded a leasing company, Intesa leasing based on the optimal use of resources and avoidd.o.o. Belgrade, which is also a member of Intesa Sanance of waste. 6 STRATEGIC APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY and needs of the social and economic environment in 2012 as well. The primary areas of activity were Banca Intesa’s growth strategy is based on the princidefined based on the results of the dialogue with ple of achieving sustainability while creating economic stakeholders and a detailed impact analysis, espevalue. The Bank strives to achieve its growth strategy cially given the economic situation of Serbia that was goals by contributing to increasing wellbeing of citicharacterised by a large budget deficit and economic zens and strengthening competitiveness of compaactivity decline primarily due to the negative impact nies, by maintaining social cohesion, creating jobs and of external factors, before all the continuing crisis in investing in projects with greater social, environmental the Eurozone. and economic value. The deteriorated business environment resulted in a Banca Intesa acts in accordance with the strategic prislowdown of lending activity due to reduced demand orities of Intesa Sanpaolo Group: for loans, as well as in a high level of non-performing loans. Despite the difficult market conditions, Banca Intesa managed to maintain the continuity of stable SUSTAINABLE GROWTH operating results based on sustainable foundations. Supporting economic growth that arises and is The Bank provided credit support for its customers, consolidated over time within a social context that reaffirmed its position as the most active partner of implies the wellbeing of people, households and the Government in terms of participation in the subthe production sector. sidised corporate lending programme and continued to improve its retail and corporate lending offer. PRODUCTIVITY Investing in the future so that in the event of limBanca Intesa also continued to contribute to susited resources process efficiency, leadership skills of tainable growth through active participation in the the management and employee motivation keep dialogue that promotes solutions for overcoming our operational basis solid. the consequences of the economic crisis. The Bank was a partner of the conference Financing Growth in RISK CONTROL Serbia, organised in Belgrade by financial magazine Assessment and consideration of social, environThe Banker, part of publishing company The Financial mental and reputational risks related to business Times. The conference brought together renowned operations in order to ensure the stability of the economists and financial experts with the aim of company and raise awareness of these aspects pointing out the ways to increase the competitivewhen making business decisions. ness of the Serbian economy and attract investment. In addition, the Bank supported the Summit of SEE Governors and Finance Ministers dedicated to the The Bank’s daily operation, identity, as well as the financial future of the region. The event discussed growth strategy itself, are based on: the danger of growing public debt, fiscal stabilisation and consolidation, the impact of the crisis on public • The Code of Ethics, which is an expression of the comfinances in the region, as well as the financing of the pany culture and tradition from which Banca Intesa originates. This document provides, on the one hand, a framedeficit and the tax and excise duty reform. work through which the Bank observes and interprets different situations and, on the other hand, the ultimate In accordance with its commitment to establish a goal to which it strives. balance between economic goals on the one hand and the needs of all stakeholders on the other, the • The CSR Strategy adopted in 2011 with the aim of precisely defining the strategic priorities, the manner of Bank also made significant progress in implementtheir implementation, as well as monitoring and measing the existing CSR projects and at the same time urement mechanisms in corporate social responsibility. launched new initiatives. True to its tradition of philanthropy, Banca Intesa continued to invest in arts, culture, health care, education and sports, as well as STRATEGY IN PRACTICE to strengthen the culture of corporate volunteering. Committed to being a reliable partner to all its In the period ahead, Banca Intesa will remain focused customers and a stable support to the whole comon providing credit support for its customers, both munity, Banca Intesa strived to harmonise its busiin the retail and corporate sectors, while further imness strategy in the best way with market demands proving the quality of its services and products. 7 BUSINESS AWARDS IN 2012 Financial magazine The Banker, part of publishing DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE company The Financial Times Group, declared BanWOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES ca Intesa the bank of the year in Serbia. Banca Intesa signed the Declaration of Compliance Magazines Ekonometar and Magazin Biznis with the Women’s Empowerment Principles at the presented Draginja Đurić, President of Banca Intesa conference Women’s Empowerment Principles: Equality Means Business – Serbian Companies Leading the Executive Board, with the Planeta Biznis (Business Way held in Belgrade in 2012 and organised by the Planet) award for successful management of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Embank that invested the highest amount of funds in powerment of Women and the United Nations Global CSR programmes during 2011. Compact. The declaration expresses support for the promotion of equality between women and men Financial magazine Euromoney named Banca Inin order to, among other things, enhance the comtesa the best bank in Serbia in 2011. petitiveness of companies, encourage the creation of economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities for women and men, as well as facilitate sustainable development of the country. JOINT INITIATIVES By joining the local networks of international initiaUnderstanding the importance of joint action of comtives that promote corporate social responsibility, Banpanies, non-governmental, humanitarian and other orca Intesa strives to contribute to spreading responsible ganisations for which care of the people and commubusiness practices, which gain additional importance nity comes first, in 2012 Banca Intesa hosted a meeting in the current economic and social environment. In of the Business Leaders Forum at which a plan of prothis regard, the Bank is involved in the projects aimed ject implementation in the current year was presented, at improving the overall social and economic situation and then a meeting of the Serbian Philanthropic Forum. in Serbia. UNITED NATIONS The largest global CSR network bringing together more than 10,000 memGLOBAL COMPACT bers throughout the world and promoting the protection of human and labour www.unglobalcompact.rs rights, environmental management and fight against corruption. BUSINESS LEADERS FORUM The first business network for CSR in Serbia comprising 20 members. www.fpl.rs SERBIAN ASSOCIATION A business association founded with the aim of becoming a credible social OF MANAGERS partner of the Serbian Government in the process of improving the business www.sam.org.rs environment and accelerating economic development. AMERICAN CHAMBER An organisation that promotes the improvement of the business environment OF COMMERCE in Serbia, as well as the partnership between the U.S. and Serbian companies www.amcham.rs for the purpose of economic development. FOREIGN INVESTORS COUNCIL A business association whose activities contribute to the improvement of the www.fic.org.rs investment and business climate in Serbia. NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR LOCAL A business association that brings together representatives of all three sectors of ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT society – companies, municipalities and NGOs, which work together on improving www.naled-serbia.org the conditions for local economic development and doing business in Serbia. CHAMBER OF ITALIAN AND A non-profit organisation that fosters, improves and develops trade between SERBIAN BUSINESSPEOPLE Italy and Serbia. www.ccis.rs 8 1.2. of Directors makes strategic decisions aimed at the Bank’s compliance, takes care of and is responsible for the accuracy of all reports, financial condition and operating GOVERNANCE AT results of the Bank addressed to the Bank’s shareholders, the public and the National Bank of Serbia. BANCA INTESA In line with the Law on Banks and the Decision of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the Bank’s bylaws, members of the Board of Directors are appointed and dismissed by the General Meeting of Shareholders, while members of the Executive Board are appointed and dismissed by the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Bank’s Board of Directors. Domestic regulations clearly list conditions that members of the Executive Board and the Shareholders of Banca Intesa ad Beograd – ownership Board of Directors must meet in order to get prior approvstructure: Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A al of the regulatory body, i.e. the National Bank of Serbia, 77.79%, Intesa Sanpaolo SPA 15.21%, International without which they cannot become members of these Finance Institution (IFC) 7.00%. The governance of the boards. This includes, among other things, good business Banca Intesa joint stock company is organised as a tworeputation and appropriate qualifications. In addition, an tier system. appropriate experience in finance is also required for at least three members of the Board of Directors, while at The Bank’s Board of Directors consists of five members least one member of the Board of Directors must have elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders upon active knowledge of Serbian and reside in the territory of the shareholders’ proposal, including the Board President. the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the conditions, the The term of office of Board members is three years, with domestic regulations also specify a list of documents cona possibility of re-election. The President of the Board of firming the fulfilment of the required conditions and this Directors of Banca Intesa is Massimo Malagoli and its list is submitted to the National Bank of Serbia in order members are Paolo Sarcinelli, Beata Kissne Foldi, Nevenka to obtain its approval. After obtaining the approval, the Žarkić Joksimović, PhD, and Ivan Šramko. appointed person is registered with the Business Registers Agency as well. The Executive Board of Banca Intesa consists of seven members, including the President. The term of office of Banca Intesa provided in its bylaws for the mechanisms Executive Board members is three years, with a possibiland channels of direct e-mail communication with its ity of re-election. The President of the Executive Board of parent group Intesa Sanpaolo with the aim of respecting Banca Intesa is Draginja Đurić, the Vice President of the Exthe individual and dignity of each employee, as well as ecutive Board is Marco Capellini, and Board members are the values proclaimed by the Code of Ethics. The Bank’s Darko Popović, Head of the Corporate Banking Division, shareholders, i.e. the General Meeting of Shareholders, Vlastimir Vuković, Head of the Retail Division, Dragica participate in and directly impact the work of the Board Mihajlović, Head of the Financial Management and Treasof Directors as a governance body in the following ways: ury Division, Slađana Jelić, Head of the Risk Management Division and Marko Marković, Head of the Operations • The General Meeting of Shareholders adopts the Management Division. business policy and strategy of the Bank • The General Meeting of Shareholders adopts the Articles Women account for 40% of the members of the Board of Association and the amendments to the Memorandum of Directors and 42.86% of the members of the Executive and Articles of Association Board of Banca Intesa. • The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints and dismisses the President and members of the Board of Directors The Bank’s Audit Committee consists of three members, • The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints and including the Chairman. The term of office of Committee dismisses the external auditor members is three years, with a possibility of re-election. • The General Meeting of Shareholders considers and The Committee Chairman is Giovanni Bergamini and adopts the annual report of the Board of Directors. its members are Beata Kissne Foldi and Nevenka Žarkić Joksimović, PhD. The adopted remuneration policy for the entire human resources of the Group, including the variable compoThe President of the Board of Directors, as a governance nents, is based on equality, merit and sustainability of body, does not have a direct executive role, given that results. The guidelines for defining the management Banca Intesa, organised as a joint stock company with a remuneration policy are based on objective elements two-tier governance system, delegates executive roles to and parameters resulting from the assessment of orthe Executive Board as a management body that organganisational positions, as well as performance and poises the Bank’s operations and performs daily monitoring tentials, with the aim of creating an integrated system of the activities of the Bank employees, while the Board 9 for the members of management, thus helping their the annual performance is monitored. professional development. The policy provides for remuneration in the form of benefits, which is also based RISK MANAGEMENT on financial instruments and linked to the results of the company – which corresponds to the level of assumed Controlling social and environmental risks in the risk and is regulated so as to avoid giving benefits governance process that, in the long term, are not in accordance with the Group’s interests. Based on the performance indicators By a decision of the Executive Board, the Bank apclosely linked with the long-term goals, the benefit depointed the persons responsible for environmental termination systems are based, among other things, on protection with the aim of establishing an Environthe principle of symmetry, with the amounts of paid mental Management System – EMS and ensuring benefits being based on the results achieved at the compliance with the rules of environmental protection Group, business sector and individual levels and thereand corporate social responsibility in lending operafore being capable of decreasing significantly and even tions so that the system would be fully applied until reaching a zero if the minimum indicators that reflect the final collection of all loan instalments. A Senior the Group profitability are not achieved, also taking into Environmental Management Officer (Deputy President account the risks assumed and the capital used. of the Executive Board) and an Environmental Management Coordinator (compliance risk management When it comes to conflicts of interest, Banca Intesa has specialist) were appointed. prescribed, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Banks, as well as with its bylaws and those of its The Environmental Management Coordinator, with parent Group, an obligation for members of the Board the approval of the Senior Environmental Manageof Directors and the Executive Board to submit a writment Officer, informs the Executive Board, the Asset ten statement of conflict of interest to the Bank’s Board Quality Committee and the Credit Committee of any of Directors within one month from the day of taking significant increase in the level of socio-environmenoffice. The members of the Board of Directors and the tal risks in individual Bank customers, particularly in Executive Board are obliged, in accordance with the customers with high credit exposure, and prepares bylaws regulating the transactions with related parreports on socio-environmental risks for international ties and the conflict of interest, to submit once a year development banks towards which the Bank has such completed standard questionnaires whose content is reporting obligation. designed by the parent Group and which contain the information relevant for establishing if there is any conThe responsible organisational unit of the Bank moniflict of interest. tors risks through the process of evaluating loan applications taking into account the criteria related to One of the methods of controlling the sustainability at lending to all customers engaged in production and Banca Intesa is the power of the Board of Directors as service activities and the criteria related to environa governance body to set up a single risk management mental risk management. system at the Bank and the supervision of this system, as well as its duty to make sure that the Executive Board Fight against corruption and compliance identify the risks to which Banca Intesa is exposed and to control these risks in accordance with the approved The internal regulatory source that governs the system policies and procedures. The Board of Directors gives for control and mitigation of corruption risks comprises: approval to the Bank’s exposure to one or a group of the Code of Ethics, the Code of Conduct, the Rulebook related parties for over 10% or for the increase in the on Relations with Political Parties and the following Bank exposure to over 20% of Bank equity; adopts internal procedures: the Procedure for the Prevention of Internal audit plan and programme; considers external and inFraud and Abuse at the Bank and the Employment Termination Procedure. ternal audit reports; sets up the internal control system; defines the internal organisation and organisational The Code of Conduct prescribes in detail the rules in structure of the Bank that ensures the division of duconnection with receiving and giving gifts, and the ties, authority and responsibilities of its employees in a measures prescribed in the event of corruption are relatmanner that prevents conflict of interest and ensures a ed to the violation of work duties, so the measures stiputransparent and documented process of decision maklated by external regulations, i.e. the Labour Law (e.g. ing and implementation; decides on disposing with the compensation for damage, removal of employee from Bank’s fixed assets and the stakes and shares that the work or employment termination) but also the Criminal Bank has in other legal entities. Code may be pronounced against an employee. Based on the Legal Department records, no proceedings were The work of the Executive Board is evaluated through initiated against Banca Intesa ad Beograd in connection the MBO (Management by Objectives) system, which is with corruption, since no complaints or reprimands prior based on setting measurable objectives based on which to complaint were delivered during 2012. In the same 10 period, 30.47% of the employees received an internal external regulations (laws and secondary legislation) exstatutory AML training, with the aim of acquainting the poses the Bank to a certain level of reputational risks. employees with the method of identifying and reporting transactions that are considered suspicious and that the Bank is legally obliged to report to the relevant reguManagement of social and environmental risks latory body – the Administration for the Prevention of in lending Money Laundering. Equator Principles The Rulebook on Relations with Political Parties prescribes the obligation of the Bank to refrain from As a member of international banking group Intesa Sangranting donations and sponsorship to: paolo, Banca Intesa was informed in 2012 about the Group Rules for the implementation of the Equator Prin• Political parties and any organisations related to ciples for all Group members and late in the year started the preparation for active implementation of the Equathem tor Principles for project financing and advisory services • Political movements and their organisational units in connection with project financing. The goal of these • Trade union organisations principles is to identify and assess risks and perform risk • Competent authorities and institutions. management based on the criteria defined by the Equator Principles, with the aim of adhering to the principle of The prohibition of granting donations and sponsorship sustainability of natural resources, human health, human to the above organisations aims at the protection against rights, cultural heritage and biodiversity. any grants that would result in a privileged position to the Bank or unfair decisions in favour of the Bank. Armaments The Compliance Office, as well as the relevant organisaThe sensitive sectors that the Bank monitors with special tional units of the Bank, is committed to the regulation attention include armament production and trade. In acof processes and the definition of procedures and their cordance with the relevant bylaw of its parent Group, operating rules, as well as practice, which efficiently prethe Policy of Not Financing of Armaments, in 2011 Banvent the violation of applicable regulations. The Complica Intesa adopted the Procedure for the Performance of ance Office also provides support to the top bodies of Transactions Related to Armament Production and Trade, the Bank in monitoring the compliance risk. The compliwhich regulates the identification and preparation of the ance risk assessment process is constant. Through semisummary of the customers engaged in armament and annual reporting these risks are identified and priority military equipment production and trade, the monitormeasures for their elimination or mitigation are detering of the transactions and loan applications of the cusmined, i.e. the level of efficiency of the existing complitomers engaged in armament and military equipment ance controls is assessed. production and trade, the approval of the transactions and loan applications related to armament and military equipment production and trade in accordance with the The Internal Audit provides direct support to the top Policy of Not Financing of Armaments, as well as the bodies of the Bank in monitoring the compliance with preparation of reports on the transactions related to arand adequacy of the rules contained in the Bank’s bymament and military equipment production and trade. laws. If it identifies critical issues during its activity, the Internal Audit informs the relevant organisational units and the top bodies of the Bank with the aim of determining adequate measures for risk mitigation and the Protection of health and safety method of their implementation. Occupational health and safety at Banca Intesa are regulated in accordance with international directives, recommendations and positive laws of the Republic of Serbia. Reputational risk management During 2012, an assessment was made of the situation regarding occupational health and safety and the risk The Bank attaches great importance to reputational level for about 200 facilities at which work is performed. risks that are assessed as part of the compliance control A schedule of elimination of recorded risks to the health system, which is within the competence of the Compliof Bank employees was defined and implemented acance Office. Banca Intesa believes that the standards cording to priorities and the budget planned. In connection with this, risk assessment documents were updated in this area, as well as the business ethics, are key elas well. ements that form the basis of banking operations, which, by their nature, are based on trust. When it comes to physical security, investments in technical solutions continued in 2012 as well. The number Bylaws, such as the Code of Ethics, policies and other, of robberies decreased by 33.33% in 2012 relative to 2011, while the number of customers and employees define that any non-compliance with the bylaws, the who were present at the branch during robbery fell by principles and values contained in them, as well as with around 60%. 11 Risk management in supply chain the parent Group and other stakeholders. Supplier check The Marketing and Communications Department also takes steps to make the criteria of corporate social The Procurement Unit and the organisational part in responsibility a recognisable element of the whole charge of procurement are obliged to evaluate the remanagement system and, to this end, cooperates with ceived supplier bids applying the methods of qualitathe top management in the process of defining the tive and quantitative analysis, as well as to align the policies and strategies of corporate social responsibilbid evaluation criteria, prior to inviting the bidders to ity, communicating to the top representatives of the submit offers, by combining specific criteria, one of Bank the results of dialogue with the stakeholders, which is the Compliance of Bidder’s Operations with their needs and key issues that should be a part of the Corporate Social Responsibility Principles. strategic guidelines. In this context, the process of preparing the Sustainability Report is of key importance Health and safety risk assessment for monitoring social and environmental impacts and activities as it integrates the results of dialogue with In accordance with the Procurement Policy, members of the stakeholders, quantitative indicators and compliIntesa Sanpaolo Group are expected to include the paance with the Code of Ethics. rameters of assessment of environmental management and occupational health protection in their procurement process, giving priority to the use of recycled paper, highly energy efficient products and environment-friendly REPORTING ON NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE technical equipment. CODE OF ETHICS Group members must include special provisions in the PThe Procedure for Managing the Reports of Nonprocurement contracts they conclude with their supplicompliance with the Code of Ethics was adopted ers. These provisions provide for the obligation of suppliers to comply with the principles specified in the Intesa in 2011 and is implemented in all organisational Sanpaolo Rules for the Environmental and Energy Policy. units of the Bank in the process of delivering reConstant checks are performed in the countries where ports in cases of suspicion or knowledge of any legal measures regarding environmental protection were activities or individual acts that are contrary to the adopted, in order to ensure compliance. Code of Ethics and other bylaws of the Bank. In the area of personnel training and spreading the The procedure for managing the reports of nonawareness of the importance of these issues, the traincompliance with the Code of Ethics consists of ing of the employees who directly communicate with several steps: non-compliance reporting, report suppliers must include fields related to corporate social analysis, translating and delivering the information responsibility, as well as to the responsibility for environto the parent Group, establishing the status and mental protection. verifying the facts, involving the relevant department, proposing corrective actions and delivering reports to relevant stakeholders, as well as to the CSR management model parent Group. The adoption of the Code of Ethics with the defined The Bank employee who noticed any behaviour of values to which Banca Intesa is committed introduced one of his/her colleagues that seems not to be in a management model based on the principle of reaccordance with the moral and ethical principles sponsibility that requires commitment to aligning eveprescribed by the Code of Ethics delivers a nonryday business activities with the declared values at compliance report to the following e-mail address: the individual level, as well as at the level of the Bank’s eticki.kodeks@bancaintesa.rs. The report may also organisational units. be delivered in hard copy to the following address: Banca Intesa ad Beograd, Marketing and commuThe Marketing and Communications Department, nications department, Bulevar dr Zorana Đinđića independently, as well as in close cooperation with 2a, 11070 New Belgrade. CSR ambassadors, delegated representatives of all organisational parts of the Bank, implements and coorThrough the above mechanism, Banca Intesa redinates projects and activities in the area of corporate corded no cases of human rights violation, as desocial responsibility. The CSR ambassadors provide the fined by the Code of Ethics, during 2012. Department with necessary information in connection with the implementation of projects and activities and participate in monitoring, measuring and reporting to 12 1.3. social issues, expectations and risks, both reputational and operating, which are in connection with its strategic decisions. RELATIONS Due to the importance of this process to all stakeholders, as well as to the Bank itself, its full efficiency is WITH ensured by adopting a strategic approach based on the international methodology of stakeholder engagement, the AA1000 Standard (Institute of Social STAKEHOLDERS and Ethical Accountability). Year after year, the dialogue is carried out using different techniques including focus groups, on-line questionnaires, satisfaction surveys and similar. Based on the results obtained, the achievements so far are analysed and new goals for DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS the future are set. The dialogue with stakeholders that it fosters with the During the process of designing the CSR Strategy of aim of defining sustainability strategies is an integral Banca Intesa and in cooperation with expert consultpart of Banca Intesa’s wider business activities and a ants, a number of qualitative interviews were held prerequisite for preparing the Sustainability Report. with stakeholders, i.e. representatives of key sectors A constant exchange of opinions with all those that – public, civil and business – who were selected to are parts of everyday business, social and natural enviparticipate in the analysis based on the importance of ronment of the Bank enables it to understand current their role for the Bank itself or for a specific CSR area. GROUP ENGAGEMENT KEY TOPICS MECHANISM CUSTOMERS Telephone interviews Retail: Support to households, financial incluOn-line surveys sion of retired persons and youth, innovative Focus groups products for improving the quality of life Benchmarking surveys Satisfaction survey Corporate: support to the development of entreComplaint and grievance analysis preneurship and economic growth EMPLOYEES On-line questionnaires Equal opportunities Surveys Professional development Employee satisfaction survey Remuneration policy and performance monitoring Quality of relations COMMUNITY PMeetings with civil society Financial inclusion of vulnerable groups organisations (CSOs) Support to children and youth Working groups, working bodies Community development through support to culture, art, health care, sports and projects of wider national importance SUPPLIERS Supplier information form Risk prevention: health and safety corporate social responsibility of suppliers ENVIRONMENT Meetings with CSOs Investment in energy efficiency projects Working groups, working bodies Responsible resource management 13 STAKEHOLDER MAP CUSTOMERS INDIVIDUALS Key stakeholders are defined based on several SMALL BUSINESS AA1000 Standard criteria, including: SMES LARGE COMPANIES • Influence – the groups and/or individuals who may LOCAL GOVERNMENTS influence the making of strategic and operating deCONSUMER ASSOCIATIONS cisions in the Bank BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS • Representation – the groups and/or individuals who PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION represent other individuals and/or groups • Degree of dependence – the groups and/or individuals who mostly depend on the Bank. EMPLOYEES MANAGERS OFFICERS MATERIALITY EMPLOYEES The indicators that arise as a result of stakeholder engagement are analysed in detail within the Bank in order to deterCOMMUNITY LOCAL AND STATE PUBLIC mine the extent to which the Bank is able to meet the needs INSTITUTIONS (REGULAand expectations of its environment. In addition to the need TORY BODIES, LOCAL GOVfor them to be mutually harmonised, it is important that the ERNMENT, ETC.) interests of various stakeholders be consistent with the Bank’s CSOS strategy. MEDIA In the area of sustainability, the Bank addresses a number of DOMESTIC topics of different levels of importance while keeping up with SUPPLIERS FOREIGN the practices of its parent Group. These topics are presented in the Materiality Matrix, which is created as a result of needs monitoring, and the issues located in the high-value field on both axes are priority issues for Banca Intesa. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ORGANISATIONS The Sustainability Report is designed in the same way – a NEXT GENERATIONS small number of relevant topics were selected and given more space, while other topics are less represented or available in a more general form through other information sources, such as the Bank’s website. MARERIALITY MATRIX Customers Employees Community Suppliers Environment Fight against corruption Support for Employment households Training, listening and dialogue Assessment, Support for Growth economy incentives, and and innovation Transparency and development High fairness Sustainability Monitoring environmental risks Diversity aspects in Proximity, listening, simplicity, management customer assessment clarity, transparency Financial inclusion Impact on Bank Human rights Medium CSR criteria protection NGO support Environmentaly friendly in selection Culture promotion products and services Work-life balance Management of direct environmental impact Wellfare, health and safety Low Low Medium High Importance for stakoholders 14 TABLE OF GOALS Done in 2012 Goals for 2013 Strategic framework CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Improvement of the The management structure in Implementation of the first Rulebook on Internal OrganiBank’s organisational the risk management organisaphase of regional structure consation of the Bank tional segment was changed by solidation with the aim of simpler model introducing a new managemanagement of the business ment position network Business process optiThe internal organisational Simplification of organisational misation structure of some organisastructure and improvement of tional units was improved internal organisation of some organisational units Efficient project and All regional business support Grouping of organisational change management in functions were centralised units in charge of risk and operathe Bank tions management into divisions with the aim of optimisation and achieving a greater balance of the organisational structure Establishing the control of the appropriateness of the administrative and financial management system Improving the Bank’s internal control system by introducing a new management function Improvement of the Magnifica service model by forming the Affluent Centre organisational unit Commitment to the The social and environmental Further improvement of the The Code of Ethics social and environmental risk development and imrisk management system was The Code of Conduct management system through provement of corporate improved additional employee training The Procedure for the Perforsocial responsibility The compliance risk manageImprovement of the regulatory mance of Transactions Related to ment system was improved framework in the anti-corruption Armament Production and Trade Commitment to the area The Rulebook on the Relations promotion of corporate with Political Parties The area of competition Improvement of competition value sustainability protection through additional The Social and Environmental protection was regulated employee training Risk Management Procedure The personal data protection Improvement of processes in The Rulebook on the Protection process was improved connection with the disposal and of Competition use of paper, electronic waste and other waste The Procedure for the Business Introduction of the environProcesses of Personal Data mental management principle Improvement of the procedural Protection in event organisation framework for personal data protection The Compliance Risk Management Procedure Improvement of customer protection through better The Bank Compliance Monitorapplication of general business ing Programme conditions The Environmental Protection Improvement of the prevention and Energy Efficiency Policy of internal and external fraud The Procurement Policy and the model for combating money laundering and terrorism The Goods and Services financing, as well as tax evasion Procurement Procedure Regulation of the procedural General business conditions framework for insider informaThe Policy of Managing tion management Insider Information and Personal Development of the CSR Transactions with Financial Instruambassador system ments 15 Done in 2012 Goals for 2013 Strategic framework RELATIONS WITH CUSTOMERS Improvement of the Introduction of the QMS Continued introduction of the The Code of Ethics work process system QMS system The Law on the Protection of Full implementation of the Financial Services Consumers Implementation of new new CRM solution, CR-ISP, Technological imbranch layout standard which improves the manageOperating instruction: provement of services ment of customer relations and Standing Orders for Corporate Promotion of new e-banking speeds up the processes in the Customers channel (Infoterminal) work with customers Product and Service DevelopIntroduction of the ATM Linking the QMS and CR-ISP ment Procedure Locator systems Employee training and Upgrading the on-line bankworkshops aimed at better ing application communication with customers and recognition of their needs Improvement of the Intesa Mobi mobile banking service Preparation of a sales manual for employees aimed at improving communication with customers Introduction of a standing order for corporate customers for credit cards and fees for FX payment operations Improvement of the on-line banking application for corporate customers Strengthening partIntesa Academia ExecuIntesa Academia Executive Workshop for corporate tive Workshop for corporate ner relations through customers customers educational contents -Workshops on factoring and guarantees PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Products and services Introduction of refinancing Introduction of cash loans The Code of Ethics loans with unemployment and with unemployment insurance for vulnerable social permanent disability insurance and instalment delay option Product and Service Development Procedure groups Introduction of new purposes Introduction of the Intesa Vita loan programme for financing for the Intesa Vita loan prohealth care services gramme Support for youth The Prove Yourself 100% student competition and children Practical training of students The CSR Strategy Financial education of youth who won the Prove Yourself 100% student competition through the UNGC Serbia Working Group on CSR in Financial education of youth Banking and Finance through the UNGC Serbia Working Group on CSR in Student education through Banking and Finance the competition in the course Support to the winners of Project Management for the the competition in the course Use of Heritage Project Management for the Use of Heritage Participation in the proSupport to the develgramme of Government Further promotion of start-up The Foreign Loan Handling opment of businesses measures for supporting the loans for women entrepreneurs Procedure economy and enterprises Continued implementation of Introduction of long-term loan loans from the EFSE credit line for entrepreneurs Introduction of loans from the Support to agriculture Local Economic Development in through five new loan models 16 Done in 2012 Goals for 2013 Strategic framework PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Continued promotion of the Balkans (LEDIB) programme start-up loans for women entrepreneurs Conclusion of new agreements with the IFC on credit Agreements with the EIB, lines for the public sector and EBRD and KfW on credit lines SMEs for SMEs, public and large companies. Participation in the Further implementation of The Continued implementation of The CSR Strategy Place I Love project The Place I Love project by carprojects of cultural rying out the works in Novi Sad and historical heritage and examining the ways for the protection implementation of the project in Belgrade RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES Efficient assessment Introduction of the Global Development of the assess-The Code of Ethics Performance Assessment and ment system for employees in and career guidance Remuneration System the business network The Training, Professional systems Providing scholarships for Providing scholarships for Advancement and Human Remaster studies of employees MBA programmes source Development Procedure in Italy The programme of training Introduction of a distance the employees in the business learning (e-learning) system network with an emphasis on More than half of the emthe improvement of managerial ployees received some form of knowledge and skills training Mentoring – induction of new employees by assigning them a mentor and providing on-thejob training Adoption of the Code of Conduct and the new Collective Bargaining Agreement Dialogue and Based on the results of the Further improvement of all employee satisfaction survey, internal communication chanengagement with the induction training for new employees was improved nels, including a redesign of the employees internal portal Improvement of the internal portal Launching new internal campaigns The launch of internal campaigns Get Involved and We Are Our Stories Launching a corporate volunteering programme Higher participation in volunteer campaigns, involvement in new initiatives Improvement of the Training of new employees -Training of all employees in The OHS Rulebook in the business network in business continuity manageworking conditions in cooperation with the Human ment (BCM) through the The methodology of risk terms of safety (OHS, Resources Department e-learning channel assessment in the Bank facilities fire protection, physical Adoption of a rulebook on in terms of physical security training and raising awareness Education of all employees in and OHS security) about safety among employees information security through the e-learning channel Operating instruction: Keeping Training the employees in the records of safety findings and provision of first aid First aid training recommendations in the area of Assessment of safety risks on occupational health and safety all sites in the areas of OHS, fire Assessment of safety risks on protection and physical security all sites in the areas of OHS, fire protection and physical security 17 Done in 2012 Goals for 2013 Strategic framework ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Carbon footprint Implementation of the pilot Implementation of the Printing The Code of Ethics phase of the Printing ConsolidaConsolidation project reduction tion project The Environmental Protection Responsible resource manageImprovement of energy efand Energy Efficiency Policy ment by reducing the use ficiency through the works on of direct energy (automatic the adaptation of the Bank’s The Procurement Policy computer shutdown) facilities The Goods and Services Increasing the quantities of Increasing the quantities of Procurement Procedure recycled electronic, electrical, recycled electronic, electrical, paper and hazardous waste paper and hazardous waste Emission reduction through fleet improvements Emission reduction through fleet improvements Investment in energy Subsidised loans for improvFurther granting of loans The Foreign Loan Handling ing the energy efficiency of from the GGF credit line for Procedure efficiency and renewhouseholds the improvement of energy efable energy sources Loans from the GGF credit ficiency of individuals and small The Environmental Protection line for the improvement of businesses and Energy Efficiency Policy energy efficiency of individuals and small businesses Conclusion of new agreements with the KfW for the Loans from the KfW credit line public sector for energy and for the improvement of energy efficiency of SMEs environmental management with an EU grant, as well as the extension of the KfW credit line for energy efficiency of SMEs Conclusion of agreements with the EBRD for energy efficiency of SMEs 18 2. SUSTAINABILITY 19 2.1. Banca Intesa continued to post good business results in 2012 as well. Despite the economic crisis, the Bank continued to be a reliable partner to businesses and inGENERATED dividuals through its stable credit support strengthening its leading position in the Serbian banking sector. ECONOMIC The Bank’s total loans to corporate and retail customers including cross-border loans reached 2.62 million euros at the end of December 2012, while deposits VALUE totalled 2.41 million euros. The business network consisted of 199 branches, 5 home loan centres and 4 home loan offices. In addition, Banca Intesa has the most developed network of POS terminals and ATMs, MARKET POSITION with 16,348 active POS terminals and 257 ATMs. According to the official data of the National Bank of Serbia as of December 31, 2012, Banca Intesa is the RETAIL BANKING leader in all business segments. in million euros The Bank had 1.47 million retail customers at the end Net assets 3.635 of 2012. The total loan portfolio was 670 million euCustomer loans 2.363 ros, while retail deposits increased to 1.319 million Customer deposits 2.300 euros. Banca Intesa confirmed its leading position in Equity 792 e-banking and payment card business during 2012 DIRECT AND INDIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED IN 2012 Banca Intesa As an active Banca Intesa Banca Intesa Total generemploys more partner of the cooperates with participated in ated ecothan 3,000 state, Banca Intesa almost 260 numerous comnomic value of people. supports economic suppliers. munity support Banca Intesa was development iniprojects and im22,091,943,750 tiatives of the Govplemented more dinars. ernment. than 130 donor activities. The Bank directly The budget of With almost 80 The investment The economic provides over Serbia received million euros in the commuvalue distributed 3,000 jobs, 991,900,043 diallocated for nity amounted through operatto 33,204,000 and it paid nars in the form procurement, dinars through ing costs and per1,997,940,391 of regular tax it indirectly donations to the sonnel expenses dinars into the payments. strengthens the local commuand liabilities to budget of Serbia stability of businity, 24,827,000 the Government as taxes and ness and jobs in dinars through and the commuinvestment in nity amounted to contributions for its supplier chain. infrastructure and wages and pen2,614,163.40 11,685,276,481 sions. dinars through dinars. volunteer activities. *All data refer to 2012. 20 as well and had around 1.3 million debit and credit ing 1.76 million euros at the end of December. At the cards issued at the end of December. At the same same time, corporate deposits amounted to 996 miltime, small business loans reached 156 million euros, lion euros. while loans granted to farmers amounted to 36 milThanks to the increase in all key balance sheet items, lion euros. a net income of 240 million euros was posted. In addition, despite the unfavourable business environment CORPORATE BANKING due to the global financial crisis, high business efficiency was maintained – the cost-to-income ratio was In the corporate segment, Banca Intesa had 119,000 39.8%. Net profit after tax was 84 million euros at the customers at the end of 2012. The constant increase end of December 2012. in the lending activity from the previous year continued during 2012 as well, with corporate loans reachTOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 1 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 000/RSD Interest income 31,340,971 Interest expenses -11,790,051 Fee and commission income 7,890,743 Fee and commission expenses -2,292,104 Net profit on sale of securities at fair value through profit and loss 1,008 Net profit on sale of securities available for sale 49,855 Net profits on sale of equity investments 434 Net exchange rate loss -13,263,673 Dividends and share income 2,925 Other operating income 554,540 Net expenses on indirect write-off of placements and provisions 1 -5,415,518 Operating and other expenses 2 -189,518 Income from changes in value of assets and liabilities 31,390,752 Expenses from changes in value of assets and liabilities -16,188,419 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 22,091,945 2 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 2.1. Operating costs 3 Costs of material -487,362 Building and equipment maintenance costs -753,215 Office and equipment lease costs -934,768 Costs of intellectual services -369,026 Advertising -355,296 Costs of business travel and employee training 3 -93,716 Other operating costs 3 -2,098,067 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS -5,091,449 2.2. Employee expenses 3 Wages and salaries -3,312,415 Costs of taxes and contributions on wages and wage allowances 3 -1,997,940 21 Cost of employees transportation 3 -76,490 Costs of remuneration for temporary and occasional assignments -5,861 Costs of employees education not related to their job -3,157 3 Other personnel expenses -172,859 TOTAL EMPLOYEE EXPENSES -5,568,723 2.3. Expenses related to liabilities to the government Income tax -830,548 Indirect taxes and duties 3 -161,352 TOTAL EXPENSES RELATED TO LIABILITES TO THE GOVERNMENT -991,900 2.4. Community-related expenses: Donations and corporate social responsibility 3 -33,204 TOTAL COMMUNITY-RELATED EXPENSES -33,204 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED -11,685,276 3 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 4 10,406,668 1 The item differs from the income statement in the annual report in that the Provisions for Employee Benefits (IAS 19), Legal Disputes and Restructuring (IAS 37) are excluded. 2 The item differs from the income statement in the annual report in that the Operating Costs are presented in the section Distributed Economic Value in several segments stated, while Direct Write-offs of Investment in Shares of Other Legal Entities Due to Liquidation is not presented within Other Operating Expenses. 3 The items differ from the income statement in the annual report in that a part of the Operating Costs is reclassified into the following segments: Employee Expenses, Expenses Related to Liabilities to the Government and Community-Related Expenses. 4 This represents BIB’s profit net of the Provisions for Employee Benefits, Legal Disputes and Restructuring, the Gains and Losses on Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities, the Depreciation Costs and the Direct Write-offs of Investment in Shares of Other Legal Entities Due to Liquidation. 22 2.2. needs of its customers and the problems they face most often, while also providing them with important advisory services. STAKEHOLDER The Bank’s goal is to provide support to its corporate and retail customers, while observing the highest standards of good business practice customer relaVALUE ADDED tions. In the area of customer support, the topics in focus are: • SUPPORT TO ECONOMY • FINANCIAL INCLUSION AND EDUCATION • CUSTOMER SATISFACTION STAKEHOLDER MAP SUPPORT TO ECONOMY RELEVANT TOPICS CUSTOMERS SUPPORT TO ECONOMY Banca Intesa supported the programme of measFINANCIAL INCLUSION AND FINANCIAL EDUCATION ures of the Government of the Republic of SerCUSTOMER SATISFACTION bia for support to the economy in 2012 as well and started to approve applications for loans with subsidised interest rate in early September. Since the EMPLOYEES EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES very beginning of the programme for mitigating the EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION effects of the crisis, which was initiated in 2009, Banca Intesa has been the most active commercial bank COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT in granting subsidised lending. SUPPORT TO CHILDREN AND YOUTH In late 2012, Banca Intesa and the European Investment Bank (EIB), which has provided EUR 70 SUPPLIERS TRANSPARENCY AND EQUALmillion in corporate loans so far, concluded an agreeITY IN SUPPLIER SELECTION ment on a new, EUR 30 million credit line for investPROMOTION OF SUSTAINABILment loans and loans for durable working assets for ITY IN SUPPLY CHAIN financing small, medium-sized and large enterprises. At the same time, through a new five-year credit line ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE of the European Bank for Reconstruction and MANAGEMENT Development (EBRD), Banca Intesa provided an RESPONSIBLE FINANCING additional EUR 30 million for SME customers. The funds from this credit line are granted in the form of revolving loans, loans for working assets and investment loans with the maximum repayment period of up to five years and a grace period of up to one year. CUSTOMERS AWARD FOR THE BEST ENTREPRENEUR By integrating corporate social responsibility into its core business, In March 2012, as part of the Blic Entrepreneur initiative Banca Intesa strives to contribute to sustainable growth by offering conducted by Banca Intesa in cooperation with the Blic daily newspaper for the fifth consecutive year in order to proinnovative products and services that respond to the needs of mote and encourage the development of entrepreneurial citizens and the economy in the most adequate manner. spirit in Serbia, identify the most successful SME in the country and provide financial support for its development, Dragan Ćirić, the owner of D-Company from Babušnica, which manufactures automobile parts, was pronounced In order to understand properly the needs of its custhe most successful entrepreneur of Serbia in the SME sectomers and meet their demands, Banca Intesa fosters tor. Banca Intesa awarded the winner with a cheque for dialogue and open communication in the developEUR 30,000. According to the competition rules, the funds ment of new products and services. Owing to this, may be used solely for the improvement of current busithe Bank manages to respond adequately to the ness operations or investment in new business projects. 23 The prize was awarded based on the decision of the exof Pančevo with RSD 107 million in 2012, by which pert jury that was guided by the profitability, productivity funds were collected for preparing the construction and liquidity of the enterprise during the previous business of a swimming pool, bulwarks, an industrial zone, as year, as well as additional criteria: export performance and well as the street reconstruction. As the arranger in a export potential, the number of employees and new emconsortium with another bank, Banca Intesa signed ployees in the previous year, the range of new products, an Underwriting Service Agreement with the City of technological innovation, environmental protection, as Pančevo. well as contribution to local community development. In addition, based on the agreements signed between German development bank KfW and Banca Intesa Banca Intesa also introduced long-term loans for in the period 2009-2012 in the total amount of EUR entrepreneurs aiming to help the development of 90 million, projects worth up to EUR 2.5 million were entrepreneurship and provide continuous support to financed in 2012, with the share of funding up to EUR small businesses focused on trade, production and 1.2 million per project. The funds were intended for other service activities. The entrepreneurs have the opfinancing infrastructure projects and the procurement portunity to borrow longer-term funds to be used for of equipment in the following areas: water manageunspecified purpose, with the repayment period and ment, sewerage system and wastewater managethe amount of monthly instalment aligned with their ment, solid waste management, environmental proability to repay the loan from regular operations. The tection and pollution control, transport infrastructure, customers may use the funds for investment, working public transport and communication systems, infraasset financing and current liquidity. structure facilities that encourage economic development (e.g. industrial zones) and other social and utility Wishing to stimulate self-employment, Banca Intesa services (energy efficiency and heating systems, edusought to contribute to the development of entreprecation, housing, health and other utilities). neurship by offering low-profit loans in 2012 as well, such as start-up loans for women entrepreneurs in Vojvodina, provided in cooperation with the GuarFINANCIAL INCLUSION AND EDUCATION antee Fund of Vojvodina. The purpose of the loan is to finance the purchase of equipment for entrepreneurs Banca Intesa believes that access to financial products and women founders of small enterprises that have and services for vulnerable social groups is the basic been operating for less than three years, as well as way for their integration into society. to finance the start-up programme for unemployed women. Wishing to provide high-quality and specialised financial support to citizens who plan to expand their family, When it comes to lending for farmers, in 2012 the but also to regular users of health services, Banca Intesa Bank added five new loan models to its offer: loans developed a range of innovative consumer loan models for purchasing agricultural land from the Eurocalled Intesa Vita. Whether or not they are customers pean Fund for Southeast Europe (EFSE) credit of Banca Intesa, all citizens have access, under equal and line, loans designed in cooperation with the the most favourable conditions in the Bank, to loans for Guarantee Fund of the Autonomous Province of in vitro fertilisation, financing the preservation and storVojvodina for purchasing agricultural machinage of stem cells, DNA analysis and payment for dental ery, loans for financing spring sowing designed services. In addition, the citizens can opt for consumer in cooperation with local governments, loans loans for purchasing baby supplies under the same with subsidised interest rate by the Ministry of conditions as those applying to consumer loans from Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as the Intesa Vita programme. The Intesa Vita programme well as the Gold Farmer Turnover loans for loyal is designed as an open platform that will gradually incustomers. In addition, in order to meet the comclude new products and partnerships with the aim of prehensive needs of its customers, since 2011 Banca strengthening the existing offer and providing a proacIntesa, in cooperation with Delta Generali, has been tive response to the growing needs of customers. With offering innovative loans to farmers for financing the the same aim, the Bank also expanded the possibilities insurance policy on crops, produce and livestock. offered by the Intesa Hit Account bundle by introducing the Delta Generali health insurance policy which covers The Bank also closely cooperates with the public sector not only the account holder but also members of his/ and local governments, ensuring a long-term balance her family (children, spouse and parents). in terms of growth and modernisation, while improving the quality of life in wider community. In addition In 2012, the Bank continued to promote the Senior to traditional credit transactions, in its operations with Cash loan with life insurance included and was the the public sector and local authorities Banca Intesa first financial institution in the domestic market to crewas one of the first banks in the country to offer fiate this type of loan, enabling retired citizens to bornancing municipal projects through investment row up to 74 years of age. in municipal bonds. Banca Intesa conducted the first such transaction by underwriting and investing The Bank also meets the needs of its customers with in the process of issuing municipal bonds of the City improved refinancing loans, which enable them to 24 settle obligations towards Banca Intesa, as well as toucts and services with the aim of improving the quality wards other banks. The loan also includes insurance of services and increasing customer satisfaction. ECSI against job loss or disability due to an accident. Furincludes a wide range of key factors that are involved thermore, Banca Intesa provided access to subsidised in the model itself: image, branch organisation, staff housing loans to young couples with low income buyrelationship, price and quality, after sales support, coming property for the first time in order to help them plaint handling and other. The customers involved in this survey were those who had signed consent for the solve their housing problem. collection of their personal data in accordance with the Law on Personal Data Protection and those listed as acIn addition, the Bank continued to issue the Visa Clastive customers of the Bank. The survey (an interview sic Paralympic and Visa Electron Paralympic cards, the according to the CATI method) provides basis for prefirst charity payment cards in the country, which Banca paring reports such as: a benchmarking survey – a comIntesa introduced in 2008 in cooperation with the Paraparative survey of satisfaction in the market including lympic Committee of Serbia. This was the first initiative major competitors, an internal survey – retail and small of this kind in the domestic market aimed at establishbusiness customers, an SME segment survey and a suring a strong, stable and independent mechanism for vey of online user satisfaction. Based on the obtained long-term assistance to athletes with disabilities and results and semi-annual reports, analyses are made and developing Paralympic sport in the country. At the same actions are proposed accordingly for the improvement time, special debit cards, Intesa Visa Electron Easy of customer satisfaction. After their implementation, the surveys are repeated to obtain a clear picture of Travel Card (ETC) and Maestro ISIC, with free curwhether the customers have recognised the action as rent account opening and maintenance, are intended positive and adequate as a solution to the situation or for students. problem. Aware of the importance of financial education, both By listening to its customers, the Bank is better able to for the overall development of the country and the get to know and understand their needs in order to rehigher quality of life of people, Banca Intesa strives to spond to them in the best possible way and thus create contribute to the development of financial literacy in even better conditions for establishing long-term partthe country both through own initiatives and involvener relations. The surveys were conducted on a quarment in cooperation programmes. The Bank organised terly basis until 2012 and semi-annually since 2012. The latest 2012 surveys show that customer loyalty is Intesa Academia Executive Workshop in 2012 for at the highest level since 2009. The ECSI as well as the its corporate customers, reputable business people and Loyalty indices are stable, with a high percentage of economists from Serbia. This event was a continuation customers who stated they would remain Banca Intesa of the Intesa Academia business conference named customers in the following 12 months. The surveys also “Eurovision”, which was dedicated to the future of the record a high percentage of customers who are willing euro, the importance of preserving a strong common to recommend the Bank to the persons close to them, currency, and the trends in the development of Euroas well as of those who will continue and expand their zone countries, with special reference to the opportunicooperation with the Bank. ties that the European integration brings to Serbia and the countries in the region. Intesa Academia Executive Workshop provided an overview of the ways in which demographic and geopolitical changes affect the develCOMPLAINT MECHANISM opment and expansion of industries and technologies and thus the global and local economies, which was Various communication channels are open to any of exceptional use to both the guests and the hosts in Banca Intesa customers who wish to submit their the further creation of their own business strategies. grievances, complaints and suggestions: Special guest speaker was Erik Peterson, Managing Director of A.T. Kearney’s Global Business Policy Council. • Phone: +381 11 310 88 88 Peterson spoke about the importance of strategic pre• E-mail: kontakt@bancaintesa.rs diction and planning, as well as the importance of risk • Fax: +381 11 310 88 55 management in order to understand the current eco• Personal contact, i.e. submitting a written complaint in person nomic reality and realise the great importance of de• Contact form on the official website of the Bank tailed analysis and prediction of each business move. Bank corporate accounts on Facebook and Twitter • Postal address of the Customer Satisfaction ManCUSTOMER SATISFACTION agement Unit, Omladinskih Brigada 90b, 11070 New Belgrade Open communication, respect for customer opinion and mutual trust are the key values that Banca Intesa Customers will receive an answer within the nurtures carefully. Wishing to demonstrate this comstatutory time limit and in accordance with the mitment in practice, the Bank launched a unique initiadecision of the National Bank of Serbia. Each tive named Listening 100% back in early 2008. customer may also personally contact unit emThe programme, developed in line with the European ployees. If the customer is not satisfied with the Customer Satisfaction Index (ECSI) methodology, inanswer, the National Bank of Serbia will act as a cludes permanent and continuous monitoring and second-instance body, and there is also a possibilmeasurement of customer satisfaction with Bank prodity of mediation. 25 Based on the results of the customer satisfaction surTransparent advertising of products and services vey and the proposals and complaints of its customers, Banca Intesa continuously improves its business operaIn accordance with the Law on the Protection of Fitions both in the branch network and in e-business. A nancial Services Consumers, Banca Intesa advertisenumber of initiatives were undertaken during 2012: ments clearly state all costs that are to be borne by the customer and which are included in the calculation of • 42 branches were adapted and renovated (in 2011 the effective interest rate. Banca Intesa is transparent and in the first half of 2012) in its pricing policy and always states the prices in a • 90% of the planned branches were equipped with clear and visible manner, while at the same time prothe Queue Management System (QMS) viding representative examples that include all infor• Self-service terminals were installed in some mation for each of its products in line with the Law on branches enabling customers to make cashless the Protection of Financial Services Consumers. payments and print monthly statements of accounts and cards for retail customers, as well as Data security daily statements for corporate customers. The protection of customer security, as well as their assets and confidential information is not only Banca One of the main factors on the basis of which Intesa’s primary duty, but also the basis of the relationbranches were selected as the first to be renovated, ship of trust that the Bank wants to strengthen with adapted or equipped with the QMS was the Branch its customers. The protection of persons, their assets Customer Satisfaction Index (BCSI) – an indicator and valuables, as well as a multitude of data and infor measuring the level of customer satisfaction ternal organisational processes fully meets the criteria with the work of a branch, which was included in of reliability, continuity and confidentiality. In addition the branch adaptation, renovation and relocation to its legal obligations, Banca Intesa complies with the planning system back in 2010. A detailed analysis criteria of absolute transparency in informing its cusof BCSI results produced a list of those branches tomers of their rights to privacy and the way it treats with which the customers were less satisfied. The their personal information. In 2012, Banca Intesa did inclusion of the BCSI in the branch adaptation and not find any founded complaint in connection with renovation planning system continued during 2011 the violation of customer privacy or any disclosure, and 2012. leakage or theft of customer information. In addition, the number of offices intended for work with affluent customers using specialised service model Intesa Magnifica was increased to 40 during 2012. Moreover, Banca Intesa upgraded the online banking solution in 2012 which enabled it to significantly improve retail e-banking services. The new online service introduced the following functionalities: multi-browser support (using the service through different web browsers), activation of SMS and e-mail notifications, activation and deactivation of the Intesa Mobi mobile banking service, as well as updating personal data and PFM – Personal Finance Manager. In addition, the Bank enabled the use of its Intesa Mobi service on Android and iPhone devices. In order to help its customers to find the nearest ATM, Intesa Sanpaolo developed a new tool, Intesa Sanpaolo ATM Locator. Using this service, Banca Intesa customers can find around 254 Bank ATMs in Serbia, but also any of the 9,000 Intesa Sanpaolo ATMs in 12 countries in total. This application is a novelty in the Serbian market once again confirming the position of Banca Intesa as an innovative bank that recognises customer needs. The application is available on the Bank’s website, the websites of all Group member banks, as well as mobile applications available on iTunes and Google Play. 26 EMPLOYEES Total number of employees by business locations Male Female Belgrade* 459 963 Other locations** 456 1,256 As the largest employer in the domestic banking sector, Total 915 2,219 Banca Intesa is aware that teamwork, professionalism and motivation of employees is key to achieving and maintaining success. *The number of employees in Belgrade includes all employees at Bank Headquarters located in Belgrade, as well as all branch network employees in Regional Centre Belgrade. Within its strong and recognisable identity, Banca Intesa carefully fosters a spirit of unity, promoting its val**Employees in other locations are Bank Headquarters emues and their importance so that all its employees can ployees located in Novi Sad, as well as all branch network identify with them. At the same time, the Bank strives employees in all towns in Serbia in which the Bank operates to create a stimulating work environment that ena(which include all branches in 4 Regional Centres: RC Novi bles optimal professional development and personal Sad, RC Kragujevac, RC Užice, RC Niš). advancement of all its employees. ***The Bank does not employ third parties. Banca Intesa promotes the strategic role of internal communication, wishing to encourage its employees Total number of employees by type of employment contract to participate actively and thereby contribute to the Male Female development of the Bank, as well as to their own adUnder fixed-term vancement. As a responsible employer, the Bank seeks employment contract 29 56 to listen carefully to their suggestions and recognise Under permanent 886 2,163 their needs, aiming to respond adequately to them employment contracts through the following primary aspects: Total 915 2,219 • EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Employment contract type by location • HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Under fixed-term Under permanent employment contracts employment contracts • EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Belgrade 12 1,410 Other 73 1,639 Total 85 3,049 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Employee gender Management structure gender structure Banca Intesa believes that respect for individuals and the dignity of each employee represents the foundation for developing a work environment based on mutual trust and loyalty, which is enriched by contribution from each employee. Therefore, the Bank operates in accordance with the employment and HR manageFemale 70.80% Female 43.48% ment procedures based on objectivity and consistent Male 29.20% Muškarci 56.52% conduct, preventing discrimination on any grounds. The fact that employees have equal opportunities Employee age structure for employment and advancement is also confirmed by the following data: Banca Intesa employs a total < 30 years of age 30 50 years of age > 50 years of age 9.76% 75.47% 14.77% of 3,134 persons on full-time basis* – women account for 70.8% of the total number and as many as 43.48% of senior management. *In terms of employment type, there are no part-time employees in the Bank. Management age structure Total number of employees by category and gender < 30 years of age 30 50 years of age > 50 years of age 84.78% 15.22% Managers Officers Employees M F M F M F 26 20 167 264 722 1,935 Total 46 431 2,657 27 Banca Intesa applies the principles of equality and obance with job requirements and individual career develjectivity and the merit criterion in the assessment, reopment plans. The Bank provides its employees with muneration, motivation and career development of its support and financial assistance in skill improvement employees. Given that employees are the main strategic through internal and external training, also supporting resource of Banca Intesa, the Bank undertook to protect study leaves by guaranteeing their return to work. For and encourage them to achieve their maximum potential, because this is also a key factor in ensuring a susthe employees at the end of their career, the Bank caretainable competitive advantage for the Bank. The Bank fully plans retirement and pays retirement pay taking strives to motivate them to achieve the set goals so that into account employees’ age and years of service. it would reward them appropriately, while its management and remuneration policies recognise and respect More than half of employees receive some form of individual and group contributions to the achievement internal formal training during the year, with almost of the Bank’s results. 48,000 hours devoted to employee training and development during 2012. The employee turnover rate was 6.38% in 2012. In this period, 200 employees left the Bank, while 134 persons were employed. Male Female Total number of training hours by gender 16,065 31,762.5 Employee turnover Average number of training Male Female hours per year by gender 17.56 14.31 New employees 60 74 Left the Bank 63 137 <30 8 26 Managers Officers Employees 30 50 35 51 >50 20 60 Total number of training hours 720 11,025 36,082.5 Total number of employees by employee who left the Bank 200 category* Average number of training hours 15.65 25.58 13.58 The rate of return to work after maternity leave is per employee high, reaching 99.65%. This means that of 287 persons who exercised their right to maternity leave dur* The division into employee categories is derived from the ing 2012, 286 persons returned to work, while as Bank’s HR system many as 276 employees remained in employment 12 months after the end of their maternity leaves. E-LEARNING Rate of return to work Rate of remaining in after the end of employment 12 months In order to respond successfully to the demands of the maternity leave after returning to work dynamic market, the Bank also developed a distance learning system (e-learning), which makes it consider99.65% 96.17% ably easier for employees to acquire required knowledge and skills. In addition, mentoring and on-the-job training are being developed to support the development of employees in their environment when it suits them best. The e-learning system was introduced as HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT an additional learning channel, and it is accessible to every employee. The system enables the employees to Investment in the development and improvement of learn at the time of their convenience, with more conemployee potential is an important part of Banca Incise and interactive contents. It is suitable for all kinds tesa’s business policy. The Bank created a dynamic work of professional and technical training, information environment that provides opportunities for practical contents, as well as all other forms of training intended and theoretical training, professional development and for a large number of employees. It also contains a advancement. The development and career of each collaboration module, which means that the session employee are planned in line with the Bank’s strategic takes place in real time with a possibility of direct comgoals, and internal mobility enables the Bank to meet munication between the participants. The system was new professional challenges, whether within the Bank introduced in order to make not only financial and itself or within its parent Group. time savings, but also large investments in the Bank’s internal capacities through effective, fast and relevant Banca Intesa guarantees all its employees equal opcontents when this knowledge is most needed. Eportunities for professional development and improvelearning will not replace the current training; instead, ment. Training programmes are designed to follow the it will be an integral part of all the activities that enable changes in the business environment, and every emthe provision of top quality service to customers in the ployee is given an opportunity to be trained in accordmost professional and expert manner. 28 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION OSACADEMY Banca Intesa believes that listening and dialogue are the foundations of the relationship on which trust is In March 2012, Banca Intesa hosted OSAcademy built. It bases its communication with employees on the (Organization and Security Academy), a training criteria of fairness, completeness, simplicity and transprogramme initiated and designed by the parent parency. One of the Bank’s priorities is a regular analysis Group with the aim of improving the organisational of employee attitudes and satisfaction based on which function, knowledge and experience exchange and annual action plans are created in accordance with learning more about the work methodologies and their needs. Active involvement of as many employees practice of Intesa Sanpaolo – from business process as possible in research of this and similar types is of management to the methodologies for analysing the extreme importance in identifying and then addressing number of employees and to innovations and trends more easily all operating problems. in the impact of new technologies on work organisation. The Human Resources Department and the Based on the obtained results, the Human Resources Organisation and Project Management Department Department, in cooperation with other responsible detook part in the organisation of the three-day trainpartments, is launching an initiative to design an action ing in Belgrade attended by 15 participants, including plan that will be implemented and presented during employees from Privredna Banka Zagreb and Intesa the following year in accordance with the results of the Sanpaolo Bank Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2012 survey and employee expectations. The plan aims at putting a special emphasis on those aspects of work that are perceived as the most critical by the employObjective performance assessment ees and taking measures for their improvement. In line with this plan, induction training for new employees In 2012, Banca Intesa started the implementation, was improved in order to enable them to get detailed i.e. adaptation of a new performance assessment information about the Bank and the Group. project, the GPS (Global Performance System) of the parent Group that calls for implementing a common employee performance assessment and EMPLOYEE BENEFITS remuneration system in all member banks. This very important project was initiated for three reasons: In addition to the right to maternity leave, retirement pay, disability benefit, vacation allowance, • Bringing the employee assessment and remumeal allowance and travel allowance, Banca Intesa neration system into compliance with the curemployees enjoy preferential loan conditions, prirent regulations of the European Union vate health insurance under more favourable con• Harmonising the process and methodology of ditions, as well as special benefits and discounts the employee assessment and remuneration when shopping at various stores and travel agencies system with which the Bank has business cooperation. The • Spreading the performance assessment culture Bank supports the freedom of association and colby adopting common assessment principles. lective bargaining, as evidenced by the fact that all employees are covered by the Collective Bargaining The parent Group, with the help of its external partAgreement. ner Mercer, conducted a detailed analysis of the processes and local needs in all Group member banks. Based on all collected data, a global performance assessment and remuneration system was created, Internal communication and employee involvewhich is divided into three basic subsystems: ment in CSR activities • Assessment system for managers (MBO) With the aim of providing employees with timely and • Assessment system for employees at the Headquality information about all important Bank activities, quarters the previous version of the Intesa Inside internal portal • Assessment system for employees at the Bank’s was improved and redesigned in 2012. The creation of business network. new content, i.e. the restructuring of the previous content was preceded by an internal survey through organised focus groups. The employees who participated in Simplicity and objectivity of performance assessment, the internal survey helped create a complete picture as high transparency of the system, as well as its conto what should be changed and in what way, all with the nection with the remuneration system, are singled aim of creating an integrated, modern and, above all, out as the greatest advantages of the new system. useful source of information. During 2012, 94.64% of Bank employees underwent The portal contains pages in which all departments are the performance assessment. presented, as well as pages of all independent organi29 sational units and regional centres in which employees also raised to a higher level in the Bank. are presented with photos as well. The statistics so far about the number of visits to the Intesa Inside portal In 2012, Banca Intesa employees continued the tradihave shown exceptional popularity of the Address Book, tional volunteering activity of preparing New Year’s gifts which, in addition to basic and information data, such for children with special needs named Wrap a Gift and as name and surname, job title, e-mail address, phone Make a Child Smile. For the fourth consecutive year, numbers and office building address, contains a photo the employees wrapped books, toys, sweets and clothes that completes the employee profile. The always useand made around 2,000 gifts that they took to children ful and constantly well visited legacy segments of the in eight schools for children with special needs across portal, the Document Library (BIBlioteka) and the INFO Serbia and one kindergarten and spent an afternoon Network, were not changed in terms of content, but with them. were visually harmonised with other pages. The central segment of the homepage contains current internal and Banca Intesa volunteers also participated in the Resexternal news, as well as a review of media statements. taurant Week campaign, helping the Food Bank nonIn addition, informal segments were designed, such as governmental organisation transport and distribute resweather forecast, weekly survey, picture and thought of taurant-donated meals to the Correctional Institution for the day, as well as internal ads. Special e-mail addresses Children and Youth and the Home for Adults with Diswere opened, which are available on the portal’s contact ability in Belgrade. During this week, 160 recipients got page, with the aim of involving as many employees as meals every day. The campaign was aimed at promoting possible in creating these fun segments. the culture of solidarity, donorship and volunteering, but also at raising public awareness of the problem of povThe Bank employees also have at their disposal the erty in Serbia. Help Desk to which they may send their questions and requests by e-mail or phone and which strives to give In 2012 as well, Banca Intesa joined the traditional volunan adequate answer and solutions in the most efficient teering campaign Our Belgrade, held on 12 locations manner for the problems that the employees face. across the city. Bank employees spent a day painting and decorating the exterior of the Retirement Home in Bežanijska Kosa. The campaign enables employees in the private sector to contribute directly to the improveINTERNAL CAMPAIGNS ment of the quality of life of their fellow citizens from vulnerable social groups as well as environmental protecBanca Intesa employees are invited to participate in tion. The campaign is organised by the Business Leaders the Get Involved! internal campaign to share with Forum in cooperation with Smart Kolektiv and the Institheir colleagues important information, as well as tute for Sustainable Communities and with support of news on a new product or project, and send their the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) proposals for the picture or thought of the day usand the City of Belgrade. Since 2011, Our Belgrade has ing several e-mail addresses opened on the internal been part of international campaign Give & Gain Day portal. implemented in 14 countries around the world with around 30,000 people volunteering. With the aim of sharing the most interesting anecdotes from branches, offices, office buildings In 2012, for the second consecutive year, Banca Intesa and regions with 30,000 employees at the level of volunteers participated in one of the largest volunteerthe Intesa Sanpaolo (ISBD) International Subsidiing campaigns in the country, Let’s Clean up Serbia, ary Bank Division, an international communication which was organised by the Ministry of Environment project named We Are Our Stories was launched. and Spatial Planning to mark June 5th, World EnvironThe idea of the campaign was to evoke authentic ment Day. As part of the campaign, Bank employees episodes that actually happened. To implement this removed waste and cleaned green areas in Niš, Užice, idea, the Group created a website www.weareinteČačak, Šabac, Valjevo, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Pančevo and sasanpaologroup.com. Awards were presented to Belgrade. The campaign involved 301,345 volunteers the authors of the best stories at the level of each on 4,318 locations in all towns and municipalities in the member country, as well as at the Group level. country. Life quality Employee volunteering Employee sports events Banca Intesa initiates and encourages employee volunteering through helping children with special needs, With the aim of strengthening the sense of belongwhile it also participates traditionally in the activities that ing among its employees, Banca Intesa participated promote environmental protection. Significant improvein all sports events organised by the parent Group in ments in this field are planned for 2013, in which volun2012 as well. As in the previous years, Banca Intesa teering will be promoted and brought closer to employemployees had an opportunity to apply for and take ees through a corporate volunteering programme, and part in many events held in the countries in which 30 the Group operates, such as international banking ski ing the quality of life of society by responding to the competition, tennis tournament, sports games that needs of the community and supporting the initiatives include football, volleyball and basketball, as well as and projects of the broadest national importance. competition in track-and-field disciplines such as the Thus, the focus of the Bank’s CSR activities is on the half marathon and marathon. protection of historical, artistic and cultural heritage, corporate philanthropy, investment in health care, as well as on support to the youth and education. Banca Care for children of employees Intesa takes into account the wider significance of Since 2003, through cooperation with ASF Interthe social needs that it meets and focuses its strategic cultura, an international non-profit voluntary organiguidelines on: sation, Banca Intesa has been providing a unique opportunity to its employees to educate their children • COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT abroad. Intercultura scholarships are intended for • SUPPORT TO CHILDREN AND YOUTH children aged 15 to 18 years who are curious, easily adaptable to changes and openly accept cultural and other differences. In 2012 as well, the selected scholCOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT arship recipients lived with their host families during their one-year stay in Italy, attended school classes in Culture and arts Italian, had their own instructor and all necessary support. The Place I Love For the sixth consecutive year, Banca Intesa invited In line with its corporate values and strategic priorities, the children of its employees to apply for participation Banca Intesa launched a unique initiative in the counin Milan Junior Camp and experience the thrill of try, The Place I Love, in order to remind the public of team success and competitive spirit. As in the previous the country’s rich cultural and historical heritage, as years, more than 70 children got an opportunity to well as the need for preserving it. The aim of the project launched in 2011 is to prepare a database of the learn the secrets of football from famous coaches of sites of special sentimental value to the citizens of Serbia A.C. Milan football club through technical and athletic and to reconstruct three sites or spatial units that win training as well as tactical classes. the accompanying competition, but also to raise awareness of the value of cultural and historical treasures, as Children’s Sports Games at the ISBD level were held well as to motivate citizens to become actively involved in Portorož in 2012, after being successfully organised in the initiative. Of the total of 1,290 sites proposed by in Belgrade for two consecutive years. More than 60 the citizens in the first phase of the project, an expert children of Banca Intesa employees competed in footcommittee short-listed ten finalists, among which the ball, basketball and volleyball and spent time with the citizens selected three winners by voting: the Belgrade children of employees of member banks from other Gate of the Petrovaradin Fortress in Novi Sad, the Novi countries. Pazar town ramparts and the remains of the National Library in Kosančićev Venac destroyed during the bombWith the aim of enabling the children of its employing of Belgrade in 1941. ees to meet with peers from other countries, but also helping children develop independence and responsiThe Bank allocated RSD 30 million for the reconstruction bility, in summer months of 2012, as in the previous of all three sites, of which RSD 20 million was invested in eight years, Banca Intesa organised a stay of a large 2012 when the works on the reconstruction of the Novi Pazar town ramparts were completed and a Cooperanumber of children at a well-known children’s resort in tion Protocol signed to define the implementation of the Follonica, Italy. Almost 500 children from Serbia have project for the reconstruction of the Belgrade Gate. been to Italy so far, including 74 children who spent two weeks in this resort in 2012. The Place I Love project was launched with the support of the Ministry of Culture, the Europa Nostra Serbia nonprofit organisation and the Cultural Heritage Preservation Institute of Serbia. The expert committee comprised COMMUNITY Vera Pavlović Lončarski, Director of the Cultural Heritage Preservation Institute of Serbia and committee chair, Irina Subotić, President of Europa Nostra Serbia, Gorčin Stojanović, theatre, film and television director, Vladimir The projects implemented by Banca Intesa in 2012, independently Arsenijević, author, translator and editor, and Maja Kolar, or in cooperation with local partners, are the result of the Bank’s Director of the Marketing and Communications Department of Banca Intesa. commitment to contribute actively to the social and cultural development of the community. The project was inspired by initiative I luoghi del cuore, which is implemented in Italy, the country with one of As the leading bank in the domestic market, Banca the greatest cultural and historical heritages in the world, Intesa has the responsibility to contribute to improvby non-profit organisation Fondo Ambiente Italiano (FAI) 31 with the support of Intesa Sanpaolo Group. In this way, as part of its CSR activities, Banca Intesa seeks to transfer ASSISTANCE IN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS its rich international experience to the domestic market and contribute to sustainable development of the counA programme of assistance to citizens affected by try through the project of interest to the entire commulow temperatures and snowfall was implemented nity. in 2012 in cooperation with the Balkan Community Initiatives Fund (BCIF). Banca Intesa participated in the programme, within which assistance THE PLACE I LOVE AWARDS was provided for the purchase of basic food provisions (flour, rice, oil, sugar, canned food) for the Virtus, awarded by the Balkan Community Initiaresidents of the Babušnica, Vladičin Han and Svrljig tives Fund (BCIF), the U.S. Agency for International municipalities, as well as the Svrljig municipality vilDevelopment (USAID), the Institute for Sustainable lages of Izvor, Burdimo, Tijovac and Bučim. Communities (ISC) and the Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction Unit of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (SIPRU), for supporting the most Investment in health care innovative project The Bank donated funds for improving the work of Award of the Serbian Public Relations Society health care institutions in 2012 as well. A project that for communication of corporate social responsistands out is a RSD 6.58 million donation with which bility Banca Intesa enabled the procurement of a modern ultrasound machine as part of an initiative to modMy Choice recognition in the Cultural Heritage ernise and extend a section of the European HyPreservation category, awarded by the Moja Srbija pertension Centre at the Clinical Centre of Ser(My Serbia) Civic Association in cooperation with bia. The Hypertension Centre pays special attention the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce to the prevention, timely and correct diagnosis of this widespread disease of the modern world, as well Award for online campaign by the Serbian Market Communications Association (UEPS) as the education of physicians and population. This is the only centre of its kind in the country, bringCertificate of Appreciation of the Society of Coning together the work of several medical specialists. servators of Serbia for raising awareness of the The centre extension and equipment modernisation, importance and preservation of cultural heritage which includes a new ultrasound machine, as well as new blood pressure meters, enabled a more effecwww.mestokojevolim.rs tive work with patients and helped raise the centre’s operation to a higher level. During 2012, the Bank continued to support sports and cultural events, as well as to invest in arts and education, donating more than EUR 300,000 to numerous support SUPPORT TO CHILDREN AND YOUTH projects including Belgrade Baby Club, as well as the participation of the students of the Belgrade Faculty of Law Prove Yourself 100% in the prestigious Arbitration and International Commercial Law competition XX Willem C. Vis Moot in Vienna, Knowing that the future and prosperity belong to the where they won the first prize. The Bank also supported generations to come, while trying to contribute to the the 9th Festival of World Cultures Etnofest in Palić and sustainable development of the entire community, Banthe 19th European Film Festival in Palić. In addition, it ca Intesa actively invests in young, talented people and contributed to the setup of the exhibition Incomplete helps them improve skills and realise potential. The Prove Modernisations: Between Utopia and Pragmatism – ArYourself 100% project fully fits into this commitment. chitecture and Urban Planning in the ex-Yugoslav countries, held at the Museum of Yugoslav History. Through the Prove Yourself 100% student competition Banca Intesa awards for the second consecutive year the Wishing to help one of the oldest education institutions most talented students of Serbia for projects in customer in the country, the University of Belgrade, in late 2011 satisfaction management. The aim of the competition is the Bank gave RSD 4 million towards the reconstruction to encourage the creativity of future academic citizens of the Captain Miša building, the seat of this institution, and an innovative approach to problem solving by putfor which it was presented with a Certificate of Appreciation in 2012 for exceptional contribution and ting them in real business situations in order to provide financial assistance in the preservation of cultural them with the opportunity to develop competitive spirit, monuments. It also supported the country’s historical but also to share experience with their peers in Europe. heritage through supporting the reconstruction of the Dragović monastery, as well as the Dragoljub Marinković The competition, which was announced in March 2012, endowment building. attracted 240 applications, nearly twice as many as in the 32 previous year. Eligible to apply were undergraduates with School of Friendship completed course of studies and students of the third and fourth years of any university in Serbia with a G.P.A. In line with its commitment to help improve the educaabove 8.00 and good knowledge of English. Twelve fition of children and encourage their creativity, Banca nalists were selected, students of the universities in BelIntesa supported the 12th School of Friendship in 2012 grade, Novi Sad and Niš, who, divided into six teams, organised by the Naša Srbija (Our Serbia) NGO and athad four weeks to prepare projects on given topics. The tended by a total of 500 children from Serbia and the solutions were assessed and the best ones selected by neighbouring countries. During three weeks of summer an expert committee comprising the representatives of vacation at Mount Tara, the children had an opportunithe Bank, the International Subsidiary Banks Division and ty to socialise and acquire new skills and knowledge by the faculties from which the students came. Because of attending numerous educational and sports workshops the outstanding quality of the works, Banca Intesa made and schools – ethnological workshop, schools of envia discretionary decision to give the first prize to three, ronmental protection, painting and sculpting, scouting rather than two teams, as was initially provided for by school, schools of drama and music, journalism, comthe competition rules. The winner announcement cerputers, football, basketball and volleyball. emony was held at the Belgrade University Rectorate in June 2012. UNICEF Friends Club Six contestants from the three best ranked teams were each awarded with a EUR 1,000 scholarship. All three In 2012, Banca Intesa became a member of the UNICEF teams subsequently participated in the international Friends Club, a programme of permanent monthly competition in Milan, competing against the winners of donors whose aim is to ensure a happier childhood to the local competitions conducted in seven countries in the children of Serbia and improve the conditions for which Intesa Sanpaolo operates through its International their growth and development. Supporting the UNICEF Subsidiary Banks Division. A Serbian team also won at Friends Club, Banca Intesa also invited its customers to the international level, and the winners got the opporcontribute to the work of the Fund by opening a standtunity to receive advanced training at the Division or to ing order which they can use to make monthly payattend summer school at Universita Cattolica. ments or a one-time donation supporting the UNICEF programme in Serbia without any commission. The Bank actively informs its customers of the ways in which they can give cash donations to the Fund, as well as of the As a member of the Working Group on CSR benefits it offers to them in the implementation of these in banking and finance of the United Nations philanthropic activities. The aim of the UNICEF Friends Global Compact Serbia, Banca Intesa actively Club is to raise awareness that children are the concern participated in an educational project targeting of every individual, every company and the entire comstudents of post-secondary schools of economics munity. The Club also strives to highlight the need for as part of which Bank experts gave two lectures. care of the youngest and enable as many people as posFurthermore, in cooperation with the Art History sible to support the activities of this organisation with Department of the Faculty of Philosophy, Univerregular monthly donations, regardless of their amount, sity of Belgrade, Banca Intesa launched a comand thus help create better conditions for life and develpetition as part of the Project Management opment of children in the country. for the Use of Heritage course for the students of the third and fourth years. Banca Intesa repreONLINE DONATIONS sentatives were members of the committee evaluating student projects that mastered the knowlThanks to the development of modern e-comedge and skills of project management using The merce services of Banca Intesa, all people of good Place I Love initiative as an example, with the task will, whether they are citizens of Serbia or another of designing mini-projects that would contribute country in the world, can quickly, easily and efnot only to the physical restoration but also to ficiently donate funds to those in greatest need. the revival and use of the three winning sites of The Bank established cooperation with several the Place I Love project. Their projects were fomajor non-profit associations and foundations in cused on interpreting the cultural and historical the country such as UNICEF, Naša Srbija, the Diheritage, educating, raising awareness, as well as vac Foundation, the Balkan Community Initiatives encouraging people to take care of the heritage. Fund (BCIF) as well as the University Children’s As committee members, Bank representatives Hospital in Tiršova Street, Belgrade. Donations are provided the students with valuable insight into accepted through their respective websites. The the criteria, expectations and needs of the busionline acceptance and processing of donations is ness sector related to CSR projects. The Bank also a pioneering endeavour in the domestic banking financially supported the implementation of the sector, which confirms in yet another way Banca three most successful student projects. Intesa’s determination to integrate CSR into all segments of its business. 33 Gifts for children’s smiles for the procurement of goods and services, the Bank insists on transparency, believing that only a clear and As part of the traditional volunteering campaign Wrap open approach contributes to maintaining lasting relationa Gift and Make a Child Smile, Banca Intesa employships with our partners. Therefore, the selection of suppliees prepared New Year’s gifts for children with speers is based on clear and proven criteria and implemented cial needs for the fourth consecutive year in order to through objective and transparent procedures. present them with books, toys, clothes and sweets. A record number of gifts was collected in 2012, nearly 2,000 of them, which Bank employees took Bid evaluation criteria to the children in eight primary schools for children with special needs and one special kindergarten, and The Procurement Unit and the organisational part spent an afternoon with them. The gifts were given responsible for procurements are obliged to evaluate to the children at Novi Beograd, Anton Skala and Mireceived bids applying the methods of qualitative and loje Pavlović special primary schools, as well as Venčić quantitative analysis and to agree on the bid evaluaspecial kindergarten in Belgrade and to the children at tion criteria prior to inviting offers by combining the Veselin Nikolić special school, Kruševac, 12 September following criteria: primary school, Negotin, Special Institute for Children and Youth Dr. Nikola Šumenković, Petrovac Na Mlavi, • Offered price St. Sava primary school, Šabac, as well as Anton Skala • Quality, i.e. the compliance of the characteristics of school for primary and secondary education, Stara Patendered goods/services with the required characzova. teristics • Term of delivery • Payment terms and method • Warranty period SUPPLIERS • Servicing/maintenance during and after the warranty period • Compliance of bidder’s business activities with the principles of corporate social responsibility It its relations with suppliers, Banca Intesa • Existence and level of cooperation with the Bank and/or Intesa Sanpaolo group members seeks to set an example in business practices and help them • Other conditions embark on further endeavours and build their own values. Banca Intesa employees who are in direct contact with suppliers are familiar with the Bank’s Code of Ethics, which Banca Intesa believes that by establishing and maindefines in detail the way of doing business that is desirable taining long-term partner relations with its suppliers, in order to avoid any potential conflict of interest. When based on the principles of dialogue, transparency and selecting a supplier, the employees are expected, above all, to respect the principles of equality and transparency equality, it creates value for its own business, as well adopted by the Bank and only then to consider any other as for the companies in its supply chain. By empoweradvantages of the tendered services, as well as their price. ing these companies, Banca Intesa contributes to emIn this regard, the employees working in the Real Estate ployment and fosters the development and growth of and Procurement Management Department are obliged the local economy and local communities. to: Following the advanced practices of its parent Group, • Report any potential conflict of interest the Bank has carefully identified strategic areas of ac• Implement the provision that provides that the activities of procurement of goods and services between tion: the Bank and its employees, as well as their family members are prohibited • TRANSPARENCY AND EQUALITY IN SUPPLIER • Avoid any kind of contact that goes beyond business SELECTION customs, unless they are authorised to do so by their • PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY superiors. CHAIN PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY TRANSPARENCY AND EQUALITY IN CHAIN SUPPLIER SELECTION In keeping with its belief that the commitment to corTo Banca Intesa, the Code of Ethics represents the basis on which it builds relations with suppliers. In the procureporate social responsibility is reflected in all every-day ment and supplier selection process conducted in accordactivities of the company, in 2012 Banca Intesa adopted ance with the Policy on procurement and Procedure a new Procedure for the procurement of goods and 34 services that includes corporate social responsibility Banca Intesa is aware that in addition to economic reas one of the criteria in supplier selection. The procesponsibility, it has the responsibility for the consequencdure takes into account the level of engagement of es that its decisions have on the environment. Striving potential suppliers in corporate social responsibility to apply environmentally responsible practices, identify and introduces a questionnaire containing questions innovative and efficient solutions in this field and prorelated to corporate social responsibility. This is also a mote the integration of environmental protection in all way of promoting the culture of responsibility towards aspects of its business, the Bank adopted the Policy on the natural and social environment and raising it to a environmental protection and energy efficiency in accordance with the relevant act of its parent Group. higher level within the entire supplier chain. The policy is based on the principles of waste reduction, improvement of energy efficiency and performance, as QUESTIONNAIRE ON CORPORATE SOCIAL well as paying attention to the consequences that Bank RESPONSIBILITY decisions have on the environment and society. The goal of the policy is the prevention, management and, The Questionnaire on Corporate Social Responsiwhere possible, reduction of environmental impact bility was introduced as a part of the invitation letcaused by direct or indirect activities of the Bank. ter to potential suppliers. It includes detailed information concerning five primary fields of corporate The Policy on environmental protection and energy social responsibility: efficiency is available to the employees on the Bank’s internal portal. • Corporate governance • Market The commitment of the Bank to corporate responsibil• Work environment ity in this area is also achieved through: • Environmental protection • Local community • RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT • RESPONSIBLE FINANCING In addition to other general terms and conditions of cooperation, contracts with suppliers contain articles concerning the application of technical measures, fire RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT protection measures, as well as occupational health and safety measures, in accordance with the current In order to reduce energy consumption in its every-day legal regulations. The above applies in the case of peractivities, the Bank introduced a procedure for autoforming specific tasks, for example, replacing parts or matic shutdown of computers at the end of the worktaking over the replaced parts that cannot be used ing day and during holidays. Thanks to this initiative, anymore and ensuring that they are disposed of in a a total of 487,000 kWh of electricity or 1,753.2 GJ of manner complying with the regulations governing enenergy was saved during 2012. vironmental protection and waste management. Total energy During 2012, total procurement costs under procure13,136,308.00 kWh consumption in 2012* ment decisions amounted to approximately EUR 80 million. The Bank cooperates with domestic suppliers Total water c that operate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 87,074.00 m3 onsumption in 2012** as well as with foreign companies, making regular payments in accordance with the Law on deadlines for settling financial obligations in commercial trans*Total energy consumption refers to indirect energy. actions and contracts with suppliers. **The data on total energy and water consumption refer to all administrative buildings and the entire business network in Serbia and were estimated based on the costs specified in utility (electricity/water) bills. ENVIRONMENT When it comes to managing recyclables, paper consumption is reduced through the implementation of the Printing Consolidation Project that promotes Banca Intesa’s approach to environmental protection is based on the both-side and black-and-white printing at the Bank. principle of reducing the Bank’s direct and indirect impact while As part of the project, in 2012 the Bank purchased 43 new printers that were installed in the headquarconstantly looking for new ways to contribute to the environment. ters, and a 20% lower paper consumption at the annual level or savings of over 30 tonnes of paper is expected to be achieved as the result. A total of As a socially responsible company and an active partici60,048 kg of paper waste was collected for recypant in the life of the community in which it operates, cling during 2012, compared to 37,770 kg in 2011, 35 and more than 33,000 kg of electronic and electrious measures taken to reduce its environmental cal waste was delivered to the waste management impact, as well as to its financial support for inentity, compared to 18,950 kg in the previous year. vestments in the renewable energy and environFurthermore, the Bank introduced the environmental mental sector. This result represents a jump from protection principle in event organisation, while in20th place in 2011. ternal magazine Es:press:o, published in more than 3,000 copies, was printed entirely on recycled paper. In addition, Intesa Sanpaolo was commended by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for its comIn addition, the fleet was renewed with vehicles that mitment to reducing climate-changing emisonly use Euro Premium BMB95 or Euro Diesel fuels, sions and mitigating the resulting risks. CDP in accordance with the European quality standards. represents 655 institutional investors with USD 78,000 billion in assets under management. Environmental protection culture Thanks to its results, Intesa Sanpaolo was included in the Performance Index CDP Carbon The Bank also tries to raise employee awareness Leadership (CPLI). The CPLI selects, within the about the importance of environmental protection FTSE Global Equity Index Series (Global 500), the and to involve them in CSR activities, both at the companies that have shown an efficient strategic every-day business level and at the level of national approach on the matter of emission reduction in volunteering campaigns. In addition to traditionally their answers to the CDP questionnaire. participating in the Our Belgrade and Let’s Clean up Serbia environmental volunteering campaigns, Banca Intesa marked Earth Day, April 22, by inviting its employees to be responsible and to switch off lights in RESPONSIBLE FINANCING their homes for one hour. Environmental responsibility focuses on managing direct impacts of the Bank’s business operations, but it INTESA SANPAOLO – LEADER IN also concerns potential impacts resulting from its acENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION tivities in relations with suppliers, to which the Bank sets a number of CSR criteria through its procedure Equator Intesa Sanpaolo adopted the for the procurement of goods and services, as well as principles guidelines for the assessment of with customers, to which it offered special financial social and environmental risks products for investment in renewable energy and enin project financing based on ergy efficiency improvement. the criteria of the World Bank (International Finance Corporation IFC), which it promotes as Retail good practice in all of its member banks. During 2012, Banca Intesa further strengthened its offer by introducing favourable subsidised loans CDP By supporting this project, Infor improving energy efficiency from the Pro(Carbon tesa Sanpaolo undertook to gramme of the Ministry of Environmental ProDisclosure tection, Mining and Spatial Planning for individureport its CO2 emissions, risk Project) als. After the funds provided by the programme were identification, as well as its corexhausted, Banca Intesa developed its own model of porate strategy in connection loans to help clients improve their life quality while at with climate change. the same time reducing costs. United Nations Intesa Sanpaolo also supports Due to the great interest in this type of loan, the Bank Environment the United Nations Environment and the Green for Growth Fund (GGF) signed a Programme Programme that promotes alignEUR 7 million credit line agreement for support(UNEP) Finance ment between environmental ing the improvement of energy efficiency for reInitiative protection, sustainability and fitail customers. The GGF credit line is predominantly nancial performance. intended for improving energy efficiency in buildings and other places where savings may be made by improving heat insulation in walls, by installing energyAccording to Bloomberg’s list of the “World’s efficient windows, boilers and more advanced district Greenest Banks,” Intesa Sanpaolo was the heating system, as well as by other innovative enerworld’s third-ranking “green” bank and the first gy saving solutions. During 2012, 1,868 loans were among Italian banks in 2012 thanks to the varigranted, and the funds provided by the GGF credit 36 line are estimated to ensure 20% savings in primary energy, which will consequently lead to a reduction in electricity consumption by 20 million kWh and to a 6,500-tonne lower emission of carbon dioxide at the annual level. Corporate When it comes to corporate lending, in 2012 Banca Intesa granted loans for efficient energy consumption and renewable energy sources from a EUR 14 million credit line granted by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), which provides incentives for sustainable energy projects for the Western Balkans. The funds are intended for energy efficiency projects in industry, renewable energy projects, as well as projects for energy efficiency of buildings. The customers are expected to achieve total savings of around EUR 10 million at the annual level based on the implemented projects financed by these loans. EBRD PLAQUE In 2012, the EBRD awarded Banca Intesa with a plaque for supporting energy efficiency improvement projects in Serbia, for whose implementation the Bank, as the most active participant of the programme, granted more than EUR 3.2 million from the EBRD credit line. In addition, the EBRD also awarded six companies for their achievements in the field of sustainable energy in 2012, four of which were Banca Intesa’s customers. In the SME segment, the Bank concluded an agreement with German development bank KfW in 2012 on a credit line intended for property purchase, reconstruction and extension with the aim of improving energy efficiency and using renewable energy sources. In addition, Banca Intesa offered, for the first time, energy efficiency loans to customers in the small business segment. The lending expanded the purpose of the GGF credit line for supporting energy efficiency among retail customers. In this way, entrepreneurs were enabled to achieve significant savings in primary energy, while giving active contribution to environmental protection. Investment in energy efficiency involves investing in equipment for the reduction of energy consumption, a greater degree of comfort and the standard of living through lower energy consumption, investment in renewable energy sources, insulation, and control devices for energy consuming products, as well as the replacement of inefficient energy consuming products with efficient ones. The loan was developed in line with the new Law on planning and construction, so that the clients using funds for this purpose will more easily get the “energy passports”, without which no structure will be able to obtain a use permit or be registered. 37 3. GRI CONTENTS AND INDICATORS 38 GRI INDEX PAGE 39, 40 GRI INDICATORS PAGE 40, 41 UNGC AND GRI CROSS REFERENCE TABLE PAGE 42 GRI INDEX GENERAL DATA PAGE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1. UFOREWORD BY PRESIDENT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 3 1.2. STRATEGIC APPROACH, KEY SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNI 3; 7; 5-18. TIES; TABLE OF GOALS 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1. NAME OF THE COMPANY 6. 2.2. PRIMARY BRANDS, PRODUCTS, SERVICES 6. 2.3. OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE 6. 2.4. LOCATION OF ORGANIZATION’S HEADQUARTERS 6. 2.5. NUMBER OF COUNTRIES WHERE THE ORGANIZATION OPERATES 6. 2.6. NATURE OF OWNERSHIP AND LEGAL FORM 9. 2.7. MARKETS SERVED 6. 2.8. SCALE OF THE ORGANIZATION 6; 20-22. 2.9. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD REGARDING SIZE, STRUCTURE, OR OWNERSHIP 2.10. AWARDS RECEIVED IN THE REPORTING PERIOD 8; 32; 36,37. 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1. REPORTING PERIOD 4. 3.2. DATE OF MOST RECENT PREVIOUS REPORT 4. 3.3. REPORTING CYCLE 4. 3.4. CONTACT PERSON FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE REPORT 4. 3.5. PROCESS FOR DEFINING REPORT CONTENT 4; 14; 23. 3.6. BOUNDARY OF THE REPORT 4; 6. 3.7. LIMITATIONS ON THE SCOPE OR BOUNDARY OF THE REPORT 3.8. DATA MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES AND THE BASES OF CALCULATIONS 4. 3.9. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIODS IN THE SCOPE, na BOUNDARY, OR MEASUREMENT METHODS APPLIED IN THE REPORT 3.10.REPORT VERIFICATION 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE 4.1. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE, TERM OF OFFICE AND COMPOSITION OF THE 9. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY AND ITS COMMITTEES 4.2. PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN THE GOVERNANCE BODIES 9. 4.3. GOVERNANCE AND EXECUTIVE FUNCTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF 9. THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY 39 4.4. MECHANISMS FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES TO COMMUNICATE 9. WITH THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODIES 4.5. LINKAGE BETWEEN COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE BOARD, 9; 10. SENIOR MANAGERS AND THE COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE 4.6. PROCEDURES IN PLACE TO ENSURE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ARE AVOIDED 10. 4.7. PROCEDURES FOR APPOINTING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD 9. 4.8. INTERNAL POLICIES AND STRATEGIES 6; 15-18. 4.9. PROCEDURES OF THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY FOR OVERSEEING 10. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 4.10.PROCESSES FOR EVALUATING THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S OWN PERFORMANCE 10. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11.SUSTAINABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT IN THE SCOPE OF PRECAUTIONARY 10-12. APPROACH OF THE UNITED NATIONS 4.12.COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 8. 4.13.MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS 8. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14.LIST OF STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED 14. 4.15.BASIS FOR IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION OF STAKEHOLDERS 14. 4.16.APPROACHES TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 13. 4.17.KEY TOPICS FOR STAKEHOLDERS 13; 14; 23. GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND GRI INDICATORS PAGE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE – MANAGEMENT APPROACH 7; 20, 21. √ EC 1 C Total income and expenses 20-22; 32. √ EC 8 C Development and impact of infrastructure investments 20; 24; 30; 31,32. and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement √ ENVIRONMENT – MANAGEMENT APPROACH 35. √ EN 4 C Indirect energy consumption by primary source *NO ESTIMATE FOR PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCES EN 5 AD Energy saved due to conservation and 35. √ efficiency improvements EN 8 C Total water withdrawal by source 35. √ EN 26 C Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 10,11; 36,37. √ of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation SOCIETY LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK– MANAGEMENT APPROA CH 27. √ LA 1 C Total workforce 27. √ LA 2 C Total number and rate of employee turnover 28. √ LA 3 AD Benefits provided to full-time employees 29. √ LA 4 C Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 29. √ LA 10 C Total hours of training by employee category 28. √ 40 LA 11AD Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 28. √ support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA 12 AD Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 29. √ and career development reviews LA 13 C Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 27. √ according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA 15 C Return to work and retention rates 28. √ after parental leave, by gender. HUMAN RIGHTS – MANAGEMENT APPROACH 6; 11; 27; 35. √ HR 11 C Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed 12; 25. √ and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL COMMUNITY – MANAGEMENT APPROACH 10, 31. √ SO 3 C Percentage of employees trained in organization’s 11. √ anti-corruption policies and procedures SO 4 C Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10. √ SO 6 AD Total value of financial and in-kind contributions 11. √ to political parties, politicians, and related institutions PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – MANAGEMENT APPROACH 23. √ PR 3 C Type of product and service information required by procedures, 26. √ and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR 5 AD Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 25. √ of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR 8 AD Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 26. √ of customer privacy and losses of customer data COVERAGE √ FULL COVERAGE PARTIAL COVERAGE X NO COVERAGE INDICATOR RELEVANCE LEVEL IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI METHODOLOGY C CORE INDICATOR AD ADDITIONAL INDICATOR 41 UNGC AND GRI CROSS REFERENCE TABLE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES (UNGC) GRI INDICATOR HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE LA 4 PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; AND LA 13 LA 15* HR 11* PR 8 PRINCIPLE 2 MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. HR 11 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND LA 4 THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING; PRINCIPLE 4 THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR; ** PRINCIPLE 5 THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR; AND ** PRINCIPLE 6 THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT LA 2 OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. LA 13 LA 15 HR 11 ENVIRONMENT PPRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY EN 26 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES; EN 4 PRINCIPLE 8 UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER EN 5 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; AND EN 8 EN 26 PR 3 PRINCIPLE 9 ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION EN 5 OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. EN 26 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION SO 3 IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. SO 4 SO 6 *GIVEN THAT THEY WERE ADDED SUBSEQUENTLY TO THE NEW GRI GUIDELINES VERSION G3.1, THE LA 15 AND HR 11 INDICATORS ARE ENTERED INTO THE COMPARISON TABLE ACCORDING TO THE AUTHOR’S ESTIMATE. ** IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GRI PRINCIPLE OF MATERIALITY BASED ON WHICH PRIORITY TOPICS PRESENT IN THE REPORT ARE DEFINED, THE CORRESPONDING INDICATORS ARE NOT COVERED BY THIS REPORT, TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THEIR RELEVANCE TO THE BANKING SECTOR. THE BANK, AS AN ACTIVE MEMBER, SUPPORTS THE PROMOTION OF ALL 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN ITS PARTNERS, SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND IN THE GENERAL BUSINESS AND SOCIAL COMMUNITY. 42 www.bancaintesa.rs
