COP, UN Global Compact SVI Public Co.,Ltd. Aug 2014. Part I SVI is an Electronic Manufacturing Company that complies with EICC and is conducting business in a fair, honest and full compliance with Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety, local laws. In additional we are full supporter our suppliers who are required by contract to comply with all applicable laws and regulations where they conduct their business. Responsible Manufacturing SVI has taken steps to implement improvements in manufacturing practices, and implementation of certified manufacturing management systems ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, as well as the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Systems certification and the restriction RoHS , REACH of chemical compounds or materials that can be a risk to environment, health and safety. SVI got the Best Company Award: In Y2012 by Thai Department of Labor Protection and Welfare for a best company that conducting business full compliance with Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety, Thai laws. Environmental, Health and Safety Management Systems SVI have certified management systems Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety programs such as ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, as well as the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Systems certification to maintain a safe and healthy workplace as well as protect the environment from our operations activities. Materials Selection, Substitution and Elimination SVI is committed to substitution and elimination of restrictions or bans materials that concern an environmental, health or safety risk. Business Ethics SVI is committed to conducting business in a fair, honest and sound manner to help ensure that the long-term interests of its shareholders, employees, partners and suppliers are being served. Employee ethics hotline to provide employees with a way to confidentially report or feedback. SVI confirms the accuracy of the information with signature in this document:\ Poe Lothongkam Chief Executive Officer. 1 Part II , 10 principles Human right Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human right.  The human right policies are incorporated into SVI Policy of Human resources management. The company believed that the management of company can be proceeded and completed with good staff who having the knowledge, skills , abilities and good motivation including healthiness, diligence, loving in duty, responsibility to him/herself and public.  Every Staff in SVI shall fairly be treated with honor as the important part of the Company by the equalization between male and female except the nature or working condition is not allowed.  SVI got the Best Company Award: In Y2012 by Thai Department of Labor Protection and Welfare for a best company that conducting business full compliance with Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety, Thai laws. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses.  All of supply chain is free from any human right abuses. Our company shall not accept any human right abuses both in our company and any suppliers in our supply chain.  We encouraged each of our suppliers to follow and sign the Code Of Conduct with our company. Labor standard The freedom of association and effective recognition of right to collective bargaining.  Our company respects the freedom of association and upholds the effective recognition of the right to collective the bargaining.  The Company shall arrange the meeting with the welfare committee in the Company at least once per quarter or when more than half of the welfare committee in the Company request with reasonable reason. The welfare committee in the Company shall form by election in accordance with the provisions and means specified by laws.  The benefit market survey in the similar industrial types have been perform on the regular basis, provide the right services and support to all employees.  Suggestion box have been provided inside the company, allow each level of employees to provide suggestions openly. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.  The employees of SVI Public Co.,Ltd have freely chosen their employment and are free to leave the company upon due notice. 2 The effective abolition of child labor.  It has been defined clearly into our company working Regulation. Our company does not use child labor, aged not less than 18 years old.  The company provides a kind of scholarship sponsor to capable child’s of our company employee.  The I-care program is one of our key successes and we do continue this support for years where SVI have donated the “eye glasses” to all students in many difference provinces.  The Company regularly donated stationary, Sport equipment, toys, snack to the primary students. 3 The elimination of the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  In relation to recruitment or conditions of employment, our company does not engage in a support discrimination based on race, caste, national origin, religion, gender, union membership or political affiliation. Environment. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  The Company monitors, inspects and controls environmental pollution generated by the Company to ensure that we comply with Thai government and Law requirement. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  The Company initiates Green Projects for example Energy Saving, Paper less, Reduce scrap etc.  The company applied to support and prepare the solar roof project to promote the green energy program. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  The company is fully certified with ISO14001, TS16949 , TS13485 and some other world class standard.  Certified the ISO OHSAS 18001 , Occupational Health & Safety and Environmental 4  A corporate company goal to reduce the cost of energies. A goal to aim a green factory with energy saving factory. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  SVI Public supports the anti corruption initiatives through on internal code of business conduct. 5
