ANNUAL REVIEW 2O13 CSR AT AXCEL AND ITS COMPANIES Axcel and its portfolio companies have signed up to the UN Global Compact, Axcel has decided to adopt the UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and a new EU directive is also demanding more in terms of CSR. Ever since 1994, Axcel has demonstrated in practice how active ownerAxcel and the Global Compact ship, a strong operational focus and alignment of interests between a New companies added to the portfolio have a year to adapt their procedures and sign up to the Global Compact. In this way, Axcel is supportfolio companies’ management can drive positive change not only porting the UN’s efforts to get governments, civil society, business in returns, but also in environmental performance, transparency, emand others to unite behind ten principles for responsible business in ployee interests and so on. the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Axcel aims to invest in companies which behave responsibly, as this Axcel has gradually developed CSR policies based on our view of to promote socioeconomic development in general and therefore encorporate governance, which includes dialogue with stakeholders and courages its companies to contribute to their local communities and transparent communications and reporting. Axcel updated its policies their development where this makes commercial sense. in the corporate governance area in 2013 to make CSR an explicit element that the boards of portfolio companies must actively address. its portfolio companies to sign up to the Global Compact, an internaAxcel also has the following procedures in place for responsible busitional initiative led by the UN. The idea is to involve businesses and ness: organisations in solving some of the big social and environmental challenges resulting from economic growth, technological developcould put Axcel in a social, ethical or environmental dilemma ment and the increasingly international division of labour. The Global Compact makes it possible for companies worldwide to play an active role in overcoming these challenges. 12 months the Global Compact through its CSR network and ongoing dialogue companies following suit from 2011. This means that Axcel consiwith the companies a social, ethical or environmental dilemma. Axcel therefore performs Communication on Progress (COP) each year a social due diligence ahead of new investments. Axcel also ensures Axcel also expects its companies to: pact partly through ongoing dialogue and partly through Axcel’s CSR principles Axcel has also now decided to adopt the UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) – a set of guidelines on environmental, social tomers and business partners concerning supply chain management and governance (ESG) issues for professional investors. Axcel has and codes of conduct noted ever growing calls from investors and authorities for it to report on ESG issues, and the trend is for most large PE fund managers to to CSR sign up to the PRI. WWW.AXCEL.DK 35 Axcel is keen for its companies to recognise that CSR work can create value. In this context, the implementation of a CSR programme must be based on an individual assessment of critical focus areas, and for how governance issues and, in one case, social issues are to be these must then be placed in relation to the resources available to the integrated at fund level. company. Axcel implemented the following CSR initiatives in 2013: social risks and prepare for concrete CSR activities broad terms, this means that Axcel is to perform a social due diligence before making an investment, and that ESG issues are to be integrated into its active ownership so that they are addressed at both strategic and operational level EU directive sharpens governance and CSR requirements The AIFM directive adopted by the EU in 2011 applies to PE funds must apply for a licence to operate or register (depending on size) In brief, the following requirements apply: RELEVANT REQUIREMENTS OF THE FAIF ACT AXCEL’S COMPLIANCE Governance requirements Disclose strategy for each investment, including ESG strategy Axcel’s overall strategy for ESG and CSR is set out in Axcel’s Responsible Investment Policy Meet certain requirements in terms of expertise and reputation Documented in LPA* Disclose the fund’s ESG strategy Documented in Axcel’s Responsible Investment Policy Adhere to good business ethics etc. Documented in written procedures Documented in written procedures Treat all investors equitably Agreed via LPA Communication with FSA, investors, companies and employees Axcel produces an annual review and regular material for investors. Axcel plans to produce a manual for external and internal communication when taking over a company. Have a remuneration policy that promotes good risk management Agreed via LPA Perform risk management, including due diligence procedures when Documented in Axcel’s due diligence process making investments (ESG and CSR due diligence forms part of this) Document business procedures, including ESG and CSR policies Documented in Axcel’s Responsible Investment Policy etc. and processes Social requirements Set targets for the underrepresented gender in the most senior The most senior management tier at Axcel is the board of directors management tier because it is the partners in the management company who make investment decisions on behalf of the funds. Axcel also has a Danish industrial board and a Swedish industrial board with two female members, and intends to retain this level of representation through to 2017 * The Limited Partner Agreement between the fund and its investors. 36 AXCEL ANNUAL REVIEW 2O13 GLOBAL COMPACT STATUS OF AXCEL-OWNED COMPANIES AS AT 1 MAY 2014 Axcel’s companies and the Global Compact Axcel closely monitors portfolio companies’ work and makes sugJOINED FIRST COP gestions for improvements. There are also regular network meetings GLOBAL COMPACT where companies have an opportunity to share experience. BALL GROUP t 2012 BB ELECTRONICS t 2012 ious components of the Global Compact. Those publishing a second DELETE GROUP* or third COP have made progress from the year before in line with the UN’s intentions. DRICONEQ t 2013 EG* EXHAUSTO t IDDESIGN t 2013 JUNCKERS t 2012 LGT t 2013 MITA-TEKNIK t NETEL* NOA NOA t  2012 NORDIC WATERPROOFING t 2013 PANDORA t 2011 SILKEBORG DATA* TMK t 2012 VPG t  2014 * NEW INVESTMENT – HAS NOT YET JOINED GLOBAL COMPACT. AXCEL’S APPROACH TO CSR Axcel has signed up to both the PRI and the Global Compact at fund level. At company level, all portfolio companies have signed up to the Global Compact, which ensures real improvements in ESG performance and risk management. UNPRI INVESTMENT Global Compact DECISION AXCEL’S ACTIVE OWNERSHIP REPORTING TO INVESTORS AND PUBLIC DUE DILIGENCE COP MONITORING OF GLOBAL COMPANIES COMPACT 15 COMPANIES WWW.AXCEL.DK 37
