Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 For the Future of People and the Earth Ajinomoto Group Philosophy We create better lives globally by contributing to significant advances in Food and Health and by working for Life. Ajinomoto Group Vision We aim to be “a group of companies that contributes to human health globally” by continually creating unique value to benefit customers. Ajinomoto Group Way The foundation of the Group’s businesses Create New Value Social Contribution Create value with new ideas and continuous innoAccommodate social requirements with humility and vation based on unique technologies and science. honesty, with the objective of maximizing value for Product value creation bolstered by technology, society through business activities. new dietary proposals Resolve social issues; improve the global environment; security and safety; trustworthy production; fair, impartial, transparent and simple Pioneer Spirit Value People Continue to constantly take on the challenge of Respect the humanity of all the people involved in the creating new businesses and markets. Ajinomoto Group’s businesses, and be an organization in Tenacity, wisdom and cumulative efforts at the on-site level; which they can grow and display their abilities to the adapt to regional culture and market conditions in creating markets fullest extent. Provide a workplace where people can flourish; career development, support and follow-up; fair performance evaluation; teamwork Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Editorial Policy The Ajinomoto Group’s approach to achieving sustainability Food resources Since 2012, the Ajinomoto Group has been reporting its initiatives to help build a sustainable future for people and the planet through its Sustainability Report. Healthy The Group issues two versions of the report: the full report, living which provides details on all activities and is available on the web Global or in print; and a summary report available only in print that sustainability highlights the main initiatives and features information on some particularly interesting activities. Community This report provides stakeholders with information on how Organizational involvement governance and the Ajinomoto Group is working to achieve a sustainable future development for people and the earth and what needs to be done going Fair operating Consumer practices Human The issues forward. The report is one way in which the Group is working rights Labor practices environment with everyone concerned to build a better future. 1 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 CONTENT S Report Content and Available Formats 1 Editorial Policy  Full Report (132 pages) This report provides comprehensive information on all the activities which the Ajinomoto Group under2 Contents  takes to achieve sustainability. Summary Report (40 pages) 3 Message from the President  This shorter, summary report of the Group’s activities, which focuses primarily on the feature articles from the  Serving as a “Genuine Global Company” and Contributing full report, is available in printed form. to the Future of People and the Planet Website Download the report and access related information. On the Road to Sustainability  http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/ 5 Becoming a “Genuine Global Company” and Contributing Worldwide 7 Resolving Issues Facing Human Society in the 21st Century 8 Special Features  For the Future of People and the Earth 9 Special Feature 1   For a Healthier Future 19 Special Feature 2   Sustainable Production 29 Special Feature 3   Engaging the Public to Envision a Healthier Future Organizational scope: This report covers the Ajinomoto Group, comprised, in principle, of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (“the company”) and its 112 group companies (as of April 1, 2013) including consolidated subsidiaries and other group companies subject to reporting under the equity method. Where sufficient information for the entire Ajinomoto Group (“the Group”) was unavailable, the Fiscal 2012 Activity Report  limitation in scope is explicitly defined. The scope of reporting for the environmental section is defined on page 70.  33 Taking Responsibility for Global Sustainability Issues  36 Organizational Governance Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Period covered by this report Management Fiscal 2012 (April 1, 2012–March 31, 2013) When appropriate, however, exceptions to this general rule  42 Fair Operating Practices Ethical and Honest Practices are made, as when citing past circumstances and data or 48 Human Rights Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business using with recent examples for illustration purposes. Touches Issue date: 52 Labor Practices Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Drive Job Satisfaction Full Report (PDF): February 2014 Summary Report: February 2014 70 The Environment Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Next scheduled issue: Foundation for All Life December 2014 98 Consumer Issues  aking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More T Previous issues: Sustainable World March 2013 112 Community Growing with the People of Each Community 128 Additional Sustainability Information 129 Ajinomoto Group at a Glance Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 2 Message from the President Serving as a “Genuine Global Company” and Contributing to the Future of People and the Planet In 2009, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Ajinomoto Group, we reflected on the 100 years ahead. We took this opportunity to declare our intention to find solutions through our businesses to the challenges that human society faces in the 21st century—namely, global sustainability, food resources, and healthy living. The FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan launched in April 2011 is our timeframe for laying the foundation required to accomplish this. The entire Group is committed to becoming a “genuine global company” that contributes to the creation of a sustainable society. Our unique contribution lies with refining and developing our knowledge and technologies, which are so closely connected with life itself. Each of the 30,000 employees of the Ajinomoto Group around the world is focused on working in their particular capacity with the people in their respective communities to discover and deliver new potential contributions to sustainability for people and the planet. Creating value for people and the planet The Ajinomoto Group is “Working for Life.” About a century ago, our business was founded on the idea of using great taste to help improve the nutritional intake of the Japanese people, who historically had a relatively humble diet. Glutamic acid is a component of great taste and an essential amino acid, a building block of life. Today, we operate a range of businesses around the world with strong connections to life, namely foods, amino acids, pharmaceuticals and healthcare, and we have amassed much advanced technology and knowledge in these fields. Over more than a century of hard work, the Ajinomoto Group has developed technologies and human resources with deep knowledge about various forms of life on earth. Today, seven billion people share the planet with diverse living organisms, and a range of serious sustainability issues have emerged. In order to create value for the sustainability of people and the planet, the Ajinomoto Group aspires to deliver even further innovation by making the most of all of the “assets for life” it has developed over the last century. Business based on a sustainable series of cycles Humanity must realize a sustainable, healthy future for all the diverse forms of life on the planet. To ensure the Ajinomoto Group’s businesses contribute to this effort, we are focusing on three issues: global sustainability, securing food resources, and helping people live healthy lives. These issues cannot be separated and need to be addressed simultaneously. The business of the Ajinomoto Group is based on adding value to the bounty of nature and delivering it to society. In order to operate a sustainable business, we seek to use resources such as water and energy sustainably and efficiently, as well as the farmland on which we rely. Then we strive to support lifestyles with products and services that do not have a negative impact on the earth. This is the kind of comprehensive approach to sustainability that we take. Our product HONDASHI, for example, is made from skipjack, and we have implemented a sustainability initiative to fully Masatoshi Ito Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer utilize this raw material. The by-product bones, innards and Ajinomoto Co., Inc. residue from processing are used to make other food products 3 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 as well as agricultural fertilizers that help to cultivate new life. Determined to innovate We have also reduced the amount of packaging material for There remains much for us to consider in dialogue about our HONDASHI while maintaining quality. This seasoning product business activities with all parts of society. With our strong also helps customers to make delicious meals that maintain their connections to various forms of life, the Ajinomoto Group is a health. The combination of these individual efforts is creating company with unrivaled potential to add sustainability value to its positive cycles that help promote sustainability for people and products and services that contributes to the future of people the planet. Even for business areas where we handle only a and the planet. portion of the process, we work closely with suppliers and I am determined to build an even stronger management customers to ensure that sustainable cycles are created. foundation to ensure that our employees are aware of this potential and can interact confidently with various stakeholders Open initiatives create value in order to accelerate the creation of sustainable value. The Ajinomoto Group has supported the lives of people over the As we work for the lives of people and the planet, I am decades, according to the needs of each region and the times. certain that we will better understand our responsibilities and Under the FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan, our potential, and that our determination to innovate will only we are aiming to become a “genuine global company” that grow stronger. contributes to the future of people and the planet. By promoting various initiatives based on human resource development, R&D, and investment, we have helped to solve various nutritional problems in different age groups and geographical regions. Other progress includes the development of new sustainable materials using cutting-edge biotechnology. One key to promoting more initiatives in the future is our approach of “open & linked innovation.” By openly linking our knowledge and technology with external knowledge and technology in multiple ways, we will create new value for the future. Our goal is to create a network of even more sustainable cycles by exploring the business models required by the global community of the future with diverse stakeholders and a wide variety of partners. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 4 On the Road to Sustainability Becoming a “Genuine Global Company” and Contributing Worldwide It all began 104 years ago with the discovery of umami, an essential component of great taste. Today, the Ajinomoto Group produces food products, amino acids, bioscience products, fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals and health products. The Group’s operations span the globe in various fields with strong connections to life. The Ajinomoto Group is intentionally shaping its businesses to help solve issues facing human society in the 21st century. Using our businesses to help resolve the issues facing humankind in the 21st century Global sustainability Food resources Healthy living To become a leading corporate To become a group of group in the science of amino acids health-promoting companies and contribute to humankind with that takes a scientific approach cutting-edge technology. to enhancing taste and supporting health. For the Future of People and the Earth Bioscience Pharmaceuticals Fine chemicals Health Discovery of Umami 1908 Foods To build on the world’s leading seasoning business to become a global group of food companies. 5 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan The Ajinomoto Group’s Goal 1. Contribute to the future progress of humanity 2. Possess our own industry-leading technologies To become a 3. Assemble a group of globally capable and “genuine global company” diversified talent 4. Achieve the business and profit scale of with worldwide growth a global company 5. Meet global efficiency standards to generate profit The three-year period starting in fiscal 2011 is the designated timeframe for the Group to lay the foundations for its emergence as a “genuine global company.” 1. Growth driver development 2. Business structure reinforcement Global growth From volume to value Achieve growth through entering emerging and developing markets, Strengthen cost competitiveness and migrate further to value-added while strengthening our domestic position business R&D leadership From operating income to free cash flow Create new value and business opportunities through continued Control overall capital investment and improve asset efficiency research investment in seasonings and a cutting-edge biotechnology Enhance capital efficiency to boost stockholder value platform Optimize business portfolio and functional value chain Leveraging of external resources Increase utilization of open innovation, alliances, and M&A to capitalize on new growth platforms 3. Foundation building Global human resource development Capture abundant global and group growth opportunities; create a diverse HR mix in nationalities and careers Group wide corporate governance Reinforce group management foundation for further global expansion Global reach of the Ajinomoto Group (As of March 31, 2013) Countries and regions with business sites Countries where products are sold Number of production plants 26 130 105 Net sales Number of employees Years since founding 1,172.4 billion yen 27,518 104 No. 1 innovator1 creating new value through R&D Number of researchers in the Group Number of patents owned and consolidated R&D expenses 1,700 (No. of patents) Consolidated R&D expenses (million yen) 5,000 36,906 34,836 40,000 35,633 32,626 Over 4,000 32,000 3,000 24,000 3,581 3,726 Consolidated R&D expenses (fiscal 2012) 3,473 3,531 32.6 2,000 16,000 1,000 8,000 billion yen 925 954 829 871 0 0 1 Ranking by the United States Patent Board among companies in the 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) food, beverage and tobacco product sector, based on patents over the past two years No. of patents owned in Japan No. of patents owned outside Japan Consolidated R&D expenses Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 6 On the Road to Sustainability Resolving Issues Facing Human Society in the 21st Century The global population is expected to reach nine billion by 2050. This will affect the food and health of people, and new issues will likely arise relating to agriculture, livestock, fisheries, and the global environment. The Ajinomoto Group takes these issues very seriously, and is working to ensure that its businesses are part of the solution for human society in the 21st century. Building a recycling-oriented society • Promote more efficient usage and recycling of raw materials, fuel, and sub raw materials Global sustainability • Further reduce water consumption and promote water recycling; obtain water consumption data through the supply chain to facilitate reduction • Promote reduction, reuse and recycling of containers, A healthy global environment is the basis of all life. The packaging, etc. Ajinomoto Group takes steps to protect and nurture ecosystems and ecosystem services, as well as to reduce Building a low-carbon society • Target further reductions of CO2 emitted in business activities the environmental impact of its business activities. • Conduct carbon footprint research, etc. Main issues Conserving ecosystems and • Abnormal weather conditions and other challenges of climate change biodiversity • Destruction of ecosystems and biodiversity through • Promote the sustainable use of resources in agriculture, overfishing, overhunting and pollution livestock farming, and fisheries • Increasing demand for water from growing • Help conserve ecosystems and biodiversity through amino populations, etc. acids and by-products, etc. Improving food productivity • Improve productivity in livestock farming and fisheries by using Food resources amino acids for feedstuff • Increase yields of agricultural resources by utilizing amino acids It is vital that the developing imbalance in supply and demand for and by-products, etc. food be restored. The Ajinomoto Group is utilizing its technology Maximizing usage of food resources and expertise to help improve food productivity and is pursuing • Promote efficient use of resources for agricultural, livestock, and fisheries products initiatives that put valuable food resources to use without waste. • Upgrade technologies used by the Group to minimize impact Main issues on ecosystems • Increasing demand for food from growing populations • Actively offer suggestions to consumers aimed at making the • Higher grain demand caused by greater demand for meat most of food products and ingredients, etc. • Yield per unit of arable land is not keeping up with crop demand, etc. Healthy living Contributing to healthy living through nutrition • P rovide functional food products to help prevent chronic illnesses Diet plays an incredibly important role in the ability of people to maintain associated with excessive nutritional intake healthy lives. The Ajinomoto Group conducts its business activities and • Cooperate in the social sector to help alleviate malnutrition in developing countries implements social contribution activities to ensure that people around the • Apply amino acid analysis technologies to contribute to the medical world are able to attain proper nutrition and live healthily. field • Help solve nutrition-related problems in areas affected by natural Main issues disasters, etc. • More people with nutritional problems, including both hunger and obesity Responding to the aging of society • Greater healthcare needs due to aging • Improve the quality of life for elderly people through diet, etc. populations, etc. 7 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature For the Future of Nutrition for people Nutrition for plants and animals People and Raw materials Agricultural, livestock and fishery products the Earth Eating is an essential part of life, and allows people to enjoy the bounty of nature. With a strong connection to life through its businesses in food products and amino acids, the Ajinomoto Group is proud to offer products that support people and the planet. The Group strives to help people lead healthier lives and works to keep the global environment healthy, too. The special features of this report highlight some of the aspirations and activities that ensure that the Group’s businesses contribute to sustainability around the world. Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future • Fulfilling a Founding Desire to Improve Nutrition—Now on a Global Scale • “Eat Well, Live Well.”—The Ajinomoto Group’s Wish for the World • Finding Food-centered Solutions to Health and Nutrition Issues • Focus: The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project • Supporting Healthy Living with Pharmaceuticals and Medical Treatments Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production • Products That Contribute to the Sustainability of People and the Planet • Bringing People the Blessings of Nature, Sustainably • Utilizing the Bounty of Nature to Support Local Communities • Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Production • Focus: The “Green Factory” Goals of Kamphaeng Phet Factory of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. • R&D for a Healthier, More Sustainable Future Special Feature 3 Engaging the Public to Envision a Healthier Future • Dialoguing on the Vision for a Healthier Future • Creating a Better Future, Globally and Regionally Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 8 Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future Eating is an essential part of life. Well-balanced nutrition is essential to maintaining physical health, and there is nothing quite like the joy of sharing a delicious meal with loved ones. Eating truly enriches life. With a business focused on food and amino acids, the Ajinomoto Group supports life—and diverse lifestyles—by helping people to stay healthy. People around the world today are facing increasingly serious nutritional issues, including malnutrition, obesity, and the special nutritional needs of the rapidly growing elderly population. Disease is also a global threat to healthy living. The Ajinomoto Group is earnestly addressing all of these issues, working closely with a wide range of partners to create innovative solutions. Global issues related to food and nutrition World Undernourished Overweight Aging population population population population World population Overweight Projected Today suffering from adults, aged 20 population aged 65 7 billion undernourishment and older, with a body mass index and older in 2050 1 1.5 1.5 of over 25 2050 9 billion billion 1 billion 2 billion 3 1 OECD–FAO Agricultural Outlook 2010–2019 (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and UN Food and Agricultural Organization) 2 Fact Sheet No. 311 (World Health Organization) 3 World Population Prospects, the 2010 Revision (United Nations) 9 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future Fulfilling a Founding Desire to Improve Nutrition—Now on a Global Scale “Eat Well, Live Well.” This slogan of the Ajinomoto Group has rung true for almost a century. The original aspiration of the company was to improve the nutritional intake of Japanese people at the time. Since then, the company has gained much knowledge about food and the essential role of amino acids in the human body. By using this knowledge to deliver great taste to dinner tables around the world, the Ajinomoto Group is contributing to the health of both people and the planet. Continuing mission to improve Pursuing the potential of amino nutrition through delicious taste acids, essential building blocks of life In the early 1900s, Dr. Kikunae Ikeda of Tokyo Imperial Amino acids are indispensable for life. Protein is made of amino University (now the University of Tokyo) wanted to improve the acids and comprises up to 20% of the human body. It plays an diet of the Japanese, which was rather poor at the time. By important role in the body especially in muscles, the digestive making simple food as delicious as possible, he thought he could tract, and blood, as well as in various enzymes and hormones. help improve the health and physique of the nation. As a result The human body synthesizes and decomposes proteins on a of extensive research based on this objective, in 1908 he discovdaily basis and needs to absorb essential nutrition from food. ered that glutamic acid, a type of amino acid, is the secret to the The latest research has shown that the sense of delicious delicious taste of kombu kelp broth (dashi), an indispensable taste is itself important for building healthy bodies. Each amino element in Japanese cooking. He called the taste he had identiacid has its own taste. For example, glutamic acid provides fied, “umami.” umami flavor with an acidic note. The delicious sensation trigThe Ajinomoto Group was founded based on an ambition to gered by glutamic acid is a signal that all-important protein has improve the nutritional intake of the Japanese people by providentered the body. It has also been discovered that glutamate ing them with umami seasoning. This led to the launch of the receptors are not only found on the tongue, but in the stomach umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®. For over a century, the Group as well, which is thought to promote digestion and absorption. has stayed true to the goal of improving people’s health and Seeking to make eating, the foundation of life, even healthier bringing smiles to their faces by delivering delicious taste to and more delicious, the Ajinomoto Group will continue to exthe table. plore the potential of food and amino acids, the essential building The Aspiration of the Ajinomoto Group blocks of life. Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/principles/ Components of the human body Protein, which accounts for 20% of the human body, is Other made up of 20 kinds of 20％ amino acids. These play an Protein important role in maintain20 ing life. Dr. Kikunae Ikeda, discoverer of umami (left) and Saburosuke Suzuki II, founder of the Ajinomoto ％ Group (right) Valine Cysteine Leucine Threonine “To create good, affordable Isoleucine Methionine seasonings and turn simple but Alanine Histidine nutritious fare into delicacies.” Arginine Phenylalanine Glutamine Tyrosine —Dr. Kikunae Ikeda, My Motivation for Inventing AJI-NO-MOTO (Aozora Bunko) Lysine Tryptophan Aspartic acid Asparagine Glutamic acid Glycine Water Proline Serine The glutamic acid extracted from kombu, a kind of kelp, 60％ and the original AJI-NO-MOTO® (1910) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 10 “Eat Well, Live Well.”—The Ajinomoto Group’s Wish for the World Born from a desire to improve nutrition in Japan, the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® has spread around the world and is now used to make delicious meals in over 100 countries. The Ajinomoto Group offers a variety of products, including seasonings, processed foods, and beverages, for dinner tables worldwide, and its products reflect the foods and food cultures of each region. Respecting regional food cultures Making products available to and creating more delicious tastes everyone, everywhere While umami is a flavor component that all people enjoy, the The Ajinomoto Group pursues the values of “Affordable for anycuisines of the world use different ingredients to achieve it. Each one,” “Available anywhere,” and “Applicable to make any country or region has its own unique food culture and customs. dish delicious.” To better understand them, employees of the Ajinomoto Group The Group has established its own distribution networks, worldwide have been visiting local markets and talking with even in parts of the world where infrastructure is lacking, such shopkeepers and customers. They also study how food is cooked as in the rural areas of developing and newly emerging counin the home and how seasonings are used, seeking to better tries. The company delivers products not only to supermarkets understand consumer needs. Building knowledge and technolobut also to individual vendors in traditional markets. In these gy through this process, the Ajinomoto Group develops products regions, the Group even sells small single-use packets that can that suit food lifestyles in each part of the world. be bought with just a coin, making the products affordable for Starting with the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®, the even more customers. For example, the umami seasoning Group’s product portfolio has grown to include flavor seasonAJI-NO-MOTO® can be purchased in Thailand in a 9-gram packet ings, frozen foods, and beverages. The Ajinomoto Group will 1 for 1 baht (US$0.03), or in Indonesia in a 0.9-gram packet for 50 continue to provide products for the dinner table, while meeting rupiah (US$0.004), or in the Philippines in a 9-gram packet for 2 new demands for foods that reflect local preferences. pesos (US$0.05). This is the easiest way for people in these 1 G eneral-purpose seasonings used to make a wide range of dishes such as soups, stews and stir-fries. They countries to try the product. consist of a blend of ingredients including spices; extracts of meat, fish, or vegetables; salt; sugar; and umami seasoning. Examples in Japan include HONDASHI and Ajinomoto KK Consommé. In addition to delivering products, the Ajinomoto Group also carries out various initiatives such as holding cooking classes and introducing menus that enable people to make skillful use of products developed for specific regional food cultures. 11 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future Examples of products that support healthy eating worldwide Beverages and Umami seasoning Flavor seasoning Menu-specific seasoning Frozen foods powdered AJI-NO-MOTO® carbonated drinks Japan Thailand HONDASHI Ros Dee® Nabe Cube Sajiku® Ebi Shumai Birdy® (Japan) (Thailand) (Japan) (Indonesia) (United States) (Thailand) Peru Nigeria Sazón® Masako® Aji-ngon® CRISPY FRY® AMOY Gold Gyoza FRES-C® (Brazil) (Indonesia) (Vietnam) (The Philippines) Label Light (Chinese Dumplings) (The Philippines) Soy Sauce (France) (Hong Kong, China) Instant noodles Low-salt, low-sugar and low-fat products Fundamental foods Nutrient-fortified foods YumYum® Aji-no-men® OYAKATA® YASASHIO Pure Select® Pal Sweet® Capsiate Natura® Glysom® KOKO PlusTM (Thailand) (Peru) (Poland) (Japan) Mayonnaise (Malaysia) (United States) (United States) (Ghana) Kokuuma (Japan) Development of consumer foods business outside Japan (part of the FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan) The Ajinomoto Group is developing various food businesses worldwide. These include the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® as well as other seasonings and processed foods. In fiscal 2011, new group companies were established in Bangladesh, Turkey, Egypt, and Côte d’Ivoire. In fiscal 2013, the Group plans to establish new branch offices of West African Seasoning Co., Ltd., a Nigerian group company, in Cameroon and Kenya. Turkey Europe North America East Asia Middle East South Africa Asia ASEAN Kenya Latin America Myanmar (Plan) Egypt Cameroon Bangladesh Côte d’Ivoire Existing market New market Establishment of new local subsidiaries Bringing delicious taste to Egyptian tables When Ajinomoto Foods Egypt S.A.E. was established in 2011 and began selling the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®, the challenge was helping consumers find the best ways to use it. Trying various local dishes, we found that ruz, a savory staple rice dish, was best complemented by the product, and decided to use it as the key menu item in our sales campaign. We visit each shop in local markets, souks, and explain how the seasoning enhances the food taste, sell the product (to the shop) and ensure it is displays prominently for sale to customers. We also distribute about 1,000 photo menu flyers a day to market visitors. In order to spread delicious taste and smiles at Egyptian tables, we will continue these activities for decades to come. Hiroaki Uji, President, Ajinomoto Foods Egypt S.A.E. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 12 Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future Finding Food-centered Solutions to Health and Nutrition Issues Food is the foundation of health, but many people around the world are not getting adequate nutrition. This problem has many causes: social and economic conditions, age and lifestyle, and lack of knowledge about nutrition. Far too many people are struggling to stay healthy. The Ajinomoto Group is responding, applying a century of food expertise to help create solutions to the world’s diverse nutrition and health challenges. Improving nutrition Reducing excessive nutritional intake About one billion people worldwide, mainly in developing countries, are malnourished or starving. In addition to providing Recent decades have seen increasing obesity in both developed food and nutrition through its business activities, the and emerging countries due to changes in eating habits and a Ajinomoto Group is working in different parts of the world to lack of exercise. It is estimated that about 1.5 billion people improve nutrition. worldwide take in more nutrition than they need. This increases In Ghana, the Group has set up a social business model in the risk of lifestyle-related diseases such as diabetes and hyperpartnership with various local and international organizations, tension and has become a public health issue. aiming to solve the problem of severe malnutrition in infants. The Ajinomoto Group is helping consumers to achieve The Group also has conducted 63 projects in 12 countries proper nutritional intake and realize better health. It offers under its Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for products with less salt, sugar, and fat that still taste great and Nutrition and Health (AIN) program1 since 1999. In fiscal 2012, satisfy the appetite. While recommending exercise, the Group the program supported 13 projects including nutrition-related also provides information on ways to make nutritionally balanced human resource development in rural India. meals and menus. The Ajinomoto Group is also promoting various initiatives Studies suggest that the taste sensation of umami contribaround the world to support improvement of food and nutritional utes to a feeling of satiation, helping people to control excessive environments. Examples include a project to build canteens at 50 calorie intake and reduce obesity. Focusing on this effect, schools in Thailand and the Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is conducting research with the United in Indonesia. States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and various other 1 P rovides international cooperation and support in the field of food and nutr tion with the goal of improving the research institutes and companies in Europe, North America and nutrition of women and children in impoverished areas of developing and emerging countries. In collaboration with NGOs, non-profits, universities, and experts worldwide, the program supports projects that tackle Asia. In addition, since Japanese cuisine relies on the umami of problems in those countries. dashi soup stock for flavor instead of high amounts of salt and fat, it may be part of the answer to unhealthy eating habits. The Ajinomoto Group has been holding cooking seminars in various parts of the world to share the benefits of Japanese cooking. See “The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project” on p. 15. Reference See “AIN program improves nutrition in developing countries” on p. 115. See “Group company and foundation activities” on p. 117. Left: Nutritional improvement projects under the AIN program in India (top) and Cambodia (bottom). Center: Project to build canteens at 50 schools in Thailand. Right: Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project in Indonesia 13 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Ajinomoto National Training Center Better lifestyles for aging societies Building health through sports The world’s population is rapidly aging. The number of seniors is In order to maintain health, it is important to pursue both nutriexpected to reach about 1.5 billion people by 2050. The tional balance and moderate exercise. There are many approachAjinomoto Group is taking steps to help address health issues es to exercise and building the ideal body for everyone from associated with aging and social issues such as higher healthchildren to seniors. The best one to take depends on whether the care and social security costs. Its goal is to help people stay person’s goal is athletic performance, fun, or staying healthy. active and enjoy life as they age. The Group offers various Taking advantage of the nutritional and physiological functions solutions that make the most its knowledge of food and of amino acids and other natural ingredients, the Ajinomoto amino acids. Group provides sports nutrition products backed by scientific As people age, the balance of muscle synthesis and disinteevidence to meet a variety of needs. gration in the body is lost, and physical strength declines. Re­Seeking to promote sporting culture as well, the Group is a search by the Ajinomoto Group has found that intake of amino nutritional support partner to top Olympic athletes. At the 2012 acids combined with moderate exercise is effective for improvLondon Olympics, the Ajinomoto Group provided amino acid ing motor function. By improving motility and reducing the need conditioning support and sports nutritional guidance to the for nursing care, more seniors can expect to live healthier lives. Japanese Olympic team, working with the Japanese Olympic Meanwhile, those who need nursing care or other support Committee (JOC). At the Ajinomoto National Training Center may find it difficult to get adequate nutritional intake from the and other locations, the Group provides additional support in the meals provided at hospitals, nursing care facilities, or at home. areas of training, nutrition, and rest—all important elements for They need foods that are not only nutritionally balanced, but also improving competitiveness. easy to consume. To meet these needs, the Ajinomoto Group offers medical foods, along with nutritional care foods that still Milk and dairy products Fruit Vegetables Vitamins and Vitamin C and taste great. The Group also makes frozen “universal design Calcium and protein to strengthen bones carbohydrates to speed recovery from minerals to regulate body functions fatigue foods”2 that even people with reduced chewing ability can enjoy. Through these products, the Group is providing continued food Staples enjoyment to many people. Mainly carbohydrates for the energy By taking advantage of the useful properties of amino acids needed to move the body and other natural ingredients, the Group is helping people to live more energetic lives through fundamental foods. These foods Meat and fish are based on the concept of bringing out the body’s innate ability Protein to build the body including skin, Soups To protect and care for the GI to repair and renew itself. muscles, bones, and blood tract amino VITAL® Gold sports supplement 2 A  range of easy-to-eat food products, from regular meals to nursing care foods, that can be enjoyed by a The nutrition management cafeteria in the Ajinomoto National Training wide variety of people Center is developing Kachimeshi, a meal program for building winning bodies. Highlight 507 Health and Nutrition Seminars held in 32 Keeping minds and bodies healthy municipalities in 3 prefectures in a disaster region (as of September 30, 2013) It has been nearly three years since the Great East Japan Earthquake, and about 290,000 people are still living in temporarily constructed housing in the affected region. Due to this prolonged situation, the residents find it difficult to eat properly and exercise, putting them at increased risk of disease. They also have fewer opportunities for socializing, which has further aggravated various physical and mental health issues. In order to help residents overcome these challenges, the Ajinomoto Group, together with various partners such as local governments and nutritionists, has been holding Health and Nutrition Seminars since October 2011. The seminars allow the residents to join others in conversation as they enjoy cooking and share a delicious meal. Given the increased risk and symptoms of high blood pressure reported, since fiscal 2012, demonstrations and lectures have been provided on low-salt cooking, and free blood pressure tests and exercise classes have been offered. See “Supporting reconstruction in areas hit by the Great East Japan Reference The Group will continue to support physical and mental health in the Earthquake” on p. 123. disaster region, helping residents to get on track to a steady recovery. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 14 Focus The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project Social Business to Improve Children’s Nutrition Those with an annual income of US$3,000 or less (the so-called “Base of the Pyramid”) account for some 60% of the world’s population, or 4.1 billion people. Most of these people are concentrated in developing countries, where stunted infant development and high infant mortality rates are serious problems. The Ajinomoto Group is helping to address these issues by developing a social business designed to improve nutrition for the children of Ghana. The Group will build on this experience to start similar projects in other countries and regions. Survey conducted in collaboration with an NGO on diet and taste preferences of mothers and children The first 1,000 days of nutrition shape the child’s future The first 1,000 days from conception until a child turns two years old are critical to a child’s growth. Stunted growth caused by malnutrition during this critical period can be difficult to reverse later in life. The Ajinomoto Group launched the Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project in 2009 to address malnutrition in that nation. The project involves the manufacturing and sale of the KOKO PlusTM, a supplement Koko is a traditional porridge and breakfast staple that is also fed to weaning infants, but it is low in protein and micronutrients. KOKO PlusTM supplement containing amino acids is added to koko containing amino acids which is mixed with baby food to to enhance its nutritional value. The price of the supplement is kept low so that it is affordable to the impoverished. fortify nutrition for weaning children. The project is steadily developing into a business that The first 1,000 days of nutrition: Critical to a child’s development addresses social issues. Partnerships are being built with diverse stakeholders ranging from the Ghanaian government and universities to international agencies and NGOs, as well as private sector entities. Adequate nutrition Inadequate nutrition In Ghana, up to 40% of children aged two years are underheight due to malnutrition primarily starting from age six months when infants begin transitioning to solid foods. 15 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future Employees of the Ajinomoto Group train The Group works with local government health Ghanaian workers on production methods. agencies and NGOs to educate mothers on the importance of nutrition. A sustainable social business model with diverse partnerships There are unique challenges involved in operating a social business in a developing country. It is essential to build partnerships to successfully advance the business. The Ajinomoto Group is building partnerships with diverse The Group is piloting a distribution model in 13 rural communities in northern Ghana, employing saleswomen to distribute KOKO PlusTM to mothers. sectors to leverage synergies for ongoing R&D and development of production, training, and marketing practices, with The University of Ghana (UG) is very happy to be involved in the aim of establishing a sustainable and effective this project, which is a clear model of the Public-Private-Partsocial business. nership approach of solving community health and social problems. Childhood malnutrition is a problem in Ghana that During fiscal 2012, the Group launched production of merits intervention. We are proud to be involved in this KOKO PlusTM with a local manufacturing partner, Yedent demand-driven research, which will significantly address this Agro Group of Companies Ltd., setting up a manufacturing malnutrition problem. We will serve as the local host of the project and facilitate the close collaboration with agents of facility in midwest Ghana. Starting in fiscal 2013, the Group the Ghanaian government, such as Ghana Health initiated a nutritional efficacy study of products in partnership Service and Food and Drug Authority, which is with a local university and NGOs, surveying 40 communities crucial for the success of the joint project. We do and 1,200 persons. The Group is also piloting a distribution hope to create a Win-Win situation for all stakeholders thorough this international model in northern and southern Ghana to lay the groundjoint project. work for a major product launch of KOKO PlusTM in fiscal Prof. Kwaku Tano-Debrah 2014. Mothers who have tried the product are providing Department of Nutrition and Food Science, University of Ghana positive feedback, mentioning greater vitality and resistance to illness among children after adding KOKO PlusTM to pregnant and lactating mothers, and 250,000 school-age their diet. children through the Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project. In September 2013, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. participated in the Accelerating the project by Business Call to Action3 (BCtA) public-private initiative of the participating in global frameworks United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), making it the first Japanese food company to do so. The Ajinomoto The Ajinomoto Group is involved in diverse platforms for Group will continue working with the international community dialogue and information dissemination, as it works with the to advance the Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project. international community to find solutions to malnutrition. 1 A high-level meeting attracting some 97 organizations including national governments, the United Nations, World Bank, international agencies, NGOs, and the private sector, to make These efforts include participation in the Tokyo International commitments to improving nutrition. 2 An action plan for enhancing the nutrition of pregnant mothers and children in developing Conference on African Development that was held in countries, containing commitments by organizations that participate in Nutrition for Growth. 3 A global initiative that was launched in 2008 with the involvement of corporations, Yokohama, Japan in May 2013, and the Business for governments, and development assistant agencies, to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) through the core business of private sector companies. Peacebuilding conference held at the UN headquarters in New York in June 2013. The Ajinomoto Group also participated in the Nutrition for Growth1 meeting on nutritional improvement for mothers and children, which was held in June 2013 and hosted by the government of the United Kingdom. On this occasion, the Group announced its commitment to the Global Nutrition for Growth Compact,2 which includes a target of reaching 200,000 weaning children, 100,000 See “Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project supports a healthy future The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project Reference Link of children” on p. 50. http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/ghana/index.html Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 16 Special Feature 1 For a Healthier Future Supporting Healthy Living with Pharmaceuticals and Medical Treatments Amino acids, the origin of life, remain indispensable in pharmaceuticals and medical treatments as nutritional supplements for patients and pharmaceutical ingredients. Using the food and amino acid-related technology and expertise it has gained over the years, the Ajinomoto Group continues to create new solutions for prevention and diagnosis of disease and advanced medical treatment. The goal is healthy living for all. Supporting patients battling with life for every patient, AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., illness, with person-centered LTD. strives to deliver unique, world-class new drugs and drug development conducts proactive research on improving existing drugs to support healthy living. The Ajinomoto Group has been applying its food and amino acid-related technology and expertise to its pharmaceutical business since creating the world’s first crystalline amino acid AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. infusion solution in 1956. Today, in addition to clinical nutrition aspires to improve patients’ quality of life by developing, manufacturing and delivering new products such as medical foods (liquid diet), the Group provides pharmaceuticals to the medical frontlines as quickly as possible, all based on the input of individual unique products focused on the gastrointestinal and inflammatopatients and medical professionals. ry bowel disease areas. R&D Area: Pharmaceuticals & Health Many patients battling with illness need pharmaceuticals and Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/rd/division/index.html#health medical foods to stay alive. Aiming to support better quality of Highlight that LIVACT® will help improve patient nutrition so Using patient feedback to create that patients and their families will be able to spend easy-to-take LIVACT® JELLY each day with a smile. There are said to be over 300,000 liver cirrhosis patients in Japan, including those who have not been medically diagnosed. To help them, AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. created LIVACT® Granules, an ethical drug that supplements three types of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) in which cirrhosis patients tend to be particularly deficient Takashi Horie Marketing Dept.1 and improves nutrition status. AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Many elderly patients, however, commented that the granules got caught in their dentures and were difficult to swallow. Hearing them, in July 2013 we launched LIVACT® JELLY, the first jelly-type BCAA supplement. The jelly is easy to take at the patient’s own pace and does not stay in the mouth. We expect an increase in the number of patients who Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical are able to maintain adherence to the thrice daily dosage. I sincerely hope LIVACT® Granules (left) and newly launched LIVACT® JELLY (right) Contributions of the Ajinomoto Group to pharmaceuticals and medical treatments Achievement of healthy living Screening Pharmaceuticals Medical and nutritional care foods • AminoIndex Cancer Screening (AICS) ® • Gastrointestinal diseases (elemental diet, • Diet for protein energy malnutrition service, etc. BCAA formulations, oral intestinal cleansing • Immunonutrition diet solutions, etc.) • Nutrition care food, etc. • Metabolic diseases (anti-hypertensive, anti-osteoporosis, anti-diabetes agents) Active pharmaceutical ingredients • Medical amino acids (used in infusions, enteral nutrition, other pharmaceuticals and media) • Pharmaceutical intermediates (anti-hypertensives, anti-HIV drugs, anti-viral intermediates, etc.) • Biopharmaceutical ingredients (contracted development of manufacturing methods for media and proteins, etc.) Food and amino acid expertise and technology 17 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Supporting early detection of Helping more people access disease with AminoIndex® advanced medical treatment With aging populations sharply increasing medical costs, there is Advanced medical treatments using biopharmaceuticals1 are in more focus on the importance of screening and other forms of the spotlight, particular in North America, for their potential preventative medicine that help before the onset of disease. applications to hitherto intractable diseases and strong therapeuAjinomoto Co., Inc. collaborated with SRL, Inc. to launch the tic effects. Global growth in this area is expected. AminoIndex® Cancer Screening (AICS) service to assess risk for Developed with technology and expertise gained in the multiple cancers by analyzing the concentrations of amino acids manufacture of infusions and research into amino acids, the found in blood. Approximately 800 facilities have now introduced Ajinomoto Group’s serum-free medium for culturing cells has AICS, and the spread of AICS is expected to help improve cancer been widely used in biopharmaceutical manufacturing and screening participation rates, lower mortality rates through early research since 1987. The Group also developed a proprietary detection, and reduce medical costs. method for producing proteins that improves biopharmaceutical AICS was also introduced by the Keihin Coastal Area Life manufacturing efficiency, and launched it in 2009 under the Innovation Comprehensive Special Zone for International name of CORYNEX® contract business services. Competitiveness Development (CSZICD) run by the local In order to further accelerate initiatives in the advanced governments of Yokohama City, Kawasaki City and Kanagawa biomedical field, in fiscal 2012 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. established Prefecture and by the Tottori Next-Generation Society Model Ajinomoto Genexine Co., Ltd. in South Korea to manufacture Creation Zone in Tottori Prefecture in 2012. Studies have started and sell medium used in biopharmaceutical manufacturing. In into its applications for promoting health in local communities, fiscal 2013, the company acquired Althea Technologies, Inc. in with a view to designing new the United States, commencing business activities as Ajinomoto services that support personalAlthea, Inc. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. will continue expanding its ized and preventive medicine. business in the advanced biomedical field to help people around In addition to cancer screenthe world lead healthier lives. ing, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. plans to Stomach Breast 1 Pharmaceuticals produced using biotechnology, primarily genetic modification, and containing proteins, develop services that can evalupeptides, nucleic acids, etc. 2 A business that utilizes proprietory technology using bacterium, Corynebacterium glutamicum, to improve the ate multiple nutrition and lifestyle Lung Prostate efficiency of the manufacturing process for biopharmaceuticals such as proteins and antibodies. risks. The company has also set Colon Uterine/ its sights on rolling out services ovarian outside Japan and is conducting Ajinomoto Genexine Co., Ltd. Risk screening is possible further research. for four types of cancer in men Medium for animal cells and five kinds in women with just 5 ml of blood Dozens of ingredients including sugars, amino acids, salts, vitamins, trace minerals Main initiatives in the CSZICD Delivery of medium For creation of new Pharmaceutical company For initiatives on national industries, such as preventive medicine strategy Purified Biopharmaceutical nutrition education services Animal cells biopharmaceuticals formulation Research results Kanagawa Pref. Research consortium Ajinomoto Yokohama City Co., Inc. School of Medicine, Kanagawa Kanagawa Culturing Purification and Yokohama Prefecture Cancer Center process formulation process Kawasaki City City University medical institutions Regional support and promotion Press releases Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/presscenter/press/detail/g2012_11_15.html Disseminate awareness of and popularize AminoIndex ® http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/presscenter/press/detail/g2013_04_05.html Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 18 Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production The mission of the Ajinomoto Group is to develop diverse products and services that support food, health, and life, using natural ingredients sourced from around the world. These natural ingredients, such as sugar cane used to make umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® and skipjack used in HONDASHI, depend on a healthy planet. The growth of the Group’s business goes hand-in-hand with the commitment to help keep the planet healthy and build a better future for people. The Ajinomoto Group is determined to keep making products that increase the sustainability of human societies and the earth, while always conserving natural resources. Global sustainability issues Food resource issues Biodiversity Water resources Global warming Supply and demand balance Volume of feed production Percentage of ecosystem Projected increase in global Projected increase in global Projected increase in meat Projected increase in services that will be lost by the water demand by 2030, mean surface temperature over consumption in developing food demand by 2050, 22nd century compared to current level of roughly the next century, ascountries in 2030 compared to late compared to 2005 supply suming global economic growth 1990s levels and dependence on fossil fuels -60 +40 +4 +40 +70 continue on today’s trends 1 2 3 4 5 ％ ％ ℃ ％ ％ 1 United Nations Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. 2 Chartering Our Water Future (2030 Water Resources Group). 3 Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2007 (IPCC). 4 World agriculture: towards 2015/2030 (FAO). 5 OECD–FAO Agricultural Outlook 2009–2018 (OECD and FAO). 19 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production Products That Contribute to the Sustainability of People and the Planet Human life is dependent on the natural resources of a healthy planet. The Ajinomoto Group is working with stakeholders from all segments of society to increase the sustainability of human societies and the earth, seeking to secure a healthy future for people and a planet of rich biodiversity. Sustainable manufacturing in all expressed in the Group’s dedication to conserving biodiversity processes for a healthy planet and ensuring its businesses improves people’s lives now and in the future. All life is dependent on the health of the earth, yet the planet and The Ajinomoto Group works in partnership with diverse its growing population of seven billion people face wide-ranging stakeholders to help build human and environmental sustainabilchallenges, including climate change, resource depletion, and ity. It engages their input on every step from raw material probiodiversity decline. curement and transport to the production, sales, consumption, Over the century since its inception, the Ajinomoto Group and disposal of products—not only in its own business fields, has displayed a steadfast commitment to conserving nature and but beyond. using natural resources without waste. This commitment is also Conserving and Supplying products that contribute to fostering a healthy future for natural resources people and the planet Nutrition for people Nutrition for plants and animals Raw materials Agricultural, livestock and fishery products Using raw materials efficiently and without waste, to make products Sustainable procurement of with a low impact natural resources on the planet Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 20 Bringing People the Blessings of Nature, Sustainably The business of the Ajinomoto Group is built on adding value to natural resources and providing that value to society. The natural resources it uses are dependent on a healthy planet that supports biodiversity in oceans, forests, and on land. In order to sustainably supply its products, the Ajinomoto Group works to conserve the ecosystems that all living things rely on and practices sustainable procurement of raw materials. Conserving ecosystems— Ensuring sustainable procurement the foundation of all life of important raw materials Human life is dependent on the earth’s rich biodiversity. The Ajinomoto Group has a stake in ecosystems across the The Ajinomoto Group strives to contribute to a healthy planet due to its global raw material procurement and other future for people and the planet through its businesses in food, business activities. The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Mediumamino acid, and other products. Its products draw on diverse Term Environmental Plan details a plan of action that mandates natural resources such as agricultural, livestock, and fisheries thorough assessment and management of procurement of products as well as forest resources such as paper. These natural materials that have a major impact on its business and ecosysresources are in turn dependent on healthy ecosystems and biotems to ensure sustainability. diversity comprising the chain of all living things. Paper is extensively used in the day-to-day business activities The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic of the Ajinomoto Group. The Ajinomoto Group Guidelines for Environmental Policies state that conserving ecosystems is the Procurement of Environmentally Responsible Paper were introvery basis of the Group’s business activities—it can only keep duced in January 2012 to promote the procurement of sustaindrawing on natural resources if it works to secure healthy bioable paper to address deforestation. The Group is also identifydiversity. The Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action ing risks that relate to raw materials used in products, in order to Agenda were introduced in February 2012. They guide the practice sustainable procurement of ingredients such as cassava, Group’s efforts to implement biodiversity conservation initiatives which is used for the fermentation of amino acids, and skipjack, throughout its supply chains and in partnership with local commuwhich is used to make HONDASHI, a major product in Japan. nities. These efforts encompass the procurement of important The Ajinomoto Group will continue to supply products that raw materials, the management of corporate land, and practices draw on natural resources that are sustainably procured with to ensure that business locations coexist harmoniously with respect for the earth’s ecosystems. It is determined to accomlocal ecosystems. plish this by (1) building even better partnerships with farm and fisher operators, business partners, and third-party experts, (2) See “Pursuing CSR Procurement” on p. 43. Reference See “The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic determining the impact of the Group’s business activities on the Environmental Policies” on p. 71. See “Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity” on p. 78. earth and local ecosystems, and (3) monitoring resources in oceans and on land. 21 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production Highlight Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan Helping to conserve skipjack stocks Skipjack is an integral part of the Japanese diet. This fish is used to make dried bonito and dashi soup stock, and is also a favorite for sushi and sashimi. HONDASHI made from dried bonito is one of the main products of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in Japan. It has been a household name since it first came out in 1970, beloved for imparting the natural flavor of dashi soup stock. Meanwhile, worldwide demand for skipjack continues to grow. Still, many aspects of the ecology of skipjack are not well understood. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is involved in the Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan, helping to shed light on the ecology of skipjack and assisting the management and conservation of skipjack stocks. Thanks to efforts like these, consumers will always be able to enjoy HONDASHI. Tracking skipjack migration over a Successful recovery of seven skipjack with 500-day period electronic archival tags Since fiscal 2009, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been involved in the Joint 35˚N Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan together with Tagged fish No. 2 Recovery the National Research Institute of Far Seas Fisheries (NRIFSF) of Japan’s Date: May 11, 2012 Fisheries Research Agency. The project tracks the migration of skipjack Location: West of Kuchinoshima Island along the Kuroshio current from the southwest islands to the west coast Fork length: Approx. 43 cm of Japan. To date, some 10,000 skipjack have been tagged and released under the study, which is yielding rich, unprecedented knowledge about the ecology of skipjack. Since fiscal 2011, the project has been using advanced archival 30˚N electronic tags under a large-scale tag-and-release study, obtaining data Tagged fish No. 1 of unprecedented detail and marking the first study of its kind along the Release Date: Feb. 20, 2012 Tagged fish No. 1 Kuroshio current. These tags are capable of storing one years’ worth of Location: Offshore of Recovery data on the location, water depth, water temperature, and body temperaYonaguni Island Date: April 19, 2012 Fork length: 44 cm Location: South of ture of the tagged fish, sampled every 30 seconds. Recently invented, Yakushima Island Fork length: 46 cm these tags are at the leading edge of international research. In February and April 2012, 169 skipjack were tagged and released 25˚N in the waters off Yonaguni Island, and seven of them were caught by Succeeded in recording October 2013. The tags from the recovered skipjack provided some 500 movement over a total of about 500 days (first time days’ worth of detailed data, a first for the southwest islands of Japan. in this ocean region) In addition to migratory routes, researchers obtained new information on Tagged fish No. 2 Tagged fish No 1 Release skipjack water depths and temperatures and other data. The project is Date: April 8, 2012 Tagged fish No 2 Location: Offshore of ongoing, and in fiscal 2013 is being expanded to study feeding habits. Yonaguni Island Analysis of the survey data and the accumulation of scientific knowlFork length: 42 cm edge will further understanding of skipjack stocks and ecology and assist 20˚N 120˚E 125˚E 130˚E 135˚E the international management of skipjack stocks. Note: The map shows probable migratory routes, since there is a large margin of error when estimating Obtaining data in oceans is considerably more difficult than obtaining positions from data. data on land. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. will continue working with fishery operators and experts to implement the study. After all, the Japanese people The project earned an award of excellence in September 2013 from will always love the flavor of HONDASHI. the Japan Awards for Biodiversity organized by the AEON Reference See “Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity” on p. 78. Environmental Foundation, citing the ongoing study’s contributions to the conservation and Link National Research Institute of Far Seas Fisheries (NRIFSF) sustainable use of marine http://fsf.fra.affrc.go.jp/eng/ biodiversity as a model for Japan. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 22 Utilizing the Bounty of Nature to Support Local Communities In order to ensure a continual supply of products, it is essential to make the best use of the bounty of nature without any waste, and to carry out production with minimal environmental impact. At all of its production sites, the Ajinomoto Group is committed to the goal of building a business that works together with the earth. Bio-cycles for sustainable Co-products foster bounty in production the fields Glutamate, an ingredient responsible for the savory taste called Once amino acids are removed from the fermentation liquid in umami, is found in foods such as kelp and tomatoes. However, if the amino acid production process, the remaining liquid, a one tried to use these raw materials to extract enough glutamate by-product, still contains a wealth of nutritional ingredients. As to meet the demand for seasoning products, the resources would an additional product, or “co-product,” this valuable gift of nature soon be depleted. This is what makes the Ajinomoto Group’s is subsequently used to make value-added products. efficient methods of producing amino acids, which are based on The by-products produced by the Group’s amino acid fer104 years of development excellence, so important. mentation plants around the world are 100% recycled to produce Currently, the Group has 18 amino acid production facilities co-products. Such co-products include fertilizers which help in nine countries. Amino acids are made by fermenting agriculgrow vegetables, sugar cane, corn, coffee, oranges, pineapples, tural products such as cassava and sugar cane, which are easy to rubber and other crops, as well as feed for the livestock and obtain locally. The by-products of this manufacturing process, in aquaculture industries. This bio-cycle avoids depletion of natuturn, are seen as “co-products” which are utilized to support farmral resources. ing, livestock, and aquaculture industries as fertilizer and feed. The Group calls this recycling of resources in the production Reference See “Feed-use amino acids for livestock farming that is friendlier to the planet” on p. 82. process a bio-cycle, and has been using it for over 30 years. Today, similar efforts for making the most of resources are being Cattle feed and corn fertilizer; also an made across all of the Group’s businesses. experimental fertilizer for tomatoes and lawns Liquid fertilizer for sugar cane, corn, pineapples and rice Co-products used for cattle feed A  MI-AMI liquid fertilizer for the cultivation of sugar cane and rice and also for the aquaculture of tilapia 1 United States Bio-cycle created by the resource-recycling process for amino acid production Helps reduce CO2 emissions caused by chemical fertilizer production Sun Covers 70% of the chemical fertilizer (nitrogen content) Chemical fertilizer required by 0.5 million hectares of sugar cane fields 0.5 million hectares Absorption of atmospheric CO2 by photosynthesis 28 million tonnes Organic fertilizer 1.6 million Sugar cane fields tonnes Harvest 2 Indonesia Recovering by-product as useful resources Cooperative mechanism with local regions enabling sustainable production and agriculture By-product 1.6 million Bio-cycle Sugar cane tonnes 38 million tonnes Umami seasoning AJI NO MOTO® Products Sugar factory Raw sugar Umami seasoning Cane molasses 3 France Nitrogen 4.2 million tonnes AJI-NO-MOTO® content (syrup derived from sugar cane) 0.5 million tonnes 1.5 million tonnes 4 Thailand The chart assumes worldwide annual production of approximately 0.5 million tonnes of the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® by the Ajinomoto Group using only sugar cane. The values for sugar cane grown and sugar production are commonly used global figures, and the values for resources used for producing AJI-NO-MOTO® and values for by-products are based on actual statistics from the Ajinomoto Group. 23 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Production Manufacturing processes always generate waste, atmospheric emissions, and discharged water. With the aim of minimizing environmental impact of all business processes, the entire Group is committed to steadily implementing the Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan. Pursuing zero-emissions Reducing CO2 and wastewater manufacturing processes emissions using the best techniques In fiscal 2005, the Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan was and equipment for each region introduced to minimize environmental impact generated in all Continuing with the global fight against climate change, the business operations. The plan sets strict numeral targets for the Ajinomoto Group is reducing CO2 emissions from energy conreduction of CO2 emissions, discharged water pollution load and sumed in manufacturing. The Group seeks to save energy by waste, while requiring management of plan performance. The introducing new equipment and improving production processGroup is united in its efforts to fulfill the plan, and substantial es. It also employs technology that uses carbon-neutral biomass, results have been achieved. which is derived from plants that absorb CO2 when growing, as With the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan, an energy source. further initiatives are being promoted to minimize environmental In 2008, the Kamphaeng Phet Factory of Ajinomoto Co., impact, and the target numbers and scope are being revised (Thailand) Ltd. started using a biomass boiler to generate as necessary. energy using rice husks, which were unused local resources before. The factory also started in 2012 to burn the methane Resource recovery ratio: 99.2% biogas generated by the in-house production process for cassava starch, a raw material for amino acid fermentation. Resource recovery ratio for the entire Ajinomoto Group in fiscal 2012 In June 2012, the Laranjal Paulista Plant of Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. installed a biomass boiler that operates using wood chips as well as sugar cane fiber (baWater consumption: -61% gasse) left over from the amino acid fermentation process. Independent initiatives like these are being undertaken at group Water consumption at all of the Ajinomoto Group’s production bases in fiscal 2012 (compared to fiscal 2005) sites around the world. The Group strives to minimize water used in production processes and return only treated, clean water to the environCO2 emissions: -26% ment. The Group has introduced large-scale wastewater treatCO2 emissions per unit of production for the entire Ajinomoto ment facilities at amino acid fermentation plants around the Group in fiscal 2012 (compared to fiscal 2005) world to reduce the discharged water pollution load. In fiscal 2012, the Kawasaki Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. introduced a Reference See “Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal 2012 Results” state-of-the-art wastewater treatment facility, which delivers on p. 76. water quality significantly higher than local standards. See “The ‘Green Factory’ Goals of Kamphaeng Phet Factory of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd.” on p. 25. Reference See “Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions” on p. 90. See “Conserving Water Resources” on p. 92. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 24 Focus The “Green Factory” Goals of Kamphaeng Phet Factory of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Located 350 kilometers north of Thailand’s capital, Bangkok, this factory has been operating for 15 years in the thriving agricultural province of Kamphaeng Phet. Using local agricultural products as raw materials, the Kamphaeng Phet Factory manufactures nucleotides and amino acids. Making the most of the local natural bounty, the factory will continue to serve as a “green factory” that benefits local communities. It aims to constantly deliver great taste to the tables of Thailand, and to always operate in harmony with the local environment. Every day, many employees are working together to achieve this goal. “Green factory” bio-cycles, not just for raw materials, but also for energy The plump and adorable Lady Finger banana is a noted bio-cycle by introducing a biomass boiler fueled by rice product of this region. In addition to bananas, there are husks, an untapped local resource. This led to a significant various other crops here including sugar cane, cassava, rice, reduction in petroleum consumption and cut CO2 emissions corn, papayas, and mangos. Operating in harmony with the by approximately 100 kilotonnes per year. fertile land and bounty of nature, the Kamphaeng Phet “green In 2012, the factory launched a third bio-cycle involving factory” has developed diverse bio-cycles, going beyond just both raw materials and energy. Cassava starch is a raw raw materials. material for amino acid fermentation. Previously, it had all The Ajinomoto Group’s raw material bio-cycle ensures been procured externally, but then the factory took on the sustainable procurement, and it is used at all of the Group’s challenge of making its own starch from cassava. The byamino acid fermentation plants worldwide. The sugar cane is products from this process are now also fermented, generatcompletely utilized in the manufacturing process, and the ing biogas fuel. Currently about 10% of the starch used by the by-products are returned to the fields as fertilizer. In DecemKamphaeng Phet Factory is produced internally, and the ber 2008, the Kamphaeng Phet factory added an energy factory is looking to increase this amount. Bio-cycles involving both raw materials and energy in Thailand Enriching the local soil ter i al bio-cycl ma e En w er Ra gy Rice field oCobi Cassava products cle Sugar field cy Green Factory cane field Biogas Biogas plant Starch Kamphaeng Phet Factory Sugar Rice-husk Rice mill factory Tapioca starch boiler factory Main Cane molasses products Rice husks Raw sugar Rice Enriching the diet of the Thai people 25 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production Activities of FD Green, a group agricultural company Group companies are creating diverse bio-cycles in “green Under its corporate mission “We will make the world factory” initiatives for the planet and local communities. FD green,” FD Green (Thailand) Co., Ltd. is passionate about Green (Thailand) Co., Ltd. plays an important role in the expanding bio-cycles that can continually benefit the planet operation of these bio-cycles. Established in 2001, the compaand the local community. ny specializes in manufacturing and selling feed and fertilizThe products of the Ajinomoto Group originate from the ers made from by-products generated in the amino acid ferbounty of nature, so the Group is committed to protecting mentation process of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Making nature for the sake of people’s lives and nourishment. The the most of components in the by-products that are useful for co-products sales team knows better than anyone else the plants and animals, the company delivers highly beneficial importance of being thankful for the bounty of nature and co-products. The company is a vital link in the bio-cycles the eliminating waste. company has created. Lineup of diverse agricultural supplies United employees persevere Working together with FD Green (Thailand) Co., Ltd., all the employees of the Kamphaeng Phet Factory share a set of “green factory” goals for this large site of about 200 hectares. Over the past few years, the employees have been steadily making the factory more and more “green” in various ways. In addition to large-scale initiatives such as the installation of a biomass boiler, they have made many improvements at the grassroots level and have been recognized for their good practices. Highly motivated, the employees are pursuing further process improvement and technology development. While appreciating nature and staying in dialogue with the local community, the factory is taking on a steady stream of new challenges for the future. In order to become one of the Ajinomoto Group’s leading “green factories,” the plant’s 400 employees will continue to share ideas and work together. The Kamphaeng Phet Factory received a prize for manufacturing CSR contribution in October 2013 at the Japan Management Association’s 2013 Good Factory awards. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 26 Special Feature 2 Sustainable Production R&D for a Healthier, More Sustainable Future With over 1,000 researchers worldwide, the Ajinomoto Group is committed to research and technology development as the drivers of business growth. Making the most of the technology, knowledge and connections it has in businesses such as food, bioscience products and fine chemicals, and pharmaceuticals and health, the Group is determined to help find solutions to the challenges that human society faces in the 21st century in order to create a sustainable future. R&D to reduce environmental Leveraging local strengths in a impact and create new global R&D system environmental value The Ajinomoto Group brings the environmental and sustainabiliAmino acids are not only the key to the business of the ty perspectives into every product development process, focusAjinomoto Group; they are also the key to life. Some of the ing its R&D on delivering practical applications. Many technologinutritional and physiological functions of amino acids were cal innovations are needed to solve the global environmental and discovered in the R&D process that led to the first umami food resource issues which threaten the future. The Group has seasoning product. These discoveries led to businesses beyond several research priorities: building on its strengths in biomass food products, for instance, fertilizers and feeds made from technology; using more renewable energy; and manufacturing by-products of the amino acid fermentation process, as well as with even less environmental impact. One example is the promisfeed-use amino acids. The Group always makes the most of its ing R&D into lower-resource fermentation technology. many proprietary technologies in bioscience, chemical syntheThe Group’s R&D centers around the world have specialized sis, bioassay, and food product processing and analysis. technologies and knowledge relating to their particular regions This accumulated technology and knowledge is also applied and scientific fields. They work together by sharing information to R&D aimed at reducing the environmental impact of existing and techniques pertaining to global themes such as energy businesses, not to mention new business development. The saving and resource recycling. Group is striving to provide new environmental value by focusing its research on ways to use resources more effectively and preserve the global environment. Examples of lower-resource fermentation technologies Of course, the Group also brings in good ideas and technolo•T  echnologies to internally produce part of the main materials and to gies from outside when helpful in developing new products and make effective use of by-products as a biomass energy source (Promaterials that can contribute to global sustainability and produce duction of MSG1 and I+G2) (See p. 14 for details) (See pp. 25—26) results quickly. The Group’s joint development approach is called • Technology to use non-food resources as materials (Production of “open & linked innovation.” Leveraging amino acid and fermenfeed-use lysine) •B  iotechnology to reduce the use of main and sub raw materials and tation technology and knowledge, the Ajinomoto Group’s joint energy (Production of feed-use lysine, amino acid-based sweetenresearch on the production of synthetic rubber and nylon from ers, MSG, etc.) 1 Monosodium L-glutamate 2 Disodium 5’-ribonucleotides sustainable crops is yielding promising results. Major R&D centers of the Ajinomoto Group ● Food ■ Bioscience products and ﬁne chemicals ▲ Pharmaceuticals and health Note: Asterisks show R&D group companies Russia ZAO“AJINOMOTO-GENETIKA Research Institute”(AGRI) ■* China North America SHANGHAI AJINOMOTO AJINOMOTO NORTH AMERICA, INC. ●■▲ FOOD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AJINOMOTO Frozen Foods U.S.A., Inc. ● AJINOMOTO FOODS EUROPE S.A.S. ● Europe CENTER CO., LTD. ●* AJINOMOTO EUROLYSINE S.A.S. ■ Ajinomoto (China) Co., Ltd. ●■ S.A. Ajinomoto OmniChem N.V. ■ Amoy Food Ltd. ● South America Ajinomoto Poland Sp. z.o.o. ● Shanghai Amoy Foods Co., Ltd. ● Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. ●■ Ajinomoto del Peru S.A. ● Southeast Asia Japan Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. ●■ PT Ajinomoto Indonesia ● Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ●■▲ Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. ● AJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES CORPORATION ● AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. ▲ AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. ● Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad ● Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. ● Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. ● Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. ● Ajinomoto Fine-Techno Co., Inc. ■ Wan Thai Foods Industry Co., Ltd. ● 27 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Supporting Japanese agriculture by Lysine product for dairy cattle feed developing new co-products offers new possibilities for feed-use The Ajinomoto Group is developing co-products such as fertilizamino acids ers and feed worldwide, utilizing the by-products of amino acid The Ajinomoto Group has been cultivating worldwide markets fermentation. Full-scale development and sales of agricultural for feed-use amino acids for more than 40 years through its supplies are also being carried out in Japan. Ajinomoto Animal Nutrition Group network, established using The Group offers a variety of agricultural materials. In production and sales sites in four countries. With lysine, threOctober 2012, it began selling Hayane Hayaoki liquid fertilizer onine, and tryptophan as its main feed-use amino acids, the for seedlings, which utilizes inosine to promote rooting and root Group has long been a leader in the markets for these products. growth. The fertilizer was developed with Berg Earth Co., Ltd. Feeds with a good balance of amino acids help to reduce and contains a balanced mix of nitrogen, phosphoric acid and impact on soil and water derived from livestock manure and potassium. In December 2012, AJIFOL® AminoGuard foliar spray greatly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. They also help to was launched. Using fermentation liquid as the raw material, the curtail emission of N2O, which has a 300 times higher greenfertilizer has an optimum blend of amino acids and micronutrihouse effect than CO2. The Group’s feed products also help to ents essential for plant growth. Preparations are underway to reduce consumption of feed crop protein, thereby reducing the launch GLUHEART, a liquid fertilizer containing glutamate. The amount of land required for feed crop cultivation, and they are Group even offers Dojo Saiseitan for soil improvement, using the gaining worldwide attention. activated carbon left over from manufacturing umami seasoning. In April 2011, Ajinomoto Heartland, Inc., which conducts the The Ajinomoto Group will further enhance the value of these feed-use amino acid business in the United States, began selling co-products by utilizing the knowledge it has accumulated for AjiPro®-L developed for dairy cows. In May 2013, production was more than 30 years. As doubled, and further increases are planned for the future. Cows the co-products of amino have a four-compartment stomach, and when they consume acid fermentation can conventional feed-use lysine developed for pigs and poultry, most promote the bounty of of it is broken down in the rumen. This means the cows cannot nature, the Group will absorb enough lysine for synthesizing protein. Ajinomoto make even greater Heartland took on the challenge of processing the lysine so that contributions to Japanese it could pass intact through the rumen and reach the small agriculture. intestine of dairy cattle. By devising its own technology, the company succeeded in developSee “Utilizing the Bounty of Nature to Support Local Communities” Reference on p. 23. ing such a product. With nine million dairy cattle See “Co-products that yield agricultural bounties worldwide” on p. 83. in the United States alone, the product holds great potential for improving milk production efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Highlight Experiments are under way in over 40 water areas across Japan for Environment Vitalizing Concrete Pollution of rivers and seas, oligotrophication (or nutrient depletion) of seawater, and reduction of algae due to global warming have become serious problems along Japan’s coastlines. Aspiring to use its amino acid technology to revitalize threatened aquatic ecosystems, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. started R&D on a concrete that contains amino acids to promote algae growth. Since 2009, the company has been developing Environment Vitalizing Concrete with Nikken Kogaku Co., Ltd. and the University of Tokushima. As of July 2013, experiments are underway to check its effectiveness in over 40 sea and river areas across Japan. The Society of Material Science, Japan, has reported no problems with the physical characteristics of the Environment Vitalizing Concrete or its durability. The company foresees a wide range of applications beyond wave dissipation blocks. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. expects the concrete to help revitalize local fisheries and improve the coastal environment while also preventing disasters. See “Joint development of Environment Vitalizing Concrete to help Reference promote marine ecosystems” on p. 84. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 28 Special Feature 3 Engaging the Public to Envision a Healthier Future By 2050, the global population is expected to reach nine billion. To build a healthy future for people and the planet, much needs to be done to solve the problems humanity faces. The Ajinomoto Group recognizes it can only do so much on its own, so it seeks to maximize its impact by working with others. By exchanging views and joining forces with a diverse range of interested parties worldwide, it is producing greater results. Dialogue and cooperation are the keys to a healthier future. Recognition of activities by the Ajinomoto Group (fiscal 2012) Group initiatives for sustainable development including measures to create a Green Economy The Ajinomoto Group received the Fuji Sankei Group Award as part of the 23rd Global Environment Awards (February 2013; sponsored by the Fujisankei Communications Group) Main commendations • Group-wide initiatives for sustainable development of the global environment under the slogan, “Good eating = Green eating” • Declaring the intent to help solve the problems facing humanity in the 21st century • Promoting Green Economy measures such as co-product fertilizers and feeds, and the operation of bio-cycles Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Received an Award for Excellence in the Environmental Report category of the 16th Environmental Communication Awards (March 2013; sponsored by the Global Environmental Forum) Main commendations • Promoting group-wide initiatives for protecting the environment and building a more sustainable society • Clearly reporting global initiatives in accordance with the Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda 29 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Special Feature 3 Engaging the Public to Envision a Healthier Future Dialoguing on the Vision for a Healthier Future The Ajinomoto Group is determined to ensure that its businesses help realize a better future for people and the planet. To succeed, it must stay in dialogue with diverse external stakeholders and reflect the feedback it gets in future activities. The Group discusses its vision for the future with people of many different opinions, seeking to find the best ways to take action. Communicating about the Facilitating discussion about Ajinomoto Group’s initiatives the future In order to foster social dialogue on its vision for the future, The Ajinomoto Group believes that a sustainable future can only the Ajinomoto Group must first communicate its own intentions be achieved when all sectors of society work together. The and ideas. Group broadly communicates the global issues it is addressing, The Group uses the Internet, advertising, leaflets, events, and proposes ways it can work with everyone to create a better factory tours and other methods to get its message out. It does future. It works with people to chart a vision of the future and this to share information on the sustainability initiatives it takes then work to realize it. Steady efforts like these are the shortest to meet the needs of different types of stakeholders worldwide. path to a healthier future for people and the planet. That is why The full-length Sustainability Report details the Group’s the Ajinomoto Group works so hard to create many opportuniapproaches and initiatives worldwide and is the Group’s main ties for this kind of dialogue. communication tool in this area. It also provides the detailed The Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum has been held information disclosure that experts require. A shorter, more three times in Japan since March 2012, in conjunction with accessible summary report is also issued for general readers. various organizations. The first forum was attended by 300 The Group provides detailed environmental information members of the public, followed by forums in December 2012 about products on its website and in its reports. Moreover, the and March 2013. The second forum was held with Kao Corpora“Aji-na Eco” mark of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. enables customers in tion on the theme of “Let’s Make a Sustainable Life Together.” It stores to obtain environmental information at a glance. The was a valuable opportunity for the 550 participants to think about Group encourages people to see the dinner table as a place for what they can do for sustainability as part of their own eating environmental action, aiming to engage consumers in the effort habits and lifestyles. to create a better food-future. With its “Eco-Uma Recipe” proSee “Promoting ‘Aji-na Eco’ mark products with environmental gram, the Group offers eco-friendly tips to consumers for easy Reference packaging” on p. 89. See “Second Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum” on p. 108. use when preparing daily meals. In addition, the company gives awards to children for outstanding environmental activities Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/forum/ relating to food. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 30 Special Feature 3 Engaging the Public to Envision a Healthier Future Creating a Better Future, Globally and Regionally In addition to global food and nutrition issues, each region of the world has its own special challenges. It will be difficult to build a sustainable food future by addressing issues on only the global or the regional level. Both are a vital part of the solution. The Ajinomoto Group’s vision calls for both global initiatives and efforts tailored to individual countries and regions. Conveying the “Good eating = Green eating” concept Promoting global dialogue at in Japan Rio+20 Left: In-house lecture by the deputy In June 2012, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable president of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Lower left: Exterior display at the Tohoku Development (Rio+20)1 was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. As a Branch, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Lower right: Display in the factory tour global food products company headquartered in Japan, the presentation room at the Kyushu Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Ajinomoto Group exhibited at the Japan Pavilion. The Group showed visitors its vision for how food can help build a better future under the slogan of “Good eating = Green eating.” The exhibit conveyed past and present business activities and approaches of the Group, based on these themes: (1) protecting and nurturing natural resources; (2) making the best use of resources and recycling; (3) achieving a low-carbon society; Display on the plant tour route at Ayutthaya Factory, and (4) providing a healthy, sustainable lifestyle. Exhibit staff Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. discussed the future of food with various stakeholders, including NPO/NGO representatives, experts on environmental and social issues, as well as government officials from around the world. The visitors expressed great expectations for the initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group, and the staff renewed their determination to contribute to ensure that the Group’s business activities contribute to a sustainable future for food. Participants on the Ayutthaya Factory tour learn about the With this commitment, since fiscal 2012 the Group has been “Good eating = Green eating” concept. Since July 2013 actively sharing the Rio+20 declaration and public feedback with when the plant was completed, we have been telling its employees via internal newsletters and lectures. It is also visitors all about these initiatives. We also explain the Ajinomoto Group Vision for creating value with conveying its commitment to the public during factory tours and local communities, on which other activities. the initiatives are based. 1 A conference for world leaders held every decade to discuss paths towards the sustainable development of economies, societies, and the environment. Marking the third such meeting since the first in 1992, Rio+20 was held June 20–22, 2012, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Discussions were held on the green economy in the context of poverty eradication and sustainable development, as well as on institutional frameworks for Sivaporn Siricharttada sustainable development. PR Manager, Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. The Group’s booth at the Japan Pavilion was staffed by representatives of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. as well as employees of Ajinomoto do Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos Ltda. They introduced the Group’s environmental and CSR initiatives in Brazil and talked with visitors. Food isn’t just about flavor, or balanced nutrition. By changing how we eat, we can make people—and the planet—healthy. This is our vision for a new food-future. It’s why we believe 31 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 . Enhancing dialogue within Distributing information via various media in each each region country and region The Ajinomoto Group continually communicates with people around the world. The Group has prioritized public dialogue on sustainability at its sites worldwide, and this will become increasingly important in the future. Once a year, PR representatives from group companies around the world meet to discuss approaches to social dialogue. One of the important objectives is to enhance communication on sustainability with each region worldwide. At the conference in October 2012, the Group’s vision announced at Rio+20 was shared, as well as opinions received from around the world. Participants also discussed specific ideas for enriching dialogue and communication in each country. They shared the importance of communicating with the public and conveying the sustainability initiatives of the Group with themes and methods that suit each particular country and region, including factory tours, reports, and dialogue events with experts. Various We issued our first CSR report in 2013. It shows how our business activities are forms of stakeholder dialogue contributing to Vietnamese lifestyles and are now underway at each society. The report also creates opportunigroup company. ties for better dialogue with local people. This is important to us, as we strive to earn the public’s appreciation and build a more sustainable world. Tran Bac BINH CSR and Internal Communication, PR Dept., Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Global PR conference Highlight Enabling all employees to make a difference for their local community, nation and the planet The Ajinomoto Group’s Smile Earth! activities The Ajinomoto Group business itself makes a difference, but the Group also wanted to find a way to empower all of its employees to do their own part. The result was its unique Smile Earth! activities, which have been going strong now for seven years. They include clean-up activities around business facilities worldwide, as well as the Mottainai (What a waste!) and Eco Action campaigns. Unique activities are also carried out at each site. In October 2012, about 10,000 people at 186 sites in 15 countries participated in clean-up activities around business facilities. When these activities started seven years ago, most participants were employees. Now, local governments and residents have also joined in, adding even more manpower to the clean-ups. The Ajinomoto Group will continue to provide creative avenues for its employees to join hands with local residents to make their communities even better places to live and work. See “Ajinomoto Group Smile Earth! activities bring Reference smiles to people and the planet” on p. 125. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 32 Fiscal 2012 Activity Report Taking Responsibility for Global Sustainability Issues The Ajinomoto Group recognizes that it has a corporate social responsibility to help build a more sustainable world. The Ajinomoto Group Philosophy guides the Group’s efforts to help solve three issues facing 21st century human society: global sustainability, food resources, and healthy living. The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group naturally involve solving various challenges confronting customers, business partners, communities, the global community, and the ecosystems without which none of these could exist. Meeting these social expectations is a vital element of the Group’s corporate responsibility. Across all of its business activities, the Ajinomoto Group is determined to contribute solutions to various social challenges, doing its part in building a sustainable future for people and the planet. Since fiscal 2011, the Ajinomoto Group has been utilizing the ISO 26000 guidance standard on social responsibility as a tool for assessing its sustainability initiatives and identifying further issues to address. Food resources Healthy Issues for 21st living century human society Global sustainability Community Organizational involvement and governance development Seven core Fair operating Consumer subjects of issues practices Human Labor The ISO 26000 rights practices environment 33 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Contents This section of the report describes the Ajinomoto Group’s fiscal 2012 activities under the seven core subjects of ISO 26000. Organizational Increasing Corporate Value through Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, The Environment Governance Responsible Management as the Foundation for All Life P37 Corporate Governance P71  he Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy T and Basic Environmental Policies P38 Compliance Framework P73 T  he Ecological Business Model of the P41 CSR Management Ajinomoto Group P74  nvironmental Initiatives through the Entire E Product Lifecycle P75 A  jinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Fair Operating  Plan and Fiscal 2012 Results Practices Ethical and Honest Practices P76  jinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal A 2012 Results P43 Pursuing CSR Procurement P77 Fiscal 2012 Input and Output Balance P46 Ensuring Fair Competition P78 Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity P46 Preventing Corruption P81  eveloping Technologies and Products That D P46 P  rotecting and Properly Using Contribute to Global Sustainability Intellectual Property P85 D  evelopment of Environmentally Friendly Packaging P90 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Respecting the Rights of Everyone Human Rights Our Business Touches P92 Conserving Water Resources P93 Reducing Waste P49  orking to Identify Human Rights Issues and W P94 Initiatives in Logistics Deepen Awareness P95 Environmental Management P51 Human Rights Initiatives at Workplaces P97  roviding Environmental Education and P Fostering Awareness Building a Company Where Labor Practices Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Derive Job Satisfaction T  aking a Consumer-driven Approach Consumer Issues to a More Sustainable World P53 D  eveloping and Promoting Diverse Human Resources from a Global Perspective P99 Delivering Reliable Quality P55 Improving Work-Life Balance P104 Communicating with Customers P58 Labor-Management Relations P108  roposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with P P59 Ensuring Employee Health and Safety the Dinner Table Growing with the People of Each Community Community P113 Solving Local Issues Around the World P115 Solving Food and Nutrition-related Issues P122 Supporting Areas Struck by Natural Disaster P125 Employees Aim to Make a Personal Contribution Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 34 Sharing a United Approach to Sustainability With the revision of the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy to mark the Group’s 100th anniversary in 2009, the Ajinomoto Group Way and the Ajinomoto Group Vision were established and the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct were revised. Today, all of these are being implemented under the name, “Ajinomoto Group Principles.” The Ajinomoto Group Principles not only clarify management objectives, but also guide the Group’s efforts to make a unique, even broader contribution to the three issues of global sustainability, food resources, and Reference See “Compliance Framework” on p. 38. healthy living. They also represent the Group’s public commitment to making a real difference in all Link Corporate Philosophy / Vision http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/ three areas. Ajinomoto Group Philosophy We create better lives globally by contributing to significant advances in Food and Health and by working for Life. Ajinomoto Group Way Create New Value Social Contribution Create value with new ideas and continuous innovation based on Accommodate social requirements with humility and honesty, with unique technologies and science. the objective of maximizing value for society through business activities. Pioneer Spirit Continue to constantly take on the challenge of creating new Value People businesses and markets. Respect the humanity of all the people involved in the Ajinomoto Group’s businesses, and be an organization in which they can grow and display their abilities to the fullest extent. Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct (excerpt) Purposes The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct (hereafter the “Standards of Conduct”) show the conduct that each of us must understand and endeavor to practice every day in order to implement the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy in accordance with the Ajinomoto Group Way. The Ajinomoto Group companies pledge to use their efforts to implement and comply with the Standards of Conduct. 1. For Customers 5. For Shareholders and Investors In order to put our customers first and create better lives globally by contributing Ajinomoto Group companies shall use their best efforts to conduct sound manto significant advances in Food and Health and by working for Life, Ajinomoto agement practice, to return appropriate profits to shareholders and to increase Group companies seek to develop and provide safe, high-quality products corporate value. and services. The Ajinomoto Group will use its best efforts to disclose information having a In order to establish and maintain the trust and expectations of our customsubstantial effect on corporate performance and other operations in a timely and ers and ensure their satisfaction, we endeavor to provide appropriate information proper manner in order to allow shareholders and investors to make informed about our products and services and deal honestly with inquiries. decisions. In addition, the Ajinomoto Group seeks to deal fairly and honestly with shareholders and investors. 2. For Society We handle non-public information obtained in the course of business careIn addition to contributing to society through our business activities as part of fully. We do not engage in insider trading, which is the buying or selling of corpohealthy local communities, we strive to enhance our communication with society rate shares or other securities using such information for one’s own benefit or the and to contribute to the economic, cultural and educational development of each benefit of a third party. community where we conduct our business. As a part of healthy local communities, Ajinomoto Group companies encour6. Fair and Transparent Transactions age each officer or employee to participate in social contribution activities. We constantly strive to dedicate ourselves to fairness and transparency in all our transactions and maintain fair business practices, recognizing our counterparties 3. For the Global Environment as business partners. We endeavor to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society where all We endeavor to recognize fully and comply with laws and regulations conpeople of future generations can enjoy an abundant natural environment and cerning competition in all countries in which we operate as part of the globally better living. active Ajinomoto Group. We understand that our business activities are built upon the blessings of We make decisions on business partners by fairly comparing and evaluating nature. We seek to reduce our negative impact on the global environment and terms such as price, quality and service when selecting subcontractors and supecosystems and to promote recycling-oriented business activities that use pliers of raw materials, products or services. resources and energy more effectively. We attempt, together with our subcontractors and suppliers of raw materials, products and services, to fulfill our social responsibilities including environmental 4. For Employees preservation and protection of human rights. Ajinomoto Group companies endeavor to respect the diversity, character and indiWe comply with all laws prohibiting illegal political contribution or inapproprividuality of employees and to ensure a safe and favorable work environment in ate payments or gifts to public servants and we work to maintain sound and nororder to realize a fulfilling work-life balance for each employee. mal relations with politics and government. Ajinomoto Group companies attempt to provide opportunities for employWe endeavor not to have relationships with any anti-social influence or orgament and for the development and expression of skills, and to encourage employnization that poses a threat to the order or safety of civil society. ees to place importance on teamwork from a global point of view, demonstrate creativity and work to contribute to the Ajinomoto Group’s development. 7. Protection and Management of Company Assets and Information Ajinomoto Group companies strive to conduct honest interaction with We seek to protect strictly and manage confidential information and tangible and employees, either directly or through representatives, and to create a free and intangible company assets, including intellectual property rights. lively corporate culture with a pioneer spirit by pursuing new ideas and We endeavor to respect the legitimate intellectual property rights of continuous innovation. third parties. Each employee is expected to establish and maintain a positive workplace in which people respect each other’s humanity, without discrimination or harassment, and which promotes open communication. 35 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Organizational Governance Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management Corporate governance is a vital element of Contents business management. Good corporate P37 Corporate Governance • Corporate governance system governance ensures that organizations are held • Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity plan responsible for their decisions and the impact of their activities. It helps them to integrate social P38 Compliance Framework responsibility into everything they do. • Adhering to the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Corporate governance is the bedrock of the Business Conduct • Business Conduct Committee promotes compliance Ajinomoto Group’s efforts to help build a more • Compliance education for employees sustainable world. The Group has built a robust • Information security corporate governance system and pursues ethical, responsible management with great transparency. P41 CSR Management It understands that strong, careful corporate • CSR implementation structure governance improves corporate value. Group • Systematically examining CSR materiality companies worldwide not only comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but also follow the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct. The Ajinomoto Group has spelled out the essence of its social responsibility in the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy. Determined to deliver, the Group is keenly focused on social contribution, one of the four commitments of the Ajinomoto Group Way (see pp. 1 and 35). The Ajinomoto Group also stays in constant dialogue with internal and external stakeholders, ensuring that its initiatives are precisely targeted to meet the expectations of society. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 36 Organizational Governance Corporate Governance For Ajinomoto Co., Inc., strong corporate governance is a top priority, both for improving competitiveness and for establishing a positive presence in society. The company is creating an effective system of business execution and supervision that incorporates global best practices and retains the positive aspects of Japanese-style management. Emphasizing group-wide management and efforts to strengthen business competitiveness, this system is strategically designed to increase corporate value. Corporate governance system Board of Directors and Management Committee Auditing and supervision The Board of Directors of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is the highest Outside directors have been appointed to supervise business decision-making body within the management structure. The execution from a neutral, independent standpoint. In addition, board makes decisions on matters relating to laws and ordinancthe Internal Auditing Department follows internal auditing rules es and the company’s by-laws as well as other important matters, and implements planned operational audits of the company as and supervises the work of the directors and corporate well as management and operational audits of group companies. executive officers. Corporate audits are conducted by five appointed corporate The Management Committee is comprised of senior execuauditors, three of whom are outside auditors. The Board of tive officers who are also directors. The committee deliberates Corporate Auditors conducts a preliminary review of the agenda on basic policies regarding management of the company and of the Board of Directors, in addition to discussing and sharing makes decisions on important matters regarding busiits opinions on the status and results of the activities of each ness execution. corporate auditor. The business management organizations are divided into corporate, operational, and production groups. Each group is under the direction and supervision of a responsible executive Nominations and compensation officer and focused on its particular area of operations. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established advisory committees on executive appointments and compensation to strengthen transCorporate governance organization parency and objectivity. Each committee, composed of several directors including outside directors, discusses and advises the General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors on appointment plans and compensation of candidates. Board of Directors Nominating Management & supervision Board of Corporate Auditors Advisory Board of Directors Committee Corporate Auditors Outside Corporate Chairman of the Board • Highest decisionmaking body Internal controls Auditors President Compensation • Supervision of Directors Advisory business execution Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established a group-wide internal control Committee Corporate Auditor’s Outside Directors system for financial reporting in accordance with Japan’s Office Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and regularly reviews Management Committee Business execution and seeks to improve its performance. The company identifies Management potential risks by analyzing business processes and establishes President and Chief Executive Officer Committee • Formulation of fundainternal controls for each critical risk. Continuous monitoring Member of the Board, Corporate Executive Deputy President mental management policies helps the company to maintain a sound internal control system. Member of the Board, Corporate Senior Vice President • Decision-making on key issues Using this system, the company has been assessing the Member of the Board, Corporate Vice President effectiveness of its internal controls through operating tests, mainly conducted by the Internal Control Assessment Group of Corporate Sector Operational Sector Production Sector Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Corporate Officers the Internal Auditing Department at Ajinomoto Co., Inc., which Officers Officers Executive Officers • Business execution is independent from the company’s day-to-day operations. These Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries and assessments of internal controls have also been audited by Ernst group companies group companies group companies & Young ShinNihon LLC. The assessments conducted in fiscal 2012 verified the effectiveness of the Ajinomoto Group’s internal controls as of the Investment, Internal controls & Internal Business Risk Loan and risk management end of the fiscal year. Auditing Conduct Management Business Department Committee Committee Scrutiny These activities demonstrate the company’s commitment to Committee fulfilling its corporate social responsibility to maintain effective internal controls and ensure the reliability of financial reporting. Corporate Governance Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ir/about/corp_gov.html 37 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Organizational Governance Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity plan The Ajinomoto Group established its Risk Management Plan (BCP) to incorporate a stronger emphasis on preserving Committee in 2002 to carry out comprehensive risk managehuman life and helping afflicted local communities. In fiscal ment. The committee plans crisis response measures for dealing 2012, group companies in Japan formulated their own ECPs for a with accidents and incidents both in and outside Japan and major earthquake scenario. They formulated plans for the identifies risks in advance in order to avert a crisis. business recovery stage, which is the third stage following an In fiscal 2012, the Group reorganized its emergency safety emergency after ensuring human safety and supporting immediframework for local subsidiaries in Africa, where risks are ate recovery. particularly high, in view of a number of incidents outside Japan The Ajinomoto Group also worked to ensure full awareness that had given rise to serious security concerns, including the among employees by producing and distributing an ECP pocket terrorist incident at an Algerian gas plant. In fiscal 2013, the manual. ECP trainings were also partially implemented during Group will strengthen risk management operations and promote disaster drills, and the Group will keep enhancing the content in responses to key company-wide risks. the future. In fiscal 2013, the entire Group will promote the Moreover, responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake in formulation of an ECP for a pandemic scenario. 2011, the Ajinomoto Group is formulating an Enterprise ConSee “Preparing for natural disasters and protecting human life” Reference on p. 67. tinuity Plan (ECP), revising its previous Business Continuity Compliance Framework The Ajinomoto Group requires not only that all managers and employees comply with the law but also that they adhere to the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct. With the aim of becoming a “genuine global company,” the Group will work to further consolidate the framework which undergirds all of its compliance efforts. Adhering to the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct define Ajinomoto Group Principles and the Group Vision model conduct that all managers and employees must understand and endeavor to practice every day in order to implement the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy in accordance with the shared values set out in the Ajinomoto Group Way. The Group is working to ensure full awareness of the standards among managers Lev Ajinomoto Group gs and employees at group companies both in and outside Japan. Philosophy ion gin The Business Conduct Committee also checks various initiatives izat era and corporate activities. opt tren im gth ess Ajinomoto Group sa usin Way nd e gb gen urin rati Ens ng Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto Group ben Standards of s Business Vision efit Conduct Codes of conduct Standards, regulations, etc., for each field Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/group/ Reference See “Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct” on p. 35. Brochure on the Ajinomoto Group Principles Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 38 Organizational Governance Business Conduct Committee promotes compliance In May 1997, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. established the Business ment in the workplace and is working to enhance the security of Conduct Committee, giving it the tasks of ensuring that all mobile phones and other information devices. It also offers personnel are well informed of the Ajinomoto Group Standards educational programs, including training and seminars on of Business Conduct and verifying that business activities are problems concerning harassment and a diversifying workforce. compliant with the standards. The main group companies in The main group companies outside of Japan have also set up Japan have also set up business conduct committees focusing on business conduct committees. They are taking steps to increase their own unique issues. employee awareness of the Ajinomoto Group Standards of One of the key issues for the committee is information Business Conduct as well as their own codes of conduct, which security enhancement, which has become increasingly importare formulated with respect for the culture and characteristics of ant in recent years. It regularly verifies information manageeach particular country. Role of the Business Conduct Committee Secretariat (General Affairs & Risk Management Department) Also secretariat for Risk Management Committee Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Management Committee Business Conduct Committee Companies of the Ajinomoto Group Mission Members (Contact: Business Conduct 1. Keep all employees informed of corporate ethics Chairman: Member of the Board, Committee secretariat) and the Standards of Business Conduct Corporate Senior Vice President 2. Address topics related to the standards Committee: 16 members 3. Provide training and education (including 1 union representative), (Reports/instruction) 4. Manage the standards and associated tools 1 corporate auditor as supervisor Business sites of Meeting frequency: Once every 3 months Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (Contact: Section in charge of general Established: May 1997 affairs or human resources) Hotline Worksite review meetings on Ajinomoto Group Questionnaire on awareness of Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct Principles (AGP) Members of the Business Conduct Committee have been visiting Every year in November, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its group worksites at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. every year since 1998 to hold companies in Japan conduct an anonymous AGP Questionnaire worksite review meetings on the Ajinomoto Group Standards of to monitor understanding and implementation of AGP and check Business Conduct. At these meetings, they hear about issues for compliance issues. The results of the questionnaires are concerning compliance in the worksite directly from employees. reported to the Business Conduct Committee and made availIn fiscal 2012, 339 employees took part in a total of 30 meetings. able to all employees on the intranet. Themes raised at the meetings which need to be tackled at a company-wide level are discussed by the Business Conduct Committee and reflected in specific activities. The content of Whistleblower hotline and harassment these worksite review meetings is posted on the intranet, enadvisory service abling all employees to stay informed. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its main group companies in Japan have Similar worksite review meetings are also held at group established a whistleblower hotline, which serves as the centercompanies in Japan. piece of the internal reporting system. The hotline enables anyone, including support workers from third-party companies, to make reports or seek advice by telephone, e-mail, facsimile, letters or other communication methods. The Hotline Operation Rules clearly state that the privacy of personnel using the hotline is guaranteed and that users will not be subject to any form of adverse treatment as a result of their reports. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. uses the intranet and posters to make employees fully aware that there are no adverse consequences for using the hotline. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has also assigned in-house staff to a harassment advisory service to complement the dedicated service it has outside the company. The company makes employees fully aware of these options through the intranet and by distributing cards that show how to use them. Reference See “Increasing employee awareness of human rights” on p. 51. 39 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Organizational Governance Compliance education for employees The Ajinomoto Group is improving its education and training to Bengali, and Khmer to match the Group’s recent expansion into ensure that employees are thoroughly aware of the Ajinomoto emerging markets, and now they are available in 14 languages. Group Standards of Business Conduct. Information is distributed The Ajinomoto Group also offers worksite and departmentthrough manuals, posters, and the Group’s intranet. In fiscal specific compliance training both in and outside Japan. 2011, the standards were translated into Arabic, Turkish, Employees’ computers show 36 different conduct reminder startup screens. Poster to promote awareness of the Ajinomoto Group An originally designed poster to promote the Code Standards of Business Conduct (Japanese version) of Conduct at Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Compliance training in fiscal 2012 Training Participants Content Compliance relating to labor, legal affairs, quality and information Compliance training Line managers at group companies management, and intellectual property (6 sessions) Sales staff from the companies of the Legal compliance training Act on the Protection of Personal Information and consumer promotion Ajinomoto Group in Japan Human resources staff from Ajinomoto Labor risk management and compliance, labor management, legal Labor seminar Co., Inc. and group companies in Japan background (basic and advanced training) Seconded Japanese staff and Thai line Compliance training Ajinomoto Group Principles and fraud risk management managers at Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Risk management training Managers at Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Basic knowledge and practical training in risk management Information security Guided by the Ajinomoto Group Information Security Policy, the employees, temporary agency employees who handle informaAjinomoto Group ensures information security by providing tion and part-time employees. employee education to foster full knowledge of regulations In January 2013, the Ajinomoto Group Website Guidelines and standards. The Group also restricts equipment use to were formulated to strengthen the management of the Group’s prevent leaks of company data, keeps records of company entire website system. database access, and monitors for attempts at unauthorized Going forward, the Group will work hard to further improve access from the outside. A system has also been implemented security levels at all group companies both in and outside Japan. to quickly detect and shut down any external attacks on the Group’s websites. Reference See “Rigorous management of personal information” on p. 107. In fiscal 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. created an information The Ajinomoto Group Information Security Policy Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/securitypolicy/index. security inspection sheet, checked the status of security control html at all worksites and identified priority issues based on the results. The company ran a total of six training sessions on information security for line managers at group companies in Japan, attended by 367 people. It also held an information security comprehension test via e-learning for all employees of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., including managers, employees, contract Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 40 Organizational Governance CSR Management The Ajinomoto Group sees realizing the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy as a key part of its responsibility to society. By adding the concept “Working for Life” to the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy in 2009 on the occasion of its 100th anniversary, the Group declared its aspiration to respect all living creatures and the environment of the planet that supports them, and is unified in its efforts to realize this philosophy. CSR implementation structure Overseeing the Group’s efforts, the CSR Department at management systems, including ISO and the occupational health Ajinomoto Co., Inc. provides information on the Group’s CSR and safety assessment series (OHSAS). Its efforts are based on initiatives and offers support for specific initiatives by individual the company’s Environmental Regulations, Disaster Prevention organizations. The company holds regular liaison meetings with and Safety Management Regulations, and Quality Assurance CSR staff from the main group companies in Japan to ensure Regulations. The Ajinomoto Group maintains systems like these more united efforts on CSR activities, including assistance for and seeks to integrate their operations. reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake. The Cross-organizational monthly meetings are also held to company also liaises as appropriate with CSR staff at the main promote active communication in and outside the company, subsidiaries outside Japan to coordinate initiatives. concerning the Group’s CSR initiatives. With respect to the core CSR priorities of environment, safety, and quality, the company has implemented various Systematically examining CSR materiality The Ajinomoto Group is convinced that practicing the Ajinomoto complementary fashion. Relevant departments will consider Group Philosophy will help to solve three social challenges which matters and social issues need to be addressed in light of facing humankind in the 21st century: global sustainability, food ISO 26000. resources, and healthy living. The Group will also hold theme-based dialogues with stakeSeeking to further clarify its initiatives to address these three holders to deepen its understanding of what society expects. social challenges, in fiscal 2010 relevant staff from the business and R&D divisions gathered for an interdepartmental workshop to consider the Group’s future course and identify the materiality Working with stakeholders to create for the Ajinomoto Group. The issues to be addressed and the a sustainable future course of action were confirmed after dialogue with outside The Ajinomoto Group recognizes the importance of hearing experts. Reflecting these activities, the FY2011–2013 Mediumdiverse opinions, providing information at events, and engaging Term Management Plan defined the contributions made to in direct dialogue with stakeholders. Activities like these enable solving the three challenges by the Ajinomoto Group through its the Group to adjust its course to better meet the expectations of business activities and announced specific initiatives. society, and they have been built into the decision-making The Group is taking steps to put its social contributions process for CSR implementation. through business activities on an even firmer footing in the The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct also FY2014–2016 Medium-Term Management Plan. Surveys will be mandate that every stakeholder group be treated with respect. conducted in each business division in fiscal 2013 to identify the Accordingly, the Group has a basic policy for managing and social issues that each division should address under the next providing appropriate information to customers, the public, as plan as well as how their business activities will contribute. The well as investors and shareholders. Group will also quantify progress and practice the PDCA cycle to strengthen communication both inside and outside the company. Reference See “Engaging the Public to Envision a Healthier Future” on p. 29. The Group had already implemented ISO 9001 and ISO Reference See “Second Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum” on p. 108. 14001 management systems as well as the Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum Standards of Business Conduct to ensure business optimization Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/forum/ and contribution to sustainability. Looking to confirm whether its steps were meeting the current requirements of the global community, the Group reexamined its initiatives against ISO 26000 in fiscal 2012, which highlighted some new opportunities for improvement. While continuing to use its existing management systems, the Group will also utilize ISO 26000 in a 41 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Fair Operating Practices Ethical and Honest Practices Contents The prerequisite for a stable, sustainable world is ethical conduct in every business relationship and a P43 Pursuing CSR Procurement • Cooperating with suppliers on CSR procurement commitment to transparency. The Ajinomoto Group, • Ensuring sustainable procurement of critical raw materials which conducts transactions worldwide in a vast value chain, takes these responsibilities seriously. P46 Ensuring Fair Competition For the Ajinomoto Group, fair business practices means more than just complying with the apP46 Preventing Corruption plicable laws worldwide. The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct incorporate the P46  Protecting and Properly Using Intellectual Property principles of the UN Global Compact as their basic approach. Based on these standards, group companies around the world have also established their own codes of conduct, which provide examples of model conduct for the circumstances of each country. The Ajinomoto Group uses this two-tiered system to ensure fair business practices in all of its activities worldwide, pursuing CSR procurement, complete anti-corruption measures, fair competition, and respect for intellectual property rights. Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) 6. Code of conduct concerning fair and transparent 7. Code of conduct concerning protection and management transactions of company assets and information 6.1 Compliance with antitrust laws, etc. P46 7.1 Management of company assets 6.2 Fair purchasing transactions 7.2 Management of information 6.3 Social responsibilities in purchasing transactions 7.3 Protection of intellectual property rights 6.4 Reasonable socialization and courtesies with internal and external affiliated parties and business partners P46 6.5 Prohibition of inappropriate payments or gifts to public servants P46 6.6 Elimination of relations with anti-social forces Note: The Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct has been established in line with the Ajinomoto 6.7 Management of exports and imports Group Standards of Business Conduct. Likewise, the group companies have established their own codes of conduct and follow both the group standards and their own code. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 42 Fair Operating Practices Pursuing CSR Procurement The Ajinomoto Group has suppliers in practically every corner of the globe. The Group seeks to take responsibility for environmental and social performance on issues such as human rights and labor safety across raw materialproducing regions and the supply chain. This is the key to securing sustainable, stable procurement now and in the future. The Ajinomoto Group is committed to working closely with supply chain stakeholders to ensure that its procurement is socially responsible. Cooperating with suppliers on CSR procurement Formulation of Supplier CSR Guidelines socially responsible procurement to be identified in its supply The Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy was established chain, Ajinomoto Co. Inc. will ask suppliers to address problem in fiscal 2006. It calls for CSR to be practiced as part of transacareas and provide assistance where needed. tions, and requires suppliers and other business partners to take In fiscal 2014 and beyond, the company will expand the their own CSR measures. By formulating CSR guidelines for guidelines and SAQ to encompass group companies in and suppliers as well as policies and guidelines for the sustainable outside Japan, so that they can assess their suppliers. procurement of agricultural, livestock, and fisheries products, the Group will ensure more effective implementation of socially Formulation of policies and guidelines for responsible procurement across its supply chain. sustainable procurement of agricultural, livestock, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. had already formulated CSR guidelines and fisheries products for suppliers in fiscal 2013, detailing its expectations for suppliers to carry out socially responsible procurement under the Committed to sustainable practices that benefit local communiAjinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy. The guidelines ties and economies, the Ajinomoto Group is systematically encourage suppliers to institute improvements on their own preparing policies and guidelines for the sustainable procureaccord, and promote a common set of values and objectives for ment of agricultural, livestock, and fisheries products. The social responsibility between the company and its suppliers. Group is committed to working with raw material producers and These actions will build trust with communities by working in suppliers to identify risks that impact ecosystem services in the concert to enable the company and its suppliers to learn and manufacturing processes for ingredients used in products, and to grow together. identify social issues in the supply chain. In fiscal 2013, the Group Procurement Center of Ajinomoto The Group has already formulated an Ajinomoto Group Co. Inc. is conducting a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) on Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda and Ajinomoto Group social responsibility for direct suppliers of the company. The Guidelines for Procurement of Environmentally Responsible SAQ enables suppliers to check for issues that may exist at their Paper. Moving forward, it will continue to work on specific companies with regard to social responsibility. Based on risks to procurement policies and action plans for important raw materials to ensure sustainable procurement. Guidelines relating to CSR procurement Ajinomoto Group Principles（AGP） Ajinomoto Group Philosophy Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct Ajinomoto Group Way Ajinomoto Group Vision Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” Environmental Philosophy Quality Policies Ajinomoto Human and “Occupational Health Security Policy Ajinomoto Group CSR Vision and Basic Environmental Policies Resource Values and Safety”Philosophy/Policies Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy Supplier CSR Guidelines Policies and guidelines for sustainable procurement Learning and growing together of agricultural, livestock, and fisheries products Documents supplier expectations for social responsibility Systematic formulation of principles and policies for sustainable Divided into sections on human rights, labor safety, the environment, and compliance, in procurement, by type of raw material accordance with the AGP, UN Global Compact, and ISO 26000 Ajinomoto Group Guidelines for Advises suppliers to pursue, in line with the guidelines, initiatives for social responsibility Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity on their own accord, and to extend such initiatives upstream in their supply chain, thus Procurement of Policy and Action Agenda ensuring CSR initiatives are taken across the supply chain of the Ajinomoto Group Environmentally Responsible Paper Ajinomoto Group Guidelines for Procurement of Environmentally Reference See “Considering human rights in business activities” on p. 50. Responsible Paper Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/pdf/2012/ Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy environ_responsible_paper_en_201201.pdf Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/purchase/ Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/ biodiversity-agenda/ 43 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Fair Operating Practices Ensuring sustainable procurement of critical raw materials The Ajinomoto Group depends on natural resources and practicother disasters. The Ajinomoto Group is carefully studying the es sustainable procurement of key raw materials. The Group escalating water resource risks as a business continuity issue. chooses effective approaches based on the circumstances of The Ajinomoto Group will continue to work globally to each type of raw material. ensure sustainable procurement of the diverse raw materials that Palm oil and paper are extensively used by industry. Proare so vital to its business. curement of these resources must be critically evaluated in order 1 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) for palm oil and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) to conserve forest ecosystems, which significantly affect the for paper. global environment. Global certification schemes and initiatives for palm oil and paper1 exist to establish sustainable social systems for production and consumption of these resources. The Ajinomoto Group is working with various stakeholders to incorporate these certifications and initiatives into its supply chain. Furthermore, Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. has begun sourcing certified coffee beans based on internal policies for sustainable procurement. The Ajinomoto Group is taking steps to achieve sustainable procurement of items such as raw materials for fermentation, skipjack, and shrimp. Since these items are procured through arrangements that are specific to the Group, it is possible for the Group and its suppliers to jointly create value across the supply chain. For example, Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. specifies that ecosystem factors be considered for procurement of shrimp, which is one of the major ingredients used by the company. Population growth has led to scarcity of fresh water in many places worldwide, while the increase in extreme weather events has led to unusually serious damage from drought, flooding and Participating in the RSPO to help ensure sustainable procurement of palm oil The Ajinomoto Group also procures and uses palm oil for the production of food and specialty chemical products. As a Palm oil is used for various purposes such as food and specialuser of approximately 3,000 tonnes of palm oil and related raw ty chemical products. With a global annual production of more materials each year, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. joined the RSPO in than 50 million tonnes, it is the world’s most abundantly August 2012 to participate in the global movement to mainproduced vegetable oil. Production of this oil has been increasstream CSPO. The company has been shaping a roadmap for ing year by year to meet food demand from the growing global introducing sustainable palm oil and acquiring supply chain population, and as an alternative to fossil fuel resources such certification. A group company, J-OIL MILLS, INC., has been a as petroleum. As the oil palm is a tropical plant, about 85% of member of the RSPO since November 2011 and is now preparthe world’s production comes from Indonesia and Malaysia. ing to switch to CSPO. While the importance of palm oil expands globally, environ2 A non-profit organization whose purpose is to promote the production and use of sustainable palm oil by developing certification standards that are trusted globally and mental and social problems arising from its production have ensuring the participation of stakeholders. It is operated cooperatively by the seven groups involved in the palm oil industry: growers, processors and traders, consumer goods also emerged. These include the cutting down of tropical manufacturers, retailers, banks/investors, environmental NGOs, and social NGOs. rainforests and the loss of wetland ecosystems to make room for new oil palm plantations, the reduction of wildlife habitat, the creation of severe working conditions, infringement of human rights, and impact on traditional lifestyles. The RSPO2 was established to address these issues, and is promoting the sustainable production and use of palm oil by providing certification standards that are trusted globally. Palm oil that meets the RSPO standards is called Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). Although the production of CSPO is growing slowly, it still only accounts for 10–15% of total global production. Proactive measures need to be taken A plantation of oil palms Discussion of stakeholders at the RSPO’s 10th by all stakeholders involved in the production and use of Annual Roundtable Meeting, October 30– November 1, 2012 palm oil. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 44 Fair Operating Practices Sustainable procurement of coffee beans Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan Coffee beans are grown in regions that are rich in biodiversity and are largely sourced from small coffee farmers. In January Skipjack is the main ingredient in HONDASHI, a key product 2013, Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. and its group companies for Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in Japan. Since fiscal 2009, the compaparticipated in a meeting of the Common Code for the Coffee ny has operated the Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Community (4C Association).1 This international non-profit Pacific Coast of Japan with the National Research Institute of encourages sustainable coffee production and distribution, Far Seas Fisheries. Not only tracking skipjack migratory seeking to improve the environment for coffee farming and routes, data on water depths and temperatures are also kept, a the lives of coffee farmers. Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. and world first. Analysis of this data will build scientific knowledge its group companies also support Rainforest Alliance certificaand improve understanding of skipjack stocks and ecology, as tion,2 and they procure coffee beans produced at farms adherwell as improve international management of skipjack stocks. ing to standards such as these. In fiscal 2012, the project began using advanced electronic 1 Sets standards to support coffee growers in taking the critical first step to implementing tags to obtain detailed data on skipjack migration over about sustainable practices in coffee production and processing. 500 days, and it will continue collecting data in fiscal 2013. 2 Works to protect forests, rivers, wildlife habitats, workers and their families, and the rights and welfare of cooperatives, through certification of coffee farms. Surveying agricultural sites and processing See “Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Reference Japan ” on p. 22. plants for amino acids In July 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. surveyed sites in Thailand and Vietnam Simplified risk surveys for water resources where cassava and tapioca (a starch The Ajinomoto Group is concerned about water resources and extracted from cassava), which are raw strives to use less water in manufacturing processes and materials used for amino acid fermentapractice comprehensive wastewater quality management. As a tion, are produced. The survey covered major user of agricultural raw materials, the Group is fully the entire situation of this crop, includcommitted to weighing issues and risks associated with water ing economic, environmental, and social resources in regions where agricultural raw materials are aspects such as labor conditions. produced and is taking proper steps at Group plants. Employees from procurement and In fiscal 2012, the Group launched a survey of water environmental/CSR departments resource risks in the production of agricultural raw materials together with staff from local subsidiarfor its products. The survey, conducted in regions where the ies and outside experts conducted the Group operates, used a simplified analysis of risks supported survey. Not only focusing on risks to by outside experts, using natural capital metrics developed by stable procurement, they sought to Trucost Plc as a reference. better understanding the general Field survey at a cassava farm The survey confirmed that there are no immediate water situation by identifying factors vital to resource risks in the production of key raw materials. Moving the sustainable development of stakeforward, the Group will expand the survey scope to cover holders in the supply chain and local more products and identify risks in further detail. communities. They visited cassava Reference See “Considering human rights in business activities” on p. 50. farmers and tapioca starch processing plants, interviewed farmers and asked Reference See “Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity” on p. 78. community leaders and industry officials for input. Their findings are being Reference See “Conserving Water Resources” on p. 92. Cassava root, which is used as used to formulate a plan of action a raw material for amino acid fermentation to create shared value with supply chain stakeholders. 45 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Fair Operating Practices Ensuring Fair Competition The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct ensure fair and transparent business transactions and require employees worldwide to practice full compliance with competition law. The group companies have established their own specific Codes of Conduct based on these standards. In Japan, the Group has also implemented guidelines for compliance with antitrust law, which are based on its Standards of Business Conduct and Codes of Conduct. Under the Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy, the Group requests suppliers and other business partners to comply with laws and regulations, and issues especially strict cautions with regard to acts such as inhibiting free competition by fixing prices. Raising employee awareness Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) Group companies regularly conduct employee education on antitrust law. In fiscal 2012, the Group revised its guidelines for 6.1 Compliance with antitrust laws, etc. 6.1.1. The company endeavors to comply with antitrust laws, compecompliance with United States antitrust law and European Union tition laws and other laws and ordinances intended to ensure competition law, and distributed revised guidelines for some 20 fair competition in each country in which the company transinternational group companies. In fiscal 2013, the Group will acts business, as well as the related internal guidelines, and to promote free and fair business activities. conduct education on antitrust law for sales staff in Japan and 6.1.2. The company pursues policies to ensure it does not jointly procurement staff at group companies outside Japan. arrange prices or sales/production volume, etc., with competitors or engage in behavior to limit competition (including participating in cartels) or bid-rigging. 6.1.3. The company pursues policies to ensure it does not use unfair means, either alone or with other parties, to eliminate competitors from or block their entry into the market. Preventing Corruption Bribery and corruption not only destroy trust in a company, but can also hinder the development of a region by inviting human rights violations, poverty, and environmental destruction. The Ajinomoto Group strives to prevent bribery and corruption by implementing the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct and the codes of conduct of each group company. Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) 6.4 Reasonable socialization and courtesies with internal 6.5 Prohibition of inappropriate payments or gifts to and external affiliated parties and business partners public servants 6.4.1. The company encourages its officers and employees to act with 6.5.1. The company pursues policies to prohibit its officers and good judgment regarding gifts, entertainment and other busiemployees from providing gifts, entertainment, money or other ness-related customs and courtesies. benefits that could be considered bribes to public or quasi-pub6.4.2. The company pursues policies prohibiting officers and employlic officials. ees from engaging in conduct such as offering inappropriate 6.5.2. The company pursues policies to prohibit its officers and gifts, entertainment or money to customers or suppliers for the employees from providing gifts, entertainment, money or other purpose of building or maintaining business relationships. benefits to foreign public or quasi-public officials in order to 6.4.3. The company pursues policies prohibiting officers and employobtain unfair business advantages related to international ees from engaging in conduct such as asking suppliers for gifts, commercial transactions. entertainment or money for our personal benefit. Protecting and Properly Using Intellectual Property The Ajinomoto Group recognizes that intellectual property is an important asset. Along with ensuring its proper use, the Group takes special care not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The Group has also established an invention compensation program that rewards employee inventors. Trademark education In fiscal 2012, trademark seminars were conducted in Japan The Ajinomoto Group’s rules for the display of trademarks are and at local subsidiaries in the ASEAN region (Indonesia, published in 14 languages for group companies worldwide to Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam) observe. They serve both to enhance employee appreciation of and South America (Brazil and trademarks and prevent the AJI-NO-MOTO® trademark from Peru) for 502 employees. being used as a generic term. Trademark seminars are also conducted at group companies worldwide to give employees basic knowledge on trademarks and the rules for displaying Trademark seminar conducted for employees of AJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES trademarks such as AJI-NO-MOTO®. CORPORATION Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 46 Fair Operating Practices Highlight Ajinomoto Co., Inc. wins Intellectual Global communication symbol used for food products worldwide Property Achievement Award Ajinomoto Co., Inc. was cited by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and Japan Patent Office for outstanding use of the Industrial Property Rights System,1 receiving a METI Minister’s Award under the 25th Intellectual Property Achievement Awards. The award recognizes the company’s achievements in trademark education for brand protection, and its efforts to enhance brand value through Masako® flavor seasoning for cutting-edge marketing. These efforts include the adoption of Indonesia market a global communication symbol for foods (with trademarks filed in 132 countries) and acquisition of naming rights for AJINOMOTO STADIUM, which is a first for a public facility in Japan. Treating its brands as valuable business assets, the Ajinomoto Group will continue to make the most of its trademarks to increase brand value worldwide. Intellectual Property Achievement Award 1 Collectively refers to Japan’s system of patent rights, utility model rights, design rights, Ceremony and trademark rights. Compensation for inventions Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its group companies strive to contribute for patent applications when employee inventions are transferred to human health globally by continually creating unique value to the company, and for patent registrations when inventions that benefits customers. The company is working to protect are registered. It also pays performance-based compensation and effectively utilize intellectual property rights, including when inventions are implemented by the company. Most original technologies, content, and brands, in order to strengthgroup companies that produce inventions have implemented en its technological expertise. The company pays compensation similar programs. 47 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Human Rights Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business Touches Although it is widely recognized that companies At the same time, the Ajinomoto Group recoghave a responsibility to respect the basic human nizes that it must make further efforts in ascerrights of all people, in 2011 the United Nations taining its situation with regard to a wide range of endorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and human rights issues of social concern, and its Human Rights,2 renewing awareness of the issue. specific response activities. The world is faced In response, the Ajinomoto Group is stepping up with the issues of climate change, biodiversity, its efforts to ensure that it is in no way infringing natural disasters, and other challenges relating to on human rights, even indirectly or unintentionally. global sustainability. There are also food resource “Working for Life,” the aim of the Ajinomoto shortages due to drought, and the worsening of Group Philosophy, and “Value People,” part of the health issues due to poverty. Threats to the basic Ajinomoto Group Way, are both based on the human right to life may also be on the rise. The Group’s concept that respect for human rights Ajinomoto Group recognizes these as social chalmust be the foundation of its corporate activities. lenges facing humankind in the 21st century. By The Group also supports freedom of association helping to resolve these issues through its busiand collective bargaining, the elimination of disness activities, the Group can also help protect crimination, forced or compulsory labor, and child human rights. labor per the International Labour Organization In order to help solve various human rights (ILO) and the Universal Declaration of Human issues, the Ajinomoto Group intends to stay in Rights. In the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Busidialogue with stakeholders in and outside the ness Conduct, the Group declares its support for company. It will pursue initiatives based on their the UN Global Compact. Each group company suggestions for addressing human rights issues also has a code of conduct calling for compliance from an even broader perspective. with the laws and regulations of that specific 2 Prepared by John Ruggie, Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General on business and human rights country or region and respect for the local cultures and customs. Discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, creed, place of origin, sex, age, or physical disability is prohibited. Contents P49  Working to Identify Human Rights Issues and Deepen Awareness • Holding internal fact-finding surveys • Understanding global human rights issues through dialogue with experts • Considering human rights in business activities P51 Human Rights Initiatives at Workplaces • Human rights in employment • Increasing employee awareness of human rights Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 48 Human Rights Working to Identify Human Rights Issues and Deepen Awareness The Ajinomoto Group strives to “Value People” as stated in the Ajinomoto Group Way, while “Working for Life,” the aim of the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy. The Group also works to protect human rights based on the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct and codes of conduct of each group company. The Group also has been working on specific measures to respond to the wide range of human rights issues that society now expects global companies to address, and is launching new initiatives to better meet social expectations. Holding internal fact-finding surveys Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has always expected all of its divisions to and every division was surveyed between April and May 2012 respect human rights in accordance with the Ajinomoto Group using self-assessment sheets based on ISO 26000. The results Standards of Business Conduct and the Ajinomoto Codes of confirmed that there are currently no serious problems. Conduct. Today, the company is taking steps to deepen the Meanwhile, in fiscal 2013, the company began a detailed understanding of staff in each division about the wide-ranging study on revising the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business human rights issues that a global corporation is expected to Conduct and the Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct to address more address. It is also actively assessing the current state of the fully the global human rights issues society now expects it Group’s human rights initiatives. One method it uses is surveys, to address. Understanding global human rights issues through dialogue with experts The Ajinomoto Group engages in dialogue with external stakevisit was made to the Institute for Human Rights and Business holders in order to shape its human rights initiatives appropriate(IHRB) to seek advice on human rights due diligence and ly by basing them on a solid understanding of diverse contexts specific cases. Based on these consultations, the Ajinomoto around the world. Group was able to clarify the relevant human rights issues and Ajinomoto Co., Inc. arranged a dialogue with the Danish check and upgrade its own efforts. Institute for Human Rights (DIHR) in July 2012. In October, a Highlight Identifying global human rights issues through dialogue Ajinomoto Co., Inc. arranged a dialogue with DIHR in July 2012, seeking to gain a clearer picture of the human rights issues that face global corporations. DIHR’s assessment tool was used to check the Ajinomoto Group’s human rights initiatives. Based on the results, specific advice was sought on human rights issues and risks the Group faces in doing business in developing countries. DIHR stressed how important it is for the Group, as a food business, to be aware of human rights issues Frank Seier, related to the use of land, including agricultural land, the use of water, labor Senior Advisor, DIHR conditions and the supply chain. Based on this advice, the company launched an initial study on water resource risks, and also drafted Supplier CSR Guidelines and reviewed the Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct in accordance with the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct. The company will continue to promote further group-wide human rights initiatives in dialogue with society. Reference See “Pursuing CSR Procurement” on p. 43. Staff from the Human Resources Department, Group Procurement Center, and CSR Department of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. meet with DIHR advisor. 49 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Human Rights Considering human rights in business activities The Ajinomoto Group works hard to respect human rights either production or distribution.” Accordingly, the Group across the value chain—from manufacturing to the delivery of requires its raw material suppliers to cooperate in the effort to products to customers. protect human rights. Furthermore, in fiscal 2013, the Group The Group carries out quality, environmental and various plans to put its new Supplier CSR Guidelines into effect, which other assessments when constructing a new plant or office, and state CSR requirements for suppliers in greater detail. Universal when launching a new product or business. Human rights are design promoting ease of use, reliability and safety for all has taken into consideration by evaluating the impact on people and also been introduced in product development at group compathe local community. nies in Japan. In addition, the Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy In the future, the Group will pursue even more proactive states that the Group “confirms that the products it purchases approaches by further incorporating human rights issues into its directly are free of any connection to the violation of human various initiatives, as the issues which a global company must rights, including child labor and illegal employment, during address are clarified in human rights dialogues. Reference See “‘Eat Well, Live Well.’—The Ajinomoto Group’s Wish for the World” on p. 11. Reference See “Quality assurance system of the Ajinomoto Group” on p. 99. Reference See “Pursuing CSR Procurement” on p. 43. Reference See “Universal design initiatives” on p. 107. Reference See “Implementing environmental assessments” on p. 96. Highlight Food defense audits also review labor conditions and human rights, propose improvements Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. has consistently conducted including whether workers have a safe working environment, specialized food defense1 audits of all its suppliers in addition whether there is sufficient communication with managers, to regular audits of quality and other areas since 2008, with and whether the human rights of workers are respected. priority on China, but also focusing on Japan and other Based on the concept that “Enabling workers to do their jobs countries. Food defense audits include a review of labor with enthusiasm determines quality,” Ajinomoto Frozen Foods conditions and human rights at raw material suppliers. Co., Inc. will continue to audit labor conditions and human In general, a food defense audit primarily audits physical rights and to propose improvements, as part of its food aspects of food security with the aim of preventing terrorism defense audits. such as intentional adulteration. However, Ajinomoto Frozen 1 Measures to prevent the intentional introduction of foreign matter into food products. Monitoring is carried out in every stage from raw material procurement to product sales, Foods Co., Inc. also audits human aspects of security, in order to prevent anyone from adding poisons or other substances to food products. Highlight Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project supports a healthy future for children Children around the world have the right to healthy lives supported by proper nutrition. In developing countries, however, many children lose their lives to various diseases caused by poor nutrition. The aim of the Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project, now being implemented by the Ajinomoto Group, is to protect the rights of vulnerable children and help them grow up healthy. The first 1,000 days from conception until a child turns two years old are critical to Carefully explaining the efficacy study to a child’s growth. Stunted growth caused by malnutrition during this critical period can mothers individually be difficult to reverse later in life. To address this issue, in 2013 the Ajinomoto Group launched a supplement called KOKO PlusTM to add nutrients that are lacking in the traditional weaning food in Ghana. The Ajinomoto Group is also working in partnership with international and local NGOs to develop an innovative distribution model that uses local salesladies to deliver the product to mothers and children in poor rural areas where the risk of malnutrition is high. Meanwhile, an efficacy study is being conducted involving 1,200 children in 30 villages to demonstrate the nutritional benefits of KOKO PlusTM. In addition to ensuring the safety of the product trial, ethics committee meetings were held at the Ghana Food & Drug Board, a government agency, at the Ghana Health Service, which is in charge of A village in northern Ghana where KOKO PlusTM is on sale the country’s public health centers, and at the University of Ghana. A thorough impact evaluation was conducted concerning the product ingredients and the testing method. See “The Ghana Nutrition Reference Improvement Project” on The Ajinomoto Group is also providing extensive explanations of the trial to village p. 15 mayors and mothers in the trial areas. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 50 Human Rights Human Rights Initiatives at Workplaces The Ajinomoto Group welcomes people of all nationalities to become part of its workforce, recognizing that diversity supports the future of the Group. All employees are provided with fair opportunities to develop and exercise their abilities. The Ajinomoto Group strives to “Value People” as stated in the Ajinomoto Group Way, while also working to protect and promote human rights in the workplace based on the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct and the Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct. Human rights in employment The Ajinomoto Group respects the values and abilities of each Expanded employment for persons with disabilities individual as mandated by the Ajinomoto Group Standards of At the 29 main group companies in Japan, the average employBusiness Conduct. While striving to treat all people fairly, the ment rate for persons with disabilities was 1.88% in fiscal 2012. Group hires people worldwide who feel an affinity for the Six of the companies achieved a rate that met or exceeded the Ajinomoto Group Way. Japanese government’s mandated rate of 1.8%. The Ajinomoto Group respects the principle of normalizaReemployment system for retiring human resources tion, and will respond to the higher mandated rate that went Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been providing a reemployment system into effect in fiscal 2013 by prioritizing hiring of persons with for employees at the mandatory retirement age of 60 since April disabilities, enhancing recruitment and creating accessible 2006. It is open to all staff and managers, including seconded workplace environments. employees. Among eligible employees, 84% applied for reemployAjinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) ment in fiscal 2012, and they continue to work enthusiastically. Each group company in Japan has updated its own reemploy4.1 Provision of equal employment opportunities ment system accompanying the enforcement of Japan’s revised 4.1.1. The company accepts and develops the human resources that Act on Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons in April support the future of the Ajinomoto Group across national and regional boundaries. 2013. They all provide career support after the mandatory 4.1.2. The company provides independent, growth-oriented individuretirement age. als with equal opportunities to develop and deploy their skills. Increasing employee awareness of human rights Each group company worldwide promotes understanding of the The Ajinomoto Group will continue working to develop Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct and its own employees’ awareness of human rights, including the widecode of conduct, both of which prohibit any form of discriminaranging human rights issues that a global corporation is expecttion or harassment. Human rights awareness training is provided ed to address. to group employees around the world. See “Ajinomoto Group Way Sessions raise awareness of the Group’s Reference In fiscal 2012, this training was provided to all new hires and shared values” on page 54. promoted managers at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Furthermore, employees reaffirmed the principle of “Value People” in Ajinomoto Group Way Sessions made available to all Group Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) employees. To date, approximately 8,000 employees have taken 4.3. Prohibition of discrimination and harassment part in the training. 4.3.1. The company attempts to, and encourages its officers and The company also carries out an annual survey on workplace employees to, respect the laws and culture of each region, and harassment for all employees. The results of the survey were pursues policies to prohibit discrimination against anyone on compiled with opinions and cases reported in previous surveys the basis of race, ethnic group, nationality, religion, belief, birthplace, gender, age, disability, or for any other reason. and distributed to all employees. 4.3.2. The company pursues policies which prohibit its officers and Prior to Human Rights Week each December, group compaemployees from engaging in sexually suggestive language or nies in Japan jointly hold an event encouraging employees and behavior toward any person in the workplace which negatively impacts his or her work environment. their families to submit slogans for increasing human-rights 4.3.3. The company pursues policies which prohibit its officers and awareness. In fiscal 2012, 4,078 entries were received from employees from using job positions to abuse the human rights 2,696 people. of others in the workplace. 4.3.4. The victims of discrimination or harassment, or any person who Slogans chosen for honorable mention by the Industrial sees or hears any discrimination or harassment, are encourFederation for Human Rights, Tokyo aged to report such behavior to their superior, the human Pass the ball with care, and score more smiles Family of Akitaka Uehara, Research Institute for Bioscience Products & Fine resources department or other liaison designated by the Chemicals, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. company. The company pursues policies to ensure such Let’s build a future of caring with no bullying persons are not given unfavorable treatment for having filed and discrimination the report. Family of Akiyoshi Kuga, Tohoku Branch, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 51 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Derive Job Satisfaction The Ajinomoto Group employs about 30,000 people thoroughly implement the compact’s principles relatworldwide. The Group prioritizes initiatives to ening to labor worldwide, based on global standards. sure the health and safety of employees, and also 1 The Ajinomoto Group’s basic approach to work, outlined as common values shared throughout the Group: create new value, pioneer spirit, social contribution, and value people. offers helpful career development, HR development, and work-life balance programs throughout the Group. The Group aims to ensure that its business Contents activities make a positive difference in the world. P53  Developing and Promoting Diverse Human One of the keys to this is ensuring that all employResources from a Global Perspective • Ajinomoto Group HR Platform for optimal personnel ees derive job satisfaction and maintain good physassignment globally ical and mental health. • Various initiatives for global HR development Aiming to build a corporate group that contributes to human health globally, as called for by the P55 Improving Work-Life Balance Ajinomoto Group Vision, the Group believes that • Realizing the Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision • Various workplace-specific initiatives people are its most important management re• Development and utilization of related programs source. That is why the Group sees human resources management as a vital element of manageP58 Labor-Management Relations ment strategy. This belief is also put into practice • Initiatives in Japan using the principle of “Value People” found in the Ajinomoto Group Way.1 P59 Ensuring Employee Health and Safety In 2009, the Group expressed its support for the • Promoting a medium-term plan from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2013 for disaster prevention and occupational health and safety UN Global Compact, reflecting its components in the • Fiscal 2012 occupational health and safety initiatives basic approach of the Ajinomoto Group Standards • Occupational health and safety management of Business Conduct. The entire Group strives to • Occupational health and safety education for employees • Supporting the physical and mental health of employees • External evaluation of occupational health and safety activities • Preparing for natural disasters and protecting human life Main results for fiscal 2012 Training for all Up Share of workforce outside Japan: 65% 8,000 employees 36% from previous year Share of local hires in executive positions Started providing Ajinomoto Group Number of employees that take the at group companies outside Japan: Way Sessions for all employees Rejuvenation Leave Approx. 40% P54 (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) P58 P57 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 52 Labor Practices Developing and Promoting Diverse Human Resources from a Global Perspective To become a “genuine global company,” an objective stated in the Group’s FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan, the Ajinomoto Group strives to realize world-class talent diversity and profit-generating efficiency. The Group encourages all employees to implement the Ajinomoto Group Way, while developing and promoting diverse human resources regardless of nationality or career track. Ajinomoto Group HR Platform for globally optimal personnel assignment The Ajinomoto Group has established a common platform for completed. Use of the platform for individual career develophuman resources management designed to enable the groupment began, and a study was carried out on the standardization wide development and promotion of diverse leaders from group of compensation plan rules for international assignment companies worldwide and to put the right people in the right of employees. jobs. The platform is made up of mechanisms to make manageThe platform is under further development in fiscal 2013 as ment personnel and posts visible, along with systematic HR the Group steps up its efforts to establish a system which endevelopment programs, and compensation policy. In fiscal 2012, ables diverse human resources worldwide to achieve their the preparation and listing of job descriptions for key posts was highest performance. Various initiatives for global HR development Training for leaders Management grades The Ajinomoto Group has been carrying out five types of trainGroup Executive Manager ing for developing leaders corresponding to job grades. The GMs of divisions, GMs of HR and financial departments, and top executives at group companies worldwide Job Grade 1 training is based on the Group’s three fundamentals for global Deputy GMs of head office business divisions, and executives and deputy GMs at group companies worldwide human resources: the Ajinomoto Group Way, the Ajinomoto Job Grade 2 Section managers at head office, and GMs of departments at group companies worldwide Global Leadership Competencies, and a global mindset. Job Grade 3 Small unit managers and upper-level individual contributors at head office, and section managers at group companies worldwide Training for developing leaders Training Participants Frequency and number of Content participants Officers, Group Executive Coaching — Personalized training on top management execution Executive Managers Ajinomoto Global & Group Leader Seminar Once a year; approx. Action learning about global issues faced by the Group, Job Grade 1 (AGGLS) 25 people presentations to the HR Committee Lectures by top management, lectures on cross-cultural Ajinomoto Global Future Leader Seminar Once a year; approx. Job Grade 2 communication, planning of strategic scenarios using (AGFLS) 25 people internal case studies Managers in Self-assessment, review of a leader’s role in an organizaAjinomoto Group Leader Seminar (AGLS) Once a year; 20–30 people Japan tion, planning of individual objectives as a leader Once a year at each regional Self-assessment, training on coaching and Ajinomoto Regional Leader Seminar (ARLS) Job Grade 3 division; approx. 30 people cross-cultural communication AGFLS group work AGFLS participants 53 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Highlight Ajinomoto Group Way Sessions raise awareness of the Group’s shared values The Ajinomoto Group has been holding sessions on the importance of the four elements of the Ajinomoto Group Way, Ajinomoto Group Way1 since fiscal 2011. These sessions take by looking at them with respect to my job,” and “My place during leadership and grade-specific training. The aim motivation is up and I am proud of my company and job,” and is to promote deeper awareness and understanding of the “I want to apply the four elements of the Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto Group Way, which forms the basis for human Way to my job and produce results.” resources development in the Group and is a required In fiscal 2013, Ajinomoto Group Way Sessions continue in element for global employees. As of end fiscal 2012, about and outside Japan. The aim is for all 28,000 group employees 8,000 group employees worldwide had taken the sessions, to complete the training by end fiscal 2014. The Group is also including everyone in key positions at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. looking for new ways to apply the Ajinomoto Group Way Participant comments included: “I realized once again the day-to-day at individual worksites. A documentary DVD for studying the Ajinomoto Group Way, Session at the Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Session at Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. using past examples Office, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 1 The Ajinomoto Group’s basic approach to work, outlined as common values shared throughout the Group: create new value, pioneer spirit, social contribution, and value people. HR initiatives to support the development of Division-specific training all employees examples • Compliance and legal training (p. 40) In addition to global training for developing leaders and the •O  ccupational health and safety Ajinomoto Group Way Sessions, the Group conducts cross education (p. 63) • Environmental education (p. 97) regional, division-specific training and various other training • Quality assurance training (p. 101) programs in each country and site. • Sales training • Marketing training • Intellectual property and trademark training (p. 46) Safety education at Ajinomoto (China) Co., Ltd. (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou) Highlight HR development programs at Career Development Guide supports Ajinomoto Co., Inc. the growth of individual employees Awareness Learning the standard abilities needed for each role/year Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is actively developing and supporting Learning the standard abilities needed for each role/year employees who undertake challenging goals. This is based on the concepts that the growth of individual Training for managers employees forms the basis of corporate growth, and that Training for non-managers everyone is the actor in their own personal development. On-the-job training, site/division-specific training, promotions/transfers, The company has implemented various training programs evaluation sheet creation and interviews, and career support programs Enhancement so that employees can achieve the careers they envision Elective programs for themselves. Further improvement of core abilities and business skills Programs are designed for each stage of an employee’s growth, which are listed in a Career On-site training: Development of core abilities Development Guide on the company’s intranet. The Correspondence education and e-learning programs for developing business skills programs fall into three main areas: grade-specific On-the-job training, site/division-specific training, promotions/transfers, programs (new managers’ training, follow-up training, evaluation sheet creation and interviews, and career support programs Further advancement new employee training, etc.), elective programs Global programs (e-learning/correspondence courses, a logical thinking Faithfully following the Ajinomoto Group Way, course), and global programs (internal training for having a broader perspective, and demonstrating abilities developing leaders, external programs). Development program for group leaders in Japan Development program for global leaders External programs On-the-job training, site/division-specific training, and promotions/transfers Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 54 Labor Practices Improving Work-Life Balance The Ajinomoto Group is working to realize the Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision. Its aim is to contribute to the prosperity of society and the realization of fulfilling lives for its employees by supporting both the growth of every employee and the further development of the company. Realizing the Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has launched the Work-Life Balance In fiscal 2012, four themes (listed below) were established to Improvement Project, a joint labor and management initiative realize three objectives for employees of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. under the Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision. The Each workplace began to share knowledge about and discuss company is steadily improving its work environments and work-life balance, and launched initiatives to realize the objechelping employees to gain more appreciation for work-life tives. In fiscal 2013, the company is taking further steps at each balance and change the way they work. workplace by sharing best practices across departments and holding workshops for better mutual understanding. It is also looking into revising its work system to further enhance worklife balance. Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision Contribute to the prosperity of society and the realization of fulﬁlling lives through the growth of every employee in the Ajinomoto Group and the ongoing development of the company Creating a corporate group with stimulating and rewarding work environments Aiming to create a work-life cycle for individual employees and the Group Enjoying life and deriving job satisfaction as active Becoming a group that is regarded as a good corporate citizen members of our companies, families and communities and can be proudly passed on to the next generation Contributing to the Group by improving skills, demonstrating abilities, and creating new value Individual employees Ajinomoto Group Staying healthy in body and mind Respecting the diverse values of individual employees Undertaking personal growth through work and self study Placing importance on communication and teamwork Always aiming to achieve challenging targets and Hiring talented employees and providing various opportunities better productivity for their growth Always striving to find a good balance between Fostering mutual respect among employees across work and personal life the Ajinomoto Group, and creating workplace cultures Respecting colleagues within the Ajinomoto Group, and environments that enable everyone to improve together regardless of one’s company, organization, Always contributing to society through the creation of or position, while working toward mutual growth new value and becoming a group that is regarded as a good corporate citizen Providing support for the improvement of individual growth and job satisfaction through the provision of diverse career choices FY2012–2013 initiatives at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Objectives for employees of 1. To achieve satisfaction with personal work methods 2. To realize high productivity Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 3. To be a self-reliant member of society and work to achieve a life plan Four initiative themes to achieve objectives 1. Raising awareness of actual hours 2. Encouraging the 3. Improving workplace 4. Realizing dependable life plans spent working use of leave management through utilizing the company’s employee (being more productive at work) (utilizing time off beneficially) the participation of all employees support programs (strong teamwork) (life plan achievement) Accurately ascertaining the actual Encouraging employees to take time Managing the workplace through full Everyone understanding the company hours spent working, and applying off in order to become reinvigorated participation and improving work support programs, and using them to work methods that focus on and enjoy personal growth. habits in order to create a workplace devise their own life plans. productivity. that offers friendly competition and mutual support. 55 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Various workplace-specific initiatives In fiscal 2012, the workplaces of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. accelerated Worksites will review their effort at the end of the fiscal year and their work-life balance improvement initiatives. At the beginning draft a plan for the coming year to ensure continual improvement. of the period, each workplace discussed work-life balance, prepared its own action plan, and then carried out the plan. Workshops promote mutual understanding and work-life balance Workshops to promote work-life balance were held in fiscal 2012 at twelve workplaces across Japan. The workshops Workshop aims involve: (1) sharing individual life plans; (2) confirming the • T  o learn firsthand about the life plans, values, and personal situations of one’s co-workers, and to understand the importance of vision and mission of the workplace; and (3) preparing an this knowledge for workplace management action plan. Participants are able to learn about one another’s •  o foster feelings of mutual support by having individuals share their T values and objectives, and to create a strong sense of unity in the lives outside of work, which helps to build a more supportive workplace work environment. When people keep individual and • T  o build a mutually supportive workplace where individuals share workplace objectives in mind, the workplace is more unified their situations when an unexpected life event occurs that requires them to change their work methods and productive. Going forward, these workshops will be held at more workplaces. Feedback from participants • “ The workshop enabled me to understand some of the dreams, values, and thoughts of others in my organization, which I did not know before. After reaching a level of mutual understanding, we were able to create a single action plan and foster a greater sense of unity.” • “I was able to think about the role of my organization beyond individual positions. It reminded me of the importance of the organization rather than the individual.” Workshop Workplace roundtable meetings on Promoting the 5S methodology various themes Each workplace is promoting the Japanese methodology of Roundtable meetings help employees to exchange 5S—seiri (sorting), seiso (sweeping), seiton (standardizing), views on topics relating to individual workplaces, seiketsu (sanitizing), and shitsuke (self-discipline)—in order to building even more supportive work environments. improve customer satisfaction and increase efficiency of work time and improve productivity. Started with “2S” activities (seiri Feedback from participants and seiton) in fiscal 2012, the company is continuing the effort in Roundtable on career advancement for fiscal 2013 to include all “5S” at more workplaces, aiming to women entrench these practices as habits. • “ I gained a clearer picture of my career options by exchanging views with senior female colleagues who have experience with balancing childcare and work Before 2S responsibilities.” Feedback from workRoundtable on international research assignplaces that implemented ment and study 2S activities • “ Exchanging opinions with colleagues who did research • “ We improved workplace outside Japan gave me a chance to rethink my own cleanliness, sharing of career.” documents, and operational efficiency.” Roundtable on career After 2S • “ Working toward the 2S advancement for women targets brought our workplace together as a united team.” • “ We want to continue these activities to enable everyone to get a real sense of the workplace improvements.” A regular 2S activity time is held during the work day throughout the workplace. 5S Method (1) Seiri (sort) By repeating steps (1), (2), and (3) (2) Seiso (sweep) (4) Seiketsu (clean, sanitary cond tions) Productivity is maintained improvement Roundtable on international (3) Seiton (5) Shitsuke (self-discipline) research assignment and study (systematize/standardize) Turning steps (1) to (4) into a habit Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 56 Labor Practices Development and utilization of related programs Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is developing and implementing creative pronumber of employees using the Rejuvenation and Volunteer grams to make workplaces as supportive and rewarding as possible. Leave programs was also up 36% and 115%, respectively. These In fiscal 2012, 30% more employees used the Part-Time programs help employees to realize their own life plans. Parenting and Work program than in the previous year, and the Employee usage programs offered by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. related to work-life balance in fiscal 2012 Program or initiative Details Number of users Leave can be taken until the last day of April following the child’s 1st birthday (can legally be 108 (including 7 male Parenting Leave extended for 6 months). A total of 15 days paid leave from the first day of leave is provided. employees) Part-time work is allowed until the child enters the 4th grade of elementary school. Leave can be Part-Time Parenting and Work 160 taken up to 2 hours and 30 minutes per day. Employees with children who have not yet entered junior high school can take up to 10 days of Childcare Leave 48 childcare leave per fiscal year per child. Leave can be taken in half-day units. Absences or suspension of work can be taken to care for a spouse, parents, or family within the Family Care Leave 0 second degree of kinship whom the employee supports. Leave can be taken up to 1 year. Part-time work is allowed when certain family members are in need of nursing care. Leave can be Part-Time Family Care and Work 1 taken up to 2 hours and 30 minutes per day until the family member no longer needs care. A maximum of 40 days of accumulated paid leave can be taken in half-day units to care for or Accumulated Paid Leave visit in hospital family members within 2nd-degree of kinship who are suffering from a 83 non-work-related illness or injury, or who need care due to temporary school closure. Rejuvenation leave can be taken once during each age category (25–32, 33–40, 41–48, 49–56) Rejuvenation Leave for the specified number of days from 9 to 30 days, and can be combined with paid leave and 204 weekends. Up to 8 days of volunteer leave can be taken per fiscal year by qualified employees. Eligible volunteer work includes helping people with disabilities, providing nursing care of seniors, Volunteer Leave 43 helping children, protecting the environment, providing disaster relief, and donating bone-marrow. Employee may register for re-employment in the event that retirement was unavoidable due to 43 employees regisRe-employment system childbirth and newborn care, family and child care, or relocation because of marriage or spouse’s tered; 1 re-employed job transfer. (as of July 2013) No-overtime days are held at business sites, and the latest office closure time was changed from Initiative to reduce working hours — 10 p.m. to 9 p.m. Employees also reduce work time by using different work styles. Paid-leave usage campaigns are implemented at business sites, and employees find ways to Initiative to improve rate of taking take more leave by using different work styles. Simultaneous paid leave (3 days) in the summer — paid leave for all employees. Financial assistance for Provides employees with 1,500 yen each occasion a babysitter is hired. 9 babysitter hire Highlight Ranked No. 1 among employers for worklife balance In February 2013, as part of the Randstad Award1 2013, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. was ranked No. 1 among employers in Japan for facilitating work-life balance. The Randstad Award surveys and recognizes companies, based on their appeal as a potential employer. Continuing to “Value People” as stated in the Ajinomoto Group Way, the company will accelerate its efforts to promote work-life balance. The aim is to keep raising confidence and being a highly attractive company for employees. 1 Randstad is a global company that offers comprehensive human resources services. It conducts surveys to rank the relative attractiveness of employers based on ten key factors. In Japan, questionnaires were sent out to 8,000 men and women aged 18 to 65 for their evaluation of 170 companies. Randstad uses its own method to rank employers based on the factors, emphasizing respondents’ familiarity with and desire to work for each potential employer. It then calculates overall scores to rank each company’s attractiveness and employer brand. Award ceremony 57 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Labor-Management Relations The Ajinomoto Group endeavors to create a stimulating and rewarding work environment for its employees. The Group maintains direct dialogue and good-faith consultation with employees and their representatives, based on the applicable laws and circumstances in each country. Initiatives in Japan The Ajinomoto Group in Japan has established a labor-management Main labor-management consultation themes council where management policies are regularly discussed as well as a labor condition assessment committee. Theme Details In fiscal 2012, top management met with labor union representaReviewed the current status of programs and future HR programs joint review plans for comprehensive improvement, tives at each group company for a lively exchange of views on making revisions as necessary progress made on the FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Four themes for labor-management initiatives Plan and the future outlook. At Ajinomoto Co., Inc., labor and established in order to realize three objectives for Work-life balance employees; each workplace has begun to share management have been working together on a Work-Life Balance knowledge about and discuss work-life balance, Improvement Project since 2008. and launch appropriate initiatives Agreed to conduct reviews on the system for family Main initiatives in fiscal 2012 (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) care leave based on three perspectives: providing employees with more information on family care, Family care leave Spring labor negotiations creating an environment where it is easy to discuss family care, and improving the necessary programs Labor-management consultations were carried out based on and administration union requests regarding specific initiatives for achieving the Reviewed systems and scope of the hardship Expatriate work Medium-Term Management Plan, while responding to changes issues allowance for employees posted outside Japan, health management leave, and new regulations in the business environment. Introduction of Labor-management consultations defined contribution Agreed and officially introduced defined contribution pension plans Six meetings of the central labor-management councils pension plans Employee data (As of March 31, 2013) Number of managers2 Male Female Total Number of employees Ajinomoto 884 69 953 Co., Inc. Full-time employees Temporary Japan staff Group Male Female Total 1,409 48 1,457 companies Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 2,387 956 3,343 396 2 Managers: Employees Asia 563 298 861 in the position of Group companies section manager, a 5,178 1,332 6,510 8,701 Europe and Africa 210 74 284 in Japan position equivalent to section manager, or a Group companies The Americas 215 64 279 position higher than 12,255 5,410 17,665 3,887 section manager outside Japan Total 3,281 553 3,834 (excluding executives). Total 19,820 7,698 27,518 12,984 Full-time employees Number of new hires Number of personnel (incl. new graduates) in year Average Paid Employwith disabilities Average age Average years of annual working leave utilization ment turnover employment hours rate3 rate Total Percent of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 41.2 17.9 1,987 79.8% 1.2% Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 83 Total workforce Group companies rate outside Japan 34.5 8.2 Group companies in Japan 246 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 83 1.77% 3 Including managers’utilization rates. Group companies 181 1.88% Number of retirees and re-employed persons in year in Japan Re-employed after Number of retirees retirement5 Group employees by region Resigned for After Retired personal After resigning for Europe and Africa reasons4 retirement personal reasons 9% The Americas 2,401 16% Japan Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 37 40 31 1 4,339 Total number 36% Group companies 104 164 19 — of group employees 9,853 in Japan 27,518 4 Contract staff not included in this category. Local hires in Asia 5 Re-employed from retirees and personnel resigned for personal reasons such as job transfer of executive positions at group companies 40% spouse. outside Japan 10,925 39.6% Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 58 Labor Practices Ensuring Employee Health and Safety The Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Philosophy and Policies set out the Group’s conviction that disaster prevention and occupational health and safety are among its most important responsibilities. Accordingly, the Group takes great care to create environments where employees can work with confidence. Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Philosophy We, Ajinomoto Group companies respect each person and act on the recognition that “disaster prevention and occupational health and safety” are one of the most important components of corporate activities. Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Policies (Established April 1, 2011) The Ajinomoto Group: 3. Strengthen the corporate system and facilitate quick response 1. Identify and evaluate potential risks, and take preventive actions to minimize damage in the event of an emergency and/or using management resources, under the Occupational Safety disaster. and Health Management System, in order to achieve the 4. Proactively provide support for each employee so they work complete elimination of disaster and incident. safely and in good health. 2. Take initiatives to continually improve occupational health and safety activities by thoroughly complying with public regulations and in-house rules and encouraging mutual efforts to do so. Ajinomoto Group Health and Safety Slogan1 “Be brave enough to ‘Stop.’ ‘Check’ first whenever you are not sure.” (Fiscal 2011–2013) 1 Selected from submissions by group employees Promoting a medium-term plan from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2013 for disaster prevention and occupational health and safety Each day, about 30,000 employees of the Ajinomoto Group are ensuring that all employees and other people working on the hard at work all around the world. Every moment of every day Group’s premises can return home safely at the end of each day. poses the risk of occupational accidents, traffic accidents, health Under the three-year Ajinomoto Group Occupational hazards, and natural disasters. Accident Prevention Plan from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2013, the Based on the Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and Group is working to achieve medium-term targets. The plan “Occupational Health and Safety” Philosophy and Policies, the clarifies group-wide issues for occupational accident prevention. Group is working on health and safety education and the identifiFocusing on these issues and sharing group-wide targets helps cation, evaluation, reduction, and elimination of these risks. The the Ajinomoto Group to make further progress. aim is to reduce the number of occupational accidents to zero, Occupational health and safety management system in fiscal 2012 Ajinomoto Safety and Co., Inc. Disaster Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Group companies Management Prevention Committee Committee Corporate Planning Ajinomoto Frozen Foods and Administration Co., Inc. Secretariat: Environment & Safety Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. AJINOMOTO BAKERY Food Products Division CO., LTD. Execution Bioscience Products & AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS system Fine Chemicals Division CORPORATION Safety and Disaster Prevention Promotion AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS Headquarters Production Sector Promotion CO., LTD. Secretariat: Environment & system Safety Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Wellness Business Division Calpis Co., Ltd.2 Subcommittee meeting for safety managers from each division 2 Removed from the system in October 2012 due to business changes 59 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Fiscal 2012 occupational health and safety initiatives Falling and getting caught/trapped are the two most common Examples of activities to prevent accidents occupational accidents in the Ajinomoto Group. Consequently, involving getting caught/trapped the Group prioritizes efforts to eliminate these particular acci• Examples of measures to prevent accidents involving rotary valves dents in the fiscal 2011−2013 Ajinomoto Group Occupational Accident Prevention Plan. In fiscal 2012, there were no serious accidents involving getting caught/trapped in filling and packing equipment. This was attributed to thorough hands-on safety training and packing equipment safety measures, mainly at group companies outside Japan. In fiscal 2013, the focus will be ending the ongoing occurrence of similar accidents involving rotary valves3 on Wire grille installed Installation of alternative equipment manufacturing equipment for powdered products. In Japan, falling accidents involving workers 50 or older tend to result in serious fracture injuries requiring hospitalization or Examples of activities to prevent falling surgery. Therefore, in fiscal 2013, employees in this age group were asked to self-check their physical ability. Based on the results, they were instructed in exercises to maintain their physical fitness and help prevent falls. While addressing these individual factors, the Group also sought to reduce environmental factors such as wet or icy walking surfaces to prevent these accidents. The Ajinomoto Group will also continue with health and Self-check of physical ability by employees 50 or older Exercises to prevent falls safety education including training on legal compliance and preventing traffic accidents on the job. The Group will continue to strengthen cooperation on accident prevention initiatives worldwide. 3 A component of equipment used in manufacturing powder products, consisting of a rotor with several blades turning in a horizontal cylinder. Data for accidents resulting in time off work in the Ajinomoto Group (as of March 31, 2013) Frequency of accidents4 resulting in time off Frequency of accidents4 resulting in time off work in Japan work outside Japan Frequency Frequency 1.4 3.5 1.12 3.33 1.2 0.99 0.98 1.05 1.00 3.0 1.0 2.5 1.90 2.11 1.84 0.8 0.91 2.0 1.61 0.80 0.89 0.89 0.84 0.6 1.5 Ajinomoto Group 0.4 1.0 in Japan 0.2 0.5 Ajinomoto Group Manufacturing industry 0 outside Japan 0 in Japan 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) 4 Frequency rate (accident occurrence rate) = Number of occupational accident victims who required time off work of one day or more / Total actual operating hours x 1,000,000 Severity rate5 of accidents resulting in time off Severity rate5 of accidents resulting in time off work in Japan work outside Japan Severity rate Severity rate 0.12 0.30 0.266 0.1 0.1 0.10 0.09 0.25 0.08 0.08 0.187 0.08 0.20 0.154 0.149 0.06 0.15 0.04 0.10 Ajinomoto Group 0.02 0.022 0.025 0.023 0.042 0.02 0.016 0.05 in Japan Ajinomoto Group Manufacturing industry 0 outside Japan 0 in Japan 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) 5 Severity rate (accident severity) = Total lost working hours / Total actual operating hours x 1,000 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 60 Labor Practices Occupational health and safety management During the many activities performed at work every day, there is group-wide plan to prevent accidents and disasters, including always the risk that a moment of inattention could lead to a equipment inspections, audits, as well as education and assessserious accident. ment. An occupational health and safety assessment series The Ajinomoto Group has established an occupational health (OHSAS) is used for each safety management system, and and safety system headed by its Management Committee. Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycles are also applied. Comprehensive measures are being carried out based on a Safety assessments The Ajinomoto Group performs safety assessments to prevent Risk assessment at Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. occupational accidents. The assessments are mainly performed In order to make risk assessment even more effective, it is in the planning stage for new product manufacturing, production important for workers to share with each other the types of increases, manufacturing process changes, new substance actual hazards at the site and lessons learned from past accidevelopment, and for the construction or removal of buildings, dents. Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. strives to create opportunities for structures, and equipment. In addition to confirmation based on workers to discuss risks. For example, they get together to look legal requirements or lessons learned from previous major at operation photos, and then identify and discuss the hazards. accidents, in cases such as the startup of a new plant, onsite Education activities are also performed for proper risk evaluainspections are carried out for actual worker positioning and tion, using the company’s own risk assessment manual. traffic flow to ensure that safe operations can begin. At each production site, various accident hazards in day-today operations are identified. By evaluating the seriousness of a Pre-operation safety check at new plants potential accident and then investigating and implementing the necessary prevention measures, the Group conducts risk assessments for accident prevention. To further improve the effect of this kind of risk assessment, in fiscal 2013 a Risk Assessment Study Group was set up to discuss improvement measures. Its members are safety managers from the Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office of At Karawang plant, PT Ajinomoto Indonesia Ajinomoto Co., Inc., as well as from Ajinomoto Frozen Foods At Ayutthaya plant, Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Co., Inc., Knorr Foods Co., Ltd., and Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. They share issues and best practices, and work together to prevent accidents. Safety audits and checks Equipment inspection for safe and stable production The Ajinomoto Group conducts internal audits at its companies Plant equipment must always be in a condition that ensures safe and sites based on an occupational health and safety manageand stable production, and this requires regular maintenance ment system. The aim is to prevent accidents or violations of and legally-required inspections. laws and regulations. Across the Ajinomoto Group, employees conduct daily mainteIn the event of a major accident at a group site, Ajinomoto nance of the equipment they use. In addition, while many proCo., Inc. performs on-site emergency safety checks, in order to duction plants operate 24 hours a day, throughout the year confirm the causes of the accident, determine remediation production is periodically shut down completely to allow employmeasures, and prevent similar accidents from happening again. ees and specialists to perform intensive maintenance and legally In fiscal 2011, the Group established a system for detecting required inspections. potential major accidents, which involves performing safety As non-routine work, maintenance is potentially hazardous. checks whenever smaller incidents occur. Reciprocal safety Therefore, proper risk prediction is performed before starting audits are also carried out with the participation of safety staff maintenance work or restarting a process to ensure safe maintefrom different sites, which provides opportunities for them to nance procedures. learn about good safety practices and differences between regions and operations. 61 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Column Ensuring equipment safety: Annual maintenance at Kawasaki Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. At the Kawasaki Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., in addition to daily maintenance, annual maintenance is conducted over several days every July. Production is halted at this plant that usually operates 24 hours a day, and intensive inspection and maintenance of the equipment is carried out. We manufacture “liquid seasonings“ in the Seasoning Materials Section. When a process is restarted after regular maintenance, it needs to be done with special care. All the employees work together to check each detail during the startup. In the Amisoft Section, we manufacture ingredients for cosmetics. Sumito Yajima Manager, Seasoning Materials Section During the regular maintenance, we also take apart the heat Left: Checking instruments exchangers—a time consuming task—and carefully wash each Right: Confirming the operation of each one by hand. This is very important to ensure stable production, valve as process temperature control has a substantial impact on quality. Ensuring stable production by taking apart a heat exchanger and washing each section by hand Soichiro Yoshihara Assistant Manager, Amisoft Section The Amino Acid Section Team 3 manufactures yeast extract. During regular maintenance, we had to perform work in high locations, so we paid close attention to preventing falls. Top: A new tank is installed in an environment where necessary safe precautions are taken. Bottom left: Shielding noise during the installation to minimize Left: Replacing the activated charcoal used in the deodorizing equipment inconvenience to neighbors Right: Employees always wear safety harnesses to protect their lives when Bottom right: Ready to put out any fires caused by welding sparks performing operations in high places. Takumi Iizuka Group Leader, Amino Acid Section Team 3 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 62 Labor Practices Highlight Ensuring the safety of people working on group sites: Wearing safety harnesses to Preventing falls from freight and tanker trucks prevent falls Many drivers responsible for transporting products and raw materials operate within sites of the Ajinomoto Group. As part of their work, they must climb up onto freight or tanker trucks. This makes preventing falls from high locations an important theme for the Group as a transport consignor. Under the 12th Industrial Accident Prevention Plan, a five-year policy of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare that begins in fiscal 2013, consignors must create safe operating environments and prevent occupational accidents involving operators in the overland freight forwarding business. The Ajinomoto Group in Japan has been focusing on the safety of not just group employees, but also other people working on group sites. For example, in order to prevent falling from heights during vehicle unloading, drivers are required to wear safety harnesses attached to bars that have been installed in high work locations for this purpose. Moreover, the Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Policies require group sites to proactively provide support for each employee so they work safely and in good health. Accordingly, more safety initiatives will be promoted in the future. At the Tokai Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. At the Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Occupational health and safety education for employees In order to ensure the safety of every employee, it is essential to safety training on each piece of equipment used in manufacturprovide routine education and training tailored to various eming, packaging or transportation. Group companies also provide ployee grades. safety education to new hires using their own safety videos. The Ajinomoto Group provides occupational health and This kind of educational activity is also being implemented at safety training designed specifically for each job. This includes group companies worldwide in an all-out effort to prevent occupahealth and safety seminars for upper management, and hazard tional accidents. prediction training for manufacturing floor supervisors. In While approaches and initiatives for occupational health and addition, each group company provides a wide array of safety safety vary between each country and region, the Ajinomoto education activities to suit its operations. These include hands-on Group emphasizes the importance of working safely worldwide. Original, group-wide educational materials used for hazard prediction training Safety video for training new hires at Delica Ace Co., Ltd. Delica Ace Safety Video Never make direct contact with rotating belts, rollers, or Mop up any water on the floor molding machines 63 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Education at all group companies in Japan provided by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Name of training Details Instruction to develop leaders that can train human resources to predict hazards. Training for leaders in production, R&D, Hazard prediction training logistics and construction-related departments, as well as employees to be posted outside Japan (two-day course, twice a year) Seminar for top managers at group companies in Japan to acquire the necessary health and safety knowledge (e.g., Occupational health and safety responsibility to consider safety) and to learn how to promote health and safety in a company (full-day course, once a seminar for top management year) Training for human error prevention Training to provide basic knowledge on human error, and how to prevent it (half-day course, once a year) Training leaders to introduce and promote fall prevention measures directly in workplaces (full-day course, three times a Fall prevention seminar year) Basic education for checking Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycles for the occupational health and management system Training for new internal auditors and making recommendations for improvement (four times a year) (full-day course, twice a year; two-day course, twice a for OHSAS1 year) Three sites of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. conduct their own health and safety lectures. In fiscal 2013, employees from nearby Site-sponsored education and group companies began participating in this training as well. A total of 18 sessions were held in fiscal 2013 including a lectures lecture on the High Pressure Gas Safety Act (Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office), a mental health lecture (Tokai Plant), and a heat stroke seminar (Kyushu Plant). 1 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series is an international standard for occupational health and safety management systems Education at group companies outside Japan Group discussions at the Safety School (China) Name of training Purpose Basic training used by food product manufacturHands-on safety ing plants of the Ajinomoto Group in many training countries Safety training for managers at group companies in China, held twice in fiscal 2012. Participants Safety School (China) carry out discussions on hazard prediction and risk assessment, and announce targets for their own organizations. Highlight The 3rd Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention The Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention, where employees from around the world exchange innovative safety initiatives, has been held every two years since 2009. Representatives from a record-high ten countries attended the 3rd Convention in September 2013 and reported on safety activities from their own industry or country. This year, in addition to the activity reports from each country, the convention provided a program where participants did self-assessments and exercises to prevent falls—the initiative introduced for employees 50 or older. With an above-capacity attendance, the program was a great success. At the end of the session for sharing opinions, the participants all declared, “Our goal is zero accidents!” in their own languages, sharing the commitment to reducing occupational accidents. As part of the convention, participants from abroad were given tours of group plants in Japan. By seeing firsthand the safety activities at the chemical synthesis facilities of the Tokai Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., and the steps taken by the Tokyo Plant of Komec Co., Ltd. to maintain an accident-free record, the participants gained even more practical knowledge of occupational safety. On the participant feedback questionnaire, many expressed sentiments such as, “The initiatives of other companies will be very useful for us,” and “The convention should be held more often.” Everyone showed great interest in the various activities being conducted throughout the Group. The convention will continue to be held regularly, as an important opportunity for improving the Group’s safety activities and occupational accident prevention. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 64 Labor Practices Supporting the physical and mental health of employees Every company in the Ajinomoto Group is taking steps to help all staff in Japan. In addition to follow-up interviews for health of its employees maintain their physical and mental health. maintenance, the system enables these employees to receive Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is promoting employee health initiatives health-related advice pertaining to immediate family members with a focus on the importance of good self-care. Since new living with them overseas. hires, mid-career employees, and managers face different health The Group has been looking into area-based integrated issues, industrial physicians offer training for each kind of emhealth management systems that include regular checkups and ployee. New managers and mid-career employees not health management measures for group companies in Japan. only learn about health management, but also about specific Starting in fiscal 2012, group companies began joint implementaways to identify signs of health problems among subordinates tion of annual checkups in the Kyushu region.1 The applicable and colleagues. regions will be expanded starting in fiscal 2013. Once or more a year, industrial physicians, nurses and 1 The joint initiative includes Ajinomoto Co., Inc., AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD., Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc., GABAN Co., Ltd., AJINOMOTO NUTRITION FOODS Co., hygienists provide guidance on physical and mental health Ltd., and Ajinomoto Engineering Corporation. maintenance to all employees of group companies in Japan via interviews, based on their results of health checkups. In 2010 and 2011, mental health training sessions were held for the general manager of the Wellness Promotion Center and industrial physicians from all ten sites of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in Japan. Health promotion system at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. The participants learned how to detect signs of mental health 9 industrial physicians, 11 medical staff members (nurses issues in employees, and deepened their understanding of how and hygienists), a Wellness Promotion Center general to deal with these issues. Employees posted outside Japan also manager, and 11 staff members receive annual checkups, and the results are checked by medical Highlight Heat stroke prevention campaign In Japan, the number of heat stroke emergencies in 2013 was information on heat stroke prevention and heat stroke several times higher than in the previous year. prevention examples to group employees in Japan every The Ajinomoto Group conducted a heat stroke prevention month. During regular workplace inspections, the Group’s campaign in Japan from June to September 2012, providing industrial physicians also checked that proper working information on ways to prevent heat stroke. As part of the environments are being maintained to prevent heat stroke. campaign, the Wellness Promotion Center distributed basic Yasushi Furukawa Industrial Physician Chiho Inoda (left) and ChiharuTakahashi (right) Wellness Promotion Center staff during a workplace inspection Distributed heat stroke prevention information Heat stroke prevention information sent out by the Wellness Promotion Center 65 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices External evaluation of occupational health and safety activities Employees at sites in the Ajinomoto Group have received a lot of The Group will continue its initiatives to eliminate occupaexternal recognition for the health and safety activities that they tional accidents and work to foster a culture of safety among carry out on a daily basis. With a constant focus on a culture of employees and local communities. safety, accident records at each site continue to improve, and results can also be seen in the efforts of individual employees. Main awards received in fiscal 2012 for disaster prevention and occupational health and safety activities in Japan Recipient Award name Details Kansai Plant, Ajinomoto Recognition for four-year record of zero occupational accidents resulting in Osaka Labor Bureau Director’s award Packaging Co., Inc. four or more days off work with active participation of part-time employees Higashi-Ohgishima Refrigerated Transport Office, Chuo Ace Kawasaki City Rinko Fire Chief’s award Recognition for employee teamwork that halted the spread of a nearby fire Logistics Corporation Sekijuku Refrigerated Transport Recognition for five-year accident-free record due to active initiatives to Office, Chuo Ace Logistics Chiba Labor Bureau Director’s award prevent forklift and traffic accidents Corporation Honored for six-year record of zero accidents resulting in four or more days off Kanto Plant, GABAN Co., Ltd. Tochigi Labor Bureau Director’s award work since its launch 2012 Minister of Health, Labour and Recognized as a supervisor with exceptional skills and experience in health Hiroko Sato, Kansai Plant, Welfare Award for a Supervisor and safety, who has achieved outstanding safety results in the workplace Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. Demonstrating Safety Excellence under her supervision Kansai Plant, Ajinomoto Packaging Higashi-Ohgishima Refrigerated Sekijuku Refrigerated Transport Kanto Plant, GABAN Co., Ltd. Kansai Plant, Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. Transport Office, Chuo Ace Logistics Office, Chuo Ace Logistics Co., Inc. Corporation Corporation Highlight Seven plants of the Ajinomoto Group in Thailand receive awards for safety excellence Under the strong leadership of top management, employees at the plants of the Ajinomoto Group in Thailand are working together to promote safety activities. Thailand’s Department of Labour Protection and Welfare has recognized their daily efforts and outstanding results. In fiscal 2013, seven plants received the department’s top (national) award for safety excellence. Five of these seven plants also won the same award last year. The Ajinomoto Group in Thailand will continue to Kamphaeng Phet Factory, award maintain these top-class safety activities. winner for eleven consecutive years Occupational health and safety awards received by the Ajinomoto Group in Thailand (fiscal 2013) Company Award Details Sponsor Remarks Recognition for Award for outstanding outstanding levels of Department of safety, occupational Umami Kamphaeng Phet I Factory, safety, occupational Labour health and work seasoning Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. health, workplace Protection and environment (national), 11 manufacturing environment manageWelfare years running ment, and results Umami and Phra Pradaeng Factory, Same, 6 years running Same Same other seasoning Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. manufacturing Manufacture and sales of Ajinomoto Betagro Frozen Same, 4 years running Same Same frozen foods Phra Pradaeng Factory, award Foods (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (processed winner for six consecutive years poultry) L-Lysine and Pathum Thani Factory, Same, 2 years running Same Same nucleic acid Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. manufacturing Manufacture Ajinomoto Betagro Specialty and sales of Same, 2 years running Same Same Foods Co., Ltd. processed pork frozen foods Manufacture of Nong Khae Factory, Same, first time Same Same other Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. seasonings Nong Khae Factory (left) and Birdy Factory (right), first-time Birdy Factory, Ajinomoto Canned coffee winners Same, first time Same Same Sales (Thailand) Co., Ltd. manufacturing Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 66 Labor Practices Preparing for natural disasters and protecting human life Everyone on the planet must live with unavoidable natural necessary training and awareness-raising activities. This is based phenomena such as earthquakes, floods, and tsunamis. on the Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “OccupaHowever, by preparing for disasters in advance, it is possible to tional Health and Safety” Philosophy and Policies, as well as the minimize human suffering and property damage. Ajinomoto Group Disaster Management Basic Policies that is With top priority on protecting lives, the Ajinomoto Group prescribed by its enterprise continuity plan (ECP). plans natural disaster preparation measures and conducts the See “Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity plan” Reference on p. 38. See “Ajinomoto Group ‘Disaster Prevention’ and ‘Occupational Reference Health and Safety’ Philosophy and Policies” on p. 59. Ajinomoto Group Disaster Management Basic Policies We set priorities as 1. Person, 2. Society, and 3. Business: 1. We give the highest priority to human life, and ensure the safety of oneself, one’s family and colleagues. 2. We provide support for local community and society, on the basis of saving human life. 3. We make an effort for early restoration of business activities in order to fulfill our business responsibility, as the Ajinomoto Group that is working for Life. Updating disaster preparedness Enhancing and expanding disaster communication systems technology The Ajinomoto Group routinely collects information on natural disaster forecasting and damage prediction. It confirms the Ajinomoto Co., Inc. installed employee safety and facility damage safety of buildings and production facilities and takes any steps verification systems in 2006 and keeps them up to date. Other needed, while also revising training. group companies are also introducing similar systems, and usage Since the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake in 1995, the drills are carried out periodically. Ajinomoto Group in Japan has been implementing seismic When an earthquake strikes, communication networks and reinforcement of its business facilities. After the Great East other lifelines can be cut, and even when they are not, networks Japan Earthquake and tsunami in 2011, the Group strengthened are congested. Consequently, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has set up an measures for earthquake and flood resistance, based on that emergency communication system that uses satellite phones and earthquake and flood damage predictions from the national and email, which are relatively robust under disaster conditions. local governments. While placing top priority on protecting lives, These phones have now been deployed at each site and the the Group has revised its preparedness measures for buildings homes of executive officers. Emergency communication drills and production facilities, and has also prepared a new capital are also carried out periodically, based on a scenario in which a investment plan. For example, a seismic re-evaluation has been disaster occurs in the evening or on a holiday. carried out for the Head Office building of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. After confirming that structural supports have suffered no significant deterioration, ceilings, walls, shelves, and equipment are now being reinforced and secured based on the evaluation results. The Sendai Distribution Center of AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION and the Fukushima Plant of AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. were heavily damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake. The reconstruction plan has the latest design features and equipment to help them withstand any future disasters. Group companies and sites are reviewing their earthquake evacuation procedures and carrying out drills based on revised damage predictions published in 2012 for a possible major quake centered under Tokyo, and one in the offshore Nankai Trough triggering a major tsunami. To strengthen disaster preparedness group-wide, secondary and tertiary emergency response headquarters are ready to be set up at different sites in the event of a major natural disaster, and drills are being carried out. 67 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Practices Highlight Disaster drills The Ajinomoto Group carries out disaster drills tailored to re2013, the Group also conducted an emergency response drill gions, business sites, and business departments. for tasks that the Head Office planning and business support In addition to drills at individual sites, the Ajinomoto Group departments need to perform, in order to minimize confusion carries out group-wide disaster drills every September. The at the time of a disaster and quickly restore business operaGroup’s General Headquarters gathers information on employtions. Business continuity drills based on a possible emeree safety and site damage conditions from each group gency are also carried out in each department. company and site and gives instructions as needed. In fiscal Drill at the Head Office of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Personnel roll call and damage situation confirmation are performed by An emergency response headquarters is set up right after a Drill for setting up a secondary emergency each floor captain, who then contacts the emergency headquarters. disaster to get an overall picture of the situation. headquarters to deal with a major natural disaster (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) Drills at various sites Top left: Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Bottom left: Tokai Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Right: Kyushu Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Employees at the Kyushu Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Drill at Ajinomoto Bangladesh Ltd. Fire fighting and rescue drill under the guidance of the fire department of a local authority Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 68 Labor Practices Highlight Raising disaster awareness: Disaster prevention lecture for group employees Every year since fiscal 2008, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been November 2011. About one hundred group employees holding disaster prevention lectures attended by concerned attended each lecture. staff at group companies and many other employees. Participants commented: “I felt the weight of the stories The fiscal 2012 lecture was given by the GM of the of those that had faced the disaster and recovery,” “It remindFukushima Plant of AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., ed me of the terror of natural disasters, which people cannot LTD., covering the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthcontrol,” and “I realized how important it is to always be quake and reconstruction efforts. The fiscal 2013 lecture was prepared at home and in the workplace.” While sharing given by the then vice president of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) unforgettable experiences from disasters, the lectures will Ltd., covering the reconstruction and support activities of the continue to address relevant topics to remind employees of Ajinomoto Group in Thailand after the major flooding there in the need for preparedness. 5th disaster prevention lecture (Aug. 2012) Facility damage caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake 6th disaster prevention lecture (Sep. 2013) See “Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity See “Job creation program for flood victims in Thailand” Reference Reference plan” on p. 38. on p. 122. Data Natural disasters worldwide The first years of the 21st century have brought many extraordinary weather events. More than ever before, comrecord-breaking natural disasters around the world. Japan, panies must always be prepared for a natural disaster to too, has been hit with torrential rains, tornados, and other strike at any time. Trends in data Damage caused by natural disasters in 2012 The overall number of disasters is on the rise, but the number of geophysical events is not growing significantly. 1,200 Number of events with trend 16% 12% 7% Data indicates more disasters caused by meteorological, hydrological, 18% and climatological events attributable to climate change. Economic Total Although geophysical events account for a minority of disasters, they 1,000 27% cause a considerable proportion of overall damage. 13% losses1: fatalities: US$170 billion 9,600 800 48% 59% 1 In 2012 values 600 400 200 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 Year Geophysical events Meteorological events (Storms) Hydrological events Climatological events (Earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions) (Floods, mass movement) (Extreme temperatures, droughts, forest fires) Source: Munich Re press release, January 4, 2012; NetCatSERVICE, “Natural catastrophes worldwide 1980–2012” 69 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Contents P71  The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy P85  Development of Environmentally Friendly and Basic Environmental Policies Packaging • Fiscal 2012 performance overview P73 T  he Ecological Business Model • System for promoting environmentally friendly containers and of the Ajinomoto Group packaging • Helping to resolve the issues of the 21st century based on a • Cooperation with outside organizations partnership with the earth and society • Development of environmentally friendly packaging P74  Environmental Initiatives through the Entire • Promoting “Aji-na Eco” mark products with environmental Product Lifecycle packaging P75  Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Column Plan and Fiscal 2012 Results · Providing environmental information on product packages P76  Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal P90  Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions • Fiscal 2012 performance overview 2012 Results • Initiatives at production sites and offices in Japan • 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and • Switching to clean energy performance on targets in fiscal 2012 • Management of fluorocarbons P77 Fiscal 2012 Input and Output Balance P92 Conserving Water Resources P78 Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity • Fiscal 2012 performance overview • Working in partnership with diverse stakeholders P93 Reducing Waste Column • Fiscal 2012 performance overview · Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary in Yokkaichi (Tokai Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) P94 Initiatives in Logistics · Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan • Initiatives as a consignor • Initiatives of the ALC Group P81  Developing Technologies and Products That Contribute to Global Sustainability P95 Environmental Management • Group-wide environmental management • Creating environmentally beneficial businesses • Group-wide environmental management activities • Assessing the environmental impact of the entire product lifecycle • Implementing environmental assessments Column • Implementing environmental audits · Feed-use amino acids for livestock farming that is friendlier to the • Disaster prevention systems and response to environmental planet accidents · Co-products that yield agricultural bounties worldwide P97  Providing Environmental Education · Joint development of Environment Vitalizing Concrete to help and Fostering Awareness promote marine ecosystems • Education and awareness-raising activities • Specialized education and training Scope of the environmental report This section of the report covers the environmental initiatives of the 120 companies subject to the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Management Measures as defined in the company’s Environmental Regulations (102 companies are fully subject to the regulations, and 18 are partially subject, as of March 2013). These companies include Ajinomoto Co., Inc., its consolidated subsidiaries, and other group companies that play a significant role in the Group’s environmental management. Performance statistics are for the 109 major business sites (the number decreased by two since last year’s report; five eliminated and three added) following site reorganization as well as plant dissolution and new construction, which substantially represent the environmental performance of the entire Ajinomoto Group1 under the consolidated financial accounting system. 1 The Ajinomoto Group refers to Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and group companies subject to financial reporting under the equity method. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 70 The Environment The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies were revised in 2006 in light of trends in compliance and efforts to minimize the environmental impact of business activities. They express the Group’s commitment to contributing to a sustainable society as a responsible global company. Since the revision, issues concerning the sustainability of the global environment and human societies have become even more serious. It is clear that the expectations of the Ajinomoto Group are higher, amid significant changes in the circumstances and structures surrounding corporate activities. On its centenary in 2009, the Ajinomoto Group pledged to “work for life.” In order to further articulate this pledge and state even more explicitly its determination to ensure that its business activities help to build a sustainable global society, the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies were revised again in April 2011. In addition, the Group established the Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda in February 2012. Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/e-philosophy/ Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/biodiversity-agenda/index.html Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies Environmental Philosophy Preamble The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group are sustained by the trust1 of international society and people in each region of the world, and rely upon a healthy global environment2 and people living in peace and prosperity.3 Health and prosperity are closely related to the local diversity of ecosystems and society. Modern society, however, continues to expand beyond the limits of what our planet can sustain—in terms of the use of resources and energy, as well as environmental impacts and emissions such as greenhouse gases, waste, and chemical substances. Human activities are threatening biodiversity, causing climate change, and increasing the scale of natural disasters, water shortages, food shortages and other problems. These threats are leading to a crisis for all life, and they affect human daily life. Rapid economic development in developing countries is also escalating the seriousness of global environmental issues.4 The world needs models of economic development that do not diminish local diversity.5 The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group also have impacts and are affected by those impacts. We strongly hope that society will continue to need what the Ajinomoto Group can offer. For that to occur, we believe it is necessary to conduct business activities that contribute to the transformation of modern society into a low-carbon, resource-recycling society in harmony with nature. Main Text The Ajinomoto Group works to benefit all life (hence our slogan “Work for Life”) and contributes to the realization of sustainable society. We conduct our business activities and grow together with society, while aiming to sustain the interrelationships between the functioning of unique and diverse forms of life in each region on Earth, and to ensure that all people, including future generations, are able to enjoy a better life in a healthy global environment. Basic Environmental Policies Understanding Interdependence and Impacts lives of people, and to life on Earth, by preserving with stakeholders, and through this dialogue verify At both the global and local levels, we ascertain and nurturing food sustainability and ecosystems, whether the self-evaluations of our activities are and evaluate in a timely manner the state of the aiming for the transformation of modern society accurate, and consider necessary improvements global environment and society upon which the into a low-carbon, resource-recycling society in and new initiatives. Ajinomoto Group’s business activities depend. We harmony with nature. We do this by making use of We make an effort to ensure that each of our also ascertain and evaluate, both quantitatively the knowledge, technologies, capacities, and facilities seeks to see things from the local and systematically, the impacts that the Ajinomoto assets of the Ajinomoto Group.9 community perspective and has an open attitude Group's business activities have on them. to the public. Cooperating with Others Minimizing Impacts We work to have a positive impact on the global Managing Our Group We fully comply with environmental regulations in environment and society through our business In order to conduct these activities effectively, each country and region, and adhere carefully to activities with related parties in the supply chain, systematically, and sustainably, and to make international standards and codes. We also including customers, suppliers, and others.10 At greater contributions, the Ajinomoto Group makes establish our own voluntary standards to the global and local levels, we promote meaningful use of environmental management systems in all challenge and achieve,6 and seek to minimize collaboration and cooperation with a variety of of its member organizations. We integrate these the impacts on the environment and ecosystems stakeholders, such as non-governmental environmental management systems with other that arise from all business activities7 of the organizations, specialized institutions, local management systems and work to make Ajinomoto Group. communities, and more. We contribute actively to continuous improvements. We strive to achieve optimal efficiency in the dialogue and consensus-building in our society We engage in systematic education and use of resources and procure natural resources by offering proposals on the creation of new awareness-raising activities so that each member in amounts and with methods that conserve societal frameworks.11 of the Ajinomoto Group understands his or her biodiversity and ecosystems.8 role and required competence, and this Providing Information understanding leads to concrete action. Providing Value We systematically summarize and regularly report Revised in April 2011 We offer products and services and propose on the approaches, programs and achievements technologies and systems that contribute to the of the Ajinomoto Group. We engage in dialogue 71 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment 1 Society’s license that permits corporations to exist, operate and grow. 8 Under the Aichi Targets—the new strategic plan adopted by the 10th 11 Examples: Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in 2 The ecological (environmental) resources needed to continue • Policy proposals October 2010—one strategic target agreed through international operating. These include the essential raw materials, energy, and consensus was to keep the impacts of the use of natural resources • P articipating in international conferences, being involved in the genetic resources necessary for the productive activities of the well within safe ecological limits by 2020, at the latest. establishment of international codes, standards, guidelines, etc. Ajinomoto Group, and also the very basis of l fe on Earth that provides diverse and abundant ecosystem services so essential for human life. 9 Examples: • D emonstrating initiative (leadership) through cross-sectoral voluntary Healthy ecosystems support and maintain biodiversity. activities • M  aking greater richness of taste possible and bringing greater 3 The social and economic resources needed to continue operating. The happiness to society, even with less consumption of food resources • P articipating in the initiatives of international, expert, business segments of the Ajinomoto Group—including food, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations, etc. • C  ontributing to the recovery and restoration of ecosystems and bioscience and fine chemicals, and health and pharmaceutical ecosystem services products—are in markets that have an important role in human lives. • P  roviding and proposing useful products, services, technologies, and 4 Developing countries have ecosystems that play important roles within systems that when used will result in significant reductions (i.e., the total Earth system. Developed countries have already fo lowed a substantially positive impacts) that can offset the use of resources and path that places an excessive burden on ecosystems. If rapid energy due to our business activities (i.e., substantially negative economic development in developing countries follows the same path, impacts). Ideally, the net effect of all impacts will be positive the result wi l lead to risks to the fragile local ecosystems and the local (i.e., “net positive”). communities that depend upon them, and ultimately, to global risks. • T  he development of products and technologies that use life sciences 5 When pursuing efficiencies at the global level, the challenge is to avoid knowledge and technologies to utilize the functions of ecosystems losing diversity at the local level as one of the negative impacts of and biological resources. economic globalization. 10 Examples: 6 The entire scope of our businesses, including supply chains and the lifecycles of our products and services. • S  upport to secure safe and sustainable food resources for primary producers of agricultural, livestock, and fishery products 7 Example: • Proposing environmentally friendly options for consumers • Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group are hugely reliant on natural blessings such as agricultural, livestock, fisheries resources and genetic resources. These natural blessings are brought by ecosystems and biodiversity, which are formed and supported by diverse creatures and their mutual interactions. Biodiversity is one of the most essential elements for the continuation and development of our business, therefore, it can be said that biodiversity serves as the “basis of business activities.” Biodiversity is also the “basis of all life on Earth” which supports human life and living. In recent years, however, biodiversity is being lost at an unprecedented rate, and biodiversity conservation becomes one of the most urgent global issues. In the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy, we, the Ajinomoto Group, pledge to work to benefit all life. We wish to make a contribution to realizing the sustainable society in which people can lead healthy and prosperous lives in peace, and wish to meet the expectations of society and our customers now and in the future. To do this we recognize that it is one of the most important tasks for the Group to undertake initiatives in biodiversity. We will tackle the challenges of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of biological resources, since biodiversity is the “basis of business activities” and “basis of all life on Earth.” We define hereby the Biodiversity Action Agenda as follows: Biodiversity Action Agenda [Addressing biodiversity issues] [Managing supply chains] • With the aim of the improvement both on the 1. Issues of biodiversity are closely bound up with 5. We promote the use of raw material that is basic functions of business sites and their other environmental issues such as climate produced with consideration for ecosystems surrounding ecosystems, we design, construct change, dwindling water resources, and waste and biodiversity. and manage landscapes, flora and fauna in treatment. They are interconnected and cannot • We comprehend the situation of regions the premises. be considered separately. With the recognition supplying raw material. • We manage the use of water resources of the interrelations, we take initiatives to • We avoid procurement from sources or supply including water withdrawal, consumption and address the issues: conservation of biodiversity chains that involve the destruction of discharge, with the consideration of regional and sustainable use of biological resources, ecosystems or biodiversity. water cycle. reduction of green gas emissions, efficient use • We contribute to stock assessment and of resources, waste reduction and reduction of management of natural fishery resources [Cooperating with others] other environmental impacts, so that the result and others. 9. We promote initiatives for biodiversity of our activities can produce multiple 6. We apply transportation methods to conserve conservation in cooperation with the society. beneficial effects. ecosystems and biodiversity. • We disclose our activities and the situation 2. We ascertain the relationship between the • Bearing in mind the issues of invasive alien concerning biodiversity conservation and business activities of the Group and species, we give consideration to selecting sustainable use of biological resources, and biodiversity. In other words we will have a clear transportation methods not to disrupt local make use of the feedback from the society to grasp of how the activities are dependent on ecosystems by bringing non-native species improve our activities. and what impacts they have on ecosystems through transportation of raw material • We cooperate with governments, specialists, and ecosystem services. or products. NGOs, local communities, other companies, 3. On the basis of this understanding, we strive to etc., in order to develop our initiatives for reduce impacts of the business activities on [Providing value] biodiversity conservation more efficiently. biodiversity, and improve the activities to be 7. We develop products, services, technologies 10.We contribute to promoting the understanding conducted both within the reproduction and systems, which contribute to life of people of biodiversity not only amongst our employees capacity of ecosystems and the capacity of and life on Earth with minimal impact on but also at all levels of the society, through material cycle. We recognize that impacts of ecosystems and biodiversity. educational activities and other means. the business activities can become net Established in February 2012 positive12 and aim to contribute to restoration [Managing premises] of ecosystems. 8. We create our business sites that are 4. We comply with international rules and harmonious with local ecosystems and 12 Having a positive impact after considering all the positive and all the negative factors regulations concerning biodiversity. communities in terms of the environment. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 72 The Environment The Ecological Business Model of the Ajinomoto Group The job of the Ajinomoto Group is to add extra value to the nourishing gifts of nature and deliver them to customers. The greater the scale of this job, the more the Group can contribute to the creation of a healthier global environment and a more prosperous world community. The ecological business model of the Ajinomoto Group aims to ensure that the Group’s business activities help to resolve the issues facing 21st-century human society. Helping to resolve the issues of the 21st century based on a partnership with the earth and society The Ajinomoto Group is promoting environmental initiatives for While being aware of the need to promote sustainable the entire product lifecycle, based on a partnership with the societies, the Ajinomoto Group seeks to learn from the broader earth and a partnership with society. society and make a positive impact. While utilizing opinions and In aiming to make an environmental contribution through its outstanding mechanisms from various social organizations and business activities, the Ajinomoto Group is actively involved in companies, the Group strives to increase the environmental helping to create a sustainable global environment and society. value of existing products and services, and to create new enviThis means that the Group’s efforts are not limited to its own ronmental value to ensure its core business is socially useful. business operations, but broadly focused to include upstream The Group also helps to promote ecological business practices and downstream parts of the supply chain. and eco-lifestyles in various ways, including advertising and In the past, the manufacturing industry saw resources and in-store promotions. raw materials that came from the planet and its ecosystems Based on a partnership with the earth and a partnership with merely as something to be purchased. However, in order to society, the Ajinomoto Group is working to help realize a sustainpromote a healthy and sustainable global environment, the able future for people and the planet. It will do this by increasing Ajinomoto Group believes it is important to strengthen cooperaits own environmental efficiency and value, while minimizing its tion with primary industries such as agriculture, livestock, and environmental impact and maximizing its social and environmenfisheries, making the most of its technologies and other advantal contributions. This is the definition of the Ajinomoto Group’s tages for this purpose. ecological business model. The ecological business model of the Ajinomoto Group Sustainable society Building a low-carbon society Partnership with society Ensuring a B2S sustainable Business to society food supply To create a rich, sound and sustainable society. Products To promote delicious, happy and healthy eco-lifestyles. and services The Ajinomoto Group will strengthen communication with Information various organizations and stakeholders while promoting provision Partnership provision of environment-friendly products, services and technology. with society Building a B2S: Business to society recyclingoriented society CommunicaEmissions and tion and dialogue waste Business activities of the Ajinomoto Group Partnership with Partnership with the earth the earth B2N: Business to nature B2N Business to nature To create a rich, sound and sustainable global environment. To address various global environmental issues. Conserving ecosystems and Raw The Ajinomoto Group will reduce environmental impacts biodiversity materials generated by business activities while promoting developSustainable ment and provision of products and technology that contribute to addressing environmental issues. In addition, the global Group will make greater efforts to collaborate with businesses engaged in agriculture, livestock farming and fisheries as well as suppliers to enable sustainable procurement of environment raw materials. 73 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Environmental Initiatives through the Entire Product Lifecycle Rather than limiting efforts to its immediate business operations, the Ajinomoto Group is promoting environmental initiatives throughout the product lifecycle, from the procurement of raw materials, to transport, production, sales, consumer use, and disposal. With an eye on environmental impact and contribution value for all its business activities, the Group is cooperating with various external stakeholders to pursue even more diverse initiatives. Key initiatives Procurement • Conservation of biodiversity Making efforts to achieve sustainable • Partnering with and supporting agriculture, fisheries, P78 procurement and livestock farming • Effective utilization and diversification of raw materials Key initiatives Development • Basic research Developing environmentally friendly busi• Business and product development (assessment) P81 nesses, products and technologies with • Life cycle-CO2 research environmental contribution characteristics Key initiatives Production activities (at plants and offices) • Increasing the value of by-products so that they can Making the most efficient use of materials be fully utilized P90 and minimizing environmental impact • Building a business system based on recycling • Zero emissions • Improving eco-efficiency Key initiatives Logistics • Fulfilling responsibilities as a consignor Improving the efficiency of logistics to • Collaboration with logistics companies P94 reduce environmental impact • Efficient shipping and delivery Key initiatives Products and services • Development of environmentally friendly products by Providing highly eco-efficient and functiontaking advantage of the functions of amino acids P85 al products to create a sustainable society • Contribution to eco-living through food products Key initiatives Communication • Promoting eco-living starting at the dining table Listening to public opinion and providing • Contributing to the creation of social frameworks P108 helpful information for eco-living • Exchanging views with stakeholders Foundation for initiative promotion Ascertaining Environmental Raising environmental P81 P95 P97 environmental effect management awareness of employees (Ascertaining environmental impact (ISO 14001 certification, auditing, education, (Smile Earth campaign, etc.) throughout the entire life cycle) performance evaluation, etc.) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 74 The Environment Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan and Fiscal 2012 Results The Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan is re-established every three years, and forms the basis for the Group’s environmental initiatives. Activities are currently underway based on the plan for 2011–2013. How the Ajinomoto Group should be The Ajinomoto Group contributes to issues of human society—global sustainability and food resources—and fosters the pursuit of healthy lives through its business. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan and Overview of Initiatives in Fiscal 2012 Main objective Priority points Fiscal 2012 results and future challenges Business to nature: Partnership with the earth Each organization/company incorporates the 2011–2013 Zero Initiatives for the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan progressed steadily throughout the Emissions Plan into its own three-year plan for implementation Group, except waste per unit of production, which deteriorated compared to fiscal 2011. It will be Minimize emissions Encourage acquisition of CO2 emissions credits (such as CDM) in important to secure a stable supply of energy with low environmental impact, such as natural gas, and generated by anticipation of the emissions trading scheme develop energy/resource saving processes. business activities, and promote the Assess products and their entire lifecycles based on carbon footprint CFP values of 9 amino acid products were certified. Will continue to review product labeling, websites Zero Emissions (CFP) and utilize such assessment or other media. Plan Progress made according to plan at each site for the introduction of fermentation processes with low Develop energy saving processes environmental impact. Apply the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR) to vital raw Skipjack survey: The results of electronic tagging survey gained positive appraisals from the relevant materials sectors, resource management organizations, and academic societies. • New program on aquatic resources such as skipjack Conserve biodiversity and • Tapioca starch: Field surveys were conducted at tapioca farms and tapioca starch factories in use sustainable Establish procurement guidelines on raw materials with high risk (e.g., Thailand and Vietnam. ecosystem rainforest products), assess use of land on business sites to maintain • Sustainable palm oil: Ajinomoto Co., Inc. joined RSPO in October 2012. services local biodiversity, and implement monitoring tools • Land use: The Tokai Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. coordinated with Mie Prefecture, Yokkaichi City and local companies to use its business sites to conserve local ecosystems surrounding the plant. Improve fermentation process so that it requires fewer resources Progress made according to plan on use of inedible raw material in fermentation. (utilization of inedible raw material, etc.) Business to society: Partnership with society—contribution to environmental issues Each organization/company considers ways to contribute to the • Environmental contribution using amino acids: Promoted expansion of the Ministry of Environment’s environment through business activities, products, and services, and J-VER scheme for low-protein feed fortified with feed-use amino acids currently limited to pig feed incorporates the ideas into business policies/plans for implementation for use in poultry-feed. • Environmental contribution using amino acids • Eco-friendly packaging: Started initiatives to replace the material of heat shrink labels for food/ Contribute to the • Development of products/services to help reduce consumers’ sweetener containers with polylactate, which is a carbon neutral biomass resource. environment “eco-concern” and more eco-friendly packaging • Started initiatives aimed at quantitative evaluation of the environmental impact of the leading through business • Establish networks for promoting harmony with local communities processed foods compared to the home-cooked versions. activities, • Conducted experiments and began trial sales of Environment Vitalizing Concrete; promoted sales products, and expansion of AjiPro®-L lysine for dairy cattle and “co-product” enriched agricultural material. Will services Foster cooperation between R&D departments and divisions to continue initiatives aimed at commercializing environmentally friendly products, including joint develop products that contribute to the environment and save research for bio-based nylon. resources, in order to achieve new growth • The Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office of Ajinomoto Co., Ltd. as well as Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. received Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Awards for promoting recycling of containers and packaging, and recycling of food respectively. • The Sustainability Report 2012 received the Sustainability Report Award Grand Prize at the Environmental Communication Awards. Since fiscal 2006, the Ajinomoto Group has won the award for 7 consecutive years. • Received the Fuji Sankei Group Award as part of the 22nd Global Environment Awards. • Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. received the Food Safety, Security and Environmental Contribution Award from The Japan Food Journal. Disclose as necessary information on business contribution to food • PT Ajinomoto Indonesia placed in the top three in the 2nd CSR Award held by Seputar Indonesia resources and global sustainability, and reduction of environmental National Newspaper. impact through business activities; implement mechanisms for Promote • The Pathum Thani Factory of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. was awarded an Excellence in incorporating external feedback into operations information Environmental Conservation Award by Thailand’s Ministry of Industry. provision as well • Joint exhibit by 4 group companies at Eco-Products 2012 held Dec. 13–15, 2012. as communication • Exhibited at the Rio+20 Conference in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012, to promote dialogue with the and collaboration international community. The Group’s environmental contribution via its business activities received with society high acclaim from food industries worldwide. The Group will continue to seek dialogue on environmental and CSR topics. As a leading food company, the Group understands the importance of • Held the Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum, attended by approx. 550 people, in cooperation with environmental impact reduction and contribution through food. It Kao Corporation as part of Eco-Products 2012. A variety of panelists presented a range of strives to take the initiative and provide support in these areas. eco-friendly lifestyle ideas with the theme of “Thinking about an ecological lifestyle from the viewpoint of food and life.” Activities for eco-living starting at the dining table: Promoting the • Increased “Aji-na Eco” mark products to 128 as of October 2013 (up 18 products from fiscal 2011). “Eco-Uma Recipe” program and encouraging environmental • Expanded publicity activities for “Eco-Uma Recipe” from websites, email magazines, and magazines awareness to include magazine-books, local newspapers, and satellite TV programs. Steady management Strengthen Some legal violations regarding waste disposal and handling of chemical substances were confirmed compliance with Strengthen systems to ensure each division/department complies with at Ajinomoto Co., Ltd, and rectification was implemented following reporting to government authorities. laws and laws and regulations, based on ISO 14001 The company will develop a framework to prevent recurrence and enhance checks on operations. regulations Promoted cooperation on waste disposal management in the Tokai and North Kanto regions. Steady implemenEstablish EMS networks on a business, operational, or regional basis Commenced examination of a scheme in the Shizuoka region. tation of EMS group-wide Encourage integrated management of safety, quality, and environmenEncouraged integrated management of safety, quality, environmental targets and reviews. tal targets Make improvePromoted environmental accounting and aggregation and analysis of environmental impact performents and Establish EMS so that environmental issues and risks can be noticed mance in addition to monitoring trends in legal amendments in Japan and sharing the information with evaluations based easily by the Group and top management affiliates. on indicators • Promote education and awareness throughout the Group including • Provided education for new environmental administrators and staff, environmental law training top management Maintain capacity sessions, showed environmental education videos, and carried out grade-specific and legal training • For EMS activities outside Japan, local staff are expected to take the to promote EMS programs according to plan. lead in providing education and practice opportunities under the • Conducted education and training at each group company outside Japan, according to plan. guidance of managers posted from Japan 75 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal 2012 Results With the aim of minimizing environmental impact arising from its various business operations, the entire Group is now implementing the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan. While checking progress via a performance review every six months, the Group also revises the scope and targets whenever the plan is updated in order to further reduce impact. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and performance on targets in fiscal 2012 The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan is being Environmental award system for excellent business sites implemented as part of the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group MediumThe Ajinomoto Group is united in its Term Environmental Plan. While maintaining the framework of efforts to further reduce environmental the previous 2008–2010 plan, the current Zero Emissions Plan impact in all business areas. In order to contains new targets for emissions reduction. provide additional incentive for such For example, in the area of water resource conservation, in activities, business sites that have made addition to the previous targets for wastewater emissions, targets the biggest contribution to achievement for reducing water consumption were added. In the area of of the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero waste reduction, new targets were added to include non-producEmissions Plan are honored as “excellent Plaque presented to the tion sites. business sites.” excellent business sites The Calpis Group, which accounts for 15% of the Ajinomoto Based on the criteria of establishing Group’s total production by volume, was omitted from targets in a roadmap and steadily promoting it, as well as achieving numerfiscal 2012, midway through the 2011–2013 Zero Emissions Plan. al targets, the Group honored seven sites that had saved energy This change impacted progress on targets in the areas of water in their offices or logistics operations in fiscal 2012 and one site resources, CO2 emissions and recycling, etc., of waste. Excludthat had promoted initiatives to reduce waste and to save energy ing this impact, water consumed per unit of production was flat, in the workplace overall by updating and carefully managing use discharged water per unit of production and CO2 emissions per of equipment. unit of production improved compared with the previous year, and progress on waste per unit of production deteriorated. Excellent Business Sites (Office Division) Logistics Planning Dept., Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Targets for total CO2 emissions in Japan and resource recovery Food Sales Administration Dept., Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Chubu Main Office, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION ratios were achieved again this fiscal year. The Group will work Kyushu Main Office, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION hard to achieve all targets by fiscal 2013. Excellent Business Sites (Logistics Division) Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Logistics Controlling Dept., AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Logistics Dept., Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. Excellent Business Sites (Production Division) Head Office and Kanto Plant, Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. Key targets and results for the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan Fiscal 2011 results Fiscal 2012 Item Scope Targets to be achieved results (excl. (excl. Calpis (incl. Calpis Calpis Group) Group) Group) Concentration of Target achieved pollutants in discharged Target achieved at Target achieved at All production sites of the Group BOD ≤ 10 ppm, TN ≤ 5 ppm at 20 out of 37 water: BOD and total 22 out of 37 sites 24 out of 39 sites sites nitrogen (TN) Water resources Water consumed per Reduce by at least 70% (compared All production sites of the Group 61% reduction 61% reduction 65% reduction unit of production to fiscal 2005) Discharged water per Reduce by at least 70% (compared All production sites of the Group 67% reduction 65% reduction 69% reduction unit of production to fiscal 2005) CO2 emissions per unit Entire Group (production sites + Reduce by at least 35% (compared 26% reduction 22% reduction 31% reduction of production non-production sites) to fiscal 2005) CO2 emissions ≤ 493 kt (reduce by 7% compared 3 Total CO2 emissions All production sites in Japan to fiscal 1990 and by 8% compared 374 kt 396 kt 433 kt to fiscal 2005) Resource recovery ratio Entire Group (production sites + ≥ 99% 99.2% 99.3% 99.3% (waste + by-products) non-production sites) 3Rs of waste Waste per unit of Entire Group (production sites + Reduce by at least 20% (compared 5.0% increase 0.9% increase 10.3% reduction production non-production sites) to fiscal 2006) 3 Benchmark year (1990): 508 kt (Changed due to exclusion of Calpis Group from scope of plan) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 76 The Environment Fiscal 2012 Input and Output Balance The Ajinomoto Group is working to minimize its impact on the environment, based on its Medium-Term Environmental Plan and Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan. The Group always pursues the most efficient use of the resources needed for its business activities, including raw materials, energy, and water. Input and output balance Scope of reporting: Including Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, there were 109 business sites playing a significant role in the Ajinomoto Group’s environmental management at the end of fiscal 2012. This Consolidated net sales (reference) number decreased by two (five eliminated and three added) since fiscal Note: Others The Ajinomoto Group’s business 2011 due to the consolidation of business sites and other reasons. Fermentation 20% 28% segments are categorized according to the characteristics of the environReporting period: Consolidated mental impact incurred by the various April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 manufacturing methods, excluding net sales: about cooperative ventures, such as edible 990 oils and coffee products. These Reported data: billion yen categories are different from the Estimated values are included. The sum of all values in a graph may not business segments based on equal the total due to the effect of rounding. consolidated financial accounting. Their scope of reporting is different Food from the scope applied to the input 52% and output balance. Input and output balance for the Ajinomoto Group Input: Energy, water, raw material Input of energy Water consumption Raw material consumption 35,669 TJ 1 109,827 kt 4,098 kt Logistics, services, others 2% Pharmaceuticals, Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, specialty chemicals, packaging packaging Pharmaceuticals, specialty Food 14% 4% Food chemicals, packaging 14% 21% 7% Food Fermentation Fermentation Fermentation 31% 55% 75% 77% Purchased electricity 2.10 million MWh (7,522 TJ) River water 37,706 kt Raw material Purchased steam 1,171 kt (3,166 TJ) Industrial water 40,108 kt Main raw material 1,772 kt Gas 408 million m3 (17,473 TJ) Well water 19,141 kt Sub raw material 2,141 kt Oil 89 million l (3,561 TJ) Tap water, municipal water 12,871 kt Acids/alkalis 643 kt Coal 66,903 t (1,987 TJ) Others (rainwater, etc.) 1,713 t Other 1,497 kt Biomass 1,930 TJ Packaging material 1 TJ: terajoule, T (tera) = 1012 Plastic 38 kt Paper, cardboard 98 kt Other 47 kt Output: Release to atmosphere, discharged water, waste CO2 emissions Discharged water By-products, waste emissions 2,240 kt 87,206 kt Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, packaging 2,530 kt Logistics, services, others 2% 3% Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, Food Fermentation Pharmaceuticals, packaging 4% 94% specialty chemicals, 17% Food packaging 6% 17% Food Fermentation Fermentation 22% 61% 74% Co-products, resources recovered Waste disposed (external disposal) 2,511 kt Resource 19 kt recovery ratio: 99.2% CO2 Combustion 1,311 kt Discharged to: Purchased energy 905 kt Public waterways (indirect cooling water, etc.) Vehicle fuel 24 kt  38,525 kt Volume of production 2,298 kt Pharmaceuticals, NOx 1,795 t Public waterways (discharged after treatment, etc.) specialty chemicals, SOx 1,765 t  32,227 kt packaging Soot and dust 2,287 t Public sewerage 14,650 kt 6% Food Fermentation CFCs, HCFCs, HFCs 14.8 t Water for irrigation use 1,804 kt BOD 211 t 39% 56% Nitrogen 427 t 77 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group involve a deep relationship with the bounty of nature, and they influence ecosystems and biodiversity in a variety of ways while making the most of nature’s blessings. The Group is promoting initiatives to “monitor life and foster life,” in order to conserve biodiversity and realize sustainable procurement of ecosystem services. Fiscal 2012–2013 results of the Ajinomoto Group • The Annual Report on the Environment, the Sound Material-Cycle Society and the Biodiversity in Japan 2013 by the Ministry of the Environment cites the biodiversity initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group as a leading example for other businesses to follow. • The Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan project earned an award for excellence at the Third Japan Awards for Biodiversity. The survey is using electronic tagging (archival tags) to generate detailed records of the daily longitudinal and latitudinal geographical coordinates and migration of skipjack at 30-second intervals, over a cumulative period of approximately 500 days.2 • Launch of an ecosystem network improvement project for the Yokkaichi region, through a consortium working in partnership with local companies and governments. 2 Survey results in fiscal 2012 Working in partnership with diverse stakeholders The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental The Ajinomoto Group also strives to use paper sustainably in Plan reflects the Group’s business model for utilizing biological its business activities, following the Ajinomoto Group Guidelines resources sustainably. Efforts are focused on three priority for Procurement of Environmentally Responsible Paper. The themes: (1) developing systems for sustainable procurement of Group is working with other companies and WWF Japan to plan raw materials; (2) avoiding risks associated with the destruction joint education campaigns on responsible paper procurement. of forest ecosystems; and (3) promoting sustainable land use. In the area of raw materials for fermentation, the Group Many types of stakeholders care about natural capital, conducted field surveys in fiscal 2012 to identify environmental biological resources and their ecosystems. The Group works and social issues in the supply chains for cassava and tapioca in with external stakeholders to tackle issues directly related to its Thailand and Vietnam. The survey of cassava farmers and tapibusiness activities, looking at the big picture from a mediumand oca starch processing plants was implemented by employees long-term perspective. It also focuses on promoting public and from procurement and environmental/CSR departments togethindustry understanding of issues related to global sustainability er with staff from local subsidiaries and outside experts. The and food resources. study findings are being used to formulate a plan of action to Starting in fiscal 2010, the Ajinomoto Group began identifycreate shared value with supply chain stakeholders. ing the relationships between its main business activities and Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is a member of the Japan Business ecosystem services, seeking to prioritize and address issues Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB). Working with other member group-wide. Sustainable procurement of aquatic and forest companies, it is examining land use practices at its business resources have long been priorities for the Group, since they are locations, with a view to ensuring that business growth has a so essential to its business and the ecosystems it depends on. In positive influence on local communities and ecosystems. The fiscal 2012–2013, the Group expanded this focus to encompass company’s Tokai Plant is part of a consortium of local businesses agricultural resources such as raw materials for fermentation. that is working with Mie Prefecture and Yokkaichi City on an For aquatic resources, the Group is involved in a skipjack ecosystem network improvement project for the Yokkaichi retagging survey in collaboration with the National Research gion. The plant’s efforts focus on the Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary, Institute of Far Seas Fisheries (NRIFSF) of Japan’s Fisheries which is located on the grounds of the Tokai Plant. Research Agency. This successful project is generating advanced In a variety of areas, the Ajinomoto Group is working closely scientific data using archival electronic tags, and is very valuable with diverse stakeholders to develop biodiversity conservation for research on skipjack stock management in Japan and the initiatives with an even more global reach. western-central Pacific Ocean. 3 A non-profit organization whose purpose is to promote the production and use of sustainable palm oil by developing certification standards that are trusted globally and ensuring the For forest resources, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been a member participation of stakeholders. of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)3 consortium since August 2012. The company has outlined a roadmap for sustainable palm oil use and is taking concrete steps to lay the groundwork for acquiring RSPO certification in its supply chain. The company is also providing information to others in the food industry, a major user of palm oil, seeking to promote sustainReference See “Bringing People the Blessings of Nature, Sustainably” on p. 21. See “Pursuing CSR Procurement” on p. 43. able practices industry-wide. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 78 The Environment Column Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary in Yokkaichi (Tokai Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) Respecting local ecosystems, providing a home for rare wildlife Use of business-owned land for manufacturing must acknowledge that each parcel is also a vital part of the local natural environment. Providing green spaces makes land multi-purpose, ensuring it plays its rightful role in the The Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary is maintained by employees local ecosystem. who volunteer. The Tokai Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is situated in a large industrial complex in Yokkaichi City, Mie Prefecture. The land that is home to the Tokai Plant also hosts the Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary, a 12,700-square meter biodiversity conservation area directly adjacent to the production facilities. The centerpiece of the sanctuary is a fresh water pond surrounded by trees, which has also been used to draw water for firefighting and maintained as a quiet oasis for employees. The Common Kingfisher (left) and a rare Ever since the Tokai Plant was built in the 1960s, its dragonfly (right) employees have been planting trees in the area. The green trees attracted more and more wild birds. This prompted the employees to explore the idea of setting the space aside as a conservation area, an environmental asset for the community. Thanks to the hard work of employees who volunteered their own time to maintain the area, it was officially designated the Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary in 2002. The pond and trees in the sanctuary change appearance with the seasons. Many rare insects and wild birds, including six species of heron, can be found here—most notably the Intermediate Egret, which is designated as an endangered species by Japan and Mie Prefecture. Other rare species include the Northern Goshawk and the Common Kingfisher, which is only found in habitats with very clean water. The sanctuary also serves as a stopover for migrating birds. An observation room where visitors can enjoy birdwatching Improving ecosystem networks in the Yokkaichi Region Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) http://www.jbib.org/en/ Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is part of the JBIB’s working group on sustainable land use, and it seeks to ensure that land use actively enhances local ecosystems. The company is part of a consortium of JBIB member companies that launched an ecosystem network improvement project for the Yokkaichi region in June 2013. The initiative is forming ecosystem networks that link green spaces on corporate lands with public green spaces to enhance the overall ecosystem in the region. In fiscal 2012 and 2013, flora and fauna experts conducted a fact-finding assessment of business locations and surrounding areas, confirming that the Ajinomoto Bird Sanctuary was home to a colony of rare Intermediate Egret and affirming the value of the project. The initiative is truly a team effort, with the support and cooperation of the Mie Prefecture and Yokkaichi City governments, Mie Prefecture Museum, and local communities. 79 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Column Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan Since fiscal 2009, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been involved in the Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan, partnering with the National Research Institute of Far Seas Fisheries (NRIFSF). The project engages research experts in the field of marine resources, seeing to elucidate the migratory habits of skipjack along the Kuroshio current from the southwest Researcher tags a skipjack islands to the west coast of Japan. The data will help foster a better understanding of the mysterious life of skipjack. Skipjack are tagged, released, and later re-caught with the help of fishing operators. Survey personnel actually board fishing vessels to release skipjack, so they must work closely with fisheries cooperatives to determine the best boats and times for weather and fishing conditions. When the tagged fish are caught, the fishing operators report the date, location, tag Meeting with a fisheries cooperative number, and size of the fish. Survey personnel meet with people in the fishing industry across Japan to hand out leaflets and enlist fisheries to post educational posters. Many people are involved in acquiring the data, which is published by NRIFSF. The data is also used by international fishery management organizations and presented at academic conferences, all contributing to the sustainable management of Poster and promotional goods skipjack stocks. See “Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Reference Japan” on p. 22. Highlight Government white paper cites biodiversity initiatives of Ajinomoto Group Japan’s Ministry of the Environment recently published the Annual Report on the Environment, the Sound Material-Cycle Society and the Biodiversity in Japan 2013, which was submitted to the National Diet in June 2013. This “environmental white paper” included a column devoted specifically to the biodiversity initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group.1 Under the vision of “living in harmony with nature,” many nations are presently working toward achieving the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, a new strategic plan that was decided at the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP 10) held in Nagoya, Japan in 2010. Japan outlined the National Biodiversity Strategy of Japan 2012–2020 in September 2012 as a roadmap for achieving the Aichi Biodiversity Targets. The call to action encompasses all segments of society, and asks businesses to play a major role in achieving the targets. The white paper by the Ministry of the Environment cites the biodiversity initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group as a leading example, validating the Group’s efforts in this area. The Ajinomoto Group is working to address biodiversity issues directly related to its business activities. It seeks to influence industry and society as a whole by sharing best practices and providing biodiversity education. The Group presented at side events at the COP 11 held in Hyderabad, India, and also publishes information on biodiversity initiatives on its own website. 1 It can be found in Part 1, Chapter 2, Section 4 in the Japanese version of the report. Environmental Conservation Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/ Stories Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/features/story/ Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 80 The Environment Developing Technologies and Products That Contribute to Global Sustainability The Ajinomoto Group is pursuing research and technology development to enhance the environmental value of its products and business activities. In addition to ascertaining environmental impact throughout product lifecycles, the Group is using its knowledge to create new businesses that contribute to global sustainability. Creating environmentally beneficial businesses While pursuing R&D to reduce the environmental impact of Principal research and technology development existing business activities, the Ajinomoto Group also strives to areas for contributing to global sustainability provide new environmental value. The Group has established priority research themes for new business areas, including Sustainable, environmentally friendly technologies environmental technologies and more effective use of resources. • Utilizing unused biomass Making the most of its own knowledge and technologies, the Developing technology to utilize unused biomass as raw material and energy Developing alternative production technologies for petrochemical products Group is also incorporating outside ideas and technologies in • Developing technologies to save energy and resources order to develop new products and materials that can contribute to global sustainability. It calls its effort to achieve fast results Effective use of resources “open & linked innovation,” and often pursues joint development. • Adding value to by-products from the amino acid fermentation process Reference P83 Starting with the early results of joint research into the manufacture of synthetic rubber and nylon from sustainable plant Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions materials, the Ajinomoto Group is still pursuing a variety of • Carbon footprint assessment of emissions throughout Reference P82 the business and product lifecycles (LC-CO2) technologies that have the potential to contribute to global • More energy savings Reference P90 sustainability by leveraging the Group’s extensive expertise • Utilizing unused biomass resources Reference P25 in amino acids and food products as well as related fermenReduction of the environmental impact of discharged water tation technologies. • Saving water by developing highly efficient amino acid fermentation technologies • Developing advanced wastewater treatment Reference See “R&D for a Healthier, More Sustainable Future” on p. 27. technologies (such as biological denitrification) Reference P92 Eco-friendly designs for containers and packages • Design based on the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) • Using sustainable materials • Utilizing unused resources Reference P85 Assessing the environmental impact of the entire product lifecycle In order to reduce the environmental impact of products while with the 1990, 1995, 2000, and 2005 edition of the Embodied increasing their environmental value, a company must underEnergy and Emission Intensity Data for Japan Using Inputstand not only the impact during the production process, but also Output Tables (3EID). This database, which covers basic LC-CO2 the impact throughout the product’s entire lifecycle. This exdata regarding food materials and ingredients, is used by and tends from the extraction of raw materials and their processing highly rated by industrial, academic and government organizaat factories, to the distribution of the product, and consumption tions and researchers. and disposal by the consumer. The Ajinomoto Group has been The Ajinomoto Group began carbon footprint (CFP) assesscarrying out lifecycle assessments (LCA) for many years, and is ment of its products early on. For nine amino acid-based prodactively taking part in related research. ucts including feed-use lysine, the Group finished acquiring One of the keys to achieving a low-carbon society is monitorcertification of its CFP calculation standards and CFP values ing total CO2 emissions during the product lifecycle (LC-CO2). under the Carbon Footprint Program of the Japan Environmental Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has become a member of the Food Study Management Association for Industry in Group run by the Institute of Life Cycle Assessment Japan to May 2012. The Group has also introduced study LC-CO2. LC-CO2 assessment as a standard for The study led to development of the Ajinomoto Group environmental assessment of product LC-CO2 Emissions Factor Database for Food-related Materials, containers and packaging. which has been on the company’s public website since April See “Development of Environmentally Reference 2007. The latest version, released in October 2010, is compatible Friendly Packaging” on p. 85. 81 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Column Feed-use amino acids for Lysine Threonine Tryptophan Valine livestock farming that is friendlier to the planet Feed-use amino acids help to augment low-protein livestock feeds by enhancing the amino acid balance in feeds, which in turn helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, lessens the impact on soil and water quality, and enables cultivated land to be used more effectively. As a leading global manufacturer of feed-use amino acids, the Ajinomoto Group is working hard to develop new products and collaborate with the international community. Promoting livestock growth and reducing Assessing carbon footprint to verify environenvironmental impact mental benefits of feed-use amino acids Animal proteins are built from 20 different amino acids, severTo popularize environmentally friendly livestock farming, al of which are not synthesized in sufficient quantities in the livestock farmers will have to be informed about how body. These amino acids must be supplemented through greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by using feed-use feed formulations. amino acids. The farmers who use feed-use amino acids will Feeds that have a poor amino acid balance prevent the also have to benefit in some way from the emission reducbody from effectively using amino acids, so that they are tions they achieve. emitted as nitrogen compounds, which impact soil and water The Ajinomoto Group took on the challenge of assessing quality. Additionally, some of the nitrogen that is oxidized or the carbon footprint benefits of feed-use amino acids and reduced in the soil or air is released into the atmosphere as establishing an emission offsetting credit scheme to encournitrous oxide (N2O), which has approximately 300 times the age livestock farmers to use feed-use amino acids. In Japan, warming potential of CO2. the Group made great progress with regard to the scheme in The addition of feed-use amino acids helps livestock to fiscal 2010 and 2011. better use the nutrition content of feeds, which helps to Based on the encouraging results, the Group believes it is reduce the impact on the global environment. possible to establish a global system that is similar to the one promoted in Japan, thereby achieving great benefits. N2O cycle Visualizing the N2O reduction effect of using low-protein N20 feed fortified with feed-use amino acids The amount em tted by the oxidization July 2010: Certified by the Offsetting Credit (J-VER) Scheme of Ammonia NOx or reduction of ammonia and NOx the Ministry of the Environment (Japan) generated from livestock manure accounts for 8% of the total March 2011: Certified as a project under the domestic credit Feces and urine The amount emitted system of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Manure treatment Urea process (composting, N20 from the manure treatment process Industry (Japan) nitrogen accounts for at least wastewater 70% of the total September 2011: CFP values certified for feed-use lysine treatment, etc.) The amount emitted from under the CFP Pilot Project of the MinisNitrite and nitrate N20 so l and surface water try of Economy, Trade and Industry accounts for 19% of the total (Japan) CFP value logo Groundwater Soil Distribution Rivers/seas • CO2 emissions at each stage 1% Raw materials of the lifecycle for feed-use procurement amino acids (L-lysine) Manufacturing 33% 66% Bringing feed-use amino acids and their benefits to the world • Full-scale introduction of next-generation • Food resource sustainability initiatives technology In August 2012, the International Food Industry Federation Ajinomoto Animal Nutrition Group, Inc. conducts R&D into (IFIF) and EU Association of Specialty Feed Ingredients and lower-resource fermentation technology (see p. 27 for details), their Mixtures (FEFANA) spearheaded the creation of the to enable feed-use amino acids to be manufactured with less Specialty Feed Ingredients Sustainability (SFIS), a consortium raw materials and fuel. Its technologies were first deployed for representing feed industry associations in Europe, the United production of feed-use lysine in Brazil, and since September States, North and South America, and Japan, together with 2013 they have been used in the United States, as well. In leading manufacturers of specialty feed ingredients from France, the technology has been used for manufacturing around the world. As a member of SFIS, Ajinomoto Animal tryptophan since August 2012, and it will be deployed for Nutrition Group, Inc. is proposing and working to promote lysine manufacturing starting in January 2014. optimum feed nutrition for sustainable livestock production, The Ajinomoto Group will continue to pursue R&D on this by identifying the benefits of feed-use amino acids for reductheme, deploying the results to address food resource issues ing environmental impact. and reduce impact on the global environment. Reference See “R&D for a Healthier, More Sustainable Future” on p. 27. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 82 The Environment Column Co-products that yield agricultural bounties worldwide The Ajinomoto Group manufactures “co-products” such as fertilizers and feed using nutrient-rich by-products generated from the fermentation process in the manufacturing of amino acids and nucleic acids and then adding value to them. The Group’s business seeks to utilize nature’s local blessings as materials and tries to make the most efficient use of them in the agricultural, livestock, and fishing industries. Developing valued-added co-products The Ajinomoto Group has been making amino acid products for Slow–release solid fertilizer Foliar fertilizer Dried bacterial cells Silage modifying agent over 30 years, based on bio-cycle mechanisms that fully utilize food resources and return by-products to the agricultural sector in Solid fertilizer Liquid fertilizer Liquid feed the form of co-products. About 90% of by-products are transFermentation by-product formed into co-product fertilizer, which is mainly used in farming. In order to meet the various needs of each agricultural region based on their natural environments and crop characteristics, the Group has been researching co-product usage methods that are suitable for the crops and agricultural practices of each region, and has been investigating their benefits. Since fiscal 2010, the Group’s A-Link project has focused on AJIFOL® foliar fertilizer sold in Brazil is the use of co-products in the area of agricultural materials. To add used in grape cultivation. more value to co-products, the Group is accumulating more knowledge and expertise, including methods to make more effective use AMI-AMI liquid fertilizer sold in of co-products in each region and for each crop, while promoting Vietnam is spread around rubber trees to promote growth. the global use of amino acids and nucleic acids in the field of nutrients for plants and animals. Several value-added co-products have already been created, and the business is expanding worldwide. Co-products are made using fermentation by-products that contain amino acids and minerals, as well as other unique ingredients, to help grow healthy crops and increase yields. Offering co-products for diverse applications in Japan The Kyushu Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. develops and • Hayane Hayaoki manufactures diverse co-products, which are marketed by Co-developed with Berg Earth Co., Ltd., AJINOMOTO HEALTHY SUPPLY CO., INC. Hayane Hayaoki fertilizer contains an optimum formulation of inosene, • AMIHEART® nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash to AMIHEART® liquid fertilizer promote seedling growth. contains ample quantities of inosene, which promotes Results for paddy-field rice cultivation rhizogenesis and root growth. AMIHEART® contains monomolecular inosene, which is readily absorbed to produce better results. Results for Traditional method Hayane Hayaoki lettuce cultivation • AJIFOL AminoGuard® AJIFOL® AminoGuard foliar fertilizer contains an optimum formulation of concentrated amino acids and minerals to energize plants. It is typically used in strawberry and tomato cultivation. High-bench strawberry cultivation AJIFOL® AminoGuard foliar fertilizer used here on strawberries that displayed inhibited growth from root damage. The revived plants display improved leaf color. Traditional method AMIHEART® Before use After two months of use 83 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Column Joint development of Environment Vitalizing Concrete to help promote marine ecosystems Environmental Vitalizing Concrete promotes microalgae growth on its surface by incorporating amino acids into inorganic concrete. The result is an “organic concrete” that helps to revitalize marine environments. Since 2009, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been developing Environment Vitalizing Concrete jointly with the University of Tokushima’s Department of Ecosystem Design (headed by Professor Yasunori “Organic concrete” (left) attracts more fish than convenational concrete (right). Kouzuki) and Nikken Kogaku Co., Ltd., a leading supplier of ocean wave dissipation blocks. “Organic concrete” improves the compatibility of natural and manmade objects, restoring vitality to an area In the past few years, in addition to the problems with water pollution and eutrophication in Japan’s rivers and seas, rocky-shore denudation caused by multiple factors, including oligotrophication in which nutrients are depleted, rising sea water temperatures, and feeding On-site monitoring of “Organic damage caused by organisms that feed on seaweed has become a serious environmental problem in Japan. concrete” With this understanding, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been conducting joint research in laboratories and in the field with partners from different fields. The research has confirmed that the amino acids, which are slowly released by Environment Vitalizing Concrete, promote microalgae growth, which in turn fosters feeding grounds for fish and shellfish. This suggests that promoting healthy growth of microalgae at the base of the food chain helps to improve and vitalize overall aquatic environments. Furthermore, the Society of Materials Science, Japan (JSMS) verified that incorporating arginine, a type of amino acid, into concrete has virtually zero impact on strength and durability. Experiments are underway at over 40 water areas Testing and monitoring of the product is underway at over 40 locations in oceans and rivers across Japan. The company is also promoting further research into the speed, mechanism and the consistency of the release of amino acids. Environment Vitalizing Concrete has also begun to appear in a number of public infrastructure projects. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is pursuing further R&D and practical applications into such products as wave dissipation blocks, in order to create safe and secure living environments for people, enhance and vitalize the aquatic environment, and energize the fisheries industry in local communities. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 84 The Environment Development of Environmentally Friendly Packaging Food containers and packaging play an essential role in preserving and protecting their contents—from the moment the customer purchases the product until it is consumed. The Ajinomoto Group has worked to develop containers and packaging with low environmental impact which maintain these vital functions while fulfilling consumers’ wish to select products that are as environmentally friendly as possible. Major targets and results of the second Containers and Packaging 3R Promotion Plan (Excerpt) Targets to be achieved by fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2012 performance Plastic consumption Paper consumption Plastic consumption Paper consumption Reduce by 2.0 % Reduce by 5.0 % 1.7% 1.9% per unit of product weight per unit of product weight reduction per unit of increase per unit of (compared to fiscal 2010) (compared to fiscal 2010) product weight product weight (compared to fiscal 2010) (compared to fiscal 2010) Fiscal 2012 performance overview The products of the Ajinomoto Group, which include seasonings consumption per product weight2 rose 1.9%. While progress in and processed foods as well as frozen foods, oils and beverages, reducing paper consumption was achieved for many products, require many different kinds of containers and packaging. Each the reasons for the increase include the growth in products for company pursues its own initiatives to make containers and which packaging increased as a result of reductions in the volpackaging environmentally sound. The Group shares best pracume of contents based on changes in consumption behavior, tices at each company at events such as the Ajinomoto Group products for which 3R activities were inappropriate in view of the Food Conference, which is held regularly. suitability of facilities or product shelf life, and the launch of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. formulated the second Containers and products with characteristically high paper consumption per unit Packaging 3R Promotion Plan (fiscal 2011–2015) and is taking of production, such as tubes or pouches. steps based on the plan. In addition to setting overall reduction In fiscal 2013, changes that will have a substantial impact on targets, the company has established specific goals on packaging reductions are being implemented, including review of manufacfor less waste, packaging that can be refilled, packaging that is turing facilities and product configurations. The Ajinomoto easy to separate, and packaging materials that are environmenGroup will promote further initiatives to achieve the targets for tally superior, in order to promote the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and fiscal 2015. recycle). It has also been focusing on making customers aware 1 Fiscal 2012 figure is preliminary. of its progress. 2 In 3R related activities, this value is calculated by dividing the gram weight of containers and packaging for each material by the kilogram product weight. In fiscal 2012,1 compared to the base year of fiscal 2010, plastic consumption per product weight2 fell 1.7% while paper Major targets and results of the second Containers and Packaging 3R Promotion Plan (fiscal 2011–2015; base year fiscal 2010) Target Fiscal 2012 results Targets to be achieved by fiscal 2015 (compared to fiscal 2010) Plastic consumption Paper consumption Reduce Down 1.7% Up 1.9% Plastic consumption Paper consumption 55.5 g/kg 54.5 g/kg 58.1 g/kg 59.2 g/kg Reduce by 2.0% Reduce by 5.0% Reuse Develop refillable product containers Enhanced for seasoning products, such as AJI-NO-MOTO®, HONDASHI, and Ajinomoto KK Consommé Recycle Develop packaging materials that can be easily Introduction of easy peel labels for Chinese soup stock product containers separated for sorting and recycling Promotion of smaller box design with perforations Introduction of new materials Develop packaging using plant-derived biomass Use of shrink film made partly from polylactic acid derived from corn and technologies plastic Polyethylene made from sugar cane used in part of AJI-NO-MOTO® cap Increase provision of information that promotes “Aji-na Eco” mark labeling and publication of information on the Internet (for 128 products as of October 31, Providing information to selection of environmentally friendly products and 2013) consumers proper separation and disposal of garbage Increased provision of information on 120g HONDASHI boxes DATA Breakdown of Paper containers and 14.5% Household garbage and containers and packaging types in packaging household garbage Waste other than containers and Containers and packaging packaging Plastics Japan disposes of 45.39 million tonnes of garbage a year, and 47.5% 52.5% 33.9% household garbage accounts for 29.69 million tonnes, or approxOther Glass imately 65%, of this. Containers and packaging account for a high 0.4% Metal 1.2% 2.5% 53% of household garbage. Thus, 3R activities for containers and Source: Survey on Containers and Packaging Waste (volume comparison) by Ministry of the packaging are essential for reducing waste. Environment (fiscal 2011) 85 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment System for promoting environmentally friendly containers and packaging Every product released under the Ajinomoto brand is required performance and publishing information on products’ environto undergo a quality assessment, including an evaluation of conmentally friendly features. tainers and packaging. The assessment is based on the compaThe company has now integrated this containers and packagny’s own Eco-Index for Containers and Packaging. Each product ing assessment system with its 3R management system. This is checked from four perspectives—(1) Reduction in weight of enables it to: (1) use the data on the weight of used packaging packaging materials, (2) Selection of materials, (3) Recyclability, materials indicated in the Eco-Index to calculate recycling fees; and (4) Labeling (and extra information for customers)—to (2) disclose data on intranet; and (3) update data on the weight promote eco-friendly design of containers and packaging. of used packaging materials every month. This integration has In fiscal 2010, environmental labeling and use of environmennot only facilitated the calculation of recycling fees and the tally friendly materials (materials derived from plants) were promotion of the 3Rs, but also made it possible to report within added to the checklist. When conducting the assessment, the and outside the company and provide accurate data to distribucompany calculates the lifecyle-CO2 of packaging, which it uses 3 tors and recycling organizations. as supporting data in identifying and comparing environmental 3 CO2 emissions from the manufacture of a container or package through its disposal and recycling. Container and packaging environmental assessment since 1991 (computerized in 2005) Design data Block copy data Eco-Guidelines Since 1994 Score sheet for Eco-Index Lifecycle-CO2 data Since 1991 Since 2003 Internal portal site Integrated in 2009 Storage Compilation, analysis Storage system completed in 2005 Browsing system completed in 2009 Packaging materials data Fundamental data Product code 3R management Total emissions Creation of reports Since 2000 Distribution Emissions per unit of Public databases (information provision) Sales data system product weight Environmental CommitOutside the company tee (management) Presentation of the Since 2004 3R Promotion Commitcompany’s 3R best Recycling fees tee (by Company) practices Packaging material data for each product Payment to the Japan Containers and Sustainability Report Participation in contests Packaging Recycling Association Lectures Eco-Index for Containers and Packaging Recycling fees and weight of containers and (Household edition ver. 8 and business edition ver. 4) packaging by material type for products Purpose Evaluation item Weight (kilotonnes) Recycling fees (millions of yen) Weight of disposed packaging 30 400 materials Efficient use Reduction in Weight reduction ratio of resources weight of Degree of over-packing 25 360 packaging materials Availability of refill 20.7 Reduction of products environmental 20 18.6 17.9 320 impact Transport efficiency 17.0 Combating Reduction in lifecycle-CO2 emissions 15 264.0 292.5 267.6 280 global Use of materials derived warming from plants Recycling fees 234.8 Selection of Use of environmentally friendly 10 240 materials materials Paper Utilization ratio of recycled materials Glass bottles 5 200 Eco-labeling Plastic Promotion Adaptability to separated-waste PET bottles Contributing to a of recycling collection (for beverages) 0 0 recycling-oriented Recyclability Adaptability to recycling systems 2004 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) society Reduction in volume for recycling and disposal External Availability of environmental labeling promotion Labeling (Availability of environmentally conscious labeling) Cooperation with outside organizations Nowadays, it is difficult for consumers to tell which type of • Eco-Products Exhibition packaging is sustainable, given the diverse materials and forms • Containers and Packaging Diet Declaration in Nine of packaging on the market. In order to address environmental Municipalities problems relating to packaging across our entire society, it is • Presentation of 3R best practices to recycling councils (Paper important that consumers choose sustainable products based on Packaging Recycling Council, Plastic Packaging Recycling an understanding of the functions and roles of packaging. The Council) Ajinomoto Group is actively pursuing cooperation with thirdparty stakeholders on 3R activities, as shown by the examples shown at right. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 86 The Environment Development of environmentally friendly packaging Reduce: Using less packaging Comparing the difference in lifecycle-CO2 emissions of Since the Ajinomoto Group uses many forms of packaging, it is packaging1 for a person who always buys products in glass working to make them lighter using various means. The Group containers and a person who buys in glass containers on the first seeks to use less packaging for everything from jars, plastic film, occasion and subsequently refills the containers from a packet pouches, and trays, to cardboard and paper boxes for products. shows that refilling the AJIPANDA® 75 gram jar for the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® from a 60 gram AJI-NO-MOTO® Highlight 1: Reducing packets in HONDASHI 120 gram box packet can reduce CO2 emissions by 39%2 on the first refill alone. from three to two Refilling the jar five times can reduce CO2 emissions by 65%2 In autumn 2013, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. changed compared to always buying the jar. the configuration of the 120 gram HONDASHI 1 CO2 emissions from the manufacture of packaging through disposal and recycling. 2 Difference in CO2 emissions for buying the jar at first and buying the jar or the packet thereafter box from three 40 gram packs to two 60 gram calculated based on lifecycle-CO2 per kilogram of product weight (CO2/kg). packs. To accomplish this, the company modified production facilities and changed pack Percentage reduction in CO2 emissions according materials, reducing packaging weight by 78 to number of refills (from AJI-NO-MOTO® 60 gram tonnes a year and CO2 emissions by approximately 500 tonnes. packet to AJIPANDA® 75 gram jar) (%) This is expected to have a major impact on reductions unobtain80 62 65 able through conventional thinning and downsizing of packaging. 59 60 52 39 40 Highlight 2: R  educing pack and box size for Knorr® Cup Soup (8-pack) 20 0 In autumn 2013, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. reduced the size of the box 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 (Number of refills) and packs for four varieties of Knorr® Cup Soup (8 pack) by 10 mm. The company also made major modifications to production Consumers who try to buy DATA refillable seasoning products:  84% facilities to reduce packaging without compromising content shelf life and usability (ease of opening and portability). As a Recycle: Making packaging easier to separate for result of the changes, the company expects reductions of 147 recycling and using recycled materials tonnes a year in packaging weight and 434 tonnes for Highlight 1: Adopting easy peel labels for Chinese soup CO2 emissions. stock products The reduced packaging mark, which is a part of the “Aji-na Eco” mark program, is shown on the The Group is developing packaging that is easy for the customer product to show customers that it uses less packaging. to separate and recycle. In fiscal 2012, labels were introduced that are easy to peel off, and they have Highlight 3: O  ptimizing size and reducing weight of home already been adopted for products provided in jars delivery boxes for fundamental foods such as Ajinomoto KK Chuka Aji and Marudori In fiscal 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. optimized the size and reGara Soup. duced the weight of boxes used to deliver fundamental foods such as Glyna® and Capsiate Natura® to customers’ homes in Highlight 2: U  sing recycled plastic for response to feedback from customers that the boxes were big Blendy® bottled coffee relative to the product they contained. As a result, the company In 2012, Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. introduced new plastic expects to reduce use of corrugated cardboard by 18 tonnes a eco-friendly bottles enabling a bottle-to-bottle recycling method year and CO2 emissions by 10 tonnes (33% yearfor all of its main Blendy ® bottled coffee products, with a “friendon-year). At the same time, the company made ly bottle” logo mark (shown at right). the boxes even easier to open by employing a Used plastic bottles are turned back into recycled sealing mechanism that does not use tape. plastic resin utilizing innovative chemical recycling technology. Using the recycled plastic resin as a raw Consumers who try to reduce garbage material reduces use of oil-based raw materials by in their daily life:  80% DATA Consumers who think that there is a lot of waste about 60% and energy used in manufacturing by about in food packaging and trays for perishables:  86% 20%. The bottles received an excellence award at the 14th Green Purchasing Award in 2012 and the Reuse: Offering more refillable products Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Award Ajinomoto Co., Inc. offers an assortment of refillable products, at the 34th Commendation for Excellent Companies including AJI-NO-MOTO®, HONDASHI and Ajinomoto KK and Craftsmen in the Food Industry in 2013. Consommé. Refilling containers from packets and reusing them for a long time can reduce CO2 emissions. Consumers who take care to separate DATA garbage properly:  95% 87 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Introducing new materials and technologies: using Highlight 3: A  dopting polyethylene made from sugar cane biomass plastic for frozen food products The Ajinomoto Group has been promoting initiatives to use In autumn 2012, Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. replaced plant-derived materials for packaging as they are recyclable and 25–30% of the conventional oil-based materials in trays for can reduce CO2 emissions compared to oil-based materials. Agezuni Sakuttosan, a range of low-calorie frozen food products that are not fried in oil, with plant-derived plastic, overcoming Highlight 1: Adopting the world’s thinnest heat shrink technical issues such as material strength. The company introlabels for 11 household products using polyduced the plant-derived plastic trays for Nikushumai (pork lactic acid derived from corn dumpling) in spring 2013 and for Jagabatacheese (potato and In September 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. launched an initiative to cheese bake) in fall 2013. It expects to reduce CO2 emissions by replace heat shrink labels and cap shrink wrapping used on 66 tonnes4 a year. containers for seasonings and sweeteners. The conventional petrochemical-derived plastic is being replaced with carbon-neutral polylactic acid (PLA) derived from biomass. As the newly adopted PLA film contains over 25% (by weight) material derived from feed-use corn, it has yielded the world’s thinnest3 PLA labels at 35 micrometers (μm). In addition, introHighlight 4: Using plastic materials made from sugar cane duction of the world’s thinnest PLA labels is the first such trial in for UD eco-pouch products the industry3 for seasoning and sweetener packaging. In fiscal 2012, the company completed the switch to the PLA In autumn 2013, J-OIL MILLS, INC. became the first in Japan to film for seasoning including AJI-NO-MOTO® and AJI-SHIO® salt, adopt transparent vapor deposition film, adding a gas barrier as well as product provided in jars such as PAL SWEET® sweetlayer on a biomass plastic film made from sugar cane molasses5 ener. The company plans to use the PLA film for 11 other prodfor three of its UD eco-pouch products. ucts by the end of fiscal 2013, including its mainstay Biomass plastic film has a track record at other companies product HONDASHI 60 gram jar. Once the switch in areas such as soy sauce, but a higher level of gas barrier is is complete, the company expects to reduce packagrequired for edible oils to prevent oxidation. Thus, the company ing materials by two tonnes a year and CO2 emiscollaborated with Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd. to develop a sions by 20 tonnes.4 packaging material that provided a transparent vapor deposition layer for biomass plastic film in order to give it the same preserHighlight 2: U  sing polyethylene made from sugar cane for vative properties as conventional plastic film. AJI-NO-MOTO® jar caps The UD eco-pouch products are also environmentally friendIn February 2013, along with the PLA heat shrink labels, the ly in that they use less than half the plastic resin compared to a company switched to plant-derived plastic using biomass polyplastic bottle of the same volume and can be rolled up to less ethylene made from sugar cane molasses5 for the caps of 35 than one-tenth of their size for disposal after use. gram and 75 gram AJIPANDA jars of the umami seasoning ® AJI-NO-MOTO®, the iconic product of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. By replacing 30% of the conventional oil-based materials, the company expects to reduce CO2 emissions by 55 tonnes6 a year. 3 Survey by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. as of August 31, 2012. 4 Calculated by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. using a formula based on fiscal 2012 sales volume (compared to the previous year). 5 Cane molasses is a by-product of refining sugar cane juice into sugar. 6 Calculated by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. using a formula based on fiscal 2011 sales volume. DATA Survey on environmental consciousness of customers In 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. conducted its unique survey on I try to reduce garbage in my daily life:  80% consumers’ daily dietary habits and environmental consciousness.7 The survey found that more than 80% of consumers are I take care to separate garbage properly:  95% making efforts to “try to reduce garbage,” “separate garbage I try to buy refillable seasoning products:  84% properly,” and “buy refillable products as much as possible,” and I think that there is a lot of waste in food that many consumers feel that containers and packaging for food packaging and trays for perishables:  86% products are wasteful. 7 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Ajinomoto Monitoring Consumer Survey 2012. Sample: 1,800 homemakers from households across Japan composed of two or more people aged 20–69 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 88 The Environment Promoting “Aji-na Eco” mark products with environmental packaging Modern product packages are already small and thin, so it is As of October 31, 2013, there were seven types of “Aji-na often difficult for customers to notice changes made in package Eco” marks shown on 128 products. Six types indicate environweight, thickness, and size and materials used. However, when mentally friendly containers and packaging and one indicates an the enormous sales volume of products is taken into account, environmental feature of the product (self-defrosting frozen the sum of these small efforts can result in significant environfood). Examples of products with each type of “Aji-na Eco” mark mental benefits. are shown below. Consumers want to purchase environmentally friendly 1 The Japanese term for “Aji-na Eco” is a registered trademark of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. products and to tell whether a product is eco-friendly at a glance, so the Ajinomoto Group introduced its unique “Aji-na Eco”1 mark in autumn 2010. Details are now being added alongside the mark, What is “Aji-na Eco”? “Aji-na Eco” is a term describing Number of indicating features such as refillable, recycled paper used, no the smart and ecological “Aji-na Eco” products or information mark products tray, reduced packaging with smaller pack and box, and plantbased plastic, and the number of products displaying the marks provided by the Ajinomoto Group, and the logo mark 128 evokes the image of our green planet, the pleasure of eating, are also being increased. and a global environment made As of the end of October 2013 even better through food. (Ajinomoto Group) Refillable No tray Refilling the contents of glass These frozen food products are containers from packets and packaged in a large bag without reusing them for a long time a tray inside. It reduces the can reduce their environamount of waste, thereby mental impact. The mark is lowering CO2 emissions by shown on both glass about 20% to 50%. containers and packets. Recycled paper Plant-based cap This product uses recycled By using plant-based paper containing more than plastic for the jar cap, 80% recycled pulp. It this packaging reduces actively utilizes recycled petroleum consumption materials to make careful and CO 2 emissions. use of resources. Reduced packaging Plant-based tray The mark is displayed on products By using plant-based when the weight of containers and plastic for the frozen food packaging is reduced by over 20% tray, this packaging compared to conventional products or reduces petroleum when the weight of packaging materials consumption and CO 2 is reduced by at least 50 tonnes a year. emissions. Column Providing environmental information on product packages The Group has also increased environmental information provided on packaging in addition to the “Aji-na Eco” mark to help customers to understand the environmental features of the product as soon as they pick it up. For example, in fiscal 2013, in addition to clear illustrations that showed the effect of reducing the number of packets inside the 120 gram HONDASHI box from three to two, the company also provided information on ecological studies on skipjack to encourage customers to consider the sustainability of skipjack, an ingreLarge-print information on dient of HONDASHI. the back 89 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Among the many environmental issues related to global sustainability, global warming and climate change present two of the most important challenges for people around the world. The Ajinomoto Group is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions not just in the production process but across all of its business activities. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan2 Fiscal 2012 performance Entire Group Entire Group CO2 emissions per Annual CO2 CO2 emissions per Annual CO2 CO2 emissions unit of production emissions in Japan unit of production emissions in Japan from fossil fuels 35 reduction % 472 kilotonnes or less3 (7% reduction compared to fiscal 1990, 26 reduction % 374 kilotonnes (98 kilotonnes less than target) 2,240 8% reduction compared to fiscal 2005) kilotonnes (compared to fiscal 2005) (compared to fiscal 2005) 2 See p. 76 for details. 3 Performance for base year in 1990 changed to 508 kilotonnes due to exclusion of the Calpis Group Fiscal 2012 performance overview The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan places about 20 kilotonnes lower year on year. CO2 emissions per unit of particular focus on CO2 from fossil fuels and aims to achieve a production were also 4% lower. 35% reduction of CO2 emissions per unit of production compared The principal reasons for the progress in reducing total CO2 to fiscal 2005 for the entire Ajinomoto Group. In addition, proemissions were the operation of a biomass boiler fueled by sugar duction sites in Japan are also required to reduce their total CO2 cane bagasse and wood chips at the Laranjal Paulista Plant in emissions by 7% compared to fiscal 1990 levels to 472 kilotonnes Brazil starting in April 2012, supplying 40% of the energy reor less. This includes an extra 1% per year added to Japan’s quired by the plant, and a switch to low environmental impact target of a 6% reduction compared to 1990 by 2012, which was energy—using less LPG and switching to electric power—at the final year of the Kyoto Protocol. plants in Thailand. Meanwhile, in the sites which saw an inIn fiscal 2012, CO2 emissions per unit of production for the creased volume of CO2 emissions, the main cause was increased entire Group were reduced by 4% compared to fiscal 2011. Total production volume. Despite the increase in volume, CO2 emisemissions from production sites in Japan were about 98 kilosions per unit of production at these sites improved over the tonnes above the reduction target, 26% lower than in fiscal 1990. previous year. Progress was made on achieving the reduction targets of the Fermentation-related divisions account for about 70% of the Kyoto Protocol by 2012. Group’s CO2 emissions, and they are pursuing process improveWorldwide energy consumption of the Ajinomoto Group was ments for better yield and productivity in order to ensure the reduced by 1% compared to the previous fiscal year. Energy Group meets its future targets. The group will also work to consumption per unit of production was 4.4% lower year on year, ensure stable supplies of energy sources with low environmental although production volume was up roughly 3.7% to 2,300 kiloimpact and stable operation of biomass boilers. tonnes. Meanwhile, total CO2 emissions were 2,240 kilotonnes, Total CO2 emissions and CO2 emissions per unit CO2 emissions by business CO2 emissions by region of production (fiscal 2012) (fiscal 2012) CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per unit of (kilotonnes/year) production (tonnes/tonne) Logistics, services, others 3% China 4% 2,500 2,360 1.6 2,240 2,300 6% 2,260 Pharmaceuticals and 2,140 specialty chemicals South America9% 2,000 1.4 1.31 North America 17% Southeast Asia 1,500 1.2 Food 15% 42% Fermentation 1,000 1.0 74% Europe Japan Emissions from production sites in Japan 1.02 0.97 0.85 12% 19% 510 Total emissions 500 400 370 380 0.8 470 CO2 emissions per tonne of product 0 0.66 0 2005 2011 2012 2013 target 2020 target (Fiscal year) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 90 The Environment Initiatives at production sites and offices in Japan In light of the current energy situation, the Ajinomoto Group in CO2 emissions at the Head Office of Japan continued to implement its Smart Energy Measures in Ajinomoto Co., Inc. fiscal 2012. This effort is based on appropriate and intelligent use (Tonnes/year) of energy in order to contribute to society while properly carry1,800 ing out business activities. In accordance with an overall policy for the Ajinomoto Group in Japan, concrete measures were taken 1,354 throughout the year at each group company and site there, and 1,030 1,009 even greater efforts were made in the summer months from July 1,000 to September. 0 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Overall policy for Smart Energy Measures at the Ajinomoto Group in Japan 1. When taking concrete measures based on this policy, priority will be placed on ensuring systems for securing employee health and fulfilling product supply responsibilities. 2. Energy-saving measures will be proactively taken with employees throughout the year by optimizing the overall balance of electricity and other energy usage. Shifting the focus from electricity to all forms of energy, and from summer to the entire year. Smart living involves the smart use of energy. 3. During the summer months of July to September, when energy consumption is highest, the Group and employees will make extra efforts to save energy. The Smart Energy Handbook has 4. Efforts will include daily steps to maximize the reduction of energy use. been distributed to all employees of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Switching to clean energy The Ajinomoto Group has long been committed to using clean continues to recover methane gas from a city landfill and is using energy, including switching the fuel used at its plants from heavy it as a fuel. Plants in France have launched an ESCO project for oil, which generates comparatively high CO2 emissions, to biomass cogeneration with a view to starting operation in 2013. natural gas. In fiscal 2012, the percent of petroleum of total These and other efforts will be continued in the future. energy used was about 10%, down 2 percentage points compared to the previous year. The ratio for biomass-derived energy was 5% (up 1 point year on year), and the percent of gas of total Energy composition of the Ajinomoto Group Composition (%) energy used remained steady year on year at 49%. 50 50 49 49 All of the Group’s plants will continue to strive to secure stable supplies of energy sources with low environmental impact, 40 while ensuring reliable production. Further steps will also be 30 taken to develop and implement processes that save energy and Purchased 21 20 21 electricity 20 resources. The Kamphaeng Phet factories of Ajinomoto Co., 12 14 14 Gases 13 (Thailand) Ltd. continue to carry out stable operation of biomass Oil 11 10 10 Other1 5 4 5 boilers, and have now slashed about 100 kilotonnes of CO2 Biomass 0 emissions per year compared to the year before the adoption. 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) The North Carolina Plant of Ajinomoto North America, Inc. 1 Includes purchased energy (steam) and coal Management of fluorocarbons The Ajinomoto Group uses fluorocarbons as refrigerants for aim to switch over to non-fluorocarbon equipment by 2020, and refrigeration equipment. The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero 13 such units have already been introduced. In addition, the Emissions Plan sets goals for discontinuing the use of CFCs2 and Ajinomoto Group has become an industry pioneer with the replacing refrigeration equipment that use HCFCs and HFCs 3 4 adoption of a new technology combining two refrigerants: with models that use natural refrigerants. ammonia and CO2. The use of CFCs has already been discontinued in Japan. 2 Chlorofluorocarbon. Manufacture of CFCs, which are ozone-depleting substances, was banned in developed countries in 1996 under the Montreal Protocol. Also sometimes referred to as Some sites outside Japan that still have CFC equipment plan to “specified fluorocarbons.” 3 Hydrochlorofluorocarbon. Manufacture of HCFCs, which are ozone-depleting substances, will discontinue their use within 2013 in line with local laws and be phased out in developed countries under the Montreal Protocol by 2020. Also sometimes referred to as “designated fluorocarbons.” regulations. Nine of the Group’s frozen foods plants in Japan 4 Hydrofluorocarbon. HFCs do not destroy the ozone layer and are known as CFC alternatives. Due to their global warming potential that is thousands of times higher than CO2, reduction of including the four plants of Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. HFC emissions is included in the Kyoto Protocol targets. 91 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Conserving Water Resources To reduce the high nitrogen concentration and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in process effluent from the production of amino acid fermentation-related products, the Ajinomoto Group controls pollutant sources and uses original treatment technologies suited to the quality of effluent water at each site. It takes a lot of water to make fermentation-related products—about 50 times the product weight. Although the Group’s production plants are located in areas rich in water resources, the Group is committed to minimizing water usage by developing water-saving processes. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan5 Fiscal 2012 performance Reduction of biochemical Water consumed per Water consumed per Water consumption oxygen and nitrogen unit of production unit of production content of discharged water 70 % or more reduction 61 % reduction 110 million tonne reduction BOD ≤ 10 ppm (compared to fiscal 2005) (compared to fiscal 2005) (compared to fiscal 2005) Discharged water per Discharged water per Discharged water Total nitrogen ≤ 5 ppm unit of production unit of production 5 See p. 76 for details. 70 % or more reduction (compared to fiscal 2005) 67 % reduction (compared to fiscal 2005) 87 million tonne reduction (compared to fiscal 2005) Fiscal 2012 performance overview Compared to the base year of fiscal 2005, in fiscal 2012 total Water consumption performance water consumption was reduced by about 50%, and water conWater consumption Production volume Water consumed per tonne of product (Water consumed per unit of production) sumed per unit of production was decreased by approximately Water consumption (millions of tonnes/year) Water consumed per unit of production Production volume (10,000 tonnes/year) 61%. Total discharged water was also about 57% lower, and (tonnes/tonne) 400 200 discharged water per unit of production was about 67% lower. Reductions in discharged water have progressed in line with the 300 150 plan. On the other hand, water consumption was virtually flat 326 123 with the previous year. Use of indirect cooling water has been 265 200 100 reduced by using cooling tower water, and water usage has been 222 230 222 reduced with onsite recycling of water used in processes. How180 100 48 48 50 ever, this was offset by increased water consumption caused by 37 31 stabilizing the new wastewater treatment facility at the Kawasaki 107 110 98 101 Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., and process modifications due to 0 0 2005 2011 2012 2013 target 2020 target ingredient changes and biogas treatment processes at factories (Fiscal year) in Thailand. The Ajinomoto Group will continue pursuing initiatives to reduce water consumption in its processes in order to Water consumption by business meet its targets. With the adjustments for stabilizing operations being com11% pleted at the wastewater treat12% 15% ment facility at the Kawasaki FY 2012 Total water Plant, the plant expects to 26% consumption: 110 million 55% tonnes achieve the Group’s zero emisFermentation-related sion target for discharged water Food-related 77% pollution load in fiscal 2013. Other FY2005 Total water consumption: 222 million tonnes Water consumption Discharged water (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) 2005 151 26 40 222 2005 151 47 204 River and well water for 5 6 indirect cooling 2011 39 18 40 13 110 Discharged indirect 2012 39 32 16 87 River and well water for use in processes cooling water Industrial water Discharged after treatment Other 0 50 100 150 200 250 Other (public sewage, etc.) 0 50 100 150 200 250 (Million tonnes) (Million tonnes) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 92 The Environment Reducing Waste The Ajinomoto Group is working to minimize waste to ensure optimal use of all resources. Meanwhile, the Group is also committed to effectively utilizing waste and by-products, with the aim of recovering 99% of it as resources. In amino acid production, the Group utilizes by-products as resources and seeks to improve production efficiency by introducing new technologies. In food production, it is also making a range of efforts, such as improving the precision of sales forecasts and conducting fine-tuned procurement, to minimize wasted raw materials and the amount of packaging materials used. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan1 Fiscal 2012 performance Resource recovery ratio Waste per unit of Resource recovery ratio Waste per unit of (entire Group) production (entire Group) production 99 % or more 20 % or more reduction (Compared to fiscal 2006) 99.2 % 5 % increase (Compared to fiscal 2006) 1 See p. 76 for details. Fiscal 2012 performance overview In the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan, new 3.7%. As a result, waste per tonne of product was 0.93 tonnes, target values have been established for waste per unit of producrepresenting an increase of roughly 5% compared to the tion for the entire Ajinomoto Group. The aim is to reduce waste base year. as much as possible in production activities group-wide. The Waste per tonne of product increased across all segments effort includes waste generated by all operations, including compared to the previous year. Sludge from the increase in production and non-production sites. The base year for these wastewater treatment and combustion residue from biomass targets is fiscal 2006, when detailed waste data was first boilers accounted for most of the increase in waste. Product gathered worldwide. waste due to problems with certain manufacturing processes In fiscal 2012, the Group achieved a 99.2% recycling rate. was also generated. Waste generated was 210 kilotonnes, and by-product emissions A new initiative to decrease waste per unit of production were 2,320 kilotonnes, for a total of 2,530 kilotonnes. Most of the began in fiscal 2011. Each site ascertains its own waste situation, by-product emissions, which accounted for the majority of the and devises and executes business plans with an awareness of total, were generated by fermentation-related manufacturing the need for waste control. The Ajinomoto Group is also carryprocesses. Effective use of these by-products in “co-products” ing out steady process management to minimize wasted product kept the recycling rate above 99%. Waste increased by about 35% and take steps in each area to achieve targets. compared to the base year, although production only rose by By-products/waste emissions Volume of waste and by-products, Waste3 per unit of production, resource recovery ratio, and by business field waste2 per unit of production Fermentation-related Food-related Pharmaceuticals and specialty chemicals By-products Waste Fermentation-related Resource recovery ratio Food-related Waste per unit of production (tonne of product) Pharmaceuticals and specialty chemicals 19% Waste per unit of production Waste and by-products Resource recovery ratio (%) (tonnes/tonne) 37% 24% (kilotonnes) 98.6 99.3 0.5 2,500 99.2 100 0.45 FY 2012 44% FY 2006 0.40 Waste 93 0.4 Waste 2,000 89 89 80 0.35 32% 0.3 1,500 60 44% 2,402 2,316 0.2 1,000 2,005 40 ■ 1% 500 0.1 0.03 0.06 0.07 6% 20 0.08 159 198 214 0.07 0.06 ■ 1.16% ■ 0.23% 0 0.0 0 2006 2011 2012 2006 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) FY 2012 FY 2006 By-products By-products 2 Excluding by-products 3 Excluding by-products 99% 93% 93 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Initiatives in Logistics The Ajinomoto Group has been working hard to reduce Fiscal 2012 performance environmental impacts that occur in logistics, from the procurement of raw materials to the delivery of As a consignor: Performance of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. CO2 emissions per unit of sales Modal shift percentage4 products to customers. With regard to the reduction of during transport and delivery transport-related CO2 emissions in particular, the Group is taking proactive measures, including establishing a 3.5 % decrease (compared to fiscal 2010) 32.5 % more efficient delivery system and pursuing modal shift 4 The percent of total transport volume accomplished using modes of transport with low environmental impact. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. began in earnest in fiscal 1995 to introduce the use of railway container and eco-driving. shipments, which produce only one eighth of the CO2 emissions of truck shipments. Initiatives as a consignor Japan’s revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy obliged in the Tohoku area and product warehouses in the Kawasaki specified consignors to reduce CO2 emissions from transport area. Logistics efficiency fell as a result of ad-hoc distribution and delivery by at least 5% on a per-unit basis within five years steps taken to supply products. This brought up per-unit emisfrom fiscal 2006. This requirement applied to Ajinomoto Co., sions temporarily, CO2 emissions per unit of sales Inc., Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc., and AJINOMOTO and slowed the CO2 emissions per unit of sales = PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. year-on-year rate of Energy used/Weight of products sold 55 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. reduced emissions by 5.9% by the end of decrease. Despite fiscal 2010. This was attributable to the consolidation of delivery this, the Group is centers and joint deliveries with group companies and other food making steady 50 manufacturers, as well as modal shift, which the company has progress on the 1% 50.1 50.5 been advancing since 1995. annual reduction 48.7 In fiscal 2012, per-unit emissions were reduced another 3.5%, legal requirement. 45 bringing them to 2.7% lower than in fiscal 2010. The Great East 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Japan Earthquake in 2011 damaged the Group’s logistics division Initiatives of the ALC Group Complying with the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy, The ALC Group also installed driving recorders in vehicles AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION (ALC) and its group of some of its group companies, helping to reduce accidents companies provide energy use data to the group’s customer while driving, and curbing sudden starts, acceleration, and stops. consignors. In 2010, the ALC Group introduced a more accurate Similar recorders are being introduced in vehicles of calculation method based on distance transported and fuel AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. and Ajinomoto economy of transport vehicles and applied the method to direct Frozen Foods Co., Inc. aiming to prevent accidents, ensure delivery services from the ALC Group’s distribution centers. eco-driving and reduce environmental impact. Highlight Introducing energy-saving lighting at distribution centers Since 2011, the ALC Group has been upgrading warehouse lighting from mercury-vapor lamps to ceramic metal halide (CMH) lamps and office lighting from fluorescent lights to LED. CMH lamps use about 20% less energy than mercury-vapor lamps and are also said to last about 25% longer. Brighter warehouse lighting can also help to prevent errors and accidents. Fiscal 2012 saw lighting upgrades at the Higashi-Ohgishima Refrigerated Transport Center and the Komaki Refrigerated Transport Center. With the earlier upgraded Narashino Distribution Center and the West Japan Distribution Center, this resulted in a total annual reduction in power consumption of about 720,000 kwh (330 tonnes lower CO2 emissions.) The initiatives at Higashi-Ohgishima received the Encouragement Award for contributions to energy conservation at the 1st Kawasaki City Smart Lifestyle Awards. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 94 The Environment Environmental Management The Ajinomoto Group has introduced an ISO 14001-compliant environmental management system (EMS) at most of its sites in and outside Japan to comply with environmental laws and regulations and prevent environmental problems, and to ensure that further efforts will continue to be made at each site to conserve the environment. Fiscal 2012 performance Environmental management ISO 14001 certification had been acquired at 122 (As of March 2013) sites, or 94 % of all target sites Group-wide environmental management The Ajinomoto Group has established an environmental manageenvironmental audits, and collection of environmental data. ment structure headed up by the Management Committee to Issuing its “Working for Life” pledge on its centenary anniversaensure that measures are implemented uniformly across the ry in 2009, the Group revised the Ajinomoto Group EnvironmenGroup. This management structure forms the base for a range of tal Philosophy and Basic Policies in April 2011 as a statement of environmental management activities, such as the formulation of its determination to promote business activities and products environmental plans (three-year medium-term plan and annual that contribute to the environment and to stay in dialogue plan), implementation of environmental assessments and with society. Group-wide environmental management activities As of fiscal 2012, 122 out of 130 target sites have acquired ISO efficiently collect environmental data on CO2 emissions, waste, 14001 certification. Consistent efforts are now being made by discharged water and other items from all its sites. Collected the remaining sites to acquire certification. In promoting groupdata is utilized in compiling the Group’s environmental perforwide environmental management, it is important to have a way to mance statistics, in progress control of the Zero Emissions Plan, quantitatively identify both environmental impact and contribuand in developing information to be disclosed through the tion. The Ajinomoto Group has developed the Ajinomoto System Carbon Disclosure Project. for Reporting of Environmental Performance (ASREP) to The Ajinomoto Group’s EMS organization (As of April 1, 2013) Management Committee Environmental Committee Chairperson: Food Products Division Director responsible for environmental management Group companies appointed by Chairperson Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Division GM (individual organizations with environmental responsibility) Members: EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator Corporate Executive responsible Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. for production technology and engineering Bioscience Products & Fine Chemicals Division Chief environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Corporate Executive responsible for President Environmental Environmental EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies administrator administrator General Affairs & Risk Management Dept. Division GM EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental Corporate Executive responsible for CSR Dept. Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Corporate Executive responsible for Chief environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Affiliates Business Management Dept. Wellness Business Division President EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization Environmental Environmental Corporate Executive responsible for Production Unit organization Group companies administrator administrator Environmental administrator: Management Dept. Division GM Environmental Environmental EMS secretariat: administrator administrator AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION GM of each unit organization: Environment & Safety Dept. Food Products Division Chief environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies President Production sector EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization Environmental Environmental Bioscience Products & Fine Chemicals Division administrator administrator Environmental administrator: Wellness Business DivisionCorporate Planning Dept. Person administering production Un t organization Group companies technology & engineering Environmental Environmental Environment & Safety Dept. EMS secretariat: administrator administrator Environment & Safety Dept. Group company presidents appointed by Chairperson Personnel appointed by Chairperson Other unit organizations and group companies Secretariat: Environment & Safety Dept. Environmental administrator: Un t organization Group companies GM of Environment & Safety Dept. EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator 95 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment Implementing environmental assessments When the Ajinomoto Group launches new products and busiEnvironmental assessment items nesses, or changes the use of conventional raw materials in Seven types of typical Air pollution, water pollution, noise, offensive odor, soil pollution contamination, oscillation and ground subsidence production processes, it assesses the environmental impact of Proper waste disposal, responsibilities of waste business plans before they are implemented and takes necessary Waste disposal generator, etc. measures to minimize future environmental risks and impacts. Global environmental Global warming, biodiversity conservation, acid rain, Environmental assessments are performed by departments issues etc. responsible for the proposed plans, and their results are reManagement of hazardous substancSubstances subject to PRTR, asbestos, new chemical substances, etc. viewed by the Environment & Safety Department before final es approval by management. In April 2010, the authority to conduct Creation of a 3Rs, resource and energy conservation, control of recycling-oriented society waste generation, etc. environmental assessments was partially delegated to some business sites outside Japan to allow assessments to reflect the Effects of buildings Right to sunlight, radio wave disturbance, etc. Purchase and sale of Soil contamination, accountability, guarantee against local environmental circumstances more appropriately. real estate defects, etc. With regard to business performance evaluation, environNew science and Chemical and microbial contamination, etc. mental items are included in the Ajinomoto Group’s business technology performance evaluation for each business unit. These items, Corporate social Action guidelines, information disclosure, communicaresponsibility tion with the community, etc. weighted at 5% of the total evaluation, are assessed based on Eco-design, raw material procurement, logistics, life Product development achievement of environmental targets. This arrangement demoncycle assessment, etc. strates the priority the Group gives the environment. Implementing environmental audits The Ajinomoto Group values environmental auditing, which audits are conducted for sites with significant environmental equates to the Check function in the Plan, Do, Check, Act impact, aiming to ensure that environmental management is (PDCA) cycle, and it has created a multi-tiered internal and integrated with business activities. external auditing structure. In addition to external audits of Internal environmental auditors attend lectures from outside compliance with ISO 14001 standards, internal auditors conduct instructors to increase their expertise, and this helps to strengthregular environmental audits every 6 to 12 months based on the en the overall environmental management system. In fiscal 2012, standards. These audits check the progress of targets and plans 141 auditors attended the lecture, and the total number of in each department and help ensure continuous improvement in internal auditors at group companies in Japan was 2,329. environmental management. Moreover, Group environmental Disaster prevention systems and response to environmental accidents The Ajinomoto Group seeks to open its sites to neighborhood Ltd.), and a liquid ingredient spill from the truck of a delivery residents to promote better communication with local communicontractor (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) None of these incidents had a ties, including holding environmental monitor meetings where serious environmental impact. The Group investigates the community residents give frank feedback. Plants outside Japan causes of problems and such “close calls (near misses),”1 and also conduct plant tours for community residents. works to prevent recurrence. The Group has built a system for quickly addressing any 1 Finding of an incident that did not lead to a serious disaster or accident, but was one step short legal violations or accidents related to the environment. In fiscal of such a situation. For example, an accident in which processing solution which has leaked from a storage tank is prevented from spreading from the vicinity by a secondary containment 2012, there were three violations: operational deficiencies in the facility or emergency shutdown system. industrial waste disposal contracting agreement for the Head Office in relation to the subcontracting standards of the Waste Minor environmental Number of comDisposal Act (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.), a mistaken emitter classificaincidents and “close plaints (fiscal 2012) tion under the Waste Disposal Act (Minami Kyushu Regional calls” in fiscal 2012 Outside Branch of Ajinomoto Co., Inc.), and a deviation from the disposal Japan Outside Japan Japan Japan method mandated for notification to authorities under the Act on Air pollution 3 3 Air pollution 0 8 Water the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Water 15 15 pollution 0 3 pollution Manufacture (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.). Every case was reported to Waste 0 0 Waste 1 1 the government and steps were taken to prevent recurrence. Noise, Noise, 11 1 1 0 oscillation oscillation Other incidents of concern included: ammonia leaks from Offensive odor 1 18 Offensive odor 1 0 freezers (Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc., Ajinomoto Frozen Other 18 6 Other 1 2 Foods (Thailand) Co., Ltd., and Ajinomoto Frozen Foods U.S.A., Total 39 25 Total 13 32 Inc.), a freon (HCFC) leak from freezers (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.), a liquid egg spill due to an overturned container (Komec Co., Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 96 The Environment Providing Environmental Education and Fostering Awareness Ensuring that every employee has a strong environmental awareness is the starting point of all environmental protection efforts at the Ajinomoto Group. The Group provides its employees around the world with various opportunities for systematic environmental education and fosters better awareness to encourage them to take specific action in their respective workplaces. Education and awareness-raising activities The Ajinomoto Group educates employees and raises their video was achieving a sustainable society, going beyond the field awareness of environment issues, as they are the key to ensuring of the environment to discuss the main initiatives of the that its diverse businesses help to build a more sustainable Ajinomoto Group and promote action from a broad CSR perspecworld. Human resources, general affairs, risk management and tive. In addition to this, the Group has run a campaign to foster other departments collaborate to ensure everyone understands social and environmental awareness as part of its Smile Earth! the Group’s environmental initiatives and provide ongoing activities every year since fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2012, each group education tailored to each employee grade. company also did its part by planning and running its own As part of the new compliance education for managers environmental contribution activities. launched in fiscal 2012, the Ajinomoto Group aims to ensure managers understand and practice its policies and fulfill their role in the Group’s corporate social responsibility for today’s diversifying environmental issues. The Group also provides grade-specific environmental education for new recruits, new managers, and other groups. The Group produces environmental education videos in Japanese and English every year to ensure that its Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies are commuSee “Ajinomoto Group Smile Earth! activities bring smiles to people Reference nicated to all employees. The theme of the fiscal 2013 education and the planet” on p. 125. Specialized education and training It is vital for employees to acquire more technical and practical developments and to steadily implement response measures. As knowledge and improve their skills so they can take the right one strategy to address this challenge, the Group has held environmental actions in their workplaces. The Ajinomoto Group specialized environmental law seminars since fiscal 2011 to give provides the ongoing education needed for employees to peremployees practical knowledge about environmental laws. The form their jobs. This includes education for environmental Group is providing practical knowledge of laws that are particumanagers and staff in each organization, as well as environmenlarly relevant to the business activities of the Ajinomoto Group to tal assessment training for members of each division and restaff concerned with environmental law in Japan. The theme of search department in charge of developing new businesses and the second seminar held was “Air, Water and Soil,” and it covproducts. Training to become an internal environmental auditor ered information on amendments to the main laws and regulais also provided. tions and the focus for management. The Group is also In recent years, environmental concerns have evolved from enhancing its practical education on compliance in the area of conventional pollution control measures, to protection of the chemical substance management by running regular seminars global environment. This has led to many legal revisions. The for relevant employees. Ajinomoto Group strives to stay up-to-date with these Structure and programs of environmental education Ajinomoto Group Group-wide general education Environmental education video Smile Earth! activities General education (Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) Specialized education and training Grade-specific programs Group-wide in Japan Worksites Training for top management Training for new environmental Environmental assessment training Training for newly appointed managers and staff Seminar and qua ification training for managers Internal environmental auditor environmental conservation Mid-career hires training lecture Ski ls improvement training Training for new recruits Environmental law training Training for Japanese staff Training on proper waste management to be posted outside Japan Materials for the second environmental law training session 97 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Taking a Consumerdriven Approach to a More Sustainable World The Ajinomoto Group strives to meet the diverse Contents needs and expectations of consumers with the P99 Delivering Reliable Quality • Quality assurance system of the Ajinomoto Group products and services it provides. The Group • Human resources development to raise quality believes that taking the consumer’s perspective is assurance levels the key to building a more sustainable world. • Sharing information related to quality Painstaking quality assurance is the top priority for a company that provides food products; nothP104 Communicating with Customers ing is more important to the Ajinomoto Group than • Listening to and learning from customers ensuring that consumers can enjoy its products • Rigorous management of personal information with confidence and peace of mind. In addition to P108  Proposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with thorough quality management in the raw material the Dinner Table procurement and manufacturing processes, the • Forums to discuss sustainable lifestyles Group is working to improve safety and quality • Activities to promote green lifestyles that begin with food products and recipes at the dinner table throughout the product lifecycle. These efforts • Communicating with consumers at the Eco-Products 2012 exhibition include providing better information on packages • Ajinomoto Shoku-Eco Kids Prize awarded to tomorrow’s leaders and on the web, as well as product designs that • Helpful advertising make it easier for customers to use products correctly. To drive the continual improvement of these initiatives, the Group utilizes valuable customer feedback obtained through its customer communication services on a daily basis to help improve the company’s products and services. By 2050, there will be more than nine billion people living on Earth, which could require a 70% increase in the production of food. Unless sufficient steps are taken to expand the food supply, serious food shortages may occur. This is why the Ajinomoto Group is promoting “sustainable lifestyles, starting with the dinner table” to consumers. By influencing consumer behavior as well as creating and applying its own unique measures for food sustainability, the Group seeks to help solve the issues of global sustainability and food resources. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 98 Consumer Issues Delivering Reliable Quality It is only natural that food product companies are held responsible for the safety and quality of their products. The Ajinomoto Group applies its own quality assurance system, the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA), to all of its products and services. This ensures strict quality assurance from raw material procurement to product sales. Ajinomoto Group Quality Policies Philosophy We contribute to a better life for all throughout the world by providing safe and high-quality products and services. Policies 1. We pay full attention to the request of our customers, and provide 4. We assure quality through the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurproducts and services meeting with their satisfaction. ance (ASQUA), based on the concepts outlined in the international 2. We actively provide appropriate information to our customers and ISO standard. continue to improve our trustworthiness. 5. Under the leadership of our management, each one of our company’s 3. We make no compromises with regard to safety, conducting surveys employees makes the greatest effort to provide safe and high-quality and research as thoroughly as possible, faithfully complying with products and services through work at all levels, from research and applicable laws and regulations, and always delivering products and development to production, distribution, sales and services. services of uniform quality. Quality assurance system of the Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA) Established in 1997, ASQUA is the Ajinomoto Group’s own by the Group or each internal organization. With ASQUA, the quality assurance system. It is based on ISO 9001, the internaGroup carries out painstaking quality assurance activities worldtional quality management system standard, as well as manufacwide, from the procurement of raw materials to the sale of turing management standards like Hazard Analysis and Critical products, always pursuing even higher quality manufacturing. Control Points (HACCP), a food hygiene management standard, Customer requests and expectations are also promptly utilized to and good manufacturing practices (GMPs). The system also 1 improve products, services and business operations. incorporates the Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Policies, Quality 1 Standards relating to manufacturing management, which have been adopted for products sold by the Ajinomoto Group. Assurance Regulations, Regulation for Quality Assurance, Quality Standards, and other rules and requirements established ASQUA framework ASQUA components International standard for Manufacturing standards quality assurance HACCP Common compliance rules ISO 9001 of the Ajinomoto Group Basic rules relating GMPs to quality assurance Ajinomoto Group Rules and requirements of products sold or Quality Policies of the Ajinomoto Group provided by the Ajinomoto Ajinomoto Group Quality Assurance Regulations Ajinomoto Group Regulation for Quality Assurance (ISO 9001 and the Ajinomoto Group’s requirements) ASQUA Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards (a total of 25 standards including HACCP and GMPs) Separate standards and guidelines of each group company, division, and plant (various procedures, product standards and other documents) Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards The Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards are designed to Feed-use Amino Acid GMP Standards in fiscal 2012 and began ensure that products meet the level of quality expected of the gap analysis2 in companies, particularly those outside of Japan, in Ajinomoto Group’s brand. The Group has also set 25 strict terms of the application and adoption of these standards. standards covering a wide range of areas including training, 2 An approach for evaluating the differences between current conditions and requirements in order to make systematic improvements. The Group uses this approach for facility labeling, packaging, and traceability and so on. specifications and quality assurance and management methods under its Feed-use Amino Acid GMP Standards. In order to further improve the quality of feed-use amino acids throughout the entire Ajinomoto Group, the Group enacted new 99 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues 3 Foods permissible to eat under Islamic dietary restrictions. Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards (examples from among the 25 standards) 4 Foods permissible to eat under Jewish dietary restrictions. 5 Measures to prevent the intentional introduction of foreign matter into food products. The Group carries out monitor• Standard for Quality Assessment • Standard for HACCP ing at every stage from raw material procurement to product sales, in order to prevent anyone from adding • Standard for Educational Training on Quality • Standard for Quality Control of Subcontracted poisons or other substances to food products. • Standard for Halal3 Control and Procured Products • Standard for Kosher4 Control • Standard for Responding to Complaints • Standard for Product Labeling • Standard for Determination of Responding to • Standard for Quality Control of Raw Ingredients Quality Emergencies • Standard for Safety and Sanitation of Food• Standard for Food Defense5 Packaging Materials • Standard for Traceability • Standard for Food GMP • GMP Standard for Pharmaceutical Drug Products Organizational framework for ASQUA implementation ASQUA implementation system Comprised of members of senior management and reporting to Ajinomoto Group the Management Committee, the Quality Assurance Committee Management is the highest body for quality assurance in the Ajinomoto Committee Requests, complaints Group. Considering customer feedback, it drafts basic policies Quality assurance regulations, policies and targets of the Ajinomoto Group and plans relating to the Group’s quality assurance, and after Secretariat: Quality Assurance & Quality Ajinomoto Co., Inc. approval by the Management Committee, promotes their impleExternal Scientific Affairs Assurance Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Committee mentation at group companies worldwide. Every six months, the Customers Quality Assurance Committee reviews the status of policy and Thorough plans implementation throughout the Group. Quality implementation of Products, Quality audit assessment Quality Standards services, This framework ensures that everyone—from top manageinformation, etc. ment to frontline employees working in production and sales— maintains a strong awareness of product quality and a total Product Sales commitment to providing safe products that are worthy of Factories Labs control branches divisions consumer trust. Group companies worldwide Acquiring third-party certification The Ajinomoto Group is working to acquire additional third-party (FSSC) 22000.6 Some manufacturing sites of the Tokai and ISO 9001 certifications. In fiscal 2012, the Wellness Business Kyushu plants of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., the Kamphaeng Phet II Division of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and the North Carolina Plant of Factory of Ajinomoto Co. (Thailand) Ltd., the company Ajinomoto Ajinomoto North America, Inc. obtained ISO 9001 certification. In Poland SP. z.o.o., and the Iowa Plant of Ajinomoto North America, accordance with customers’ requests, a number of the manufacInc. have already obtained FCCS 22000 certification. turing sites of the Ajinomoto Group inside and outside of Japan 6 A standard enacted by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) created by merging the ISO 22000, the international standard for food safety management systems, and PAS 220, a are also working to obtain Food Safety System Certification certification program of food safety for food manufacturers. Rigorous supplier audits and quality control Quality audits of raw material suppliers in fiscal 2012 The Ajinomoto Group conducts a wide range of transactions with Department conductAudited items Number Notes ing the audit of audits suppliers in and outside of Japan, including the outsourcing of 41 audits of food items Raw material and 25 audits of production, purchase of goods, and the purchase of raw materirelated items 66 bioscience products and fine chemicals als. The Group manages its suppliers based on the ASQUA Group Procurement Center, Ajinomoto Co., Packaging 25 standards, just like its own manufacturing sites. Inc. materials Joint audits of The Group requires all suppliers to establish quality control GSM 10 suppliers outside Japan standards and quality requirements in accordance with ASQUA, Ajinomoto Frozen Raw material Onsite audits by the and performs regular evaluations and quality audits of Foods Co., Ltd. related items 167 Purchasing Department and plants these suppliers. Raw material 22 related items The Ajinomoto Group has established a worldwide system AJINOMOTO Packaging 3 called Global Supplier Management (GSM) for carrying out joint PHARMACEUTICALS materials CO., LTD. Products quality audits at suppliers outside Japan. By training and appointmanuactured by 6 subcontractors ing over 60 GSM auditors around the world, the Group is further strengthening quality management. Reference See “Pursuing CSR Procurement” on p. 43. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 100 Consumer Issues Striving to reduce complaints and quality problems The supply of safe products to customers is the most vital were conducted on the underlying causes for each complaint mission for the Ajinomoto Group. The Group carries out meareceived, and product improvements and other relevant sures designed to reduce quality-related problems in every countermeasures were implemented to prevent recurrence of operational process, from product design and material procuresimilar complaints. ment through production and sales. The Group is also working to strengthen quality management In fiscal 2012, the Ajinomoto Group continued to improve its at principal raw material suppliers and production facilities in framework for assessing quality at the product design and develresponse to the rising number of issues related to foreign contamiopment stages in new business areas. Exhaustive investigations nants found in raw materials and on production equipment. Product recalls In fiscal 2012, the Ajinomoto Group carried out one voluntary product recall.1 Approximately 40,000 200ml cartons of Calpis & Fruits Vitamin Peach manufactured and marketed by Calpis Co., Ltd. (stocks transferred to Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. in October 2012) were recalled in August 2012 when they were discovered to have an abnormal taste due to microbial contamination. 1 Product recall was publicized using company announcements and press releases. Human resources development to raise quality assurance levels The Ajinomoto Group leverages its human resources developcompanies take to quality assurance. The Group reassessed its ment programs to improve quality worldwide. educational program on product quality, defining requirements In fiscal 2012, the Group held educational training on quality and establishing content-specific levels. Programs customized to for new hires, advanced educational training on quality for the specific needs of individual departments and companies have employees involved with quality assurance, and held ISO 9001 also been developed. internal auditor training, food product labeling and law-related The Ajinomoto Group also held the 12th Quality Manageseminars, and other human resources development programs ment System (QMS) training course for employees at companies in Japan. The Group strives to make these programs readily outside Japan. Eight employees from Brazil, Malaysia, Thailand available to employees by offering training on certain subjects and Vietnam spent two weeks studying a wide range of topics via e-learning. related to quality assurance and exchanging information. The In fiscal 2012, a top management study session on quality Group also carried out training on quality assurance in the was attended by 16 top executives (including newly appointed ASEAN region, South America, China and Africa. As part of this executive directors) of group companies in Japan. In addition, initiative, ASQUA School2 sessions were held in North America 445 employees from group companies around the world particifor 36 employees and 33 employees in China. pated in the 33rd Ajinomoto Management and Technical 2 Training for the purpose of improving knowledge and sharing expertise relating to quality assurance, with a focus on the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA). Conference on Quality. The study session and conference both focused on sharing information on the approach group Quality assurance education system and program examples General training Specialized education Group-wide Group-wide worldwide Group-wide in Japan Individual sites Ajinomoto Management and Technical QMS Training Course Top management study session on quality Implementing a Conference on Quality ASQUA School Customer satisfaction training program variety of education programs relating to ISO 9001 internal auditor education quality in areas Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (acquisition of new qualifications) including ISO 9001 Training for Japanese staff posted overseas Quality assessment study session Quality audit seminar standards, and (ASQUA standards) Basic course for understanding Study session on food product labeling various types of GMP Training for new hires (customer satisfaction education) ASQUA, etc. Briefing on trends in government initiatives Compliance training (quality assurance activities) on food product labeling 101 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Sharing information related to quality The Ajinomoto Group has been increasing its emphasis on Sharing quality information on product packages public relations concerning matters of quality assurance since The packages of retail products marketed by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. fiscal 2008 to ensure that consumers can use its products with a and Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. indicate not only all legally sense of security. required information but also the following kinds of additional The Group has established an original guideline on offering information (except when space is limited, etc.). quality information and provides information customers need to make purchase decisions on packages and websites. The • Nutrition • Production facility • Method of storage (once Group’s websites present its policies and approaches to quality opened) • Product usage warnings assurance and report on its activities, as part of the Group’s • Explanations of raw materials that may be unfamiliar to customers and prompt a large number of inquiries effort to provide as much information as possible to meet cus• Easy-to-identify list of allergens (both mandatory and recomtomers’ needs. To further improve the quality of this informamended) • Packaging materials • Customer service contact tion, the companies of the Ajinomoto Group in Japan established a liaison council in fiscal 2012 to exchange information and discuss issues related to the provision of quality information on product packages and the Group’s websites. Providing information on websites On the product information, product list and other sections easily. In addition, a new section featuring quality assurance of its websites, the Ajinomoto Group provides information news was added to ensure timely publication of the latest on raw materials and nutrition, production facilities, allerdevelopments. The website also features reports on the gens, and other topics that tend to prompt the most customAjinomoto Group’s policies and initiatives related to matters er inquiries. of particular interest to its customers. The Group has a “reliable quality” website that provides information on raw material management, product development, manufacturing and other processes designed to assure the quality, safety, and security of products, as well as the Group’s policy regarding product packaging information. Additional content is now being added to the website, including commentary by experts on food safety topics of public concern such as allergens and additives. In fiscal Product information website (Japanese only) Dedicated “reliable quality” website 2012, the website design was improved and new features (Japanese only) were added to help visitors understand the content more The policies and initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group available online Use of food additives Food additives not only enhance dietary lifestyles by imcommitted to clear and accurate labeling of food additives on proving the taste, aroma, nutritional content, and storage its product packaging, in accordance with standards stipulatstability of food; they also play an important role in the ed in relevant laws. distribution and effective utilization of food resources. They In recent years, the number of processed foods compaare subject to stringent testing under the supervision of nies label as “Additive XX-free” or “No XX” on the market governments to confirm their safety. The Ajinomoto Group has increased. As a manufacturer of food products, the selects appropriate food additives for use in product develAjinomoto Group strives to avoid labeling methods that may opment and production based on the latest research findgive consumers doubts about food additives recognized as ings on safety and other relevant issues. The Group is also safe based on government standards and scientific research. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 102 Consumer Issues Use of GMOs Genetically modified organism (GMO) technology is Food Safety Commission of the Cabinet Office and the expected to play an important role in the alleviation of Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare. Labeling standards environmental problems and food shortages. For instance, have been established in order to provide necessary inforcrops genetically modified for insect resistance may not mation to consumers, and Ajinomoto Co., Inc. faithfully need as much pesticide. At this time, it is also important to complies with them. The Ajinomoto Group also uses its own thoroughly confirm the safety of GMO foods. In Japan, detection technology to prevent inadvertent contamination stringent safety assessment of GMOs is conducted by the with unapproved GMOs. Radioactive contamination The Ajinomoto Group works to ensure strict quality assuran initiative to prevent distribution of food products that ance from raw material procurement through product sales, exceed regulation values. Going one step further, the Group based on its Quality Policies. In Japan today, the safety of uses measurement equipment and reputable analytical manufactured foods is being confirmed through continuous techniques to check, if necessary, for radioactive materials, monitoring for radiation by government agencies, as well as especially in raw materials. Traceability The Ajinomoto Group has created a traceability system for supplier management, which is essential for obtaining the history of raw materials and products. In each stage of accurate raw material information. production, processing, and distribution, information is This dependable traceability system facilitates the rapid recorded and stored concerning raw material and/or handling of customer inquiries and any incidents that product suppliers, delivery destination, and product manumay arise, allowing consumers to purchase products facturing so that the movement of all raw materials and with confidence. products can be traced. The Group also carries out proper Allergens In order to protect people with certain allergies, Japan’s general consumers. Two of the 20, sesame seeds and caConsumer Affairs Agency requires food products in Japan shew nuts, are new additions, and these are currently being to display information on whether they contain seven added to products as they are shipped. The Ajinomoto common allergens: wheat, milk, peanuts, eggs, buckwheat, Group is also focused on strengthening its allergen control shrimp and crab. It also recommends disclosure of 20 other system by incorporating official analytical methods and allergens. The Ajinomoto Group in Japan not only labels the contamination controls.1 seven allergens required by law, but also lists 20 other 1 Microbial amounts of allergen substances mixing with food products during the manufacturing process despite the fact that these substances are not used as ingredients allergens when contained in any of its retail products for in the product. Pesticide residue Pesticides play a vital role in the cultivation of healthy In order to ensure the safety of the vegetables it uses as vegetables by preventing pests and diseases and by conraw materials, the Ajinomoto Group implements careful trolling growth of plants. Pesticide usage standards define management of cultivated fields, including pesticide managethe quantity, timing, method, and maximum number of ment. The Group also strives to use raw materials from applications. When these usage standards are followed, Group-managed farms2 and designated farms3 as primary crops will not contain pesticides exceeding the maximum raw materials for certain products. residue level. Still, depending on the usage method, in rare 2 Under the supervision of employees from the Ajinomoto Group, farms operated according to uniform standards for every process from crop cultivation through pesticide cases some pesticide may remain on harvested crops. management. 3 Farms that meet the Ajinomoto Group’s rigorous standards on pesticide management systems and are subject to regular Group inspections. 103 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Communicating with Customers The Ajinomoto Group strives to put the customer first by offering excellent service and providing innovative, highquality products that are always safe. With the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA), channels for communicating with customers are clearly defined, and each group company has established customer service teams which listen directly to customer opinions and requests. Customer feedback is shared across company departments, and employees focus on incorporating this feedback into business activities, products and services. As part of product quality management and customer satisfaction efforts, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. also developed the Customer Satisfaction Promotion Policy and Customer Satisfaction Code of Conduct based on the ISO 100025 standard for handling complaints. The Ajinomoto Group is committed to delivering products and services that more than satisfy all of its customers. 5 International guidelines for a complaint management system which set requirements for an organization to meet in responding appropriately and promptly to customer complaints in order to improve customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Promotion Policy To ensure that we continue to provide products and services that satisfy our customers, we will listen to customers, see problems from their point of view, and focus all of our resources on creating the solutions customers need. Above all, our aim is to be an honest company that customers can trust. Customer Satisfaction Code of Conduct 1. We provide safe and reliable products and services to our customers. 2. We respond to complaints, requests and inquiries from our customers precisely, promptly and politely. 3. We respect the voice of the customer, and strive to use all input to add value to our products and services. 4. We actively disclose appropriate information to our customers. 5. We comply with regulations and voluntary in-house standards related to protecting the rights of our customers. Listening to and learning from customers Delivering products and services that more than satisfy customers The Ajinomoto Group constantly seeks to improve customer not only when providing products and services, but across all of satisfaction and has dedicated customer service teams at six food its other business activities. product companies in Japan.6 The Group is now expanding this The customer service teams at the six food product compascheme to group companies outside of Japan, tailoring it to their nies in Japan all meet every three months to discuss the approduct lines and local needs. proaches taken to address shared issues related to improving The Customer Service Center of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. strives customer service quality. Moving forward, the Group will coordito respond precisely, promptly and politely to inquiries and to nate more closely with customer service teams at group compaprovide information, in cooperation with related departments, to nies outside Japan to raise the quality of customer service across deliver superior customer satisfaction and to ensure consumers the entire Ajinomoto Group. can use products with peace of mind. The center also records 6 Ajinomoto Co., Inc.; Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc.; Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc.; J-OIL MILLS, INC.; YAMAKI Co., Ltd.; and Kellogg Company. and analyzes the “voice of the customer” daily. Customer opinions are shared with business divisions and product developMajor group companies outside of Japan with customer ment departments to spur the development of better products call centers • Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. and services. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. understands how important • Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. every communication opportunity is. The company works • PT Ajinomoto Indonesia constantly to improve customer relations and raise satisfaction, • Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd., etc. Note: Group companies that do not have a dedicated customer call center handle customer service inquiries directly by phone and online. Main fiscal 2012 initiatives of the Customer Service Center of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Main initiative Details Employee education program for improved Provided ongoing education to enhance communication skills, as well as other training programs customer service quality • Promptly shared VOC internally to improve products and services Improvements for sharing the voice of the • Disclosed product improvements on the website customer (VOC) • Conducted product evaluations from the customer perspective in assessment meetings at the product development stage Improving responses to customer feedback Promoted improvement of responses to customer feedback across the company (1) Lectures on customer perception (2) One-day training on answering customer calls In-house training on customer satisfaction (3) Workshops on VOC analysis (4) Workshops on use of the VOC portal (5) Sales department customer service training, etc. (137 employees participated in 15 training sessions) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 104 Consumer Issues Listening to customers to identify issues and discover improvements The Ajinomoto Group shares the “voice of the customer” (VOC) identify issues that need to be resolved, VOC data is carefully customer internally in a timely manner and uses VOC to improve analyzed in several ways, including physically reproducing the its products and services. problem experienced by the customer with actual product Ajinomoto Co., Inc. values the opinions and requests of its samples. This method evaluates the situation from the customcustomers and enters all comments received into a database on er’s perspective to ensure fresh and unhindered understanding the day it is received. Entries are posted the following day on the of the complaint. VOC portal, an internal system for sharing information that Monthly development meetings and biannual VOC applicaallows all employees of the company access to customer opintion meetings are held to share information on the tracking of ions. Items deemed urgent are reported immediately to the product inquiries and shifting customer opinion, requests and relevant departments, which study the problem behind the suggestions. This information is then incorporated into the complaint and discuss ways to prevent recurrence. This informaprocess of developing and improving products and services. tion is also reported back to customers. The Customer Service Center holds monthly VOC review meetings to address customer opinions and requests. In order to Framework for incorporating the voice of the customer into product manufacturing Customers Customer Service Center Business departments Meetings called to deal with urgent items Inquiries/ DevelopManufaccomplaints Staff carefully ment turing reads VOC data Development meetings VOC (monthly) review meetings (monthly) VOC application Planning meetings (biannual) Sales In addition to complaints and opinions, messages from satisfied customers are also posted on the VOC portal. Boost customer satisfaction by developing and improving products Highlight Creating better products by listening to customers Improving Ajinomoto KK Chuka Aji seasonings Improving Gyoza (Chinese dumplings) Voice of the customer Voice of the customer When Ajinomoto KK Chuka Aji first came out with a one-touch cap, customers In autumn 2012, Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. launched a new gyoza who had tried shaking the seasoning into a pan commented that steam product that requires no oil or water when cooking. The company received a caused the seasoning to clump and stick to the container opening, making it number of comments, particularly from elderly customers, about how difficult difficult to close the lid. it was to know when the dumplings were ready to eat. The company modified the container opening to prevent the seasoning from In spring 2013, the company improved the dumplings to decrease the sticking, and the lid design was improved to ensure that it would close even if likelihood of burning. Instructions for preparing perfectly cooked gyoza were some seasoning stuck to it. Customers responded by saying that the redesign also added to the back of the package. The instructions, printed in red to (design patent pending) had made the product easier to use and made draw customer attention, were accompanied by photos showing what the cooking more convenient and fun. dumplings look like when they are ready. Questionnaires were sent along with samples of the improved product to customers who had initially raised the issue, and about 90% responded that they now had no problems preparing the new dumplings. Before After Back of package New instructions (as of October 2013) 105 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Increasing customer satisfaction by responding earnestly to complaints At Ajinomoto Co., Inc., each customer complaint about a product with in fiscal 2012 indicated that they would continue to puris investigated at the plant where it was manufactured to identify chase products manufactured by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. the underlying cause, and the findings are reported to the customer who contacted the company. Seeking to improve these VOC breakdown in fiscal 2012 No. of inquiries received by Ajinomoto Co., Inc.: 38,800 (88% of the total in fiscal 2011) reports to customers, since 2008 the company has been followNo. of inquiries received by six of the Ajinomoto Group’s food product companies in Japan: 83,400 (89% of the total in fiscal 2011) ing up to assess their satisfaction with the investigation. Customer contacts received by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. In fiscal 2012, the company conducted listening skills trainin fiscal 2012 (Approx. 38,800 contacts from customers) ing to help employees to understand the conditions and context Proposals in which the customer discovered the problem and to convey 1% Praise 1% Complaints Topics of inquiries sympathy for the customer’s concern. Rules regarding the 4% detailed recording of customers’ doubts and concerns were also tightened. The scope of manufacturing plant investigations was Retailers expanded beyond the underlying cause of the complaint, to Other 14% verify customer doubts and concerns, 23% Expiration date as well, and to incorporate them into Inquiries 14% findings. Steps were also taken to Preparation explain scientific terminology and 94% 8% methods illustrate with photographs and graphs 10% 10% Product in an effort to help customers more varieties / price Raw materials / easily understand the results. More manufacturing methods than 90% of customers followed up The number of inquiries regarding expiration dates and raw materials related to the Great East Follow-up questionnaire Japan Earthquake, which had been quite high in previous years, fell in fiscal 2012. Highlight New “AJINOMOTO PARK” interactive food community website Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has focused on incorporating customer feedback into product improvements and sales promotion plans. In a further expansion and acceleration of this initiative, the company launched an interactive food community website in July 2012. The website, called “AJINOMOTO PARK,” provides channels for employees to communicate with customers, as well as for customers to communicate with other customers. “AJINOMOTO PARK” consists of four specific offerings: the Recipe Encyclopedia® search engine, which features 10,000 recipes and a recommendation function based on user history, a community forum where customers and employees can discuss food and recipes, a “Food Q&A” where customers can chat with each other about foodrelated issues and concerns, and a campaign section that provides information on the Ajinomoto Group’s campaigns. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. will continue to focus on enriching customers’ lives with better food by encouraging communication via the “AJINOMOTO PARK” website. The Recipe Encyclopedia® attracts 1.8 million hits a month. Comments from website staff We have heard from so many happy customers via “AJINOMOTO PARK.” I hope the website will continue to help bring more delicious food and greater joy to more customers’ dinner tables via direct communication with our customers. Eriko Morimura LTV Marketing Group, Consumer Foods & Seasonings Dept. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Customer feedback Members interact on the community Fun articles posted by page, chatting and exchanging employees, introducing various •  “With helpful recipes, fun campaigns, and friendly comments from information about food and efforts by the Ajinomoto Group food-related topics. in areas such as manufacturing, company staff, this is my favorite website.” sales, and product development •  “I love the ‘Food Q&A’ section. It can often be difficult to ask the most simple questions face-to-face, but the Q&A section gets me the answers to those questions very easily.” Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 106 Consumer Issues Universal design initiatives Universal design is extremely important to the Ajinomoto Group. designs that make information as easy to understand as possible. Its principles are critical to the pursuit of safe and reliable prodThe company identifies the information of particular interest to ucts, as well as to the Group’s mission of enriching the food the people who use each product and then carefully creates lifestyles of its customers. Every group company uses universal package design elements addressing the purchase, usage, and design to create product packaging that is easy for anyone to use. disposal phases. The result is packaging that is attractive and Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established universal design guideaccessible for an even wider range of people, and increased lines that cover topics including use of color to distinguish customer satisfaction. Going forward, the company will go beproduct varieties and ways to improve readability of print. In yond enhancing basic package function and use universal design recent years, the company has been focusing on creating to improve both environmental and economic performance. The package of Nabe Cube Clearly labeled opening Expiration date and customer contact information, which is in large print Accessible cooking instructions, which are critical to the customer All information related to ingredients and materials in a single section Reference See “Considering human rights in business activities” on p. 50. Rigorous management of personal information The Ajinomoto Group clearly defines personal information When the handling of personal information is outsourced, management rules and implements consistent, systematic prior confirmation is made to ensure that the contractor has management of information subject to management. equally high management standards. A personal information The responsibilities for managing personal information are management database is used to register and manage all personspecified in the company’s Information Management Regulaal information. In July 2012, a comprehensive inspection of the tions, as well as in its Personal Information Management database management conditions was completed. Inspections Guidelines, which are both based on Japan’s Act on the Protecof personal information management conditions were also tion of Personal Information. Under these regulations and carried out at affiliates in Japan charged with handling personal guidelines, the Group has clearly defined specific procedures to information in the course of campaigns targeting customers and be followed. other events. Operation and maintenance rules for the handling of personThe Group will continue to pursue even better management al information are based on the ISO 27001 (information security and protection of personal information. management) approach. Human error is also managed by ensuring that key personal information operations are done by Reference See “Information security” on p. 40. two people supervising each other. 107 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Proposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with the Dinner Table As a food manufacturer, the Ajinomoto Group not only has the responsibility to deliver delicious and healthy foods; it also has the opportunity to help people embrace more eco-friendly lifestyles. Truly good nutrition is wholesome not only for families, but also for the earth. The Ajinomoto Group aspires to nothing less and has made this a central pursuit. The Group will continue to develop eco-friendly products and propose environmentally considerate recipes and tips, aiming to popularize eco-lifestyles—starting right at the family dinner table. DATA Uneaten food Amount of food waste in Japan 18 million tonnes Other 3% Food losses in Japan Edible leaves and peels 60% thrown away Japan generates about 18 million tonnes of food waste each Amount of food waste generated 10 million year. Food waste from households accounts for 10 million by households tonnes 16% Excessive removal during food tonnes. Of this, 2 to 4 million tonnes are said to be edible— preparation Using ingredients 20‒40% leftovers, edible parts of ingredients excessively removed Leftovers 54 % efficiently and reducing leftovers during preparation and cooking, food simply thrown away. To Edible food waste 2‒4 million tonnes 27% can decrease household food waste. minimize these food losses in households, it is important to Reasons for leftovers from the dinner table help individuals respect the value of food and enjoy meals #1 Portion was too big to finish. Statistical Survey on Food Loss enough to finish them. (Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, 2009) Forums to discuss sustainable lifestyles No one entity can build a sustainable future on its own. The in December 2012 and a third in March Ajinomoto Group recognizes the need to work with all of society 2013. Through these forums, the Group to achieve this goal. The Group values opportunities to discuss works with a number of different organicommunity members’ vision for the future from a variety of zations to create a sustainable future. perspectives. It is these opportunities that help the Ajinomoto Group discover what it can do to build a healthier future. As part of this focus, the Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum Link Forum was first held in March 2012, followed by a second forum http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/forum/ Highlight Second Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum Let’s Make Sustainable Lifestyles Together December 15, 2012 (at Tokyo Big Sight) Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Kao Corporation established the Society for Sustainable Food & Life Styles, which sponsored this forum. The forum provided another venue for meeting consumers and discussing what can be done as part of mealtime and day-to-day life to create a comfortable, sustainable future. The forum was also a valuable opportunity to raise awareness of sustainable lifestyles among the some 550 participants who took part. Part I Keynote Address: Designing Sustainable The team of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Kao Corporation  Lifestyles with a Smaller Ecological Footprint employees presented their environmentally friendly products. In his keynote address entitled “Lifestyles and Food to Pass Introducing HONDASHI by Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Kao Onto the Next Generation,” Hideki Ishida, Professor at Tohoku Corporation’s Attack® laundry detergent, and other products University’s Graduate School of Environmental Studies, began that conserve resources and save time, the team emphasized by describing what a comfortable lifestyle will look like in the the need to work beyond the framework of a single future. Using “backcasting,” Professor Ishida encouraged the corporation to share information and technology audience to revaluate their lifestyles and food habits as he that will make it possible to live within the shared his expertise on lifestyle design and technology. planet’s means. Part II Panel  Discussion: Let’s Picture the Future of Food and Life Together Three teams presented an image of an environmentally friendly lifestyle for the year 2030. The team of students Opening remarks Keynote address depicted an urban environment designed to encourage a green lifestyle, while the team of housewives talked about consumer purchases as a means of communicating with Audience votes for corporations. presentations using Presentation by employee team special cards. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 108 Consumer Issues Activities to promote green lifestyles that begin with food products and recipes at the dinner table “Aji-na Eco” mark products Product packages are thrown away by consumers after purchase, and the Ajinomoto Group is taking steps to make this Number of “Aji-na Eco” packaging more environmentally friendly. In order to enmark products courage consumers to select eco-friendly products whenever 128 possible, the Group introduced its unique “Aji-na Eco”1 mark in As of the end of autumn 2010 to help consumers instantly recognize these October 2013 (Ajinomoto Group) green products. See “Promoting ‘Aji-na Eco’ mark products with environmental Reference packaging” on p. 89. “Eco-Uma Recipe” Hints “Eco-Uma Recipe” tips 1 2 3 Everyday cooking is actually a chance to start eco-living at Choose Use food With seasonal without finesse, home, today. This is why Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has launched foods! any waste! but simple! activities to spread environmentally friendly, delicious and smart “Eco-Uma”1 ideas and recipes for everyday cooking. 1 The Japanese terms for “Aji-na Eco” mark, “Eco-Uma” and “Eco-Uma Recipe” are registered Tasty means ecological trademarks of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Highlight “Eco-Uma Recipe” Campaign 2013 Marking World Environment Month, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. These activities were recognized conducted the “Eco-Uma Recipe” Campaign in June 2013. for encouraging customers to choose (June 5 is World Environment Day.) The campaign promotes green purchases and environmentally suggestions for environmentally friendly recipes on television, friendly lifestyles, winning the judge’s newspapers, in-store advertising, product packaging, and prize at the 15th Green Purchasing the web. Awards sponsored by the Green “Eco-Uma Recipe” logo Purchasing Network in October 2013. TV commercials Product packages and recipe cards Ajinomoto Co., Inc. created “Eco-Uma Recipe” versions of In conjunction with the TV commercial campaign, the company commercials for HONDASHI, Ajinomoto KK Consommé, and also designed and printed “Eco-Uma Recipe” information on the Marudori Gara Soup. These commercials aired from the end back of product packaging (4.3 million shipped). Some 30,000 of May through the middle of June. recipe cards for distribution in stores and at events drew even Sample dishes more attention to the campaign. “Mountains of cabbage” pork miso soup The Consumer Foods & Members of the Production and Planning Back of product package Seasonings Dept. led the Group, Advertising Dept. campaign. “Makeover” pork potato soup On the web In-store advertising In April 2013, the “Eco-Uma As the result of tireless negotiations, the “Eco-Uma Recipe” Recipe” website was renewed, Campaign was featured at 23 companies and in 1,000 stores with many more recipes added. In throughout Japan. The campaign was also covered in circuaddition to recipes, the website lars produced by major supermarkets for their customers. also features expertise and ideas from food producers and professional cooks, recipes submitted by the general public, and environmentally friendly Sales representatives of food-related activities conducted by children. National Account Sales Dept. 109 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Newspapers, local TV, and magazines On June 5, 2013, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. marked World Environment Day with a campaign run in 40 local newspapers and aired on 46 local TV stations across Japan. The campaign was also covered in numerous magazines. Food producers, cooking experts and others shared their expertise and “Eco-Uma Recipe” ideas featuring local ingredients from each region. These recipes were designed to leave nothing to waste and be so delicious that diners would finish off the last bite. Members of the Ad Planning Group, Advertising Dept. Ad in Saga Ad in Aomori Ad in Shimane Ad in Fukushima Ad in Tokyo Ad in Ehime Ad in Okinawa Ad in Gifu Ad in Aichi Soliciting “Eco-Uma Recipe” ideas from the public In April 2013, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. solicited ideas and recipes for the “Eco-Uma Recipe” Campaign from “AJINOMOTO PARK” website members. Members were then invited to vote online in May and June for the nearly 200 recipes submitted. 1,673 people took part in the vote. The Grand Prize was awarded to a recipe for Staff of “AJINOMOTO PARK” website Japanese style meatloaf. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 110 Consumer Issues Communicating with consumers at the Eco-Products 2012 exhibition The Eco-Products exhibition is the largest environmental expo in Japan. In 2012, the exhibition was held at Tokyo Big Sight December 13–15, attracting more than 180,000 visitors over three days. Four companies of the Ajinomoto Group set up a joint booth introducing the Group’s eco-products. The booth also promoted ideas for creating an eco-friendly lifestyle that begins at the dinner table, holding tasting events on the booth’s stage. This was a valuable opportunity for employees to talk directly with exhibiSome 100 group employees helped with the exhibition booth. tion visitors and hear a wide spectrum of consumer opinion. Ajinomoto Shoku-Eco Kids Prize awarded to tomorrow’s leaders Since 2010, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has awarded the Ajinomoto The awards ceremony held in December 2012 Shoku-Eco Kids Prize to youngsters whose entry in the “Green Lane” environmental diary contest1 features fun, outstanding environmental activities relating to food. In the third contest, held in fiscal 2012, the prize was awarded to ten youngsters for their environmental activities. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. will continue to support the contest as a way to encourage children, the leaders of tomorrow, to practice environmentally friendly food lifestyles at home. 1 As part of the contest conducted by Green Cross Japan, approximately 100,000 elementary school students receive guidebooks on ways to address environmental problems and 12-week journals for keeping environmental diaries. Diaries written by participating children Helpful advertising The Ajinomoto Group’s helpful advertising offers hints and tips on green lifestyles that begin at the dinner table. “It won’t be a superhero who saves the world, but all the mothers.” “Is your eco-bag just an ego bag?” Combating global warming with eco-friendly cooking Encouraging readers to go beyond the eco-bag and “Out of one, comes many” practice truly sustainable food purchasing The rich variety of dishes that can be created from a single vegetable “Mottainai (What a waste!)” “EDO Period, ECO ideas” Awards received include: Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize and Best Partner Prize in the Magazine Advertisement Category of the Advertisements Beneficial to Consumers Contest 111 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Growing with the People of Each Community The Ajinomoto Group seeks to form close relationremain committed to community-oriented business ships with the communities where it operates and practices and will ensure that its products contribute always pursues mutual prosperity. The Group’s emto local communities. ployees around the world—roughly 30,000 of them— The Ajinomoto Group strives to be very knowlare involved in a variety of ways in their communities, edgeable about social issues such as diet and nutriboth through their business activities and as citizens tion in the communities where it operates. In addition of the local area. to finding solutions to these issues through its own In the 104 years since its founding, the Ajinomobusiness activities, the Group participates in many to Group has grown to operate business units in 26 social action programs. It partners with local commucountries and regions, providing a variety of products nities, NGOs, and others to help improve nutrition in that enhance the lives of people in 130 countries developing and newly emerging economies. around the world. The Group presently markets food The Ajinomoto Group will continue to forge close products that are essential to daily life in about 100 of relationships with local communities to ensure mututhose countries and, when developing products, alal prosperity everywhere it operates. ways seeks to respect the unique and diverse dietary customs in each area. The Ajinomoto Group delivers Contents products that make local cuisines even more deliP113  Solving Local Issues Around the World cious. The Group’s products are developed and produced in the countries where they are sold through P115 Solving Food and Nutrition-related Issues local channels. With business activities closely tied • AIN program improves nutrition in developing countries • Group company and foundation activities to local communities from production through distribution, the Ajinomoto Group supports the farmers P122  Supporting Areas Struck by Natural Disaster who produce the raw materials, boosts local economies by creating jobs, and helps local distributors P125  Employees Aim to Make a Personal realize a profit by supplying merchandise. As it conContribution tinues to grow globally, the Ajinomoto Group will • Ajinomoto Group Smile Earth! activities bring smiles to people and the planet Main results for fiscal 2012 Products delivered to 100 countries 63projects 185 business  with sites participation 130 10billion in12 countries of 9,900 countries worldwide packets Sales reach and annual volume for the with 95,000 employees of the Ajinomoto umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® beneficiaries Group Worldwide clean-up activities around business facilities Supported by AIN program (1999–April 2013) under the Smile Earth! campaign Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 112 Community Solving Local Issues Around the World The Ajinomoto Group seeks to contribute to local development and grow together with the communities in which it operates. To do this, the Group works with local stakeholders to tailor its business activities to the needs of each country and region. It also collaborates with a number of other organizations on social businesses and other activities designed to help solve local issues. Worldwide initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto International Cooperation AIN Network for Nutrition and P115– Health (AIN) program The AIN program provides support for local activities that focus on international cooperation in the areas of food, nutrition, and health, aiming to improve the quality of life in developing countries and meet the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). SE Smile Earth! activities P125– United States SE Smile Earth! activities engage employees of the Ajinomoto Group and their families in various kinds of social action. In addition to short-term projects such as worldwide clean-up activities around business facilities and the Eco Action Campaign, employees are also involved in year-round campaigns in Japan such as the Ecocap Movement and Table for Two + Tohoku program. Brazil Peru AIN SE P117– Group company and AIN SE foundation initiatives P 121 P 119 Different countries and regions face different food and nutrition issues. Utilizing the expertise and networks cultivated through its businesses in these areas, the companies and foundations of the Ajinomoto Group strive to offer locally tailored solutions. This section offers a summary of a small fraction of the Group’s activities conducted in the countries and regions marked on the map to the right. The Ajinomoto Group will continue to focus on initiatives that are carefully designed to meet the needs of each country and region. 113 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Contributing to local communities through business activities The Ajinomoto Group helps people in local communities to lead healthy lives by delivering delicious food products to dinner tables around the world. It is important to the Ajinomoto Group that locally hired people manufacture products using local materials that meet the needs of the people in their own communities. For example, the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® is manufactured at locally established plants using abundantly available local crops such as sugar cane, cassava, or corn. This system helps create jobs and boost the incomes of local farmers and other primary producers. The Group also supplies local farmers with nutritionally rich co-products made from the Farmer fertilizing his field with a co-product of the amino acid fermentation process by-products of the amino acid fermentation process, at a low price. This practice improves farmers’ incomes by boosting crop yield and helps to achieve sustainReference See “For a Healthier Future” on p. 9. able farming. See “Utilizing the Bounty of Nature to Support Local Reference Communities” on p. 23. Supporting communities struck by natural disasters The Ajinomoto Group utilizes its expertise in the area of food and health to help local communities rebuild after a natural disaster. P122– France P 120 Cambodia Japan China AIN SE SE P 120 SE India Vietnam AIN AIN SE Nigeria The Philippines 118 SE Bangladesh SE P AIN Malaysia Thailand AIN SE AIN SE Indonesia P 117 AIN P 119 The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project This social business seeks to improve the nutritional intake of children in Ghana through the manufacture and marketing of a baby food supplement containing amino acid. P15– Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 114 Community Solving Food and Nutrition-related Issues The Ajinomoto Group is working to solve issues in the field of food and nutrition in communities around the world. These efforts include the Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for Nutrition and Health (AIN) program, which seeks to improve nutrition in developing countries, as well as a variety of other initiatives implemented worldwide by group companies and foundations. AIN program improves nutrition in developing countries As a group of companies that contributes to human health companies in the same country provides various kinds of local globally, the Ajinomoto Group considers the improvement of support, including education on nutrition, with the aim of raising nutrition in developing countries an important mission. This is the level of the project’s activities. why it launched the Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for Nutrition and Health (AIN) program in 1999, the Results (1999–July, 2013) 90th anniversary of the company’s founding. Number of projects No. of beneficiaries The AIN program solicits project applications from NGOs  Approx. and NPOs around the world, and then determines which projects to give development assistance to based on investigations by 63 in12 countries 95,000 experts and onsite inspections by employees of the Ajinomoto (Bangladesh, Brazil, Cambodia, India, Total funds Group. After a project commences, one of the Ajinomoto Group’s 220 Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Peru, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam) See “Finding Food-centered Solutions to Health and Nutrition Issues” Reference on p. 13. million yen Projects supported under the AIN program in fiscal 2012 Target group Period of Project name Implementing organization Country (no. of persons) support “Shokuiku” (Food and Nutrition Education) Program for Improvement of Nutritional Status of Hunger Free World Local residents (200) Bangladesh 2010–2012 Mothers and Infants in Poor Rural Areas Providing nutritious lunch to street and working Kokkyo naki Kodomotachi Children living on the Bangladesh 2012–2014 children in Dhaka (KnK) street (40) Promotional Program for Health and Nutrition in Miyazaki International Local residents (5,000) India 2011–2012 Kalimpong Volunteer Center Terra People Act Kanagawa Food for Health Adolescent girls (5,000) India 2012–2013 (TPAK) Empowering Women through Home Gardening Women in rural OISCA International Indonesia 2011–2013 and Home Industry communities (250) School-based Nutritional Intervention to Promote Healthy Eating and Physical Activity to Prevent Ho Chi Minh City Nutrition Students at 2 schools Vietnam 2011–2013 Non-communicable Chronic Disease in Primary Center (2,000–2,500) School Pupils Children under 2 years Alternative child nutrition improvement project old (approx. 2,700), Save the Children Japan Vietnam 2012–2014 through strengthening food security mothers and pregnant women (approx. 3,700) Helping Indigenous Orang Asli Women Improve Orang Asli women (31); UNIVERSITI PUTRA the Health and Nutrition of Infants and Young mothers and children in Malaysia 2011–2013 MALAYSIA (UPM) Children 5 Orang Asli villages THE EDUCATION FOR Agriculture for School Lunch Project and Teachers and students DEVELOPMENT Thailand 2011–2012 Dissemination of Nutrition Education (1,475) FOUNDATION (EDF) Nutrition improvement for families by empowering Japan Lay Missionary Local residents (935), Cambodia 2012–2014 mothers in the poor area of Phnom Penh Movement mothers (270) Promotion of Healthy Dietary Habits in SALUS ASSOCIACÃO PARA Populations of High Social Vulnerability—East and ASAÚDE NÚCLEO SALUS Local residents (300) Brazil 2011–2012 South Regions of São Paulo PAULISTA (CREN) Adults with lifestyle-reThe nourishment improvement program by the lated diseases (60), reevaluation of the special local cooking ingrediChildren of Light Association young adults (10), Brazil 2012–2013 ent and the dish mothers (10), and fishermen (10) Women leaders (60), Dietary Education Project for Mothers in Slums ADRA Japan mothers (240), and Peru 2012–2013 guardians (100) 115 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Column India Food for Health Anemia caused by eating frugal meals lacking in nutrition is a responsibility for one’s health, and family gardens filled serious problem among women in five villages in Uttarakhand with colorful vegetables have become a much more Province in northern India. In 2012, the Ajinomoto Group common sight. began providing support for the Food for Health project, Over the next two years, the program will provide the which aims to raise awareness of health and nutrition issues support necessary for these leaders to instruct and train so that adolescent girls are equipped to take responsibility for other young women to spread awareness throughout the their own health. entire region. The project has trained a total of 20 young women from the five villages in Uttarakhand as “healthy eating” leaders through leadership training on nutrients and nutritional balance. Health and Nutrition Camp sessions were also held four times throughout the year in each village (20 sessions in all). A total of 664 young women have participated in these sessions, attending basic nutrition lectures, having body measurements taken, and undergoing blood tests. Participants’ hemoglobin levels showed a gradual improvement with each subsequent session. In addition, the company held a total of 20 Food Safety Workshops, offering lectures and cooking courses in the five villages. In the areas where the project is active, there is greater awareness of personal A cooking lesson A young girl in her family’s garden. (Photo courtesy of TPAK) (Photo courtesy of TPAK) Cambodia Bangladesh Nutrition improvement for families by empowProviding nutritious lunches to street and ering mothers in the poor area of Phnom Penh working children in Dhaka Although the waste dump in the Steung Meanchey Quarter Many children in Dhaka, Bangladesh have to live on the street outside of Phnom Penh in Cambodia was relocated in 2007, and work in factories to survive, and chronic malnutrition is a many local residents continue to travel from the quarter to serious problem. The Ajinomoto Group began providing the new site. These people make their living by collecting support in 2012 for a project designed to help these children empty cans, scraps of iron and other valuable waste. As a lead healthier lives by providing highly nutritious lunches for result of the lack of nutrition and the unhygienic environment 40 girls and boys aged 6 to 14. in which they live, many of these children face serious health Offering a daily menu focusing on fruits and vegetables, problems including maldevelopment, dermatological disthe project has brought these children the joy of delicious eases and hair discoloration. food and is beginning to raise their awareness of the In 2012, the Ajinomoto Group began providing support importance of health. Over the course of the year, two for a three-year project to improve the nutritional intake for doctor-led nutrition and health seminars, 19 workshops these families. The project provides meals for the children (attended by a total of 460 people) and three health checks and educates mothers on proper nutrition. In fiscal 2012, the were held for the children and members of the nearby first year of the project, nutritionally balanced meals were community. For the next two Children’s provided to 60–90 children five days a week. In addition, years, beginning in 2013, the voices approximately 1,700 mothers participated in a total of 12 project will broaden its sco“This was the first time I learned nutrition seminars that give easy explanations of nutrients pe with recreational activities about nutrition and health. I enjoyed it and want to do it and cooking classes using locally available ingredients. The and basic education in reaagain.” project will be expanded in fiscal 2013 with plans to create ding and writing with a focus “I now know the kind of food I should buy with the money I educational materials on nutrition. on helping these children have.” find homes. “I learned that the vitamins in fruit are good for my body.” Mothers and children learn about nutrition while playing games and cooking Educational posters are hung in neighborhood together at a nutrition seminar. stores, schools and government offices. (Photo courtesy of Japan Lay Missionary Movement) (Photo courtesy of KnK) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 116 Community Group company and foundation activities The Ajinomoto Group is committed to making social contribuand engage in other initiatives tailored to the local culture and tions all around the world. The Group’s wide array of activities lifestyle, seeking to meet the specific needs of each country. focus primarily on the fields of food and nutrition. Working with group companies, the Ajinomoto Group has established foundations in four countries that award scholarships Improving childhood nutrition Thailand Building 50 canteens at 50 schools In 2010, the Ajinomoto Foundation in Thailand launched a project to build canteens at 50 schools in five years to mark the 50th anniversary of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Working with Thailand’s Ministry of Education, local governments and educators, and NGOs, the project supports the health of children by Project logo giving each school a hygienic environment for school meal preparation. Ten canteens were added in fiscal 2012, bringing the project’s total reach to 30 schools serving about 6,200 students. In fiscal 2013 will see the construction of 10 more school canteens. The plan is aiming to complete 50 school canteens by 2014. Consideration is also being given to extending the project to the entire country (77 provinces) by 2019. The Ajinomoto Foundation is preparing to provide nutritional education, starting in 2015, to local residents, students, and teachers at the elementary schools that have received project support, in order to further improve the eating habits of Thai students. Through its support for better diet and health among children, the project is putting into practice the concept on which Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. is based: “Ajinomoto always grows with Thais.” 1st Year (FY2010) 2nd Year (FY2011) 3rd Year (FY2012) Canteen before replacement Canteen after replacement 30 school canteens completed in 23 provinces as of fiscal 2012 Students enjoying their meals in a newly completed canteen 117 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Vietnam School Meal Project Initiatives and Future Plans In fiscal 2012, Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. began a Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 By Fiscal 2016 five-year School Meal Project, starting in Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh Ho Chi Minh Making nutritionally • Held project meeting • Provide schools with balanced school The project aims to make nutritionally balanced school with 350 school menu books and lunches available meals available throughout Vietnam by 2016 in partnership principals nutritional education across Vietnam • Exchanged opinions materials for students, with Vietnam’s Ministry of Education and Training, National concerning new menus and carry out nutritional Institute of Nutrition (NIN), and local governments. with 800 school lunch education staff, health personnel, Da Nang Among the challenges in Vietnam, there are some and parents • Introduce new pilot • Developed and regions where school meals are not provided. Even at introduced pilot menu menu Hanoi primary boarding schools in urban areas where school Hanoi Da Nang • Begin initiatives meals are provided, it is difficult to develop a variety of • Held project meeting with 119 principals menus that are suitable for the age of the students and meet • Developed a menu with NIN and culinary the monthly fees for school meals. There also is an issue experts with lack of adequate information about nutrition and Da Nang importance of daily food intake among students. The project Main steps of the project aims to improve food nutrition for students by enhancing the 1. Developing and standardizing availability and variety of school lunches, as well as proschool lunch menus that are viding nutritional education. delicious and nutritionally Ho Chi Minh In fiscal 2012, the project developed a menu and introbalanced, and developing duced a pilot lunch program at schools in Ho Chi Minh City, nutritional education tools for students while obtaining feedback from school lunch staff, parents, 2. Building school kitchen model teachers, and students. Preparations to launch the project in 3. Building school canteen facilities Da Nang and Hanoi have also begun, working toward the fiscal 2016 goal. Menu books are prepared for each region Nutritional education material for students: “Three Minutes to School lunch staff workshop Students trying the pilot menu Change Awareness” program Highlight Helping to create a dietician education program, national certification system and legal framework in Vietnam With no national dietician training programs or certification providing support for system, Vietnam was short on these professionals. In development of underMarch 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Ajinomoto Vietnam graduate curriculum and Co., Ltd. signed an agreement with Vietnam’s Hanoi textbooks, working with Medical University and the National Institute of Nutrition Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and to endow a course for training dieticians at Hanoi partner organizations.1 Medical University. Requests will also be Under with the agreement, the Laboratory of Nutrition made to relevant authorities for the establishment of a and Dietetics1 sponsored by Ajinomoto Co., Inc., opened dietician certification system, aiming to have it ready by in October 2012. The following month, Vietnam’s Ministry 2016. This will help provide an education framework and of Education and Training approved the country’s first encourage programs for develop-ing certified dieticians. four-year bachelor program in dietetic science and This will, in turn, further improve nutrition in the country by nutrition, at Hanoi Medical University. 50 students joined developing professionals trained in hospital or school its inaugural class in October 2013. Ajinomoto Vietnam nutrition management. Co., Ltd. will provide year-long scholarships to the ten 1 In cooperation with the Japan Dietetic Association, Jumonji University, and the Kanagawa University of Human Services students with the best entrance exam results, while also Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 118 Community Indonesia Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project improves nutrition among children PT Ajinomoto Indonesia has been conducting a three-year Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project (AINP) since 2011 with Bogor Agricultural University (Institut Pertanian Bogor, or IPB) to ensure that children have safe, nutritional meals to help them grow. In the project’s first year, a student survey about nutrition at the target elementary school found that girls, in particular, had serious vitamin and AINP is a noble activity with many challenges. It mineral deficiencies. requires concentration, patience, strong commitment In fiscal 2012, the project started providing students, teachers, and stamina, as it takes three years until completion. parents/guardians, and food vendors near the school with information However, with good teamwork between Ajinomoto and about great-tasting food that is safe and highly nutritious. Employees IPB, we have been able to run this program smoothly. of PT Ajinomoto Indonesia also volunteered as instructors. Also supIn the future, we hope this AINP ported were better nutritional balance in the meals served to students model will be applied not only in by food vendors, construction of a school canteen, planting of a vegeother places in Indonesia, but also table garden, and regular provision of multivitamins to students. Childin other countries. ren not only got a better understanding of health and nutrition, but also got better nutrition. The number of anemic students went down Dr. Rizal Damanik from 75 to just 5. The project will continue to expand its activities in Head of Postgraduate Programs in Community Nutrition at Bogor Agricultural fiscal 2013. University (AINP Project Leader) CSR Award and Innovation in Nutrition Education Award received In April 2012, PT Ajinomoto Indonesia placed in the top three in the 2nd CSR Award held by Seputar Indonesia National Newspaper, Indonesia’s biggest newspaper company. PT Ajinomoto Indonesia was highly rated for such initiatives as its Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project and plant Zero Emission Project. In June 2013, the company received the Innovation in Nutrition Education Award, given to individuals and organizations that have made a significant contribution in the field of food and nutrition. It is presented once every four years by Pergizi Pangan Indonesia, the Food and Nutrition Society of Indonesia. The award recognized the integrated approach the company took in AINP: working together with diverse stakeholders to resolve health and nutrition issues in Indonesia and contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Peru Reducing anemia and malnutrition in children In 2012, Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. and the Fundación Ajinomoto para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad donated US$ 29,800 (the proceeds from an Umami Charity Dinner1) to a project of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) aiming to improve the nutrition of children in rural areas of Lima province. Anemia and chronic malnutrition are major public health problems in Peru, where 30% of Children have fun learning about nutrition. children under the age of five suffer from anemia and 15.2% are malnourished. In coordination with six rural municipalities, the project conducted a survey of eating habits, developed teaching materials on nutrition, and held nutrition workshops for 300 families (1,500 pregnant women, mothers, children under five, and elementary and junior high school students) and teachers. Participants are now more aware of the importance of using nutritious local ingredients. Building on the project, local educational institutions have also established and implemented their own nutritional improvement plans, working with other local authorities. The Peruvian government is looking into a financial support system that would help spread the project’s benefits to other areas. A cooking contest using local ingredients 1 The Umami Charity Dinner was held In December 2011 at Lima’s United Nations House and featured Nobuyuki Matsuhisa and other top chefs from Peru, along with Yoshihiro Murata, chef and owner of Kikunoi, a traditional Japanese restaurant in Kyoto. Over 250 people attended the event. The event was hosted by the Umami Information Center and was supported by Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. and the Fundación Ajinomoto para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad. 119 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Passing on and promoting food culture France Participants at a Seminars and events spotlight Japanese food culture rice bowl seminar Since 2007, Ajinomoto Europe S.A.S. has held seminars on Japanese cuisine designed to teach the basic concepts and techniques of Japanese food culture. The company has held more than 20 of these seminars at Maison de la Culture du Japon à Paris, the largest Japanese cultural institute in Europe. Participants learn key points for using dashi and Japanese seasonings, cooking methods to bring out the umami of Japanese ingredients, and the cultural and seasonal contexts which shape Japanese cuisine. These activities provide a valuable contribution to Japan-France cultural exchange. In fiscal 2013, the seminars took on a more modern focus, featuring donburi (rice bowl) dishes to help participants discover the value of the Japanese staple, rice. These six seminars proved to be widely popular among young and elderly alike. As part of the company’s support for regions struck by the Great East Japan Earthquake, the meal was prepared in bowls made in Tohoku, which conveyed the Pottery items made in Tohoku displayed in the importance of daily meals while honoring the memory of the disaster. Maison de la Culture du Japon à Paris show window To provide additional support for Tohoku recovery, the company created a broon March 11, 2013 chure outlining the basics of the local specialties in Tohoku and Japanese cuisine. It was distributed in October 2012 at an event held in France by Patrimoine Sans Brochure on Tohoku cooking Frontières (PSF), a non-profit organization for the protection of cultural heritage. and Japanese cuisine distributed at an event in October Japan Initiative to register traditional Japanese food as a UNESCO intangible cultural heritage “The Power of Washoku: Dashi Highlighting the tastes of dashi and umami to create well-balanced, healthy and Umami” public symposium attended by approximately 200 cuisine, the traditional food culture of Japan, washoku, has at last caught people (March 2013) the world’s attention. In an effort to protect and pass down washoku culture, the Japanese government has been actively working since 2012 to see Japanese food culture registered as a UNESCO intangible cultural heritage in March 2014. The government’s proposal in turn has strengthened activities conducted by the Ajinomoto Foundation for Dietary Culture, which was established for the purpose of supporting food culture education and research. The foundation’s related activities include lectures and public meetings on food culture held throughout Japan, as well as symposiums and support for research (2013–2015). The decision on the candidacy of traditional Japanese food is expected in November 2013, but the Ajinomoto Foundation for Dietary Culture will continue to implement these activities to protect and pass down Japanese food culture whether or not washoku is Public meeting on washoku as an listed as an intangible cultural asset. intangible cultural asset (June 2013) School Tour of Education on Eating Children learn how to make dried bonito shavings. Since 2006, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has organized the School Tour of Education on Eating to get children more interested in food and teach them more about Japanese cuisine, the traditional uses of dashi, and the excellence of umami. The tour involves visits to elementary schools by company employees who give students lessons on the delicious taste, secrets of flavor, and importance of dashi and umami in Japanese food, as well as firsthand experience making dried bonito shavings. In fiscal 2012, the school tour included 336 visits to schools across Japan, with 10,163 students participating. The program now has 1,110 employees, including executives, enrolled as lecturers. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. plans to continue the program to enable even more children to discover the wonders of dashi and umami and the joy of good food. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 120 Community Activities of the Ajinomoto Group’s charitable foundations The Ajinomoto Group has established foundations in four countries that award scholarships and engage in food and nutrition activities tailored to meet the specific needs of each country and region. Ajinomoto Foundation for Dietary Culture “Fire and Food—When Did (Established in Japan in 1989) Humans First Use Main activities Fire?” symposium (October 2012) • Operates the Dietary Culture Library • Plans and runs food culture forums (interdisciplinary panel discussions on food culture) • Holds public symposiums and public lectures “Exploring Naomichi Ishige • Publishes and distributes vesta®, a magazine on food culture, and other materials Food Culture” • Collects information, and exhibits material related to food culture exhibition attended by 3,300 people (September 2012–March 2013) Ajinomoto Scholarship Foundation (Established in Japan in 2005; forerunner Suzuki Scholarship Foundation established in 1957) Main activities • Awards scholarships to international students from ASEAN countries to study in Japan. Scholarships are awarded to students from five ASEAN countries for a total of three years of study (one year as a research student and two years as a master’s student) at the University of Tokyo Graduate School of Science. • Grants scholarships and student loans. Scholarships and loans are awarded to students in Japan taking upper division classes at the undergraduate level or in science programs in graduate school. Welcoming ASEAN scholarship students entering university in April 2013 Ajinomoto Foundation (Established in Thailand in 1976) Main activities • Runs a project to build canteens at 50 schools to mark the 50th anniversary of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. • Administers support for a building educational facilities at a camp for university Scholarship support student volunteers • Provides support (scholarships) for students majoring in science, technology and engineering • Promotes employee volunteer projects (local temple cleaning, etc.) About 900 employee volunteers participate • Provides support to people in the colder regions of north and northeast Thailand in temple cleaning. (has provided 8,200 blankets and 1,720 coats to local residents and students at 20 schools in 3 provinces) Reference See “Building 50 canteens at 50 schools” on p.117. INSTITUTO AJINOMOTO (Established in Brazil in 1989) Main activities • Donates to Japan-related organizations and NPOs • Implements activities to contribute to the local community (Provides support for establishment of facilities related to food and health; donates school supplies to public schools) • Provides support (scholarships) for students majoring in food chemistry and dietetics Elementary school students receive donated school supplies. Fundación Ajinomoto para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad (Established in Peru in 2003) Main activities • Supports projects to prevent anemia and malnutrition in children, in alliance with other institutions such as the WFP • Holds health and nutrition workshops and lectures (94 events in 2012, with 1,798 participants in total) Elementary school students listen at a nutrition workshop. • Provides economic support (scholarships) for students majoring in dietetics • Promotes and supports social welfare activities Reference See “Reducing anemia and malnutrition in children” on p. 119. 121 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Supporting Areas Struck by Natural Disaster Natural disasters are a tragic part of life in every part of the world, and local communities in disaster-stricken areas need help recovering from the damage that they sustain. The Ajinomoto Group uses the expertise gained through its food and healthcare businesses to provide support for each area’s particular needs. See “Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity plan” See “Preparing for natural disasters and protecting human life” Reference Reference on p. 38. on p. 67. Highlight Job creation program for flood victims in Thailand North and central Thailand suffered widespread damage in During the first half of 2012, a project called “Job Creation the major flooding that occurred in 2011. The floods had a by Ajinomoto Cooking Club” was implemented for 500 people severe impact on key sectors such as industry and agrithat had lost their jobs after the flood in the five most affected culture. Immediately after the flood, the companies of the provinces, including Bangkok and Ayutthaya. While receiving Ajinomoto Group in Thailand launched a project to support free cooking classes on how to prepare popular street foods, the recovery. In addition to donating relief supplies and a total the participants also took part in a short business planning of about 25 million yen for emergency assistance, the Group’s course about starting their own food kiosks. Based on the individual business sites in Thailand also provided food and actual business plans submitted by participants, 100 shelter to victims and other types of practical support. applicants were selected to receive a fully equipped food kiosk to start their own business. Job creation program using the resources of the Ajinomoto Cooking Club, free cooking classes for the general public, already being offered by Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Before the opening of a new plant in Ayutthaya, about 900 employee volunteers helped restore a flood-damaged temple in October 2012. Temples are close to the hearts of the people in this Buddhist country. Job creation program participants The new Ayutthaya plant was being built when the floods began, and local residents were evacuated to the plant during the disaster. It is now protected with a five-meter-high dike and began full-scale operations in July 2013, creating jobs and Food kiosk dishes taught by the course contributing to the local economy. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 122 Community Highlight Supporting reconstruction in areas hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake The Ajinomoto Group set up the Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support Project to conduct activities in the disaster-stricken area designed to help with recovery by delivering this most Health and essential form of aid. Through its expertise in food and healthcare businesses, the Group will continue to Nutrition Seminar support these local communities as they get on a steady track to recovery. figures (through end of September 2013) 507seminars Health and Nutrition Seminar to help temporary housing residents stay healthy (Ongoing from October 2011) 9,124 Temporary housing residents find it difficult to eat properly, which leads to health and nutrition problems. To address these issues, the Ajinomoto Group holds Health and Nutrition Seminars, providing residents with a place to join others in conversation as they share the cooking and pleasure participants of a delicious meal. The goal is to help support their mental and physical health. Nutrition and health problems faced by Initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group temporary housing residents Health and Nutrition Seminars utilizing special portable kitchen 1. Increased risk of diabetes, kidney disease, and equipment heart trouble ・S eminars focusing on the importance of consuming lots of vege2. V itamin and mineral deficiency caused by lack of tables and reducing salt intake vegetables ・Introduction of easy-to-prepare menus of familiar dishes 3. Aging, weakened community ties, and dying alone Hometown dishes featuring local ingredients Harako-meshi (Rice Good taste with grilled salmon and raw salmon roe) Local seasonal ingredients Incorporating dashi soup Hokki-meshi stock and seasonings (Rice with boiled Sakhalin Using microwave surf clam) Employees of the Ajinomoto Group taking part as volunteers. Interacting with local residents offers employees a great opportunity for personal growth. Health and Nutrition Nutrition Low sodium Conversation Seminar (proper salt intake) (emotional ties) Practice Menus rich in vegetables Participation Low calorie (proper caloric intake) Set up in collaboration with Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc., the drink bar is a popular place for participants to gather and begin conversations. Seminars bring smiles to people’s faces. Conducted in coordination with government Volunteers talk about how to create offices, local social welfare councils, dietetic well-balanced meals. associations, and other groups, seminars provide information on healthcare, nutrition, and other topics. The Health and Nutrition “Cooking School for Seminars also cover cooking Men” seminars courses specifically for men. Most men who take part in this cooking school are in their 60s to 80s. These courses are designed to show middle-aged and elderly men how easy cooking can be and give them the opportunity to take responsibility for their own health and nutrition. 123 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community Proceeds used to aid recovery The Ajinomoto Group donates proceeds from the sales of certain products to give customers a chance to support disaster recovery. The “Joy of Food” project Ajinomoto Co, Inc. continues to implement the ・A portion of the proceeds from sales of “Joy of Food” project, which gives customers the HONDASHI (March–April 2013; photo at right) opportunity to help support reconstruction in were donated to Fukushima Ka-tyan no Tohoku by purchasing food products. In fiscal Chikara Network. (One yen per box was 2012, the company conducted the following donated, for a total of about 9 million yen.) This programs under the project. donation will be used to fund a project Project logo designed to bring together women farmers who ・A portion of the proceeds from sales of Knorr® Cup Soup evacuated the Abukuma area near the nuclear (August–September 2012 shipments; photo below) were power plant. The women farmers, called donated to GRA, a non-profit organization dedicated to ka-tyan, come together to agricultural reconstruction in Miyagi Prefecture. (One yen develop, process and market per box was donated, for a total of about 9 million yen.) agricultural processed This donation is used to fund activities that focus on products and lunches using reopening strawberry farms in Yamamoto-cho in Miyagi local techniques passed Prefecture and branding the strawberries grown there. down from generation These activities were honored in fiscal 2013 with to generation. the Good Design Award. Members of the Fukushima Ka-tyan no Chikara Network pose with the Volunteers from the non-profit GRA in a products they strawberry greenhouse created. Assistance for farmers The Center for Support of Collaboration between Agriculture, Commerce and Industry is one of the recipients of the funds donated from Gyoza product sales. Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. employees also took part in a center-sponsored corn harvest tour held at Yasai Kobo Yamaki in Iwanuma Project logo City, Miyagi Prefecture. Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. extended the Ajinomoto Co., Inc. also provided its “co-products”—Havane Hayaoki donations begun in fiscal 2011 of one yen from the root stimulator and AJIFOL® AminoGuard—produced using by-products sale of each package of Gyoza Chinese dumplings generated in the process of producing umami seasoning and other (October 1, 2012–January 31, 2013 shipments; agricultural materials to Yasai Kobo Yamaki as well as certain farmers in photo below) to three aid groups assisting with disaster-stricken agricultural recovery efforts in the Tohoku region areas as additional (total donation: about 28,268,000 yen). support for rebuilding farms. Assistance for potters fiscal 2012, this support went to the restoration of kilns for Nakui-yaki pottery in Aomori Prefecture, Tsutsumi-yaki pottery in Miyagi Prefecture, and Aizu Hongo pottery in Fukushima Prefecture. In addition, consumers throughProject logo out Japan were also offered the chance to win a coffee cup Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. donated a made by one of these potportion of the proceeds from the sale of teries. Ajinomoto General Blendy® instant coffee (photo at right) to help Foods, Inc. will extend the restore damaged pottery facilities in Tohoku. In project into fiscal 2013. Ceremonial lighting of the Aizu Hongo pottery Munakata-gama kiln Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 124 Community Employees Aim to Make a Personal Contribution Employees of the Ajinomoto Group around the world and their families have been taking part in Smile Earth! activities since 2007. These participatory activities are designed to contribute to society and give employees the opportunity to take action for their local communities and for the planet. Ajinomoto Group Smile Earth! activities bring smiles to people and the planet The Ajinomoto Group’s Smile Earth! activities include three global campaigns and unique efforts at individual Group-wide campaigns business sites. They give employees the opportunity to 1. Worldwide clean-up activities make a personal, tangible contribution to the environaround business facilities 2. The Eco Action Campaign ment, society, and local community. In fiscal 2013 and 3. The Mottainai (What a waste!) beyond, the Ajinomoto Group will enhance the activities Campaign to further raise social and environmental awareness among its employees. 1. W orldwide clean-up activities around business facilities Approximately 9,900 people participate at Employees around the world help clean up the areas around 185 workplaces around the world. their business facilities on a certain date each year. In fiscal 2012, this campaign took place on October 10. Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Head Office A total of 1,209 employees participatAbout 300 employees ed in the clean-up to took part in the show their appreciaclean-up. In fiscal 2012, tion of the local employees began community. additional activities in November and AJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES Ajinomoto (Cambodia) December, as well. Co., Ltd. CORPORATION West African Seasoning Co. Ltd. (Nigeria) The company began participating in the campaign in fiscal 2012 with employees cleaning up around the plant. Xiamen Ajiraku Ideal Foods Co., Ltd. (China) Ajinomoto Group in Thailand A total of 2,013 employees cleaned up around group facilities and nearby temples with the help of neighborhood residents. Hokkaido Ace Logistics YAMAKI Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Ajinomoto Group in Brazil A total of 352 employees participated in the campaign. This year, local government workers helped to get the job done. 125 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Community 2. Eco Action Campaign Under the Eco Action Campaign, the Ajinomoto Group’ s workplaces around the world independently plan and implement themed events and programs to contribute to the global environment. Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad Ajinomoto del Perú S.A., Lima office and plant “Love Food, Hate Waste” campaign Environmental protection art contest for children To educate and raise awareness among employees of the need The company held an art contest again this year to educate to reduce food waste, this company has developed the “Love employees about the importance of protecting the environFood, Hate Waste” campaign. In addition to introducing ment. Art works made by 24 children of group employees equipment that quickly turns leftover fruit and vegetables at focused on three social challenges that the Ajinomoto Group office cafeterias into fertilizer, the company has also held is working to address: global sustainability, food resources, several workshops and seminars on reducing food waste and healthy living. The artwork was featured on company for employees. Christmas cards sent to suppliers. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Head Office “Eco-Uma” lunch menus in employee cafeteria Ajinomoto North America, Inc. AAT plant For a week, the Head Office employee cafeteria served “EcoUma” lunches based Participation in local environmental protection activities on menus that are In Raleigh, North Carolina, employees participated in a both delicious and city-sponsored campaign to protect the local river environmake use of whole ment. Employees from eight departments walked a mile, ingredients so that picking up garbage along the river. nothing goes to waste. Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Campaign to protect the environment by conser ving paper Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office In order to encourage individuals to take the first steps to Personal Eco Action contest conserve resources in their immediate environment, the In order to raise awareness of what individuals can do for the company introduced a new campaign to reduce office paper environment, employees were invited to submit “eco action” use in 2012. practices or ideas, such as conserving energy or reducing CO2 in their homes. A total of 292 actions were submitted, and they were shared with all employees, with the best receiving commendations. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 126 Community 3. M  ottainai (What a waste!) Campaign The Mottainai (What a waste!) Campaign aims to make use of stored materials in employee homes or workplaces, such as old books, stamps, foreign coins, foreign notes, and others. In 2012, 82 business sites around the world participated in the campaign. Ajinomoto del Perú S.A., Lima office and plant Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad Toys and books that employees no longer Unused goods were donated to a group use at home were donated to facilities that supports underprivileged children that house children battling cancer. The via a charity event sponsored by the employees dressed like Santa Claus to University of Malaya. pass out the toys and books, and then turned into clowns or magicians to entertain the children. Ajinomoto Group in Thailand Clothes, books and toys that employees from seven business sites Ajinomoto Group in Japan no longer use at home were donated to a school for the visually Unwanted items collected in Japan (including postcards, prepaid impaired and a facility for underprivileged children. cards, stamps, and books worth a total of about 230,000 yen) were donated to help with recovery efforts for victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Other activities The following Smile Earth! activities were locally and independently planned and implemented in Japan. Table for Two + Tohoku: Providing Bottle caps donated to Ecocap Movement fund support by eating healthily vaccines for children in developing countries A social contribution project originating in Japan, the Table for Two1 The Ajinomoto Group’s business sites collect plastic bottle caps for program provides school lunches to children in developing coundonation to the Ecocap Movement.2 In fiscal 2012, nine group tries by donating 20 yen, which is the cost of a school lunch in these companies in Japan participated in the campaign, donating 615,223 countries, per each healthy meal served at cafeterias. caps, which will fund 769 polio vaccines. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. adopted the Table for Two + Tohoku 2 The caps from approximately 800 plastic bottles are able to fund a vaccine for one child in developing countries. program at its cafeterias of the Head Office, the Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office, and the Osaka Branch. The program, which directs 10 yen of each 20-yen donation to food assistance for three earthquake-stricken Tohoku prefectures, served 56,346 meals in fiscal 2012 and raised 1,126,920 yen, up 325% compared to the previous fiscal year. The company is committed to developing similar programs at other offices and group companies in the future. 1 See the official Table for Two website for more details on the campaign. http://www.tablefor2.org/home 127 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Additional Sustainability Information The sustainability initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group are presented in a variety of formats, aside from this report. Visit these websites to discover a wealth of additional information. Initiatives for Sustainability http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/index.html Download related material http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/material/ Ajinomoto Group corporate Ajinomoto Co., Inc. product Ajinomoto Group official website profiles information http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ http://www.ajinomoto.co.jp/index.html http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/ (Japanese only) Delivering reliable products Environmental Conservation R&D (quality assurance) http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/ http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/rd/ http://www.ajinomoto.co.jp/products/anzen/ (Japanese only) environment/ Ajinomoto Group’s activities for Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum Environmental action from the dinner sustainability http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/ table http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/ http://www.ajinomoto.com/jp/activity/ sustainability/ forum/ environment/eco/ (Japanese only) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 128 Ajinomoto (China) Co., Ltd. (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou) Ajinomoto Co., (Hong Kong) Ltd. Ajinomoto Group at a Glance Amoy Food Ltd. HENAN AJINOMOTO AMINO ACID CO., LTD. Lianyungang Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Ltd. Lianyungang Ajinomoto Ruyi Foods Co., Ltd. Shanghai Ajinomoto Amino Acid Co., Ltd. SHANGHAI AJINOMOTO FOOD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Global Network CENTER CO., LTD. Shanghai Ajinomoto Seasoning Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Amoy Foods Ltd. Shanghai Amoy Foods Co., Ltd. Xiamen Ajinomoto Life Ideal Foods Co., Ltd. Europe & Africa Division S.A. Ajinomoto OmniChem N.V. Xiamen Ajiraku Ideal Foods Co., Ltd. AJINOMOTO EUROLYSINE S.A.S. AJINOMOTO EUROPE S.A.S. Ajinomoto Poland Sp. z o.o. AJINOMOTO FOODS EUROPE S.A.S. Ajinomoto Sweeteners OOO “AJINOMOTO” Europe S.A.S. Hamburg ZAO “AJINOMOTO-GENETIKA Research Institute” Moscow London Warsaw Amiens Louvain-la-Neuve Ajinomoto Istanbul Food Sales Ltd. Ajinomoto Korea, Inc. Paris Ajinomoto Genexine Co., Ltd. Beijing Ajinomoto Bangladesh Ltd. Istanbul Xiangcheng Seoul Japan Ajinomoto Foods Egypt S.A.E. AJINOMOTO INDIA PVT. LTD. Ltd. Lianyungang 46 33 8 4 3 Shanghai Cairo Guangzhou Xiamen Taiso Commerce Inc. Dhaka Hanoi Taipei AJINOMOTO TAIWAN INC. AJINOMOTO AFRIQUE DE L’OUEST S.A. Ayutthaya Hong Kong Kamphaeng Phet Manila West African Seasoning Co., Ltd. Chennai Bangkok Ho Chi Minh AJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES CORPORATION Abidjan Phnom Penh Lagos Ajinomoto (Cambodia) Kuala Lumpur Co., Ltd. Singapore Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Jakarta Ajinomoto (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Surabaya ASEAN Division Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Ajinomoto Betagro Frozen Foods (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Ajinomoto Betagro Specialty Foods Co., Ltd. Ajinomoto Frozen Foods (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Ajinomoto Sales (Thailand) Co., Ltd. FD Green (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Fuji Ace Co., Ltd. PT Ajinomoto Indonesia Wan Thai Foods Industry Co., Ltd. PT Ajinex International PT Lautan Ajinomoto Fine Ingredients Global network: 26 countries and regions Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad (including 105 manufacturing and packaging plants in 17 countries and regions) (Japan: 48; other countries: 57) ● Companies and offices ▲ Food plants 70 ▲ Amino acid and specialty chemical plants 21 ▲ Pharmaceutical plants 5 ▲ Other plants 6 Note: Overseas consolidated subsidiaries and group companies accounted for by the equity method: 54 companies (as of October 1, 2013) Company profile Business segments Company name Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Food products sold in Japan  AJI-NO-MOTO®, HONDASHI, Cook Do®, soups, mayonnaise and Head office  15-1, Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, mayonnaise-type dressings, frozen Tokyo 104-8315, Japan foods, beverages, etc. Tel +81-3-5250-8111 Food products sold outside Japan  AJI-NO-MOTO®, flavor seasonings, soups, instant noodles, beverages, URL http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ umami seasonings for processed food Foundation May 20, 1909 manufacturers, nucleotides, etc. Bioscience products & fine chemicals Aspartame, PAL SWEET®, specialty Establishment December 17, 1925 chemicals, amino acids for feed-use, Paid-in capital 79,863 million yen (as of March 31, 2013) pharmaceutical-use, food-use, etc. Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals, medical foods Number of employees  3,343 (non-consolidated), Business tie-ups Edible oils, coffee products 27,518 (consolidated) (as of March 31, 2013) Others amino VITAL®, distribution, various Fiscal year-end March 31 services, etc. 129 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 Network in Japan North America Division Ajinomoto Althea, Inc. Tokyo Ajinomoto Frozen Foods U.S.A., Inc. ● Tokyo Branch Ajinomoto Heartland, Inc. Ajinomoto North America, Inc. ● National Account Sales Dept. Amoy North America, Inc. ■ Ajinomoto Animal Nutrition Group, Inc. ■ AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. ■ Ajinomoto Communications, Inc. ■ Ajinomoto Engineering Corporation ■ Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. ■ Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. ■ AJINOMOTO HEALTHY SUPPLY CO., INC. ■ AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION ■ AJINOMOTO NUTRITION FOODS Co., Ltd. ■ AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. ■ Ajinomoto Trading, Inc. ■ Ajinomoto Treasury Management, Inc. ■ GABAN Co., Ltd. ■ JINO Co., Inc. ■ J-OIL MILLS, INC. Chicago Portland ■ Kawaken Fine Chemicals Co., Ltd. Eddyville New Jersey Raleigh San Diego ■ Hokkaido Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Mexico City Ajinomoto de México, S. de R.L. de C.V. Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. Lima São Paulo Latin America Division Ajinomoto do Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos Ltda. Nissin-Ajinomoto Alimentos Ltda. ● Tohoku Branch ■ Nippon Protein Co., Ltd. Hokuriku Branch Kanto Branch ■ Delica Ace Co., Ltd. Head Office ● Nagoya ■ NRI System Kawasaki Chugoku Branch Techno, Ltd. Branch Osaka ● ● Kawasaki Administration & Branch Coordination Office ■ Ajinomoto Fine-Techno Co., Inc. Shikoku ●K  yushu ■ Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. Branch Branch ■ Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. ● Tokai Plant Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ● Head Office ● Branch offices ■ YAMAKI Co., Ltd. ● Regional branch offices & ■ Okinawa Ajinomoto other sales facilities Co., Inc. ● Administration, coordination ● Kyushu Plant ■ Group companies office & plants Net sales by Net sales by Consolidated financial highlights business region Net sales Operating income Others 6% (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 500 Europe 1,500 80 72.6 69.4 71.2 Business tie-ups The Americas 8% 0 1, 4 1,200 1,190.4 1,170.9 1,207.7 1,197.3 1,172.4 64.0 15% Food products sold in Japan 10% 60 900 Pharmaceuticals 34% Asia 40.8 6% Japan 18% 64% 600 40 Bioscience products & fine chemicals Food products 300 20 18% sold outside Japan 21% 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2013 130 Inquiries: CSR Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Address: 15-1, Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8315, Japan Tel: +81-3-5250-8165 Fax: +81-3-5250-8314 Printed on paper made with wood from forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association)—Supporting E-mail: csr_info@ajinomoto.com sound forest management. URL: http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/ Inquiries related to environmental activities: Environment & Safety Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Tel: +81-3-5250-8169 Fax: +81-3-5250-8943 E-mail: en_soshiki@ajinomoto.com This report is printed on Forest Vegetable-based ink derived from Stewardship CouncilTM (FSCTM) certified vegetable oil was used in the printing of URL: http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/ paper, which is made from trees grown this publication, in order to reduce the in responsibly managed forests. emissions of volatile organic compounds Unauthorized copying or reproduction of this document is prohibited. (VOCs), a cause of air pollution. ©Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 2013
