The Global Compact; Standard Chartered Bank’ Activities and Engagements 2013 Standard Chartered Bank Uganda is a registered member of the United Nations Global compact and continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in their day-to day activities. About Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited is part of the Standard Chartered Bank Group whose mission is; “To bank the people and companies driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.” Our mission as Standard Chartered Bank Uganda is; “To bank the people and companies driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth in Uganda.” The Bank currently has a network of 12 branches and 30 ATMs spread across the country. The Bank employs over 500 people. Standard Chartered’s core businesses in Uganda are Retail Client and Corporate & Institutional Client products and services. Our success as a bank over the last 100 years has been due to our focus on our customers in delivering superior customer service, prudent management of the risks in our operations, empowering and motivating our staff and ensuring we are an exemplary corporate citizen. In recognition of our leadership role in the banking industry in Uganda, Standard Chartered Bank Uganda won the following prestigious awards in 2013: EMEA Finance award for Best foreign bank in Uganda 2013 Tumaini Award; Best Corporate in Social Responsibility Award for SiB Uganda Responsible Investment Best Bank in Uganda 2013 Award UNBS Award in recognition of our commitment to Quality Products 2013 The CSR Award Health category for SiB ACCA Approved Employer Trainee Development, Gold Level and ACCA Approved Employer Professional Development Corporate Social Responsibility The Bank as part of our Corporate Social Responsibility/sustainability agenda, we focused on the economically disadvantaged targeting Youth, Health, Education, micro-finance and environment, leading to reduction of poverty, enhancement of health and education in the communities in which we operate. We continued to make a positive contribution to the sustainable development with 896 volunteer days in 2013 to make a difference in the community. The projects we engaged in focused on two categories:  Investing in the community: We supported our local community by volunteering our time and skills reflecting our ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ sustainability pillar. Some of those initiatives were; the visits to Bless The Children, KIGO Women’s Prison, Nsambya Babies’ Home, and New Midland Islamic Orphanage. Our staff passed on financial literacy, career guidance tips, legal knowledge and life skills. We also launched the Seeing is Believing Child Eye Project the USD 6.25m Child Eye Health project that aims to reduce the percentage of avoidable blindness and visual impairment among children by promoting child eye health in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania to children between 0-15 years over a period of 4 years. In line with our Living with HIV initiative, we continued to provide education and awareness on HIV & AIDS, where our key awareness campaign was the “Zip-Up” in a partnership with Pablo covering multiple schools like Kings’ College Budo, Luzira Senior Secondary School, St. Denis Ssebugwawo SSS and Kololo SSS. We also visited the Mildmay Children’s Ward, Naguru Remand Home and Kawempe Positive Women's Union.  Being a responsible company: Practicing sound corporate governance, looking after our people and minimising our direct environmental impacts are central to our being a responsible company. We painted Jinja hospital and many zebra crossings. In addition, we have partnered with the National Forestry Authority to restore Navugulu Forest in Bboza village, Mpigi District. HIV/AIDS Awareness programs Standard Chartered Bank Uganda continued its HIV/AIDs programme which aims at sensitizing its staff and the community about the HIV/AIDS pandemic that has claimed many lives and is still claiming more in Uganda and the world over. Staff are encouraged to test for HIV/AIDs and when found positive, they receive free Anti-retroviral drugs. The Bank worked with Joint Medical Research Center and Pablo, a local comedian to create awareness in schools, markets, other organizations and any other forums where we were given a chance to share the messages. The Bank also shares best practice by sharing its HIV/AIDs toolkits with other organizations to enable them join the struggle. Furthermore, the Bank also distributes free condoms to its staff in a bid to curb the spread of the virus. Health: 10 years of Sight restoration – “Seeing is Believing” program Under the ‘Seeing is Believing’ initiative (the fight against preventive blindness), we managed to undertake over 1,000 eye operations in an investment worth over Ugx 140 million in partnership with Sightsavers. Since the inception of this project in 2003, over 12,000 blind people have regained their sight through surgeries and over 120,000 screened and treated. We subsequently launched the next phase of the Seeing is Believing project which is the Child Eye Health project a regional project that will run in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania worth USD 6.25m over a four year period (2013 – 2016) in partnership with the respective Governments and two consortia of NGOs. This particular project will directly benefit children between the ages of 0 15, and will indirectly benefit children through changes in national policies and improved coordination of child eye health delivery. The first objective was to raise funds to pay for 28,000 sight-restoring cataract operations; one for every member of staff employed at that time. The Bank achieved twice this initial target that year, raising enough money for 56,000 sight restorations. Since 2003, the ambition of SiB has grown significantly. o Sightsavers are our implementing partner though we work in partnership with the Ministry of Health and hospitals around the country to screen, treat, and operate patients with cataracts and other eye ailments as well as create awareness. Seeing is Believing statistics to date Year No. of people screened No. of surgeries 2003 700 43 2004 900 55 2005 1,530 125 2006 2,155 125 2007 4,501 377 2008 14,315 1,402 2009 24,252 2,273 2010 29,497 5,023 2011 9,416 1,455 2012 12,244 1,182 2013 (children 3,883 591 between 0 – 15 years) Total 103,393 12,651 Protecting Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and – The Bank ardently respects and promotes the right to equal protection by practicing fairness, for instance all staff must go through a disciplinary hearing where they are given a fair hearing prior to dismissal. The Bank employees also have the right to appeal the decision of the hearing committee if they believe it is too harsh or unfair. All staff exercise their freedom to speech using the various forums like departmental meetings, one-on-one meetings with managers and we promote this right through the Speak up Policy and an open-door policy. Employees exercise their right to vote in a general election as evidenced by the Bank’s closure of its business to allow staff to exercise this voting right. We also respect the employees’ right to privacy, right to marry, right to property and support them to achieve them through provision of finance at discounted rates.  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Upholding Labor Standards Standard Chartered Bank also abides by the labor laws of Uganda and is in line with International Labor Organization standards.  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The Bank allows Collective Bargaining in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution of Uganda wherein Right of Association is a Fundamental Right. Standard Chartered Bank respects the right for association of its employees at all times and further facilitates it by organizing staff events and allows staff to associate and discuss issues that affect them which are escalated and resolved through various forums. This is also done through Staff welfare committees; this is one of the avenues where representatives collect feedback from staff as regards anything that may be affecting them, the feedback is cascaded to the relevant forum for resolution. HR has representation on this committee to ensure follow through on staff issues / concerns. Furthermore, the CEO also has a blog on a teamsite called Tok2Me where all staff can directly connect with the CEO and share their views, opinions, feedback or comments on pertinent issues.  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; The Bank employs staff after mutual agreement and signing off on the terms and conditions of work; job description and code of conduct thus eliminating forced labor. All appointments letters have a clause of staff consent where the staff signs to confirm they have read, understood and agree to the terms and conditions of the job. The staff also individually set their objectives which are discussed with the manager and agreed upon.  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; The bank only employs persons over 18 years of age as is stipulated by the law of Uganda. Furthermore, all employees of the Bank have to have a qualification from tertiary institution prior to getting employment / a job which ensures that the Bank is not employing anyone who is less than 18 years.  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Standard Chartered, there is a written policy on non-discrimination and equal opportunity for Employment encased in “Diversity and Inclusion.” “As part of our Recruitment Process, Standard Chartered Bank ensures equal opportunity for all eligible applicants for employment without any discrimination against; gender, race, religion, caste, color, sex, ancestry or marital status. In line with this policy, Standard Chartered Bank employs disabled and blind persons. Opportunity for employment is solely based on eligibility and merit of the applicant. Career growth opportunities are also based entirely on individual merit.” Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Protecting the environment remained a key agenda in our sustainability efforts. We continued to integrate our environment mitigation efforts into our business as well as enhancing energy use in our day to day operations. Standard Chartered Bank and National Forestry Authority came into partnership after signing a 3 year Memorandum of Understanding to restore Bboza Hill under Navugulu Central Forest Reserve (CFR) located in Mpigi Town Council, Mpigi district in August 2013. The restoration of the hill, which measures approximately 109 hectares, is to be done by planting assorted indigenous tree species in the effort to bring back the values and volumes lost from the area as the result of the degradation. The Bank’s staff, through Employee Volunteering have so far managed to plant trees covering 59 of the 109 hectares in 2013, with plans to cover the rest of the hectares in 2014 and 2015. Prior to this, the Bank worked with the Environmental Conservation Trust of Uganda (ECOTRUST) in a 400m campaign to plant indigenous tree species in Gulu, Mbarara, Manafwa and Mbale districts to curb the dangers of deforestation. An Ethos of Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Standard Chartered has a robust Anti bribery policy which impacts all staff regardless of their jurisdiction or nationality. The policy stipulates the Bank’s approach to handling gifts and entertainment, our code of conduct, outsourcing policy, sponsorships and donations among other aspects. The Bank also rolled out the anti bribery e-learning which is mandatory for all staff. The e-learning teaches staff how to mitigate bribery. As per the Standard Chartered Bank’s Code of Conduct, the Bank adheres to a strict policy against any corrupt practices and all forms of bribery are prohibited. Staff are called upon to remain committed to do the right thing, conduct themselves in an honest, open and professional manner and to live our brand promise; Here for Good. The policy on gifts and donations, as explicitly mentioned in the terms & conditions clearly points out that “Standard Chartered Bank employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended to, or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favors for the conduct of its business.”
