United Nations Global Compact United Nations DC2-612 New York City NY 10017 USA Your reference: COP Our reference: COP 2013 Telephone: +31 (0)73-6800800 E-mail address: hmorshuis@cinop.nl ’s-Hertogenbosch, 10 April 2014 4Subject: Communication Of Progress (COP) 2013 General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 2013 To: January 2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dear stakeholders, On behalf of CINOP, I am pleased to reaffirm CINOP’s commitment and support for the ten Universal Principles of the United Global Compact. The universal principles are an important part of our identity, our business strategy and day to day operations, at all levels of our organisation. Corporate Social Responsibility is a crucial topic for CINOP. CINOP aims to be an organisation were the balance of people, planet and profit is fully exploited within the organisational structure and its work by 2015. This Annual Communication on Progress provides insight in the activities, procedures and values of CINOP with regard to the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. For additional information on our identity and services you can visit www.cinop.nl where you can opt for an English version. Yours sincerely, Henny Morshuis, CEO CINOP CINOP • Stationsplein 14 • P.O.Box 1585 • 5200 BP ’s-Hertogenbosch • The Netherlands Phone: +31 (0)73-6800800 • Fax: +31 (0)73-6123425 • CoC-number 17162246 • www.cinop.nl Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. CINOP believes that the right to education and personal development is very important, all over the world, in every society. CINOP therefore respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) across her activities and through relationships with third parties associated with those activities, such as business partners, financial donors and clients. As an expert in learning and development, CINOP contributes to sustainable use of people’s potential and assist vulnerable individuals to be integrated in education, working life and civil society. Assessment, Policy and Goals In CINOP’s Code of Conduct, employees (and associates) who travel abroad declare to: • Show respect for cultural customs and will express CINOP values; • Abide to both local and international law and show respect for the principles of neutrality and impartiality; • Avoid involvement in any criminal activities, activities that contravene human rights or those that compromise the work of CINOP; • Avoid any unnecessary risk to the safety, health and welfare of myself and others, including partner organisations and beneficiaries. Implementation As part of CINOP’s corporate social responsibility strategy, CINOP maintains a partnership with UAF, the Foundation for Refugee Students. CINOP is strongly committed to ensure education for all and to give everyone fair chances to enter the labour market. CINOP and UAF cooperate on the themes: employability, participation & integration. These themes are realized during several activities, such as ‘train-the-trainer’ programs for UAF career counsellors, mentoring of refugee students and giving advice on UAF language policy. The implementation of the NUFFIC project ‘International LAW Education and Internationalization’ at the Faculty of Law of Syiah Kuala University in Banda Aceh, Indonesia, is running since 2011. The project aims to build the capacity of teachers to improve their educational level and the curriculum in international law, including human rights education. CINOP employees may contact a counsellor if they have to deal with inappropriate behaviour such as sexual harassment, aggression or violence, discrimination or bullying. It may involve harassment of colleagues or clients. No requests for counselling regarding inappropriate behaviour have been received during 2013. CINOP employees are obliged to sign a code of conduct for the use of internet and e-mail. Our reference: COP 2013 2/7 Date: 10 April 2014 Measurement of outcomes ISO 9001 certification ensures certain procedures to be in place including employee satisfaction of the employer and customer satisfaction about the services of the company. The certification was granted again in 2013 after an external audit. CINOP complaints committee nor CINOP counsellor have received any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organisation involved in any human rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CINOP is committed to those principles. Through its projects on the vocational education and training systems CINOP achieves indirectly a positive influence on the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As a reference to CINOP’s meaning to ‘sustainability’ the UN definition to learning applies: “UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development 2005-2014” (International Implementation Scheme, p. 5). Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) is fundamentally about values, with respect at the centre: respect for others, including those of present and future generations, for difference and diversity, for the environment, for the resources of the planet we inhabit. Education enables us to understand ourselves and others and our links with the wider natural and social environment, and this understanding serves as a durable basis for building respect. Along with a sense of justice, responsibility, exploration and dialogue, ESD aims to move us to adopting behaviours and practices that enable all to live a full life without being deprived of basics. Assessment, Policy and Goals CINOP employs professionals from various cultural / religious backgrounds. Not only because CINOP believes that to be the proper cause of action, but also because CINOP needs the expertise these employees bring to the company in general and the projects in particular. In our procedures discrimination is forbidden. We select on the basis of suitability in knowledge, skills and behaviour. Gender equality is important for CINOP. This implies not only an equal division of men and women but also female empowerment and a significant amount of women on leading positions. CINOP aims to give both male and female students equal opportunities with regard to access to education, retention and employability through their projects. Gender equality receives increasing attention in the international projects of CINOP. Our reference: COP 2013 3/7 Date: 10 April 2014 CINOP actively facilitates and stimulates its employees to participate in the works council that meets with the organization’s Management Team on a regular basis. CINOP has its own collective agreement. A supervisory Board for the CINOP Group is in place who has regular meetings with the director, the managers and the works council. CINOP is communicating with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the achievements of the MDGs, in particular with respect to universal access to education and gender equality. These goals are also part of the National Dutch UNESCO Committee to which CINOP is a member of the Workgroup Education. As an UNEVOC centre CINOP is dedicated to achieve the UNESCO goals in the area of TVET. Implementation CINOP has its own Collective Employment Agreement; every year new negotiations take place, supported by Labour Union FNV – Abvakabo. Employees can become a member of this Union who represents their rights in politics. CINOP has a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee that carries out activities in order to take responsibility to find a good balance in People, Planet and Profit. CINOP has an active works council with representatives from all CINOP ‘entities’. On yearly basis a staff satisfaction survey is held. Outcomes will be discussed with management and employees. The outcomes are published on intranet. All employees within CINOP do have a great deal of influence on their own jobs and the way they operate. In 2012 the procedure for assessment has been reviewed. All employees systematically meet with their managers, and a system of progress interviews, written plans and reports as to employee’s ambition and personal development is updated and in place. CINOP has a Risk Analysis both on organisational and project level for every single entity. CINOP is active in the network ‘sustainable vocational education’, which focuses on stimulating sustainability in vocational education and agenda setting of this theme for industry, government and education. Our reference: COP 2013 4/7 Date: 10 April 2014 Measurement of outcomes CINOP has gender segregated data of all employees and their specific functions. All employees have yearly progress and performance interviews with their manager. The appraisal is based on direct work, cooperation in the team, acquisition target and personal development. In addition, the company has an external audit for ISO 9001 certification. In relation to new or on-going work plans obtained from the Ministry of Education or the European Commission, the company has several audits commissioned by Ministry of Education or European Commission. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Corporate Social Responsibility means that in all CINOP activities the changing climate, energy and environment is taken into account. CINOP takes its responsibility by the procurement of sustainable products within the chain. Assessment, Policy and Goals CINOP supports a sustainable use of the world’s limited resources. As a consequence, CINOP as a rule stimulates its employees to work from home on days that are possible, to relieve the environmental impact. A new Mobility arrangement should give employees intrinsic incentives to use public transport. In addition, CINOP has a corporate social responsibility committee organizing activities to make employees aware on a sustainable use of people, planet and profit. This will be made explicit in sustainable use of accommodation, food and other commodities. In addition CINOP pays attention towards sustainable employability of personnel. Through the platform ‘sustainable vocational education’ CINOP stimulates sustainable procurement of educational institutes. Our reference: COP 2013 5/7 Date: 10 April 2014 Implementation Since December 2012 CINOP is working in its new building, where sustainability is a crucial condition in the design of the building and the way the building is used by its residents. The high quality of the building can be find back in architecture, sustainability, finishing and climate system of the building. This process is closely monitored by the CSR committee and is build according to BREEAM standards. Since the building is situated just next to the train station, many employees and visitors do use public transport. CINOP will appoint preferred suppliers based on their ability to deliver certified products that are produced with care for the environment and people. Certification can include Max Havelaar, Rainforest Alliance and FSC. CINOP employees who work outside of Europe, have agreed to combine missions to different countries, to reduce the number of flights. Procurement and purchase of materials for projects in African countries, Latin America and Asia, are mainly done in the respective countries to reduce prolonged transportation by land and by air. CINOP acted as secretary to ENSI (Environmental and School Initiatives), an international network which has supported educational developments, environmental understanding, active approaches to teaching and learning, through research and the exchange of experiences internationally. The Association aims at “supporting educational and pedagogical developments that, via research and international exchange of experiences, promote insight into learning for sustainable development, environmental studies, active forms of learning and teaching, as well as education for citizenship.” Measurement of outcomes BREEAM sets the standard for best practice in sustainable building design, construction and operation and has become one of the most comprehensive and widely recognised measures of a building's environmental performance. In 2013 CINOP received the BREEAM label “very good”. In 2013 a first start has been made to develop a ‘vitality’ policy for sustainable employability of personnel. In 2013 criteria for sustainable products are evaluated. Based on the outcomes preferred suppliers are appointed. Our reference: COP 2013 6/7 Date: 10 April 2014 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CINOP is committed to the UN Convention Against Corruption and condemns any form of corruption. Assessment, Policy and Goals In CINOP’s Code of Conduct, employees (and associates) who travel abroad declare to the following: • Ensure that I use project and CINOP information, funds and resources entrusted to me in a responsible manner and account for all money and property, following the appropriate policy and procedural requirements; Especially international projects in highly corrupt countries are closely monitored on possible cases of corruption. Implementation CINOP stimulates her employees and managers to be honest and fair in business transactions. In order to prevent any corruption, extortion or bribery, CINOP has proper administrative procedures in place. CINOP employees and especially financial staff are knowledgeable about the issues of corruption. Measurement of outcomes As required by law, CINOP has an external accountancy firm to check all procedures and transactions to control compliance with the financial rules and regulations. No complaints with regards to corruption, bribery or extortion were received during 2013.. ‘s-Hertogenbosch – April 2014 Our reference: COP 2013 7/7 Date: 10 April 2014
