tesa SE: Our responsibility – Our commitment 2013 Report B A living tradition of responsibility Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN Photo/Mark Garten) Global Compact January 31, 2001, at the World Economic Summit in Davos: The then-UN General Secretary, Kofi Annan, calls upon internationally operating companies to actively respond to the challenges of globalization. His vision: A global pact with universally applicable social and environmental principles. Companies from over 140 countries, international employees’ The ten principles of the UN Global Compact associations, civil society groups, governments and UN organizations have now joined the Global Compact. Under the patronPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the proage of presiding UN General Secretary Ban Ki-Moon, the world’s tection of internationally proclaimed human rights; largest corporate citizenship initiative continues to grow. The and pact’s ten underlying principles in the areas of human rights, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human labor standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption rights abuses. have long been part of tesa’s corporate values. Our membership Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associain the Global Compact underscores this lively tradition. tesa SE’s tion and the effective recognition of the right to entire commitment is based on a continuous improvement procollective bargaining; cess. In the current progress report for 2013, we provide insight Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and into the development of our activities and projects – with regard compulsory labor; to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and our corpoPrinciple 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and rate responsibility strategy. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 2013 Progress Report As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we have continuity as well as a constant improvement process. With undertaken to provide an annual report documenting the promore than 50 affiliates around the world, countless projects gress of our activities and measures. This serves the purpose of are involved in these efforts. For this reason, this report is limited engaging in regular dialogue with our environment and docuto an exemplary selection of current activities and measures. menting the projects in which we are implementing and reinforcSince 2008 we have been publishing an online version of the ing the ten principles of the Global Compact at our company. Progress Report. Apart from the fact that this format makes it The 2013 Progress Report will give you an overview of our global more easily accessible, it also allows for regular updates. More commitment in the areas of human rights and labor standards, information about the topics of products, the environment, emenvironmental protection, fighting corruption, and society. tesa ployees and society can also be found in the “Responsibility” traditionally pursues a sustainable approach that both ensures section of our website at: www.tesa.de/company/responsibility. Declaration of Support Human rights and labor standards A member out of conviction The human factor for success Mandatory values and sustainable business policies are The defining topics in 2013 included a culture of feedback traditionally the prerequisites for the economic success of and dialogue, employee training and qualifications, as well as tesa SE, which is based in Hamburg, Germany. >> Page 4 occupational health and safety. >> Page 5 Environmental protection Compliance and fair trade Consistent further development Integrity and proper conduct All tesa locations have very high environmental standards. We pay strict attention to complying with laws and guidelines. We are constantly evolving from this high level. >> Page 11 A central coordination office bundles together all associated processes and activities. >> Page 17 Social commitment A strategy with regional facets Our social commitment is reflected in countless projects around the world. Corporate volunteering plays a key role in this. >> Page 18 3 Declaration of Support “Responsibility is traditional at tesa: We see it as an important investment in the future.” Thomas Schlegel, CEO of tesa SE tesa SE is one of the world’s leading companies in the self-adhethroughout the world now have very high environmental standsive technology segment. Our successful development is associards. However, we not are about to leave it at that and instead ated with innovations, quality and technological progress. The continue to identify useful improvement potential. In 2013 we beassumption of responsibility is one of the supporting pillars for our gan with the launch of highly modern energy management sysactivities. We underscore this tradition of a sustainable business tems. With their help, we can check and manage our energy conpolicy through our membership in the United Nations’ Global sumption even better in future. In addition, we are concentrating Compact. increasingly on the overall lifecycle of our products – from obtaining the raw materials to subsequent disposal. For an optimal ecoBy the new complex of buildings for Group headquarters and the logical footprint, we are integrating our suppliers and seeking the directly connected research and technology center, tesa is curbest possible solutions alongside them. Our environmentally rently making the biggest single investment in its history. Just half friendly tesa ecoLogo® products, which we offer in the office area, a year after laying the foundation stone, we were able to celebrate as well as in building supply and DIY stores, are a good example the topping-out ceremony in December 2013 with around 1,000 of this. In 2013 this is once again reflected in the public domain: In guests. We are proud that both deadlines and budgets have so far the “Sustainability” category, the “Industrieverband Papier Büro been adhered to in full and that we are therefore also fulfilling our Schreibwaren” (“Paper, Office and Stationery Industry Associaeconomic responsibility. The name of the construction project tion”) elevated our new Mini Dispensers and Mini Roller Correcalone, “One tesa,” illustrates a key goal that we are working totions onto the podium as “Product of the Year.” wards with the new location: while we are currently split across several buildings, 850 employees are in future to be united under We have continuously pursued our global activities for the benefit one roof. The new home will not only have a positive impact on of society. Employees are also increasingly making personal combusiness processes, flexibility and competitiveness; our strong mitments to the long-established partnerships. For example, they tesa corporate culture will also be given sustainable impetus help to fill children with enthusiasm for the world of books in weekthrough the move. ly reading sessions, they stimulate their creativity in joint crafting activities or they arouse their interest in technology. In reforestation How happy are our employees with tesa as a company? We reprojects in Lower Saxony’s Elbe Valley Biosphere Reserve, people ceived answers to this question in 2013 in a staff survey in the and the environment are the focus. Hamburg headquarters carried out with the independent institute “Great Place to Work.” There were very good scores in many areFurther information about the topic of responsibility at tesa as. Nevertheless, we want to improve even further. To promote can be found on our Responsibility page on the Internet: open dialogue between employees and managers and to www.tesa.de/company/verantwortung. strengthen mutual trust, we are using a newly designed feedback Our sustainable business policy, in keeping with the UN Global interview since 2013. We have devoted ourselves to the topic of Compact, will be continued by us in future without alteration. management through further measures. Among other things, the training concept for future managers was revised and a new process was launched for succession planning and talent management. We were also able to expand our range of offerings in the field of continuing education. Through binding targets as well as both small and large measures, we have in recent years ensured that our production locations 4 Human rights and labor standards The human factor for success People – our own employees as well as customers and suppliers measures in 2013. In the area of occupational health and safety – are the foundation for the success of our business. For this reawe were once again able to continue the positive trend of previson, we believe it is just as important to respect and support interous years. Our reportable number of accidents is considerably national human rights as to have impeccable working standards. lower than the industry average. The topic of compliance was We have made a full commitment to this in an internationally also an item on our agenda once again. Among other things, applicable tesa Code of Conduct and in the global tesa Purchasduring the current year under review we performed a risk analying Charter for collaborating with suppliers. The content of the sis, offered regular training to refresh and enhance our employbehaviors and rules associated with these measures were also ees’ knowledge about issues pertaining to antitrust law and conan integral part of numerous employee training and qualification ducted a number of different communication measures. Code of Conduct Purchasing Charter AMandatory rules of conduct MinimumB standards in strategic purchasing The tesa Code of Conduct defines clear values and behavioral A standard process is used throughout the group to qualify, guidelines for all employees of the tesa Group. Its content is an evaluate and develop suppliers. This allows us to ensure our integral part of workshops and training programs. >> Page 6 mandatory minimum standards around the world. >> Page 7 Employees Occupational health and safety Continuing education and corporate culture A low number of accidents Our employees are the most important capital for securing the Thanks to high standards and preventative measures, the success of tesa. Our corporate culture and targeted support rate of reportable accidents was once again significantly lower initiatives take this fact into account. >> Page 8 than the industry average in 2013. >> Page 10 D E 5 Human rights and labor standards Code of Conduct The tesa Code of Conduct defines values and clear behavioral guidelines. Its content is an integral part of workshops and training programs. Mandatory rules of conduct The Code of Conduct establishes our most important Respect, honesty, trust, tolerance and integrity – these principles principles in a total of six subject areas: of business activity have not only made us successful in the past. They also guide us now and will continue to do so in the future. 1. Compliance with legal regulations The associated rules of conduct have been laid down in a globalWe conduct our business lawfully and strictly comply with the ly binding Code of Conduct. As in previous years, we continued laws of the countries in which we operate. to reinforce the content in 2013 by using various communication 2. Fair competition and training measures. We do not obtain any market advantages through unfair or illegal practices. With its rules and criteria, the tesa Code of Conduct, which is 3. Protection of tesa assets derived from our corporate values and the ten principles of the We are careful with the proprietary information, assets and UN Global Compact, provides clear orientation. It boosts confiresources of the company. dence in the performance and integrity of the tesa Group. Re4. A socially acceptable working environment gardless of their position or function, we expect all employees to We guarantee a socially acceptable, safe and motivating workstand by our ethical principles and to act consistently based on ing environment. We strongly oppose child and forced labor, them. As role models, our managers exemplify the rules of condiscrimination and the like. We also expect the same from our duct and actively communicate them. Since introducing the business partners. Code of Conduct, all managers are required to complete a web5. Personal integrity based training program. We also provide all levels of manageWe encourage the highest possible degree of personal integriment with presentation materials to support them in the ongoing ty and fairness in our employees, and avoid situations in which communication process with employees. To ensure that this personal interests are or could be in conflict with those of our issue is permanently present, the Code of Conduct is also an company. integral part of our orientation seminars for new employees, 6. Social commitment management training programs, the “Sales Qualification ProWe take our responsibility for future generations seriously and gram” for employees in sales, and our Management Developstrive for sustainable development in all relevant areas – ecoment programs for managers and junior managers. nomical, ecological and social. The tesa Code of Conduct Download the “Code of Conduct” 6 Human rights and labor standards Purchasing Charter Standard criteria are used at all locations to qualify, evaluate and develop suppliers. This allows us to ensure our mandatory minimum standards around the world. Minimum standards in strategic purchasing At tesa we are convinced that sustainable, responsible action ten basic principles of the UN Global Compact. In our collaboramust extend beyond the confines of the company itself. For this tions we strive towards long-term strategic partnerships and a reason, our internal rules of conduct have long applied for our continuous improvement process. This includes mutually agreed collaborations with suppliers around the world. In order to progoals and their verification, site visits and certification in accordvide a standard framework for our internationally applicable miniance with the environment and quality standards ISO 14001 and mum standards in the areas of human rights, labor standards, ISO 9001. environmental protection, and fighting corruption, tesa’s strategic purchasing division adopted the tesa Purchasing Charter in 2008. As a result of our terms and conditions of contract, suppliers make a binding commitment to act in accordance with the Download the  “Purchasing Charter” 7 A Human rights and labor standards Employees Our employees are the most important capital for securing our success. Our corporate culture and targeted support initiatives take this fact into account. Quality and corporate culture The commitment and expertise of our employees is the basis for In order to further enhance the open dialogue between employthe worldwide success of tesa SE. We promote trust between ees and managers, tesa introduced a redesigned employee deemployees and management, encouraging every individual to velopment and feedback meeting in 2013. Before this new measshow responsibility and initiative. Important components of our ure was introduced, 180 managers were trained to prepare for a future-oriented HR policy include the targeted training of qualified constructive dialogue. Employees also eagerly took advantage of employees, continuous further education and a very diverse specially customized workshops and the option to clarify unrerange of offers to actively support the well-being of our employsolved issues in advance. The new employee meeting creates a ees. foundation for mutual trust: both parties – the employees and managers – are equally given the opportunity to provide each A culture of feedback and dialogue other with constructive feedback, to learn about each other’s With support from the independent “Great Place to Work” expectations and to take an active role in developing the collabo(GPtW) initiative, in 2013 we conducted an employee survey at ration. tesa’s headquarters in Hamburg. Under the motto of “tesa wants to know”, the questions addressed the topics of credibility, reIntensive management at tesa spect, fairness, pride and team spirit. Out of nearly 800 employSince 2013, tesa’s HR division has offered a special training conees, 91 percent provided feedback on their satisfaction with the cept specifically designed for junior management talent. Among company. In the assessment, the GPtW experts attested to teother things, the training course entitled “Intensive management sa’s particular strengths in the “Pride” category. Employees are at tesa” focuses on respectful dialogue between managers and very satisfied with the sense of team spirit and the possibility to employees. The goal is to prepare participants for future chalact independently and develop their skills. Basic trust in managelenges by sustainably positioning issues such as appreciation ment is also high. In order to further increase satisfaction, we will and recognition as the foundation for a good management culdevelop specific measures based on the potential areas for imture. provement revealed in the survey. Human resources planning and training In the tesa regions of North America, Asia Pacific and Eastern Succession planning and talent management are important tools Europe, employee feedback was also high. High participation in strategic human resources development. With the goal of esand a strong sense of loyalty to the company also stood out as tablishing expertise at the international level in a timely and sysclear results in the regional surveys. tematic manner, tesa incorporated both of these aspects into a process that was introduced around the world in 2013. Within D 8 Human rights and labor standards the context of succession planning for our key positions, we methods and tools, as well as knowledge in the areas of conregularly review the status of potential candidates. This allows us trolling, law and contracts. to react to changes in a timely manner. Talent management lays an important foundation for the future since this measure allows Health and well-being us to regularly identify talented junior management candidates Health and well-being are important to tesa, which is also reflectand to specifically develop them. ed throughout the company. Thanks to the low membership fees, many tesa employees and their family members stay in Since August 2013, four apprentices have been learning the shape at the Beiersdorf sports association. Hamburg’s machine and systems operator profession at the tesa plant in fourth-largest company sports association offers over 40 sports. Hamburg. This new training program will give them good perThe parent company’s offerings promoting health in the workspectives for the future. Operating state-of-the-art production place are also quite popular. The same is true for the health and equipment requires technical expertise and complex specialized sports offerings at other locations. knowledge that will be in demand for the long term. tesa will also benefit from this and is actively doing its part to counteract the In 2013 the tesa plant in Hamburg implemented its first special shortage of specialized workers. health program under the direction of knowledgeable experts. Under the motto of “Healthy shift”, 32 employees who are exTargeted continuing education posed to additional stress due to their shift schedules were given As in previous years, we once again expanded our range of coninteresting insights and valuable advice. For two days, various tinuing education opportunities and enhanced them in terms of modules addressed topics such as nutrition, exercise, heart quality. The “Sales Qualification Program” was fervently continhealth and stress management. ued in 2013. Featuring great language diversity, this program offers 30 target group-specific training courses. In addition to In 2013 tesa introduced the “Company Integration Management” basic qualifications for new employees, the program includes program for employees who have been absent for six weeks or special formats that are specifically tailored to the needs of indimore in a single year due to health issues. This measure, which vidual business areas. We rely on a combination of technical is voluntary for participants, is intended to facilitate their return to training and sales skills in this regard. During the current reporteveryday working life. To help them stay healthy for the longing year, some 1,235 employees from international sales as well term, factors that could have a negative impact on their health as research and development took advantage of the training are also identified in the workplace. The goal is for those affected program. to see long-term, individual improvement. We also developed and introduced an extensive training portfolio for our international buyers in 2013. In the customized modules of the “tesa Purchasing College”, participants learn the necessary expertise for international and cross-functional collaboration with global standards. The “curriculum” includes, among other things, strategic and organizational basic knowledge, purchasing 9 Human rights and labor standards Occupational health and safety The health and safety of employees is a top priority at tesa. We focus on prevention through high standards and targeted measures. A low number of accidents Prevention is the best form of protection from injuries and called TOP principle, which covers the three categories of “techwork-related health risks. As in previous years, this year we were nical”, “organizational” and “personal”. This allows hazards to be once again able to further reduce the accident rate. With a global identified, categorized and evaluated, thus providing the basis for rate of 4.9 accidents per 1,000 employees, in the current year targeted solutions. under review our number of reportable accidents was significantly less than the industry average of 15.1 percent according to the When developing new systems, we integrate the occupational employers’ liability insurance association. This shows that we are health and safety department from the very beginning. This alon the right track with our high safety standards, occupational lows us to be certain that our high occupational health and safehealth measures and training programs. ty measures are consistently promoted and implemented. Here the focus is also on the early identification and elimination of The Occupational Safety Guidelines, which are based on the potential risks. Our safety standards are thus already incorporatinternational standard OHSAS 18001, apply for all tesa locations ed into the drafting of specifications. During the construction and around the world. When it comes to safety, we regularly raise manufacturing process, we inquire about the implementation employee awareness of the issue worldwide – including training status in regular project meetings. At the end we review all the courses on conduct conducive to health and safety, preventing details at the manufacturer’s site in a “Factory Acceptance Test”. explosions and fires, fire extinguishing drills, detailed operating Before the system is ultimately handed over to production, we procedures for all production facilities, and targeted training. once again check the safety-relevant functions and optimize Internal processes significantly contribute to reducing hazards them if necessary. and risks. The distinctive factor is the combination of systematic hazard identification and risk assessment, employee responsibility and a continuous improvement process, which includes all parties involved. The most important analytical tool is the so10 Environmental protection Global initiatives Leaving an intact environment for subsequent generations is one rectly implement laws, rules and regulations, which can someof tesa’s stated corporate goals. This is why ongoing monitoring times vary, tesa has employees who are familiar with local legisand possible improvement of certain key indicators such as enlation and can ensure compliance at all of its production sites. In ergy consumption, CO2 emissions, the use of solvents, VOC our globally binding environmental guidelines, our standards far emissions and waste have long been an integral part of our enviexceed legal requirements. These guidelines dictate the standronmental management. Our production plants are certified in ards for our actions to all employees and are meant to further accordance with the international environmental standard ISO raise environmental awareness. Resource-conserving production 14001:2004. tesa’s “green thread” is based on a precautionary processes are just as important as environmentally-friendly prodapproach: We promote the international exchange of information ucts. To make sure that we live up to our commitment, we set between our environmental experts and actively take the initiaspecific environmental goals, which we consistently pursue. We tive. Part of this strategy involves developing our own production monitor the environmental program by monitoring key indicators technologies to enable solvent-free production. In addition, we and performing regular audits. In these audits, we assess whethare increasingly pursuing our commitment at the product level: er process procedures and regulations are being correctly adWith the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand we now offer a full range of hered to and introduce correction measures as needed. eco-friendly products for the office sector, which we are continuing to expand. For over two years we have been active in the Our responsible actions do not go unnoticed by third parties. In do-it-yourself sector with corresponding offerings. 2013, the Japanese automotive supplier Yazaki North America recognized tesa as the “Green Supplier of the Year” in the “Bulk Of course, we also abide by minimum standards and legal re& Raw Materials” category. quirements in all areas in which we are involved. In order to cortesa environmental program Climate protection Corporate environmental protection Raising awareness Defined areas and specific projects are the key to our tesa enacts climate protection measures on its own initiative successful environmental program. All tesa locations around and responsibility in order to leave an intact environment for the world have high standards. >> Page 12 subsequent generations. >> Page 14 Resource conservation Eco-friendly products The efficient use of raw materials Consumers benefit from tesa The efficient use of raw materials and resources is Sustainably produced goods like the tesa ecoLogo® important to us in terms of a sustainable business policy. range protect the climate. The winners? People all over the >> Page 15 world. >> Page 16 11 Environmental protection The tesa environmental program Specific areas of activity and clearly defined projects are the key to our successful environmental management program. All tesa locations have very high standards. Corporate environmental protection Goals achieved between 2002 – 2013 tesa has taken the initiative and responsibility to engage in preventative environmental protection measures. Over a period of ten years, the two cycles (2002-2006 and 2007-2012) of our Energy consumption 24 percent internationally applicable environmental program ensured that all CO2 emissions in Europe 17 percent tesa locations now have very high environmental standards. The binding goals at the focus of this program included energy savUse of solvents 31 percent ings, significant reductions in the use of solvents, decreased CO2 and VOC emissions, and minimizing waste. We were able to Waste 68 percent make the greatest strides thanks to state-of-the-art technologies and new, patented tesa processes. Altogether, a number of VOC emissions 88 percent smaller measures also made a bit impact. In the future we will continue to do everything in our power to maintain our high standards and to continue improving with reasonable measures. At the same time, we are increasingly concentrating on the entire life cycle of our products both now and in the future. From obtaining raw materials to later disposal after use, we are calculating the ecological footprint and consistently determining the best options for eco-friendlier alternatives. Another important aspect of our environmental commitment is energy consumption. Here we are focusing on introducing energy management systems that will enable ultra modern energy monitoring. 12 Environmental protection Highlights, key figures and successes of the tesa environmental program In 2002 the tesa plant in Offenburg put an eco-friendly production In 2010, the tesa plant in Hamburg installed a new, state-of-thesystem for the solvent-free manufacturing of masking tape into art ventilation system. That same year the technology center at operation. That was just the beginning: today the over 60 pertesa’s headquarters in Hamburg received funding from the Hamcent of the plant’s entire production takes place without solvents. burg Authority for Urban Development and Environmental Affairs to modernize the technology in the ventilation system and its In 2005 tesa received the B.A.U.M. environmental prize and the control unit. The first tesa ecoLogo® products also started con“Responsible Care Prize” for the consistent and successful dequering the office supplies market. velopment of a holistic environmental management system. In 2011 tesa succeeded in making a technological breakthrough In 2006, five years after launching its environmental program, tesa at the plant in Hamburg. The globally unique and patented ACX saw positive results from successfully reducing the amount of technology enabled the eco-friendly production of double-sided energy and solvents consumed. A second environmental proacrylic adhesive tapes for high-strength permanent adhesive gram was passed for the period between 2007 and 2012 – with bonds. a focus on reduced emissions of volatile organic compounds, also known as VOC emissions. In 2013 tesa introduced an energy management system at its German production sites to sustainably reduce energy consumpIn 2007 an innovative system for heat recovery at the tesa plant in tion and CO2 emissions even further. The “Green Car Policy” was Offenburg considerably reduced energy consumption. launched that same year. Low-emission cars are to significantly reduce the CO2 emissions of the entire fleet from an average of In 2009 tesa reported significant advances in the emission of 161 to 140 grams per kilometer. volatile organic substances. VOC emissions were down 50 percent compared to 2001. One year later the figure had already dropped to 58 percent. 13 Environmental protection Climate protection Eco-friendly production processes and measures to raise awareness among our employees are part of our commitment to climate protection. Small things can make a big difference In addition to eco-friendly production processes and other measTogether with the parent company Beiersdorf, tesa enacted a ures that we use to keep up with the latest technology, raising “Green Car Policy” in 2013. The intention of these measures is to the awareness of our employees is also part of our commitment. reduce the CO2 emissions for the entire fleet from an average of Not only are they familiar with ongoing operations, at the same 161 grams of CO2 per kilometer to 140 grams per kilometer. The time they also help us to save energy and reduce costs thanks to gradual transition, which extends from vehicles for field sales their knowledge and ideas. In 2009 this process was initiated in staff to vehicles for board members, will ensure that company an exemplary manner at the tesa plant in Offenburg with the vehicles emit over 300 tons less CO2 in Germany alone. Individu“Active Environmental Protection through Reduced Waste and al affiliate companies have already begun to convert their fleets; Energy Use” project. According to the motto of “Small things can others will follow. make a big difference”, this site was successful again in 2013. Among other things, the plant saved around 500,000 kilowatt-hours of energy by putting large systems into standby mode. Replacing inefficient, old equipment also helped to save another 200,000 kilowatt-hours. In addition, the tesa plant in Offenburg will be investing in efficient, eco-friendly power generation based on cogeneration in the years to come. As part of the international tesa environmental management system, our production sites have implemented successful energy saving projects for many years. Our German plants began implementing an energy management system (EMS) in 2013. The development of an online system for monitoring our energy data was initiated in the first step of this process. The certification of the EMS in accordance with DIN EN ISO 50001 is planned for the tesa plants in Hamburg and Offenburg by 2015 at the latest. 14 Environmental protection Resource conservation We handle raw materials and resources efficiently. Environmentally friendly technologies and good waste management are important to us. Responsibility begins in the mind Life cycle analysis Waste management A great deal of environmental pollution is caused outside one’s The production of any good involves generating waste. In order own company while manufacturing products. For this reason, in to reduce this in a sustainable manner and to protect the envithe future we will be focusing more on the entire life cycles of our ronment and resources, we conduct regular training courses to products – from obtaining raw materials to the materials used, ensure that all those involved are conscious of the need to avoid production and transport to disposal after they are used. With unnecessary waste and to recycle appropriately. In addition, we the help of the so-called life cycle analysis method, we will deterare constantly seeking new technical solutions and cooperation mine the parameters that affect the footprint of our products. The partners to allow us to maximize our recycling efforts. goal of this life cycle analysis is to discover the best options – not just in-house at tesa, but always in collaboration with suppliers Targeted individual measures once again showed positive effects and service providers. in 2013. At our production site in Offenburg, a total of 25 projects for reducing waste were on the agenda in the current year under Environmentally friendly manufacturing processes review. Three examples: Efficient handling of raw materials and resources led to ecologi• We adjusted the measurements for materials processed tocal and economical improvements again in 2013. The consistent gether in the same step according to length in all of the sysreorientation towards eco-friendly production technologies also tems – for example, the blank backing and lamination films. showed the greatest effects last year. Especially notable in this This has allowed us to significantly reduce interruptions caused context is the globally unique production plant for the environby changing materials, thus resulting in less waste. mentally friendly manufacture of acrylic double-sided adhesive • If a length of a roll of blank material is approaching its end, tape at the tesa plant in Hamburg. The technology that goes by employees can now detect this based on newly introduced the name of ACX is notable for the extremely efficient extraction markings. Thanks to the meter information indicating the reof emissions, among other things. This has led to the following maining length, the time at which the roll must be changed can environmentally relevant reductions in comparison with convennow be precisely controlled. Residual materials, which previtional processes: ously remained in the unwinder, are now close to zero. We developed this measure in collaboration with suppliers. Use of organic solvents: approx. -55 percent • A new tank for adhesives improved the adhesive supply in a coating system. Whereas a lot of unused residue remained in Disposal of organic solvents: approx. -89 percent the industrial plastic containers previously used, the new tank considerably reduces waste, thus allowing valuable resources Process water requirements: approx. -100 percent to be conserved. 15 Environmental protection Most of these ideas come from the employees themselves. Bold printer”. Employees could exchange the printer at their workstacommunication measures in combination with an incentive systion for a houseplant. In the future employees can pick up their tem in the form of a variable bonus have led to the proactive printouts from modern multifunctional printing stations at central introduction and implementation of these suggested improvelocations on each office floor. Getting rid of workstation printers ments. Other locations have also adopted the issue of waste is also in the interest of climate protection. Not only does this reduction in their target agreements and are now very successful conserve energy, but it also means that fewer fine dust particles with this system. are released into the air from using laser printers. By the end of the year, the export division also digitized its filing system and An end to wasted paper now archives its documents using an automatic, paperless proConserving resources not only plays a role in production. Unneccess. Before there were some days when as many as 500 sheets essary waste is also frequently found in offices. Among other of paper were printed. efforts, tesa illustrated this in 2013 with the IT campaign “I was a Commitment at the product level Products for conserving energy and sustainably produced goods help to protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. Consumers benefit from tesa For quite some time, tesa has been consistently transferring to the industry at the leading trade fair Paperworld in January its environmental commitment at the product level. We offer 2013. The jury for the “Product of the Year 2013” competition consumers eco-friendly solutions, including the tesa ecoLogo® also recognized the combination of environmental advantages range, which we continue to expand on a regular basis. Soland an appealing design with a double win. The German Indusvent-free adhesives and the use of primarily organically derived try Association for Paper, Office Supplies and Stationary or recycled materials and packaging are the main environmental (PBS-Industrie) proclaimed the products the winners in the advantages. In 2013 tesa received high marks for the tesa “Sustainability” category. This year we are also planning to furecoLogo® adhesive roller from the renowned German Öko-Test ther expand the tesa ecoLogo® range. At the turn of 2013/14 we magazine: The independent experts rated the product as will add the ecoLogo® SMART Dispenser and ecoLogo® multi“Very good”. purpose glue to the product range. In 2013 the family of office products was expanded to include We also now carry a “green” ecoLogo® range in DIY and home two practical everyday helpers: the tesafilm Mini Dispenser improvement stores. There consumers can also find products ecoLogo® and the tesa Mini Correction Roller ecoLogo® are such as tesamoll® for sealing gaps around windows and doors available in several appealing colors. Both products, whose as well as tesa® ISO SYSTEM for easy roof insulation. cases are made of 100 percent recycled plastic, were introduced 16 Compliance and fair competition Adhering to laws and internal guidelines is something that goes without saying at tesa. A central coordination office combines all associated processes and ensures compliance with international standards. Integrity and proper conduct Compliance tesa traditionally stands for trust. This includes virtues that guarimplementation of a worldwide functional antitrust law compliantee free markets and fair competition as well as protecting ance system for the entire tesa Group. Besides providing relevant people and the environment. The tesa group firmly rejects any information on antitrust law and educating about possible violaform of corruption as well as any illegal or immoral behavior. In tions, we set up internal communication structures and a netorder to be able to consistently ensure this worldwide, we activework of competent attorneys. We will continue to actively pursue ly protect our company and our employees from possible risks. this issue in the future. After successfully wrapping up global In 2013 we once again actively addressed the issue of complibasic training workshops for all decision makers and employees ance and our system of values as laid down in the globally appliwith potentially critical contacts with regard to antitrust law in cable tesa Code of Conduct. This included performing a complirecent years, in 2013 we provided Antitrust Refresher Training ance risk analysis including documentation and further developcourses to reinforce this knowledge. This measure was impleing corresponding compliance measures. We also continued to mented in all German and international companies of the tesa reinforce the content of our anti-corruption guidelines and impleGroup as an e-Learning course. Special antitrust training coursmented communication measures in our internal media. The aim es were also developed and conducted with content customized is to raise awareness by providing precise information and to for specific target groups and divisions. prevent unintentional breaches of laws and regulations. Since the end of 2010, our employees have been able to seek the advice of We also offer a permanent topic-related platform on the tesa the central “Compliance Coordination” office in the event of intranet. This page allows employees worldwide to find out about questions or doubts in individual cases. The function defines conduct that complies with antitrust law in their day-to-day busiinternational standards and ensures the efficient bundling of all ness dealings and helps them find competent advisors. To raise compliance processes. Its duties also include preparing status awareness even better, we also inform our staff about relevant reports for the management team. The Compliance office comdevelopments and decisions made by the antitrust authorities via bines a total of eleven fields. Various specialists are available to the News portal on the tesa intranet. provide expert advice on topics including anti-corruption, labor and competition law, information technology and data protection, In our international regions, guidelines that have been modified to antitrust law, financial guidelines, environmental protection, occutake into account the legal requirements in the respective counpational health and safety, as well as trademark and patent law. tries and a catalog of examples of correct and incorrect conduct lay down what is and what is not permissible under antitrust law. Fair competition For quite some time our activities have focused on antitrust law, which promotes a free economy and prevents clearly restrictive practices. To do this, we successfully introduced our “tesa Antitrust Compliance Program” throughout the company. It serves to raise awareness on issues relating to antitrust law and enable the 17 Social commitment A strategy with regional facets In 2013 the intensive social commitment of tesa SE and its protection, we foster neighborhood support and put special affiliates was also evident in numerous projects. These projects emphasis on the voluntary activities of tesa staff. are in line with our Corporate Giving Strategy, which we first formulated in 2007 and which is incorporated into the tesa Code of In the 2013 global “Survey on Social Commitment” we asked Conduct. In the current year under review, we again helped chilcolleagues to give their opinions on previous projects. We also dren and young people with donations, sponsorships and active asked for comments, suggestions and wishes for the future. The support. In the interest of making a long-term impact, we have results are being incorporated into the current revision of our already been involved in most of the projects for many years. In Corporate Giving Strategy, which is set to be adopted in 2014. addition to promoting creativity, education and environmental Commitment to the environment Fostering creativity Supporting biodiversity Multifaceted commitment We are in partnership with the UNESCO Lower Saxonian Children’s creativity is promoted though the MENTOR e. V. Elbe River Biosphere Reserve to ensure targeted reforestation. initiative based in Hamburg, Germany, arts and craft activities >> Page 19 in Japan as well as other projects. >> Page 20 Promoting educational opportunities Local aid Improving future prospects Bringing joy Educating children and young people is part of our Corporate tesa employees provide direct support in their local Giving Strategy. >> Page 21 environments, including in France, Columbia and Germany. >> Page 22 18 Social commitment Commitment to the environment We are in partnership with the UNESCO Lower Saxonian Elbe River Biosphere Reserve to ensure targeted reforestation. For the past two years tesa has been committed to supporting the UNESCO Lower Saxony Elbe River Biosphere Reserve as part of a long-term partnership. Thanks to financial support and our volunteers, we have been able to make an important contribution towards climate protection and biodiversity. Following several planting campaigns, around 2,500 “tesa oaks” now grow in the region located just 100 kilometers southeast of Hamburg. These new saplings will provide a new stock of trees to replace the old oaks that characterize this landscape. hardwood stocks not only has a positive impact on the greenIn 2013, tesa’s funding mainly went into two measures: In the house effect and biodiversity; at the same time, these measures Stapeler Rens region the Biosphere Reserve’s full-time employalso improve the relationship between mankind and nature. In ees began restoring areas that are no longer being used for forthe spring of 2014 tesa employees can experience this once estry to their original condition. The long-term goal is to create a again with more planting activities planned in the Dannenberger “primeval forest” here. A second project created shallow bodies Marsh and an alluvial forest along the Rögnitz River. of water, which are an important habitat particularly for cranes and black storks. We began our commitment to the UNESCO Lower Saxony Elbe River Biosphere Reserve in 2011 to mark the 75th anniversary of the tesa brand. The land restoration project to establish new 19 Social commitment Fostering creativity Everyone has the aptitude to be creative. We encourage this through various projects – with children, young people and ourselves. tesa Technology Talent Reading makes you smart and happy In 2013 a day of action at the tesa plant in Offenburg made it For many years we have championed the cause of supporting clear that technology and creativity go hand in hand. In the “tesa children’s reading skills. To give children a boost in their educaTechnology Talent” competition, twelve boys and four girls tion and later professional lives, we cooperate with the Hampicked a challenging task and had 60 minutes to build miniature burg-based initiative “Mentor – die Leselernhelfer Hamburg”. The vehicles out of various materials, which then had to roll down a registered charity relies on voluntary mentors who convey the joy ramp as far as possible. This type of competition initiated at the of reading to children and young people between the ages of tesa plant in Offenburg is the only one of its kind in Germany. eight and sixteen in a fun way. In addition to the tesa volunteers The directors of the respective schools nominate all of the young already committed to the project, in 2013 we were again able to people based on their excellent achievements in the natural recruit new colleagues for the regular “jour fixe”. For one hour sciences. The playful task followed by insight into how adhesive each week, the volunteers take their reading mentees on a jourtape is produced not only makes the young people more excited ney into a fantastic world of stories, thus making books more about technology, it also gives them information about apprenaccessible to them. In addition to providing “Reading Mentors” ticeships and training opportunities at tesa. The tesa plant in we also donated 5,000 euros to the organization during the year Offenburg currently offers dual training programs in electronic under review. engineering/production engineering, mechatronics engineering, industrial mechanics and chemical technology. Arts and crafts with Childline In September 2013, tesa tape in Tokyo opened its doors for two Creative apprentices days of arts and crafts for around 250 children. Together with In 2013 the apprentices at the tesa plant in Offenburg let their tesa volunteers, the girls and boys decorated paper bags with creativity run wild as part of a team workshop. The 25 young Halloween designs. Before the actual start, employees from the trainees from three different class years volunteered to beautify company made 200 rings by hand, which were sold during the the parents’ house at the Children’s Cancer Hospital in Freiburg. At the end of the day, the creative result included various sports designs in the fitness room and three cheerful dolphins on a wall in the creative room. The tesa plant in Offenburg paid for all of the materials. After they finished painting, all of the apprentices took advantage of the opportunity to take a tour of the hospital and learn more about bone marrow transplants. 20 Social commitment event. Proceeds from the sale of the rings benefited the children’s aid organization “Childline”, which also helped to organize the event. Founded in Great Britain in 1980, the organization is now active in many countries and offers 24-hour advisory services for children and young adults who have experienced or anticipate experiencing particular fears or threats. Childline works together with children to find solutions to problems such as abuse, bullying, parents getting divorced, pregnancy and similar issues. Colors galore for children’s homes in Poland renovations. The campaign originally started in Poznán under the Under the motto of “Let’s bring color to children’s lives” the name “Kolorujemy”. Since then, more and more football clubs “Polish Association of Soccer Fans” launched a campaign in have gotten involved and taken the idea to other cities, including 2013 to gradually renovate urban children’s homes. The Polish ¸ Kraków , Czestochówka ´ and Gdansk. tesa affiliate supported the good idea of transforming the children’s homes into a sea of color by donating products for the Promoting educational opportunities Education is the key to getting a good start to a career. This is why we support children and young people as well as scientific and technical trainees. Opportunities for children of migrant workers The “Chancen für Kinder” (“Opportunities for Children”) For the seventh time in a row, the tesa plant in Suzhou/China foundation awarded the “Sunshine Scholarship and Education Assistance tesa has supported the “Chancen für Kinder” (“Opportunities for Award” to recognize students for their special accomplishments. Children”) foundation for many years. The institution’s primary The scholarships specifically support children from the families of goal is to make it possible for children in developing and emergmigrant workers who otherwise would have little chance of reing countries to lead a happy and carefree life and to break the ceiving continuous schooling. According to estimates, between vicious cycle of poverty. tesa provides funding to support two 150 and 200 million migrant workers in China have moved from projects in particular: The “quarry children” of Yeleswaram in rural regions to the booming cities and coastal regions in recent Southern India receive schooling and medical care thanks tesa’s years. At the “Sunshine School” in Suzhou, children from these regular sponsorship of a class. Otherwise, these children would families are given the necessary education to improve their lives have to slave away in the quarry for meager wages like their parin the future. tesa employees provide direct and personal assisents and siblings. Funding also goes to support the “Escula Poptance by awarding scholarships, acting as “teaching assistants”, ular des Artes” in Achupallas/Chile. This music school for Chilean providing collaborative learning, and organizing charity bazaars street children does valuable social work and received 10,000 and various recreational activities. euros from tesa in 2013. 21 Social commitment Active promotion of junior management talent attractive start to their professional life – including at an internatesa SE remained an active supporter of the Northern Institute of tional tesa location, depending on requirements. Technology (NIT) in Hamburg in 2013. In addition, the company is represented in the relevant industry advisory committees of A taste of working life Reutlingen University and the University of Applied Sciences In Hamburg we give our employees’ children between the ages (Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft) Berlin. The objective of 10 and 15 an exciting and fun taste of working life at the “tesa remains to maintain close cooperation between training institutes Zukunftstag” (“tesa future day”). In 2013, 25 boys and girls parand tesa in order to discover and support talents early on. tesa ticipated once again and got the opportunity to discover, try has also continued and expanded its cooperation with other key things out, ask a lot of questions and get ideas for their later universities. The activities primarily pursue two goals: On the one careers by visiting labs, offices and production sites. The “tesa hand, tesa strives to contribute to the promotion of scientific and Zukunftstag” enjoys an outstanding response each year. In 2014, technical talent in the long term. On the other hand, tesa’s intesa will be opening its doors to its employees’ children once volvement provides an opportunity offering young academics an again. Local aid Our Corporate Giving strategy leaves plenty of room for regional facets. We provide direct, neighborhood support through numerous projects. “Race of Heros” for a good cause Sponsorships in Columbia In 2013, tesa France renewed its partnership with the MVE FounSince 2007 our affiliate in Columbia has been supporting a dation (Fondation Mouvement pour les Villages d’Enfants) for number of social projects and initiatives in and around the meanother year. This charitable organization runs villages in which tropolis of Cali in the southwestern part of the country. This inchildren and young people from difficult family situations can find volvement focuses on the “Fundamor” organization, which takes a new home. Employees are involved in this commitment: for the care of children whose parents have died of AIDS. Fundamor traditional “Race of Heros” (Course des Héros), they collected helps underage boys and girls, who usually have an immunodefi3,000 euros in donations during the current year under review. ciency or are HIV-positive, to get a better start in life by providing All athletes first have to earn their entry fee and ask friends for them with a good education. The organization also promotes financial support. You only qualify as a hero and are admitted to their health and well-being by making it possible for the children the six-kilometer run by raising at least 300 euros. With a volunto grow up in a warm, friendly environment. tesa tape Colombia tary donation of one percent of sales of tesa products with the has three sponsored children in the institution and keeps in close “Le Rouleau du Coeur” (Role of the Heart) label, tesa France has contact with them. This personal cooperation benefits everyone also involved its retail partners in its commitment to the MVE – Fundamor and the children as well as tesa employees. Foundation since May 2013. A focus on self-help In the current year under review, tesa supported a child protec22 Social commitment tion project in the slums of the Columbian capital of Bogotá. The Center. While the young patients bake with their siblings, their recipient of this aid was the local “Laudes Infantis” foundation, parents take advantage of the opportunity to share experiences which runs community homes with educational and support with one another. offerings for young adults and families, nurseries and day care centers, playgrounds as well as a public dining room in three Straightforward aid for typhoon victims poor districts. All of the facilities are managed by residents, since tesa’s regional headquarters in Singapore rapidly provided aid “Laudes Infantis” is based on two principles: help to help yourself following the devastating typhoon in the Philippines. A donation as well as service and service in return. Via the “Ninos de la Tierof 50,000 euros was given to the International Red Cross to prora” initiative, which began in 2002 following a guest performance vide targeted assistance. tesa employees in the region also initiin Bogotá by Hamburg’s Thalia Theater, tesa donated 5,000 ated their own dollar-for-dollar donation program. tesa doubled euros to the foundation’s work in 2013. the amount collected for a total of 5,000 euros. Those tesa employees and their families who were directly impacted by the The main thing is smiling typhoon also received straightforward assistance from their colSmiling connects people, which is why the affiliate in the Netherleagues – in the form of clothing or other everyday necessities. lands supports the work of the “Smiles” foundation. At regular tesa employees from other countries also provided personal intervals, the initiative organizes activities for children with physiassistance. One colleague from the tesa Labtec (Germany) affilical, mental and other disabilities. The most important goal is for ate volunteered as a pharmacist for the organization “Pharmapeople to smile together. In 2013, tesa employees got involved as cists without borders” and worked in the disaster area for two part of a big soccer day in Amsterdam and supported a mixed weeks. Her employer donated 5,000 euros and also paid for her group of deaf and hearing children. Apart from the fun that flight. Furthermore, tesa donated some 500 rolls of packaging brought everyone together, the special effect for tesa employees tape for various organizations. These organizations used the was that they learned a lot from the children and now use some tape to seal boxes for shipping aid supplies. of these communication skills in their everyday work. Help for children with kidney disease The tesa Converting Center Hamburg has been helping children and young people with kidney disease at the Children’s Kidney Center at the University Hospital in Hamburg-Eppendorf for several years. In addition to financial assistance, the focus is on volunteering and shared experiences. The annual summer festival for patients, their siblings and parents has become a popular tradition. In 2013, the program also included arts and crafts and Contact: a big picnic. A number of different projects were also financed in tesa SE, Quickbornstrasse 24, D-20253 Hamburg, Germany cooperation with the Lilli Korb Foundation, including a part-time Tel.: +49(0) 40-4909-6597, Fax: +49(0) 40-4909-2236 position for a psychologist, the purchase of teaching materials responsibility@tesa.com, and the joint production of calendars. Another well-loved custom www.tesa.com/company/responsibility is baking before Christmas at the cafeteria in the tesa Converting
