Sustainability Report 2014 Statement of support by our CEO During recent years, the subject of corporate social In our daily work our paths cross with clients and responsibility has become deeply rooted in the stakeholders ranging from large, multi-national coragenda of businesses worldwide and there is a porations to innovative start-up companies and unigood explanation for this. By establishing a clear versities. Supporting the UN Global Compact is a connection between the core of your business and matter of taking a stance and signalling to our stakeyour CSR activities, this connection provides you holders that we strive to be a responsible business with an extremely trustworthy message as CSR in in all possible aspects. that sense is two-fold: your company is both able to support the greater good while also strengthening Being involved with innovation and new inventions its competitive power as a business. on a daily basis also gives us the opportunity to give back by providing guidance, and in some cases Similar to CSR, strategic use of Intellectual Property sponsoring initiatives, that we believe to be truly Rights (IPR) can also improve your company’s comunique and able to provide a societal and environpetitive power. At Plougmann & Vingtoft we consider mental difference. We hope that you will enjoy ourselves to be our clients’ navigators to increased reading this year’s Sustainability report. competitive power. Our employees and their knowledge and competences are our greatest assets and, ultimately, the core of our business. Therefore, we also try our best to support the personal and professional development of all of our Annette Siewert Lindgreen employees, and have made this a key priority in our CEO department of Human Resources. Our employees Professional development in focus As a knowledge-based consultancy our employees are our greatest asset. We invest in having a position on the market as trusted advisors to our clients in areas that are vital to their business. This means that our employees are setting new standards for what customers can expect from the cooperation with an IPR consultancy. We have a strong focus on the further development of our employees. In addition to educating European Patent Attorneys, all of our IP specialists receive internal training tailored to their individual function and level. In this way, all attorneys are introduced to processes that secure a consistent high level of quality in each single task. Our IP coordinators also participate in additional training and education, and many of them are QIPA Qualified Intellectual Property Administrator and QTMA Qualified Trade Mark Administrator. Furthermore, a number of our IP attorneys also work as lecturers at educational institutions such as the University of Copenhagen and the Technical University of Denmark. Diversity in our company As an internationally oriented company we welcome employees from any part of the world, as we see diversity as a strength and competitive advantage in an international company like ours. Our international diversity also benefits our clients as we can provide legal expertise in the form of a Japanese Patent Attorney and a U.S. Patent Attorney. Currently, we have employees from many European countries as well as Japan and we have also started a collaboration with a Russian partner. The male/female ratio of our company is close to being 50/50 which also contributes to providing gender diversity in our company. Job satisfaction Earlier this year, we asked our employees to put into words their personal values behind working at Plougmann & Vingtoft. Based on this survey, four common denominators have been identified as our key Our employees describe values: Commitment, credibility, creativity and competence. Furthermore, we have conducted a survey their workplace by the four of the day-to-day happiness of our employees. These results were very positive and they indicate a gevalue words: neral happiness and well-being at the workplace as well as they express that the willingness to help colCommitment, credibility, leagues is very widespread in our organisation and highly appreciated throughout the entire organisaticreativity and competency on. We are very pleased with these results and we will continue to work and improve on all aspects of the job satisfaction of our employees in order to continue to be an attractive place of work. Facts and figures We have 71 employees, 35 male and 36 female The average age at Plougmann & Vingtoft is 45 65% of our employees have been at the company more than 4 years 18 of our 30 patent attorneys are qualified European Patent Attorneys Ethical standards During the last year, we have revised our business terms in order to ensure that our relationship with our clients are built on a healthy foundation of mutual trust and balancing of expectations. As a consequence of this, we have included a section on “Ethical standards”. Among other things, this section describes that our main priority is to look after the interests of our clients and to safeguard their rights and our independency as professional advisors as well as the fact that our business is subject to the ethical rules and codes of conduct of trade-related international organizations like ADIPA (Association of Danish Intellectual Property Attorneys), EPI (European Patent Institute), ECTA (European Communities Trade Mark Association), FICPI (International Federation of Intellectual Property Attorneys) and NPF (Norwegian Association of IP Attorneys). Read our business terms at http://pv.eu/about/business-terms/. ”We are conscious about sustaining high ethical standards in all aspects of our services and strive to observe all rules and regulations that govern the code of conduct and discipline of Intellectual Property advisors” Focus on innovation and clean technology Working with clean technology Communication on sustainable inventions The world of Intellectual Property revolves around innoWithin our team of IP attorneys we have a compevation and inventions. Many of the inventions we work tent and innovative Cleantech team whose work with are smart solutions which contribute to making helps to promote tehnological development which small or large changes in the environment and society can improve environmental conditions. Besides at large. working with the technological aspects of Cleantech, our experts are also keen on communicating One of the primary industries in which we work is the the results and impacts of various inventions within Clean Technology sector. Clean Technology relates to this sector. products and services that improve operational performance, productivity or efficiency while reducing costs, Our magazine BRIGHT NOW is a channel for inputs, energy consumption, waste or pollution. Creacommunicating the stories behind the different intors of Clean Technology need patent protection for ventions. Through BRIGHT NOW, we have told stortheir inventions and investments, as it secures their ies about using algae as a ”green” form of aircraft business and stimulates further innovation for the fuel, the development of a special type of fish feed good of all of us. for sustainable fish farming, using ozone for efficient water purification, and a solution for environmental garbage sorting and recycling. With BRIGHT NOW we share stories of the societal impact of inventions Networks and sponsorships Learning by helping others Plougmann & Vingtoft’s subsidiary company, tto a/s, focuses much of their work on helping start-up ”We have received helpful companies and universities. tto a/s assists universities in commercializing their inventions as well as in advice from Plougmann & improving the overall performance of their technology transfer units through implementation of innovatiVingtoft about consideration management processes. ons regarding patenting In fact, the university sector is one of our most innovative and inspiring client bases. Plougmann & Vingtoft enjoys the cooperation with entrepreneurs and what it would mean and students. In one particular case we not only helped our clients obtain protection of their invention for the value of our but took the opportunity to partly sponsor the invention. We did so, as we believed that this was an inproduct and business” novative and truly great initiative. DropBucket is a garbage bin made for single use when the need for bins is larger than normal, for example at festivals and concerts e.g. at Roskilde festival and Distortion. During occasions where the density of people is larger than normal, such as outdoor events like festivals, the amount of littering also rises. A group of students from the Technical University of Denmark has provided a solution for solving this problem with the invention of the DropBucket. Dropbucket is a garbage bin designed to be transported in folded condition and quickly be set up. It is made of recycled cardboard and the material is enhanced in order to make it water-resistant. When the DropBucket is full, the entire waste bin can be recycled, along with the garbage. The idea and concept behind the DropBucket is simple, yet very efficient and is part of solving a large environmental issue. Therefore, we were not in doubt whether or not to sponsor this project. Plougmann & Vingtoft Plougmann & Vingtoft is a European Intellectual Property consultancy which places IPR on the agenda of top management for our clients. Our mission is to strengthen our clients’ competitive power by working with IPR. Copenhagen Aarhus Munich Munich Rued Langgaards Vej 8 ArnulfstrasseAaboulevarden 37 23 Arnulfstrasse 37 2300 Copenhagen S 80636 Munich 8100 Aarhus C 80636 Munich Germany Denmark Denmark Germany T +49 89 5155 543 Munich Arnulfstrasse 37 Oslo Madrid 80636 Munich Bergen Germany T +49 89 5155 543 Nedre Vollgate 4 Parque Empreserial “La Finca” Bergen Business Centre Strandga0158 Oslo P Club Deportivo, 1 Edificio 15A ten 209 Norway 28223 Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid 5004 Bergen Spain Norway
