SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Royal Dutch Shell plc Sustainability Report 2013 02 30 CONTENTS OUR APPROACH 03 Introduction from the CEO OUR PERFORMANCE 31 Economic 04 Building a sustainable energy future 32 Environmental 05 Sustainability and our business strategy 34 Social 06 Living by our principles 36 Environmental and social data 07 Safety 38 External Review Committee 08 Communities 40 About our reporting 09 Environment 41 About our data 10 Climate change 11 Focus on: Carbon capture and storage 12 OUR ACTIVITIES 13 Sustainable development in Shell 14 Natural gas 15 Tight gas and oil 16 Liqueﬁed natural gas 17 Contractors, suppliers and joint ventures 18 Deep water 19 Iraq 20 Alaska 22 Nigeria 25 Focus on: Partners and collaboration 26 Oil sands 27 Focus on: Technology and innovation 28 Fuels and products 29 Biofuels Cover photo Scientists use 3D technology to review seismic data to help locate oil and gas reservoirs. Rijswijk, the Netherlands. New Lens Scenarios disclaimer venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all ﬁscal and regulatory developments including regulatory This publication contains data from Shell’s New Lens third-party interest. This publication contains forwardmeasures addressing climate change; (k) economic and Scenarios. The New Lens Scenarios are a part of an looking statements concerning the ﬁnancial condition, ﬁnancial market conditions in various countries and ongoing process used in Shell for 40 years to challenge results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of executives’ perspectives on the future business All statements other than statements of historical fact are, expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts environment. We base them on plausible assumptions or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the and quantiﬁcation, and they are designed to stretch Forward-looking statements are statements of future approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for management to consider events that may only be remotely expectations that are based on management’s current shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All possible. Scenarios, therefore, are not intended to be expectations and assumptions and involve known and forward-looking statements contained in this publication predictions of likely future events or outcomes and investors unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual are expressly qualiﬁed in their entirety by the cautionary should not rely on them when making an investment results, performance or events to differ materially from statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers decision with regards to Royal Dutch Shell plc securities. those expressed or implied in these statements. should not place undue reliance on forward-looking Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future Cautionary note statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing year ended December 31, 2013 (available at www.shell. indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also publication “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” projections and assumptions. These forward-looking expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained are sometimes used for convenience where references are statements are identiﬁed by their use of terms and phrases in this publication and should be considered by the reader. made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also “expect”, “goals”, “intend”, “may”, “objectives”, “outlook”, of this publication, April 9, 2014. Neither Royal Dutch used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who “plan”, “probably”, “project”, “risks”, “schedule”, “seek”, Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any work for them. These expressions are also used where no “should”, “target”, “will” and similar terms and phrases. obligation to publicly update or revise any forwarduseful purpose is served by identifying the particular There are a number of factors that could affect the future looking statement as a result of new information, future company or companies. “Subsidiaries”, “Shell operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those events or other information. In light of these risks, results subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this results to differ materially from those expressed in the could differ materially from those stated, implied or publication refer to companies over which Royal Dutch forward-looking statements included in this publication, inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. including (without limitation): (a) price ﬂuctuations in crude this publication. We may have used certain terms, such as Companies over which Shell has joint control are generally oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s resources, in this publication that United States Securities referred to “joint ventures” and companies over which products; (c) currency ﬂuctuations; (d) drilling and and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from Shell has signiﬁcant inﬂuence but neither control nor joint production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market including in our ﬁlings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are control are referred to as “associates”. In this publication, share and industry competition; (g) environmental and urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identiﬁcation of File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. (for example, through our 23% shareholding in Woodside (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and Petroleum Ltd.) ownership interest held by Shell in a countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, INTRODUCTION 01 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR BUSINESSES Producing oil Mining oil sands and gas Exploring for oil Extracting and gas bitumen Reﬁning oil into fuels and lubricants Producing petrochemicals Producing biofuels Developing ﬁelds Supply and Shipping distribution and trading Converting gas to liquid products (GTL) Generating B2B sales Shipping wind power and trading Chemical products for plastics, Liquefying gas Regasifying LNG coatings, detergents by cooling (LNG) Retail sales Fuels and lubricants for transport B2B sales Retail sales Gas for cooking, heating, electrical power ABOUT SHELL Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical companies employing 92,000 people Projects and Technology in more than 70 countries. Our aim is to help meet the energy needs of society in ways that Projects and Technology is overall accountable for are economically, environmentally and socially responsible. wells engineering and wells completion, for project engineering and project execution. It drives the Upstream International and gas to market. Upstream Americas also extracts research and innovation to create technology Upstream International manages the Upstream bitumen from oil sands that is converted into solutions. It provides technical services and business outside the Americas. It searches for and synthetic crude oil. Its activities are managed technology capability covering both upstream and recovers crude oil, natural gas and natural gas primarily by lines of business which are logically downstream activities. It is responsible for providing liquids, liqueﬁes and transports gas, and operates combined activities underpinned by strategic functional leadership across Shell in the areas of the upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary themes. The wind power activities in the USA are safety, environment and social performance as well to deliver oil and gas to market. Its activities are part of Upstream Americas. as contracting and procurement. managed primarily by lines of business which are logically combined activities underpinned by Downstream www.shell.com/about strategic themes. Downstream manages the manufacturing, supply, distribution and marketing activities for oil products, Upstream Americas biofuels and chemicals. These activities are Upstream Americas manages the Upstream business organised into globally managed classes of in North and South America. It searches for and business. Downstream trades Shell’s ﬂow of recovers crude oil, natural gas and natural gas hydrocarbons and other energy-related products. liquids, transports gas and operates the upstream It also oversees Shell’s interests in alternative energy, and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver oil excluding wind. OUR APPROACH Shell works to help meet the world’s growing demand for energy in a responsible way. This means operating safely, reducing our impact on the environment and sharing beneﬁts with the communities who are our neighbours. We have global standards in place and continually learn from our experiences to improve the way we operate. This section outlines how sustainability underpins our operations, including how we work with communities, our commitment to safe operations and how we manage environmental impacts. The hull of our Prelude ﬂoating liqueﬁed natural gas facility under construction in the Geoje shipyard, South Korea. OUR APPROACH 03 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO ”Boosting local economies by creating jobs, developing skills and working with local suppliers builds trust.” I am pleased to introduce the Shell Sustainability Report for 2013. We have experienced We are helping to shape a better understanding of a challenging year, in a difﬁcult business environment. I will continue to take a long-term and response to these challenges. During 2013, view of our business, where the health and safety of our people and neighbours, and our Shell continued to bring the private and public environmental performance, remain the top priorities for Shell. sectors together by hosting events that promote the need for building resilience in companies and in Sustainability is integral to our business. We A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURE society at large. operate responsibly, investing to satisfy growing We apply our expertise and knowledge from our global energy demand and to help build a cleaner long history in the oil and gas sector to develop However, greater levels of collaboration and trust energy system for the future. We also actively technologies and innovations. This includes cleaner must be fostered among government, industry and participate in key discussions between business, energy solutions that can be deployed now – such civil society to create the urgent shift needed to help civil society and government. as natural gas and low-carbon biofuel – as well address these challenges. Governments must as emerging opportunities, such as advanced provide the right frameworks to encourage OPERATING RESPONSIBLY biofuels and liqueﬁed natural gas for transport. economic investment in cleaner energy, while We will continue to focus on operational We produce about as much natural gas as oil. business can offer technology, know-how, performance while embedding sustainability within Gas is the cleanest fossil fuel, producing half as transparency and pragmatic long-term views. Shell. This means taking stringent steps to prevent much carbon dioxide (CO2) as coal in power harm to the people working in our operations, our generation and less local pollution. We were a founding member of the UN Global neighbours and the environment. Running a safe Compact and continue to support its principles in and efﬁcient business is at the core of good The development of our Quest carbon capture and human rights, labour, environment and antioperational performance. storage (CCS) project in Canada is expected to corruption. Details of our progress in these areas capture 1 million tonnes of CO2 a year from our oil can be found in this report. We need to challenge ourselves to make sure we sands operations. The project will provide valuable always do the right thing and seek solutions that knowledge to support broader application of CCS I would like to thank the members of the External share beneﬁts with the communities where we technologies. Review Committee (ERC), consisting of experts in operate. This can boost local economies by sustainability, for their help in developing this report. creating jobs, developing skills and encouraging We design our new operations to minimise our Their contributions are highly valued. enterprise by working with local suppliers, often impact on the environment and continue to work to helping them to build capacity. It increases trust and improve the energy and water efﬁciency of our I invite you to send your comments on the report to: builds lasting, positive relationships. existing operations. sustainabilityreport@shell.com Therefore, at Shell, doing the right thing is not only WORKING TOGETHER a matter of principle, it also makes good business The scale of the global challenges that the world sense. I will be looking at each part of Shell’s faces is too great for one company, or one sector, business to ensure that we continue to improve our to resolve. Global demand for energy is rising as sustainability performance. We have made a lot populations grow, living standards increase and of progress over the years, but expectations urbanisation intensiﬁes. There will be greater continue to rise – we must never be satisﬁed or stress on the essentials of energy, water and food, Ben van Beurden complacent. which is likely to be exacerbated by climate Chief Executive Ofﬁcer change. 04 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE We are at the early stages of a transformation in energy use. A growing population with But we are not waiting for government policy to rising living standards is increasing the demand for energy. By the middle of this century, develop; we already consider a potential screening it is expected that three-quarters of the world’s population will be living in cities, up from value of CO2 emissions at $40 a tonne. This is a 50% today. At Shell, we are working to help build a more sustainable energy future. guide that is used in all our investment decisions. Shell produces natural gas, the cleanest-burning The world’s population is expected to grow by think-tank, which aims to understand the challenges fossil fuel, as well as low-carbon biofuel. We are around 2 billion people to 9 billion by 2050. As of increased urbanisation and population rise in the also helping to develop carbon capture and average living standards rise, more people will gain UK, and foster ideas to address them. storage technologies and working to improve the better access to goods and services, leading to energy efﬁciency of our operations. increased energy consumption. Global energy In 2013, we completed a joint study with the demand could increase by three-quarters over the Chinese government’s Development Research next 50 years. This increasing energy use from the Centre to determine the future energy needs of the NEW LENS SCENARIOS needs of a growing global population will have a country. The expected urban growth in China – an For more than 40 years, Shell has been using long-term impact on the world’s resources. additional 350 million Chinese will inhabit cities by scenarios to analyse current economic trends 2030 – will affect resource efﬁciency globally. The and project plausible pathways into the future. Shell’s New Lens Scenarios (see box) say that study found that with the right policies, choices, Our scenario building explores alternative demand for fresh water could increase by 40% by regulations and frameworks in place, China can visions of the future to help test, strengthen and 2030; the United Nations says that demand for accommodate its anticipated urban population inﬂuence our present business decisions. food could increase by 50% by 2030. Climate growth through to 2030 without increasing its land change will intensify the stresses affecting these use for urban living. For example, our scenarios highlighted resources. To help meet the growing energy demand circumstances that made low-carbon biofuels fossil fuels are still likely to make up the bulk of the ACTING NOW look like an attractive growth business. energy mix, with gas showing the biggest growth The International Energy Agency says that unless This included rising energy demand and by mid-century (see diagram). Renewable sources, governments change policy, the world faces an prices, and an increase in government such as solar and wind, will continue to increase in insecure, inefﬁcient and high-carbon energy future. mandates to reduce greenhouse gases. This the energy mix. Shell’s scenarios estimate that, with Without clear measures to promote investment in inﬂuenced our decision to become involved in strong government support, energy from solar, wind, more efﬁcient and low-carbon technologies, it risks biofuels production. biomass and other renewables could rise to around setting itself on a course to potentially catastrophic 25% by 2050. climate change. The New Lens Scenarios (see disclaimer), published in 2013, show two alternative Energy production is linked to both water use and We advocate publicly that a strong and stable pathways, called “Mountains” and “Oceans”, food production. We have been bringing experts price on CO2 emissions will help drive the right which detail a plausible energy future. They together from government, businesses and investment in low-carbon technologies. Support look beyond 2060, reﬂecting that the rising non-governmental organisations to understand and from governments is needed to encourage the energy use of a growing and more afﬂuent respond to the resource challenges and to explore development of cleaner fuels and ways to reduce global population will have increasingly new forms of collaboration. We continue to industrial carbon emissions. Shell plays an active long-term impacts. Our scenarios help us to contribute to the public dialogue on energy and role in inﬂuential think-tanks, and with senior become better equipped to tackle future climate policy, and to participate in discussions to government ofﬁcials and regulators to ensure our challenges. promote resilient systems. views on effective climate change and CO2 policies are understood. “Mountains” shows a world in which policy URBANISATION plays an important role in shaping the world’s Our scenarios identify the key role of cities in the energy system; whereas “Oceans” envisages PROJECTED GLOBAL ENERGY DEMAND future. Most of the world’s carbon dioxide (CO2) TO 2050 market forces, rather than policies, as the basis emissions already come from cities, even though million barrels of oil equivalent a day for shaping the energy system. Both scenarios cities occupy less than 2% of the earth’s total land demonstrate that emissions will not meet the area. It is in cities, as centres of economic progress, 400 target of limiting CO2 in the atmosphere to where the greatest advances can be made. Yet 450 parts per million. This is the widelycities will also suffer most from increasing pressure modelled level of CO2 that could lead to a on resources. As smalland medium-sized cities rise in global temperatures of 2 °C. 300 grow, they face the challenge of becoming liveable while addressing potential resource pressures. During 2013, Shell spoke with leaders, academics, non-governmental organisations Our work with governments, businesses and civil 200 and businesses across more than 30 countries. society is helping us to better understand how cities We shared insights from the New Lens develop, and their impact on energy supply and Scenarios about a future global energy system, demand. This creates an opportunity to build better 100 discussing areas that include resilience, transport infrastructure that has less impact on the sustainability and better urban development. environment. Effective planning of local infrastructure We assist some authorities, over extended could help create conditions to reduce energy use 0 periods, to develop scenarios for local and emissions. decision making. 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Crude oil Coal Biomass Solar In the UK, for example, we have created the UK Natural gas Nuclear Wind Other Resilience Challenge. This is a year-long renewables Source: Shell analysis, February 2014 collaborative programme, in partnership with a OUR APPROACH 05 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our approach to sustainability seeks to reinforce our position as an industry leader while The scale of the global challenges that the world helping to meet global energy demand in a responsible way. In the decades ahead, more faces is too great for one company, or one sector, energy will be needed to spur economic development and sustain a growing population as to resolve. Effective collaboration is urgently needed living standards rise for many people. to shape a sustainable energy future. As competition increases for access to energy INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY resources and new customer markets, sustainability We integrate our approach to sustainability across OUR GOVERNANCE remains crucial to delivering our business strategy. our activities on three levels (see diagram). We AND STANDARDS We seek to build a portfolio that balances the work in collaboration with businesses, governments The overall accountability for sustainable shortand long-term interests of our business, taking and civil society, including non-governmental development within Shell lies with the Chief into account a range of key risks. Major projects in organisations (NGOs), at each level. Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO) and the Executive areas such as liqueﬁed natural gas, deep water Committee. They set priorities and standards in and tight gas are included in our portfolio. We Running a safe, efﬁcient, responsible and sustainable development that help shape our integrate economic, social and environmental proﬁtable business business activities. The CEO chairs the Health, considerations into our business decisions from the This is the foundation of our approach, which Safety, Security, Environment and Social earliest stage. includes having processes and tools in place to Performance (HSSE & SP) Executive, which manage safety, environment and community shapes, drives and assesses how we manage Our commitment to technology and innovation involvement. We aim to continuously improve the our performance in these areas. continues to be at the core of our strategy, and our way we operate to prevent incidents and identify, engineering expertise is key to the growth of our avoid where possible and minimise adverse All employees and contractors working for businesses. As we move into increasingly environmental and social impacts across our Shell, including those at joint ventures we challenging environments, we use advanced projects and facilities. operate, are required to act in accordance technologies and ﬁnd creative ways to access with our mandatory HSSE & SP Control difﬁcult resources. Working in these environments Sharing wider beneﬁts where we operate Framework. This deﬁnes standards can require more energy-intensive processes, which Our business is planned for the long term, which and accountabilities at each level of the is likely to increase our greenhouse gas emissions means we can be part of a community for organisation, and sets out the processes over time. decades. We help to develop local economies by and procedures that people should follow. creating jobs, sourcing from local suppliers, and Implementing high standards in our approach to paying taxes and royalties. We support community Our business managers are accountable for safety, the environment and community relations is projects that are based on the needs of the local running our projects and facilities responsibly. critical to the success of these projects; it helps us to communities. They work with communities, NGOs, partners minimise delays and to manage the impact on the and others to better understand and address environment and our neighbours. It also enables us Helping to shape a more sustainable energy future the impact of our operations. Our HSSE & SP to share wider beneﬁts with communities where we In the coming decades, more and cleaner energy specialists work with business managers operate, and support host government objectives for will be needed for economic development in the to implement our standards, which help to economic and social development. face of growing environmental pressures. We are improve our sustainability performance. We investing in low-carbon energy solutions and have comprehensive assurance processes in advanced technologies, such as those that increase place to monitor compliance. energy efﬁciency and reduce emissions (page 27). The Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee (CSRC) of the Board of Royal Dutch SHELL’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Shell plc reviews policies and performance with respect to the Shell General Business Principles, Code of Conduct, HSSE & SP standards and issues of public concern on behalf of the Board. Besides its regular meetings, the CSRC visits facilities to meet with local employees, contractors and external Helping to shape a more stakeholders to observe how Shell’s standards sustainable energy future regarding HSSE & SP are being implemented in practice. During 2013, the Committee visited South Africa and Alaska, USA. Sharing wider beneﬁts where we operate Running a safe, efﬁcient, responsible and proﬁtable business 06 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES Our business principles govern the way we work. They embody our core values of honesty, INDIGENOUS PEOPLES integrity and respect for people, and apply to relationships with our business partners, Our activities can affect indigenous peoples who neighbours and the environment. hold speciﬁc rights to protect their distinct cultures and ways of life under many national or OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS international laws. We ensure that the views and The Shell General Business Principles detail All our employees and contractors are required to traditional ways of life of indigenous communities our responsibilities to shareholders, customers, respect the human rights of fellow workers and that may be affected by our projects are factored employees, business partners and society. They communities where we operate, as stated in our into our project planning. For example, we have set the standards for the way we conduct business business principles. We focus on four areas across been working closely with the Iñupiaq people in with integrity and our respect for the environment Shell’s activities where respect for human rights is Alaska to ensure that their subsistence activities are and local communities. All Shell employees and particularly critical to the way we operate: labour not interrupted by our operations. contractors, and those at joint ventures we control, conditions, communities, supply chains and security. are expected to comply with our business In 2013, we launched a new e-learning tool on A particular concern for indigenous peoples’ rights principles. Shell provides mandatory training for human rights, which is available to all employees is resettlement – the loss of access to shelter, assets employees and contractors to embed these business and contractors. or livelihoods from land acquired for our projects. It principles in our culture. We encourage joint is considered involuntary resettlement when affected ventures that we do not control, and suppliers, While it is the duty of governments to protect human individuals or communities do not have the right to apply equivalent principles. rights, we recognise our responsibility to respect to refuse the acquisition. As part of our respect for them. We work with international organisations, human rights, we have guidelines that seek to avoid OUR CODE OF CONDUCT businesses, civil society and other bodies to this in our projects and operations. If physical or The Shell Code of Conduct instructs individuals on understand and respond to current and emerging economic resettlement is unavoidable, we develop how to behave in accordance with the Shell issues on the implementation of the UN Guiding and implement action plans or livelihood restoration General Business Principles. All Shell employees Principles on Business and Human Rights. plans in consultation with local parties. and contractors must follow the Code of Conduct. It outlines speciﬁc areas such as anti-corruption, We have community feedback mechanisms that SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS fair competition and contributing to safe working enable people neighbouring our operations to We have requirements to keep employees, practices. Conﬁdential channels, including a share any concerns about the impacts of our contractors and facilities safe, while respecting the telephone helpline and website, are available for activities. During 2013, we worked to improve our human rights and security of local communities. We anyone to report potential breaches, anonymously programmes. This was based on outcomes from have been implementing the Voluntary Principles on if they wish. We encourage reporting of concerns pilots at some of our major projects and facilities, Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) since their and do not tolerate retaliation in any form. If as well as experiences shared with companies in development in 2000. These principles offer violations occur, we take appropriate action. IPIECA, the oil and gas industry association for guidance on assessing risks when working with social and environmental issues. This informed our private and public security. We include them in our We have a culture that embraces diversity and efforts to align with good industry practice. private security contracts. fosters an inclusive work environment with equal opportunities. For further information about our Our collaboration with the Danish Institute for Annual risk assessments take place in our diversity and inclusion programme see page 35. Human Rights assesses and provides guidance on operations. This includes veriﬁcation that employees our human rights practices. Shell played a key role and contractors who are responsible for the security ANTITRUST in the development of an industry guide on human of our facilities are trained to apply the VPSHR. The purpose of antitrust laws is to promote and rights and impact assessment, launched by the We provide additional training where needed. safeguard competition among businesses. We have Danish Institute for Human Rights and IPIECA. an antitrust programme designed to prevent and The guide was launched at the end of 2012. detect activities that may not comply with antitrust laws. This includes mandatory training to help people working for Shell to understand their role We embrace a culture of diversity across our operations in more than 70 countries. and responsibilities, and measures to help prevent antitrust incidents. Anyone working for Shell who does not comply faces disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal or termination of their contract. ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Our anti-bribery and corruption programme supports our prohibition against offering, soliciting or accepting bribes of any kind, either directly or indirectly. The programme includes mandatory procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, and training on topics such as political payments, gifts and hospitality, and conﬂicts of interest. Anyone working for Shell who does not comply faces disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal or termination of their contract. OUR APPROACH 07 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFETY Safety is critical to the responsible delivery of energy. We develop and operate our facilities with the aim of preventing any incidents that may harm our employees and contractors or ROAD SAFETY nearby communities, or cause environmental impact. We continue to build a culture where Our employees and contractors drove almost people understand their role in making Shell a safe place to work. 1 billion km in 2013 – a distance equivalent to 70 times around the world every day. Operating safely is central to the way we deliver spend the day sharing ideas and good practice, We transport fuel to customers, deliver energy and products to our customers. Our goal is and planning ways to improve our performance in equipment to construction projects and for all of our facilities to operate with no leaks or safety. transport people to their work sites. Many incidents that may cause serious injury to our of these journeys take place in countries employees, contractors or neighbours. We have a PROCESS SAFETY with existing infrastructure and road safety global set of standards that detail the safety risks We seek to ensure that all our facilities are well standards that struggle to support the that need to be managed and who is accountable. designed, well operated and well maintained to run increasing demand for road transport. This is called our Health, Safety, Security, safely. This means not releasing any hazardous Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) material that could harm people or the environment. We have programmes that train our drivers to Control Framework and it deﬁnes the controls for The global technical safety standards for all projects recognise hazards and to anticipate errors managing our operations safely and responsibly and facilities we operate meet local regulatory from other road users to reduce road transport (see box, page 5). requirements and, in many cases, exceed them. incidents. We enforce our global road safety standards and minimise our use of road All Shell employees and contractors, and those at A three-year review programme of our engineering transport when possible. We use technology, joint ventures we operate, must follow our safety design standards to better manage safety risks was such as monitoring systems inside vehicles, to rules, intervene in unsafe situations, and respect our completed in 2013. The review sought to ensure further improve driver behaviour and we neighbours and the environment. These expectations that our standards are up to date and effective. It recognise drivers for good practices. and controls are the foundations of the proactive was followed by the implementation of a speciﬁc safety culture that we nurture in our workforce. Our training programme for engineers to integrate the We reached a new milestone in 2013 by Life-Saving Rules and annual global Safety Day standards into the design of our new facilities. In achieving a full year without an employee or promote a culture where everyone takes responsibility 2013, we also completed a $6 billion programme, contractor road fatality. The number of road for safety. The mandatory 12 Life-Saving Rules cover which started in 2006, to improve the safety transport incidents with a potentially severe expectations on managing the most critical safety of our oil and gas production facilities. Around outcome was also reduced by over one-ﬁfth risks. Lives can be lost when these are not followed. $750 million was invested in the safety and compared with 2012. We believe that this Since their implementation in 2009, there has been reliability of our reﬁneries, chemical plants and success has been due to the enforcement of a notable reduction in the number of fatalities in our distribution facilities during 2013. our road safety-related Life-Saving Rules: operations. Our annual global Safety Day is an drivers must follow a prescribed plan for opportunity for all employees and contractors to We routinely prepare and practise our emergency their journey; vehicle occupants must wear a response to potential incidents such as an oil spill or seat belt; drivers must not use mobile phones Shell employees make plans to operate a ﬁre. This involves working closely with local while driving and must not exceed speed safely at the Pulau Bukom manufacturing emergency response crews and government limits. We have been recognised for our site in Singapore. agencies to jointly test our plans and procedures. road safety performance and, in 2013, The tests continually improve our readiness to received the Prince Michael International respond. If an incident does occur, we have Road Safety award. procedures in place designed to reduce the impact on people and the environment. To help reduce the number of road transport incidents globally, we work with local Shell learns from investigations into major industry authorities, non-governmental organisations incidents and embeds this knowledge into its and communities to implement road safety technical safety standards. Our training programme initiatives. We are a lead partner and funder for managers creates a working culture that of the Global Road Safety Partnership to increases risk awareness and prevents safety improve road safety in lowand middleincidents. The training, along with on-the-job income countries. We also support the UN experience, helps people to recognise and respond Decade of Action for Road Safety by to small signs of a potential problem. It encourages participating in projects at national and local people to raise any safety concerns with managers level, focusing on high-risk environments. and intervene to keep our people and facilities safe. JOINT VENTURES We often work in joint ventures with national and international energy companies. When we operate the venture we apply Shell standards that cover HSSE & SP. The standards for these joint ventures also include the Shell General Business Principles and the Code of Conduct. Where we are not the operator we encourage our partners to apply materially equivalent standards. For further information about our joint ventures, contractors and suppliers see page 17. 08 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM COMMUNITIES Many of our operations have neighbouring communities. We aim to share beneﬁts with these has a strong community or environmental beneﬁt. communities by helping to develop local economies, creating local jobs and developing skills Hosted around the world, the programme awards as well as supporting communities with investment programmes. promising new entrepreneurs with expert advice or funding from Shell to launch and grow their business. Community engagement is fundamental to our Community engagement included consultations with approach to sustainability within Shell. It helps to the local administrators, listening to the needs of the As part of our second strategic theme, we are a build people’s trust and is the basis for operating local residents and providing more information about lead partner in the Global Road Safety Partnership responsibly. Our projects and operations also create operations. NAM produces gas from the onshore (page 7), a global alliance that educates young business opportunities for people locally, which can Groningen gas ﬁeld in the Netherlands. The Dutch people on road safety. In support of our third help people build livelihoods. government has a 40% interest in the gas ﬁeld and strategic theme, we are the single-largest private NAM a 60% interest. The government, advised by sector contributor to the Global Alliance for Clean Our major projects and facilities are required to the regulator, reviews and approves the production Cookstoves (page 24), helping homes to change to have a social performance plan. This informs people plans for the ﬁeld. NAM supports the recent plan using clean and efﬁcient stoves and fuels. about the social context for future operations and proposed by the Minister of Economic Affairs to identiﬁes any potential negative impacts on the reduce production in response to increased We often work in local partnerships with other community. The plans include community seismic activity. parties, including non-governmental organisations engagement activities, such as hosting local and development agencies, to implement our meetings, that help us to monitor the impacts of our We also strengthened our approach to social programmes (page 25). Alongside our global operations (see opinion, page 13). It also identiﬁes performance in 2013, so that operations within Shell strategic investment themes, we have locally tailored where we can support community development consistently apply common global social programmes in areas such as community programmes. The social performance process can performance standards. These are informed by development, education, and biodiversity and lead to changes in our plans and operations, if recognised international good practice, such as conservation. In 2013, we introduced a new needed (see diagram). the International Finance Corporation (IFC) measurement framework across all of our regions, performance standards. which will help us in the longer term to measure and We work together with our neighbours to evaluate the impact of our community investment minimise impacts and address concerns (see box). INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES activities around the world. Our social performance teams include experts in Our community investment projects are an essential specialist areas, such as indigenous peoples’ rights, part of our work with our neighbours. We focus on cultural heritage and land acquisition, resettlement three global strategic investment themes where we SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PROCESS and livelihood restoration. We also train people have business expertise and form partnerships. as community liaison ofﬁcers, who are often The themes are enterprise development, road safety local residents, to monitor and respond to and access to energy. In 2013, we spent almost community feedback. $159 million on community investment projects around the world. Enhance positive impacts For example, in the Netherlands during 2013, the Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij (NAM, Shell Our LiveWIRE programme supports our enterprise interest 50%) intensiﬁed community engagement development theme, encouraging thousands of following increased concerns about seismic activity. young people to build a business of their own that Integrate into Social the business Engagement investment COMMUNITY FEEDBACK MECHANISMS We have tight gas and oil operations in the Appalachia region in the USA. Over 18 months, we developed a community feedback pilot programme for people from nearby communities. This Avoid or mitigate followed an unexpected volume of calls and complaints from residents in the area due to problems negative impacts such as noise from our operations. Neighbourhood call centres were set up for the community to contact Shell. Our community liaison ofﬁcers reviewed and followed up on every query. Shell also put systems in place to contact the This diagram shows the scope of our activities. community about upcoming site activity to reduce any potential interference that could affect people We aim to create a positive presence in the living in the area. communities where we operate. “Shell Appalachia has met regularly with the Board of Commissioners and held community meetings,” says Erick Coolidge, County Commissioner, Tioga County, Pennsylvania. ”This has helped to dispel misinformation about the drilling process. It also shows interest from Shell in our community’s needs.” Since 2011, Shell has contacted over 2,000 people about site activities and processed over 2,250 feedback requests from people in the community. Within two years, calls reduced to around 50 cases a month, after a high of 210 cases a month in early 2012. Appalachia’s community feedback programme was part of our work with IPIECA, the oil and gas industry association for social and environmental issues, to collaborate on the development of grievance mechanisms for the industry. OUR APPROACH 09 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT We are working to reduce the environmental impact of our operations as we help to meet the world’s growing energy demand. We have strict environmental standards to manage greenhouse gas emissions, reduce our use of energy, minimise our consumption of fresh water and protect biodiversity. The potential environmental impact of our activities decommissioned oil platforms at our Indefatigable – and how local communities are affected – is Field in the UK North Sea were recycled or reused carefully considered both before projects start and (see opinion). Some waste materials are used as Mark Andrew during ongoing operations. We focus on key areas fuel for power generation. Project Manager, Veolia Environmental including consuming less fresh water; conserving Services, Hull, UK biodiversity; using less energy; minimising waste; SENSITIVE ENVIRONMENTS “ preventing spills and leaks; ﬂaring less gas Our work with leading scientiﬁc and conservation External opinion produced with oil, and managing greenhouse gas organisations around the world helps us to ﬁnd new emissions. (For details of our environmental ways to manage environmental challenges and performance, see page 32.) improve the way we develop our projects and “We have been working with Shell for operate our facilities. We collaborate with over 12 months on the dismantling and Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are managed Earthwatch, the International Union for Conservation disposal of several offshore structures with the use of energy-efﬁciency technologies of Nature, The Nature Conservancy and Wetlands from the Shell Indefatigable gas ﬁeld in and processes, and by reducing ﬂaring in our International to help us address environmental the southern North Sea. The contract operations. We are also working to manage aspects of our activities (page 25). was based on stringent technical, health CO2 emissions by advancing carbon capture and and safety and regulatory requirements. storage (CCS) technologies. For example, we are Shell aims to operate responsibly and transparently The aim was to dismantle and recycle implementing the Quest CCS facility in Canada in protected areas that are rich in biodiversity, often the structures, applying the safest and to reduce CO2 emissions from our oil sands working in collaboration with environmental experts. most environmentally friendly methods. operations (page 11). We were one of the ﬁrst energy companies to introduce a biodiversity standard. An environmental Shell takes its environmental Our HSSE & SP Control Framework (see box, impact assessment takes place when we plan a responsibility seriously. Shell worked page 5) includes environmental standards that must major project or an expansion to an existing facility. with us to achieve an impressive be applied across Shell. All our major installations We also consider the potential impacts on local 98.9% recycling and reuse rate of the including reﬁneries, chemical plants, gas plants and biodiversity, taking steps to address them, and materials, which helped to reduce permanently staffed oil and gas production facilities review how local people may depend on environmental impact from waste are also certiﬁed to ISO 14001. biodiversity and ecosystems for essentials such as handling and treatment. Veolia fresh water and food for their subsistence. developed an environmental accounting WATER report which allowed the full tracking of The availability of fresh water is a growing For example, we are part of a joint venture all waste streams. Materials from the challenge for some communities and industries. operating in southern Iraq’s Majnoon oil ﬁeld, which platforms were processed and graded Operating in water-scarce areas may bring overlaps with an ancient wetland of international for recycling; wood was pulped and operational and commercial challenges as importance (page 19). Our environmental plan made into paper, and crushed concrete regulations on water become more stringent and helped the project team gain a better understanding was used as an aggregate for the cost of using water increases. We are taking of the sensitivities in the area and how local construction.” steps to better manage our use of water. To support communities use the marshes for their livelihoods, this, we have established a global centre of such as for ﬁshing and feeding livestock. This expertise for water at the Shell Technology Centre inﬂuences the design of the oilﬁeld infrastructure. in Bangalore, India, which combines our water technology skills and knowledge. ENGINEERING WITH NATURE Natural systems can be used to complement The design and operation of our facilities uses man-made infrastructure, making the overall system innovative approaches and advanced technologies more resilient. For example, oyster beds can be to manage water, such as customised water used to stabilise pipeline systems and reduce recycling systems to reduce the amount of water we coastal erosion. We have been part of a joint use from local sources. We have water recycling industry programme, which released a report on projects at several of our operations around the natural systems in 2013 and recommended that world, including in Canada, the Netherlands and green infrastructure be included in the training for South Africa, where we have worked closely with engineers. Our scientists contributed to this work local water authorities to develop solutions that alongside academics, The Nature Conservancy, beneﬁt both Shell and local communities. Dow Chemical Company, Swiss Re and Unilever. MINIMISING WASTE Petroleum Development Oman (Shell interest 34%) Across Shell, we follow a standardised waste has commissioned the world’s largest commercial management process. This includes ﬁnding ways to wetland water-treatment plant, which covers reduce the volume of waste that is produced and 360 hectares. The facility is located south of identifying substitute materials that create less waste Muscat, Oman, and treats water produced from the where possible. We make efforts to reuse or Nimr oilﬁeld by using reeds from the wetland as recycle waste. For example, materials from water ﬁlters. 10 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM CLIMATE CHANGE All forms of energy will be needed to meet growing global demand. Governments, industry and civil society need to collaborate to build a cleaner energy future. Shell is taking action Myles Allen across four areas: producing more natural gas; helping to advance carbon capture and Professor of Geosystem storage technologies; producing low-carbon biofuel, and working to improve the energy Science, University of efﬁciency of our operations. Oxford, Oxford, UK The world continues to face the critical challenge relatively safe 2 ºC are slipping away and urgent of how to meet the increasing demand for energy steps are needed to reduce CO2 emissions. CCS while reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions safely stores CO2 underground, instead of releasing – the greenhouse gas (GHG) that is the main cause it into the atmosphere. The IEA estimates that CCS of climate change. International efforts agreed could reduce global CO2 emissions by around 15% “ under the United Nations Framework Convention by 2050 provided it is rapidly deployed in the External opinion on Climate Change (UNFCCC) aim to limit the coming years. Government support is needed to average rise in global temperature to below 2 ºC bring CCS, and other low-carbon technologies, to compared to pre-industrial levels. an industrial scale which would reduce emissions “One of the most important ﬁndings of across the energy sector. the 2013 Intergovernmental Panel on The current pace of change is too slow if we are to Climate Change (IPCCC) report was achieve this reduction, according to the International BIOFUELS that total CO2 emissions will need to be Energy Agency (IEA) and the United Nations Almost one-ﬁfth of global CO2 emissions are from limited to less than 1 trillion tonnes of Environmental Programme (UNEP). Shell’s scenarios road transport. We are among the world’s largest carbon – more than half of which has indicate that fossil fuels could provide more than producers of sugar-cane ethanol through our Raízen already been emitted – if we are to two-thirds of the energy mix in 2050 (see diagram, joint venture in Brazil. This biofuel can reduce CO2 keep global warming below 2 ºC. page 4). There is an urgent need for large-scale, emissions by around 70%, compared to petrol, from affordable technologies, backed by governments, cultivation of the sugar cane to using the ethanol as This will inevitably call for a substantial to support CO2 reduction strategies. fuel, making it one of the lowest CO2 emission deployment of carbon capture and biofuels available today. storage (CCS) over the coming At Shell, we believe that governments should allow decades. Shell’s activities with its Quest, market forces to encourage the use of all We are one of the ﬁrst major energy companies to Gorgon and Peterhead CCS projects technologies to reduce CO2 emissions. A strong, make signiﬁcant investments in advanced biofuels. represent a valuable starting point. stable price on CO2 within a comprehensive policy These biofuels use biomass from parts of crops not Nevertheless, we will need a much framework is needed to achieve signiﬁcant used for food (page 29). greater commitment to the deployment reductions in the long term. In a positive step in of this vital technology if we are to retain 2013, new carbon markets began operating in ENERGY EFFICIENCY the option of avoiding more than 2 ºC California, USA and in several regions of China. We continue to work on improving energy of warming. This commitment needs to efﬁciency at our oil and gas production projects, come from government and other NATURAL GAS oil reﬁneries and chemical plants. We have a companies in the oil and gas sector.” More than one-third of the world’s CO2 emissions CO2 and energy management programme that come from electricity generation. Natural gas includes monitoring the energy efﬁciency of produces around half of the GHG emissions equipment at any given time. These systems give compared to coal across its life cycle, from us instant information that can be used to make GHG EMISSIONS FROM SOURCE production through to use in generating electricity energy-saving changes. TO POWER GENERATION indexed to coal (see diagram). This makes switching from coal to gas for generating power the quickest and most We also encourage customers who buy our fuel to affordable route for many countries to achieve their be more energy efﬁcient by offering information 100 CO2 reduction targets. about how to use less fuel when driving. We continue to develop fuels and lubricants to make 80 Natural gas can be used as a single source for vehicles more energy efﬁcient (page 28). power generation, as well as a ﬂexible back-up for renewable energy. It produces less of the smogADAPTATION 60 causing pollutants sometimes associated with coal In addition to these four areas, we are working to plants, which beneﬁts local air quality. We are one identify and then address the potential physical 40 of the world’s largest distributors of liqueﬁed natural impact of climate change on our facilities and gas and we continue to invest in projects to new projects. produce more gas in the future. 20 CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE In 2013, the International Energy Agency (IEA) 0 made clear that without the widespread Coal Traditional Tight/shale Liqueﬁed deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCS), gas gas natural gas and in the absence of stronger climate policies, the Source: US Department of Energy’s National Energy chances of limiting global temperature rise to a Technology Laboratory, October 2011 OUR APPROACH Our Quest CCS facility being built at the Scotford Upgrader in Alberta, Canada. FOCUS ON CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE Carbon capture and storage involves capturing carbon dioxide from large industrial sources CCS FOR THE FUTURE and storing it deep underground. The International Energy Agency says that carbon capture Shell is also involved in other CCS projects. In and storage is one of the most promising technologies available today to signiﬁcantly reduce Australia we are a partner in the Gorgon offshore global carbon dioxide emissions. natural gas project (Shell interest 25%). This will take naturally occurring CO2 produced with natural gas We are developing the Quest carbon capture and Upgrader in Thorhild County. The CO2 will then be – which would otherwise be released into the storage (CCS) project to capture carbon dioxide injected into an underground porous rock formation, atmosphere – and store it over 2 km underground. (CO2) from our oil sands operations in Alberta, below multiple layers of impermeable rock. To We are also a partner in the CO2 Technology Canada. Quest will potentially capture more than protect shallow ground water during injection, the Centre in Mongstad, Norway, which is developing 1 million tonnes of CO2 a year and store it 2 km wells will have three barriers of steel casing, each and testing CCS technology. below the surface, safely and permanently, when cemented in place. it starts operations from around 2015. This is We have also submitted a proposal to the UK equivalent to removing around 175,000 cars from There is a rigorous monitoring programme in place government for a project to store CO2 in a depleted the road. The provincial government of Alberta and to conﬁrm that the CO2 remains safely and securely gas reservoir in the North Sea. During 2013, this the federal government of Canada are supporting underground. This will involve drilling and monitoring project, which will potentially capture and store its development with funding of C$865 million as additional wells near the injection wells and testing around 10 million tonnes of CO2 from a gas-ﬁred part of their CO2 reduction plans. existing ground-water wells to establish a baseline power station in Peterhead, Aberdeenshire, was allowing us to verify that there are no impacts from chosen by the UK government as one of two Pioneering CCS projects like Quest are needed to the project. preferred candidates to progress to the next phase show how existing technologies can work together of engineering design. In early 2014, Shell signed effectively. Our Quest project will demonstrate and WORKING WITH THE COMMUNITY an agreement with the UK government to progress develop the combined technologies. Many have Before the project began we were aware that detailed design of the Peterhead CCS project. long been used by the energy industry. For public acceptance and local community support example, the technology to pipe and inject would be critical to the success of the project. We liqueﬁed CO2 underground has been used to have engaged extensively with communities, increase the ﬂow of liquids from oil ﬁelds in North including holding meetings with local residents to America for more than three decades. If CCS is to offer information about the project and to address have a signiﬁcant impact on global CO2 emissions any concerns. Consultation with landowners has led it needs to be supported by governments and taken to a number of changes to the originally intended up widely by industry, including power generation route of the pipeline. We are also avoiding companies that produce electricity from coal, gas farmland during harvest season while constructing and oil. the pipeline. INSTALLING CCS We have established a community advisory Quest is being constructed on behalf of the panel, with 10 members from the community, Athabasca Oil Sands Project (Shell interest 60%). It as a way of sharing information about the will capture up to 35% of the current CO2 emissions monitoring programme. The panel will review the from the Scotford Upgrader, a facility around 40 results of the monitoring programme and serve as km from the city of Edmonton, Alberta. The Scotford advisers to Quest’s monitoring team. The panel Upgrader is where bitumen, a heavy oil, is turned members include local land owners, a county into synthetic crude oil using hydrogen. councillor, an emergency services worker, a university professor, a school principal and a The captured CO2 will be compressed to a liquid government medical representative. state. It will be transported 60 km through an underground pipeline to three wells north of the OUR ACTIVITIES We are helping to provide cleaner energy. We produce around as much cleaner-burning natural gas as oil and are working on developing advanced biofuels for the future. We operate in challenging conditions, such as deep water, and continue to work on advancing new technologies to become more energy efﬁcient. This section describes our operations around the world and what we did during 2013 to balance economic, environmental and social considerations in a responsible way, with safety as our ﬁrst priority. A Shell employee conducts tests at a laboratory in Doha, Qatar. OUR ACTIVITIES 13 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN SHELL Shell works with governments, partners and communities to help meet the world’s growing energy demand in a more sustainable way. This makes good business sense and helps to build trust with the communities around us. We embed sustainability across our project We have dedicated employees involved at each development process, using specialists who work stage of the project development process, who as part of the project teams. This work involves work alongside our technical specialists on our Dave Brown engaging with communities where we operate more complex projects. Their role is to understand Chairman of Sundre to reduce our environmental impact (see opinion) the scope of a project and how it relates to the Petroleum Operators Group, and share beneﬁts from our activities. Early work societal and economic context as well as Sundre, Alberta, Canada to incorporate the views of our neighbours into governmental, regulatory and environmental “ our decision making can also help us avoid aspects. Working with the project team, they ensure External opinion project delays. that potential impacts on local communities and the environment are considered in project design, cost, OUR PROCESS schedule and execution. Training is provided so that “In the late 1980s in Alberta, Canada, When we plan or develop new facilities, or make they understand and measure the risk and Shell announced the discovery of a sour changes to existing ones, we apply a staged opportunities associated with our projects. Their role gas ﬁeld in the area with very high project development process (see diagram) that is differs from the specialists who are responsible for concentrations of hydrogen sulphide – a consistent around the world. This process includes addressing the day-to-day social and environmental highly toxic and explosive gas even in assessing potential health, safety and security risks, responsibilities in existing operations. low concentrations. The key concern and the potential impact on communities close to was the potential threat of the release our operations and the environment. At each review We continue to build a culture where sustainable of sour gas from planned wells, stage, we decide if or how we move forward with development matters to our employees across the pipelines and a treatment facility. the project, taking into account regulatory company. This includes offering training to This panicked the community and requirements, technical and economic considerations. employees, such as those with technical opposition was strong. responsibilities, to increase their knowledge of This work is captured in a project management social and environmental impacts. A community group called the Sundre plan, which is monitored throughout the life cycle of Petroleum Operators Group (SPOG) the project. The needs of the local community are Our annual CEO awards for health, safety, security, was established after licences were factored into our plans using a standardised environment and social performance recognise the granted, to discuss concerns. SPOG approach from our HSSE & SP Control Framework best examples across Shell of embedding a involved Shell, the regulator, community (see box, page 5). Across our projects, we work sustainable approach in our activities. For example, representatives and other oil and gas closely with local communities to explain the a team at Shell Petroleum Development Company companies. Shell took a leading role potential impact of our activities and to address any of Nigeria (SPDC) was recognised for its work to in working responsibly with the concerns (page 8). For example, we have been reduce the risk of ﬂooding. The team produced Group’s members. consulting with the Maori tribes in New Zealand satellite radar images that analysed ﬂood impacted about tight gas operations at Kapuni by Shell Todd areas and predicted at-risk areas during ﬂoods in In my experience, Shell has operated Oil Services (Shell interest 50%). This has included 2012. They were able to support emergency responsibly and safely during the last community sessions at Maori meeting houses, response efforts in affected communities. In 2013, 20 years. It has consistently responded along with site tours and publications to explain SPDC improved its ability to prevent or mitigate to community concerns and has our operations. ﬂooding in the future and shared its knowledge with maintained a relationship within SPOG the Nigerian government and non-governmental and the neighbouring communities. OUR SPECIALISTS organisations. Shell helped to set standards within the We continually develop the skills and expertise of community which are now expected of employees who have speciﬁc HSSE & SP all oil and gas companies in our area.” responsibilities. Our specialists in HSSE & SP are assigned from the start of the project to ensure that an impact assessment is completed and to take steps to remove or reduce any potential risks. They may also be supported by experts with specialist or local knowledge, for example, to conduct baseline studies on water conditions. The impact assessments are often made publicly available. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS – REVIEW STAGES BETWEEN EACH PHASE IDENTIFY STUDY SELECT DESIGN CONSTRUCT OPERATE OPPORTUNITY FEASIBILITY CONCEPT PROJECT ASSETS FACILITY 14 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM NATURAL GAS All forms of energy will be needed to power economic progress. The use of cleaner-burning When injected, the nitrogen keeps pressure in the natural gas, especially in power generation, can help to build a sustainable energy system. ﬁeld high enough for wells to continue to produce gas, by pushing the remaining natural gas to As technology advances, so does our ability to where little signiﬁcant industrial or commercial production wells underground. The nitrogen gas is unlock the world’s natural gas resources. Natural employment previously existed. The Corrib gas supplied from a purpose-built air separation unit. gas is affordable and abundant. The International terminal will sustain around 175 full-time jobs during This required careful integration with the existing Energy Agency says that there are enough the 20-year lifespan of the gas ﬁeld. ﬁeld infrastructure to reduce the impact of our recoverable natural gas resources to last around operations on neighbours and the environment. 230 years at current consumption levels. Shell ORMEN LANGE produces around as much natural gas as oil and, The Shell-operated Ormen Lange ﬁeld (Shell interest WIND POWER by 2030, we expect global demand for natural 17%) is 120 km from the west coast of Norway. Wind remains an important part of the current and gas to increase by 60% from its 2010 level. The gas is transported to an onshore processing future global energy mix. Shell has been developing plant in Norway and is exported through a wind power for more than a decade and is Countries with large domestic natural gas resources 1,200 km pipeline to Easington on the north-east involved in 10 wind projects in North America and have the potential to continue to boost economic coast of England. Ormen Lange supplies around Europe. Our share of the energy capacity from growth, while minimising the environmental impact, 20% of the UK’s gas needs. these projects is around 500 megawatts. Most of by using gas rather than coal in power generation. this energy comes from around 720 turbines at A natural gas-ﬁred power plant produces around As well as providing substantial income through eight wind projects in the USA. half the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions of a state ownership and taxes, Ormen Lange has coal-ﬁred plant. It signiﬁcantly reduces smogcontributed to the Norwegian economy with jobs, causing pollutants and costs less than half as much knowledge transfer and skills building. In its ﬁrst ﬁve TIGHT GAS IN CHINA to build. Displacing coal with natural gas in power years of operation, around 30% of the operating Shell’s community liaison ofﬁcers have played plants is the fastest and most affordable route for costs were spent in the local area, close to the a key role in communicating with residents many countries to achieve their CO2 reduction Ormen Lange onshore facility at Nyhamna, near Zitong in Sichuan province, China, the targets. Natural gas is also an ideal ﬂexible according to analysis by the Møreforskning site of a tight gas project. Zitong is a densely back-up partner for renewable energy to maintain research institute. Large oil and gas companies populated rural area. a steady ﬂow of electricity. recruit from the region, while local industry has grown to deliver services to Ormen Lange. When the ﬁrst construction activities started in CORRIB January 2013, local residents protested. Their The development of the Corrib gas ﬁeld (Shell DE WIJK GAS RECOVERY concerns were that the government standards interest 45%), off Ireland’s Atlantic coast, is important In 2013, Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij of land compensation were too low and that for the country’s energy security. Two-thirds of its (NAM, Shell interest 50%) started to use nitrogen they were not well informed about the electricity is generated using natural gas and 95% injection for enhanced gas recovery at De Wijk, proposed building work. of the natural gas is imported. Once the Corrib ﬁeld one of the oldest onshore natural gas ﬁelds in the starts production around 2015, it has the potential Netherlands. The ﬁeld has been in production for Our liaison ofﬁcers worked with the local to provide up to 60% of Ireland’s gas needs. more than 60 years and is classiﬁed as a “small government ofﬁces and village councils to ﬁeld” by the Dutch government. This is the ﬁrst time address these concerns. This was done by The project provided jobs for 1,400 construction that the technology has been used to signiﬁcantly increasing the level of communication with employees in 2013, and the ﬁnal section of the increase the production life of an ageing onshore residents and conducting detailed impact onshore gas pipeline has been installed. Construction gas ﬁeld. Nitrogen injection is expected to extend assessments for the area. They organised of a 4.9 km tunnel under Sruwaddacon Bay, a the project’s life by around 15 years, and ultimate meetings in the town hall and visited residents special conservation area, is progressing. The Erris gas recovery could rise from 73% to as much at home to explain the government regulations peninsula, where the project is located, is a region as 83%. on land use, compensation processes and payment, as well as our construction plan. Shell employees working at the Ormen Lange gas processing plant, Norway. Shell improved a road which is used by employees and people in the community. We also upgraded the irrigation system, 170 metres long, for Panlong village in Zitong, to avoid any ﬂooding to the surrounding land. The Panlong community organised a “lion dance” – an event usually reserved for Chinese New Year celebrations – to show its appreciation. OUR ACTIVITIES 15 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TIGHT GAS AND OIL Shell has a number of projects producing tight gas and oil, with exploration taking place in countries that include Argentina, Turkey and Ukraine. In 2013, we produced around 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in North American tight gas and oil and almost 30,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in China. The development of tight gas and oil has changed ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS the energy picture in the USA and Canada in In 2012, we took part in a University of Texas recent years. Abundant North American tight gas study about fugitive methane emissions at nearly Jared Cohon production has resulted in lower gas and electricity 500 wells at 150 gas production sites. It was the Chairman of the CSSD Board of Directors, prices than in the past, helping to make its industry ﬁrst detailed study of its kind and investigated Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA more competitive. The increased gas supply existing concerns that tight gas production created “ provides a less costly fuel and raw material for the higher methane emissions, a greenhouse gas External opinion chemicals industry, while the gas surplus also around 20 times more potent than CO2. Its aim was creates potential for liqueﬁed natural gas export. to produce objective scientiﬁc data that details Wider availability of gas in the USA increased methane emissions from onshore gas production. “The production of gas from shale demand for electricity generation from gas, instead The USA-based Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), formations has proved to be of coal, which helped lead to a reduction in carbon a non-governmental organisation and nine energy contentious in many regions with too dioxide (CO2) emissions. companies, including Shell, took part. few instances of people working together. One of the most promising Hydrocarbons trapped in very dense rock are Released in 2013, the study concluded that the total recent developments in the USA, has called tight gas and oil. They are found in either methane emissions are in line with the most recent been the creation of the Center for shale or sandstone, in pores 100 times thinner than USA EPA Emission Inventory (April 2013). However, Sustainable Shale Development (CSSD). a human hair. Production requires a process called the measured emissions from well completions were It is a collaboration between industry hydraulic fracturing. Large amounts of water – much lower than previously assumed by the EPA. and environmental organisations to mixed with sand and small quantities of chemicals Improvements were identiﬁed, as methane gas establish and implement rigorous – are injected under high pressure to fracture rock releases were higher from some equipment, such as standards for shale gas operations in deep underground and release the gas and oil into chemical pumps and pneumatic controllers. Shell is the Appalachia region of the USA. the well. Hydraulic fracturing has been used safely reviewing its operations to explore opportunities for for more than 60 years. However, its increased use further reduction of emissions. We already apply Shell was one of the founding partners in recent years, along with the increase in shale technologies to monitor and reduce gas emissions, of the Center and Shell executives and drilling, has caused concern in some communities such as using infrared cameras at some sites to engineers have been key contributors to about possible impacts on emissions and local detect any small methane leaks so we can quickly the standard-setting process. Shell will water resources. address them. be one of the ﬁrst companies to be audited to demonstrate compliance with ONSHORE OPERATING PRINCIPLES The University of Texas study is an important part of CSSD standards. This could offer We are a leader in promoting safe and responsible a series of studies that look at methane emissions leadership for the shale gas industry tight gas and oil operations and have developed from natural gas production. Shell is currently both in the USA and around the world.” and adopted a set of ﬁve operating principles for participating in phase 2 of the study, working with all our onshore tight gas and oil activities. These the EDF and the oil and gas industry. We already principles focus on safety, air quality, water use advanced, proven technologies and practices sewage and other waste water to be reused in our protection and usage, land use and engagement designed to make hydraulic fracturing safe, operations. It is also used by the local government with nearby communities. Each project is including EPA-approved “green completions” to reduce dust from roads and irrigate sports ﬁelds. considered separately, from the geology to the equipment that is used to minimise gas emissions surrounding communities, and our activities are and ﬂaring. We have installed water systems to capture, transfer designed to best suit the local conditions. and reuse water at our Pinedale operations in In all onshore gas production, Shell works to reduce Wyoming, USA, and at our Deep Basin operations Our operating principles are reﬂected in oil and its operational and environmental footprint. We in Alberta, Canada. We also disclose details of the gas industry performance standards advocated by design our facilities and use technologies to limit chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process in the Center for Sustainable Shale Development disturbances. For example, we drill multiple wells our USA and Canada operations to the extent our (CSSD), in Pennsylvania, USA. CSSD is a from a single site. This minimises the number of suppliers allow. Shell supports government initiatives collaboration of environmental organisations, drilling locations on the surface along with roads, that require suppliers to fully release this information. philanthropic foundations and industry that includes noise and trafﬁc. Shell (see opinion). In 2014, we will be taking part in CSSD’s certiﬁcation process, which includes an WATER audit against CSSD’s performance standards. The We work with local authorities to secure water for US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has also our operations and reduce potential impacts on published rules and guidelines that closely follow local communities and the environment. For our principles. We continue to advocate for state or example, we isolate our wells from fresh-water provincial regulation on tight gas and oil operations aquifers by installing multiple barriers. At our in line with the EPA principles to provide a common Groundbirch operations in Canada, we invested in set of standards. the construction of a reclaimed water plant for the nearby city of Dawson Creek. The plant treats 16 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS Greater supplies of natural gas, the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, can help to meet growing LNG FOR TRANSPORT energy demand. Liqueﬁed natural gas enables natural gas to be easily transported from LNG is emerging as a cleaner fuel for road remote areas to distant markets. transport and ships. Shell is developing an LNG for shipping business: we bought Gasnor in 2012, a We were a pioneer of the liqueﬁed natural gas abundant supply of Canadian natural gas to Norwegian ﬁrm that supplies LNG as a fuel to (LNG) industry ﬁve decades ago and, today, we growing markets around the world. shipping companies and industrial customers. In are one of the largest LNG suppliers. The LNG 2013, Shell started chartering Greenstream, the process cools natural gas to -162 ºC to turn it into In Australia, around 50 km off the north-west coast, world’s ﬁrst 100% LNG-powered barge, to carry liquid and shrink it in volume by 600 times, the Gorgon LNG project (Shell interest 25%) is goods along Europe’s River Rhine. It carries diesel, allowing us to transport it around the world. At its under construction on Barrow Island. The Greater heating oil and unleaded petrol to customers in the destination, the LNG is turned back into gas for our Gorgon ﬁelds are the largest gas discoveries in Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. customers. We have a share in 10 operating LNG Australia to date. The project will include capturing Greenstream produces fewer emissions and makes plants worldwide, and are currently working on a carbon dioxide (CO2) produced with natural gas, less noise than conventional vessels – an important number of LNG projects to grow this portfolio. that would otherwise be released into the factor when travelling through populated areas. A atmosphere, and storing it safely underground. It is second LNG barge, Greenrhine, was chartered in In late 2013, the 700th LNG cargo left the expected to capture and store 3 to 4 million tonnes the Netherlands in late 2013. Sakhalin-2 LNG plant (Shell interest 27.5%) in of CO2 a year, more than 2 km beneath Barrow Russia. The plant provides nearly 9% of Japan’s Island. In 2013, we announced an agreement with LNG supplies and 4% of South Korea’s supplies. construction equipment company Caterpillar to test Shell developed a technology designed to help FLOATING LNG a new type of truck engine at our oil sands cool natural gas for liquefaction in the subarctic Shell is developing a facility that enables us to operations in Alberta, Canada that will run mainly conditions of Sakhalin. The process reduces the produce, liquefy, store and transport LNG at sea. on LNG rather than diesel. If successful, this will amount of natural gas used to run gas turbines Floating LNG (FLNG) offers access to offshore gas help to reduce emissions at our oil sands by using low ambient temperatures for cooling. ﬁelds that would otherwise be too costly or difﬁcult operations. The waste heat generated in the liquefaction to develop. FLNG eliminates the need for pipelines, process is used as a heat source for the treatment onshore plants and infrastructure. Shell is working with transport companies to create process, improving energy efﬁciency. Sakhalin-2 an infrastructure for LNG-fuelled trucks to travel is around one-third more energy efﬁcient than an Our ﬁrst project, Prelude FLNG, is currently under across the USA and parts of Canada. We are average LNG plant. construction in South Korea. It will be used to planning to introduce LNG fuelling stations for trucks develop the remote Prelude gas ﬁeld off the coast in the Netherlands in 2014. Shell, Korea Gas Corporation, Mitsubishi of Western Australia. We are investing millions Corporation and PetroChina Company Limited have of dollars in Australian universities and other GAS TO LIQUIDS agreed to examine the development of a LNG educational institutions to build local expertise to Our gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology makes it export facility (Shell interest 40%) on the west coast support the Prelude FLNG project. This includes possible to use natural gas, rather than crude oil, to of British Columbia, Canada. The project includes working with the University of Western Australia’s make a range of liquid products. These include the design, construction and operation of a gas Energy and Minerals Institute to strengthen research cleaner transport fuels and materials that are used liquefaction plant, and facilities for the storage and in the impact of weather and ocean conditions on to make chemicals and lubricants. They can be export of LNG. If it proceeds, it will connect the offshore gas installations and operations. blended with existing fuels or used in pure form. GTL fuels produce fewer polluting emissions when burned compared with traditional fuels. Our Prelude FLNG facility is being built at the Geoje shipyard, South Korea. Trials of Shell GTL Fuel have taken place in heavily congested cities. The trials demonstrated that buses, taxis and trucks running on Shell GTL Fuel can help improve local air quality, as it produces less polluting emissions than conventional diesel. Shell GTL Fuel is available to business customers in Germany and the Netherlands. Pearl GTL, in Qatar, is the world’s largest gas-toliquids plant. The plant uses heat generated by its processes to convert water into steam, which drives its compressors and generates electricity. Its water-recycling system is the largest of its kind and recovers, treats and reuses all of its industrial process water. It can process 45,000 cubic metres of water a day – comparable to the water use for a city of 140,000 people – without discharging liquids from the plant. OUR ACTIVITIES 17 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS AND JOINT VENTURES Contractors, suppliers and joint ventures play an important role in our activities around the world. The construction of major projects employs a large number of workers. In 2013, around 200,000 contractors worked for Shell. Large projects provide opportunities to build local non-metallic pipes weigh around a quarter less than economies through employment, skills development the equivalent size steel pipe. Shell Shipping also and training. The increased demand for goods and uses a supplier that provides low-friction paint for services can also help to create and grow local ship hulls, which makes the ship more fuel efﬁcient. Khairy Abdul Zahra Dakhil businesses. This can have a positive impact on Nashwa Sub District Local Council communities. However, increased activity can put BUILDING LOCAL OPPORTUNITIES Chairman, Basrah, Iraq pressure on local infrastructure. This may include Shell works to share the beneﬁts of its projects and “ more trafﬁc, more use of local services and higher operations by creating jobs and helping local External opinion living costs. We identify the potential impacts and businesses and economies to develop. At the outset put measures in place to reduce them. of a project we consider how we can make the best use of local suppliers and locally-produced “Shell’s construction activities in Iraq WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS materials, where possible. For example, in during 2013 offered employment Shell purchases large volumes of goods and Malaysia we spent a total of around $3 billion in opportunities to a large number of local services from suppliers. In 2013, we spent around contracts in 2013 across 150 local suppliers. In residents. Many were in need of $65 billion on goods and services around the Nigeria, Shell introduced a new scheme supported employment as other sectors, such as world. Our Supplier Principles set out a mandatory by ﬁve local banks to assist Nigerian contractors in the government, have a very limited set of requirements for all suppliers and contractors. accessing ﬁnance, which is often a challenge in number of vacancies. Shell made jobs We assess suppliers who want to do business with Nigeria. Contractors who win tenders with Shell are available for graduates, skilled and Shell based on the level of potential risk, especially offered favorable funding terms from the unskilled workers. in the areas of anti-bribery and corruption, human participating Nigerian banks. In 2013, the funding rights including labour rights, safety and the scheme enabled 39 contractors to access loans The employment opportunities were environment. In 2013, we conducted 577 worth over $700 million. managed by the Local Development assessments of our suppliers and contractors on their Committee (LDC), which was set up by level of compliance with our principles (page 34). We work with suppliers who may need support to Shell, South Oil Company, Basrah meet our standards. In these cases, we may provide Provincial Council and community We purchase products and services that support training and then monitor the supplier’s performance representatives. The LDC ensures that all our approach to sustainability. For example, we throughout the life of the contract. The training parties work together during the work with suppliers that can build pipelines using includes making sure that businesses have skilled selection process, to distribute the jobs non-metallic materials, where appropriate, instead employees, technical know-how and sustainability fairly and transparently.” of carbon steel. Non-metallic pipes have a smaller awareness. In Qatar we signed a partnership carbon footprint than carbon steel pipes. agreement with Qatar Development Bank to Transportation and installation are also easier as provide training for suppliers to meet Shell’s standards for goods and services. We also worked with the governments of Kazakhstan and Oman to Shell staff and contractor working together at the Jinqui tight gas project develop plans to increase local opportunities in the in Sichuan province, China. oil and gas sector. JOINT VENTURES When we operate a joint venture we apply Shell standards that cover health, safety, security, environment and social performance. The Shell General Business Principles and the Code of Conduct also apply to these joint ventures. We work with partners to share safety standards and knowledge across the industry. For example, the Netherlands has a national oil and gas industry programme, called HSELife UNIO. This programme aims to embed common safety practices across Dutch oil and gas companies, where different standards exist among various operating companies. The development of the standards is based on the work of Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij (NAM, Shell interest 50%), Centrica Energy and the WAT Group. In 2013, nearly all Dutch oil and gas production companies joined this initiative, which is also supported by the Dutch government. 18 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM DEEP WATER For more than 35 years, Shell has led deep-water exploration and production. We developed many of the advanced technologies, processes and safety procedures that enable the safe production of oil and gas from water depths of up to 2.5 km. We produce oil and gas from the deep waters of Nigerian. The project has stimulated the growth of Brazil, Malaysia, Nigeria, Norway and the USA Nigerian construction industries, which are vital to the Gulf of Mexico (GoM). We work to develop these country’s future offshore production. Chett Chiasson Executive Director of resources responsibly and to be a good neighbour Greater Lafourche Port to the coastal communities closest to our operations. USA Commission, Galliano, Shell has designed and installed seven deep-water Louisiana, USA BRAZIL platforms in the GoM since 1994. We produced “ Around 100 km off the coast of Brazil, the Parque 178,000 boe a day in 2013 from our facilities in External opinion das Conchas project (Shell interest 50%) has a GoM. The latest project, Mars B (Shell interest ﬂoating production, storage and ofﬂoading vessel 72.5%), is our largest GoM platform, capable of which delivers oil to shore with tankers. By the end producing 100,000 boe a day. Its four-column hull “Shell and Port Fourchon in the USA of 2013, all four ﬁelds were in production. is anchored to the seabed and started up in 2014. have had a long-lasting working A further 100,000 boe a day is expected from relationship. More recently, Shell played Our major deep-water projects help to develop projects under construction. an instrumental role in four different local economies through supply contracts. At Parque project areas of safety, environment, das Conchas, we spent more than a third of the Our Perdido platform (Shell interest 35%), off the security and sustainability to greatly project cost with Brazilian suppliers. south Texas coast, is the world’s deepest offshore enhance our region. drilling and production facility operating in a depth MALAYSIA of water of nearly 2,500 metres. Its moored One speciﬁc area vital to our community The Gumusut-Kakap (Shell interest 33%) development structure eliminates the need to build new platforms, is the safety and environmental in the South China Sea is expected to start helping to minimise our environmental footprint. protection of the Gulf of Mexico region. production in 2014. With an estimated peak annual I worked with Shell on the Coastal And production of 135,000 barrels of oil equivalent SAFETY IN DEEP WATER Marine Operators (CAMO) project, (boe) a day, Gumusut can provide more than 20% Shell’s rigorous safety standards for our deep-water which was started by Shell to focus on of Malaysia’s oil supplies in the coming decade. operations worldwide continue to be designed to prevention of Gulf of Mexico oil spills meet or exceed local regulatory requirements. The and gas releases. With Shell’s The project features a semi-submersible production BP Deepwater Horizon tragedy in the GoM in guidance, the Port Commission also system in a region expected to need more of these 2010 reinforced the need to improve the industry’s received two $50,000 government structures in the future. We set up a training response to a deep-water incident. Shell was a grant awards to enhance this maritime programme for Malaysian engineers and other leader in the development of two new deep-water safety initiative, including creating free skilled workers to provide technical support at spill-response consortiums. training material for mariners. Gumusut and future deep-water developments. Shell has joined with other oil and gas companies Safety and long-term sustainability are a NIGERIA that operate in the GoM to form the Marine Well way of life for communities in the Gulf In Nigeria, our Bonga deep-water project (Shell Containment Company (MWCC). With more than of Mexico region. Shell is a valued interest 55%) has the potential to produce more than $1 billion of funding, the 10 member companies partner in helping us to ensure that 200,000 boe a day. It created the country’s ﬁrst have set up a rapid deep-water spill-response these goals can be met. We appreciate generation of deep-water engineers and system. MWCC equipment is on continuous Shell’s ongoing commitment to our technicians. Around 90% of Bonga’s employees are standby to capture and contain oil if there is a community and look forward to continuing the relationship.” Construction of the Olympus platform for the Mars B development in the Gulf of Mexico, USA. blowout on a deep-water well in the GoM. In 2013, the MWCC, in collaboration with Shell, tested and deployed a compact cap for deep-water response in conﬁned spaces, such as spaces directly under drilling or production platforms. MWCC is developing an expanded system to be able to handle greater capacity and depths to 3,000 metres. The Subsea Well Response Project (SWRP) was founded by nine leading companies and operated by Shell. It has designed and built a series of well-capping systems that can be adapted to various deep-water well emergencies around the world. The systems have been deployed to four locations: Brazil, Norway, Singapore and South Africa. OUR ACTIVITIES 19 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 IRAQ Iraq continues to reinvigorate its economy by rebuilding its energy industry. Further work is on our contractor approach in Iraq from the Danish needed, however, to improve the infrastructure for producing and transporting oil and gas. Institute for Human Rights. Oil export revenues account for more than 70% of LOCAL EMPLOYMENT HEALTH AND EDUCATION Iraq’s gross domestic product, according to the Unemployment is a major challenge for Iraq, Near our Majnoon project, the improvement of International Energy Agency. A lack of reliable particularly among young adults. Where possible, access to basic services such as health and power supplies for households and local businesses we seek to hire Iraqi people and to use local education is a constant challenge. People are often continues to hinder the social and economic suppliers: BGC has awarded 23% of its total unable to travel to hospitals for medical care. We progress of the country. Shell is a major investor in contracts value to Iraqi companies and around continued to support a mobile health-care the Iraqi energy industry. 5,000 Iraqi employees have been seconded from programme, throughout 2013, working with the the South Gas Company into BGC. AMAR International Charitable Foundation and the OPERATIONS Basrah Health Directorate. The programme provides In May 2013, the Basrah Gas Company (BGC) In 2013, we continued to create jobs and build health, education and training services to more than began operations. BGC is a joint venture between skills among communities near our operations. 9,000 people every month, including training for South Gas Company (51%), Shell (44%) and Around 2,500 local residents worked on the Iraqi doctors and health volunteers. Mitsubishi (5%). It is the largest gas project in Iraq’s Majnoon project in southern Iraq in jobs that history and the world’s biggest ﬂaring reduction include well engineers, safety advisers and driver A lack of adequately equipped schools hinders project. BGC aims to capture associated gas that is trainers. During the year, Shell also set up an education opportunities for future generations. In currently being ﬂared from three oil ﬁelds in southern internationally accredited course to train local 2013, we funded the refurbishment of three schools Iraq – Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair – for use people as well engineers, with more than 20 in the Al-Nashwa community near our Majnoon in the domestic market. successfully qualifying by the end of 2013. project: Shell upgraded one secondary school as well as two primary schools in partnership with the The Shell-operated Majnoon project produces oil We opened dedicated training centres in Majnoon United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) from one of the largest oil ﬁelds in the world, and Basrah in 2013, which offer a combination of Iraq. Our community development programme also estimated by the Iraqi government to hold around classroom learning and on-the-job experience for supports vulnerable groups in the Majnoon area. 38 billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe). By the end Iraqi nationals. More than 8,500 training For example, in early 2013, we launched a of 2013, Majnoon was producing more than its programmes took place in Basrah covering topics campaign to develop business skills and literacy initial production target of 175,000 boe a day. We such as Shell’s Life-Saving rules and English among women in the community. have a 45% interest in Majnoon, partnering with language training. Petronas and the Iraqi state, through Missan Oil. Sport is a way to show young people how to work Road safety remains a key issue in Iraq and road in teams and take on more responsibility. We Our work involves the clearing of unexploded trafﬁc accidents are a leading cause of fatalities. support a youth sports programme, launched with munitions, which remain from the Iran-Iraq war in We have a local programme to train drivers who the Football Club Barcelona Foundation and the the 1980s. Our bomb disposal experts comb work at Majnoon in techniques to stay safe. These Iraqi Ministry of Youth and Sports, for young people sections of the oil ﬁeld, following safety procedures, include checking whether cars are roadworthy, who live in the most deprived and conﬂict-prone by sifting through the sand inch by inch to locate planning journeys properly and driving defensively areas in Basrah. Its aim is to instil social values and clear unexploded munitions. To date, we have to avoid danger. More than 2,300 local drivers through sport in children between the ages of eight collected or destroyed over 14,000 unexploded had taken this driving training by the end of 2013. and 17. materials from across 54 km2 at the Majnoon oil ﬁeld. We also continued to work with local contractors to We have a partnership with the UNDP to help increase performance on worker safety and align implement and evaluate our community projects. labour practices with Shell’s Supplier Principles. In 2013, we received support and recommendations ENVIRONMENT In line with increased oil production, the amount of Students attend a women’s literacy class in Majnoon, Iraq. ﬂaring of natural gas produced with oil at Majnoon increased during 2013. We expect gas ﬂaring from these operations to rise in coming years as oil production increases. We are working with our joint-venture partners to evaluate options to capture the gas that is currently ﬂared during operations for use in power generation. A memorandum of understanding has been agreed with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to help conserve biodiversity and manage the ecosystem at the Majnoon oil ﬁeld. Working jointly with the Iraqi authorities, we will help conserve, restore and manage the Hawizeh Marsh, Iraq’s only wetland of international importance (page 25). Under the agreement, we intend to work together to build awareness and knowledge of the importance of the marshes and jointly ﬁnd ways to reduce the impact of future development in this sensitive area. 20 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM INTERVIEW ALASKA: Q&A WITH ANN PICKARD Ann Pickard Executive Vice President, Arctic In 2013, we paused our Alaska exploration programme and due to uncertainty of permits we on the limited local housing market or using hotel stopped our preparations for 2014. We have continued our engagement with communities space during the summer season, when our and continue to improve our capabilities for future exploration off the coast of Alaska. Our operations take place. We have our own chartered Executive Vice President Arctic, Ann Pickard, answers questions about Shell’s exploration aircraft to transfer crews from Anchorage to Barrow programme in Alaska. to reduce pressure on the airlines. Alaska is an expensive and high-risk place to It is also the responsibility of industry, the We are committed to working closely with the local operate. Why does Shell continue to prepare to governments and people of the Arctic region, and communities to understand their needs and explore for oil and gas in Alaska? other key stakeholders to make sure development is preferences. We have community liaison ofﬁcers The nations of the Arctic have taken the decision to carried out in a sustainable and transparent way. (page 8) in each village on the North Slope who open up the region for offshore development and Operators should meet the rigorous safety and engage with local communities to help inform our trust companies such as Shell to do it responsibly. environmental operating standards needed for decisions and notify us of any impacts of our The US Federal Government estimates that Alaska responsible development. operations. For example, during the operating has potential offshore oil and gas resources of season, we set up communications centres for the 60 billion barrels of oil equivalent in roughly equal What lessons have been learnt during 2013 subsistence hunting community. This helps to reduce proportions. We believe that Alaska’s Chukchi and after the grounding of the drilling unit Kulluk? or eliminate any interference between our Beaufort seas are the most promising undeveloped We conducted a review within Shell of the events operations and their subsistence activities, such as hydrocarbon basins in the United States. of 2012 to learn from our experiences and improve hunting or ﬁshing. We also have a community our plans. The US Department of the Interior (DOI) phone line year-round so that people can inform us Alaska oil and gas represents a potentially also recommended that we submit a full operations of any issues. enormous and vital energy resource for the world. plan prior to any future exploration programmes. As traditional oil and gas resources decline, we This has led to a strengthening of our organisation What beneﬁts will be provided to local residents in have to develop resources in new, more challenging around logistics and maritime integrated operations the areas of jobs and training? locations to help meet rising global demand. to achieve safe and responsible exploration. We share the beneﬁts of our operations by creating jobs. There are around 140 Alaskan companies Is it possible to reassure people that Shell can This was reﬂected in our Integrated Operations that we work with and many of them are local manage the risks of operating in the Arctic Plan (IOP), which formed part of our submission native corporations. These contracts can beneﬁt offshore Alaska? to the DOI in November 2013. Importantly, local residents from shareholder dividends from Yes, we can. Safety is a top priority across all of it included the procedures and competency local co-operatives. We have been working with our operations. We undertake signiﬁcant planning assurance programmes we are putting in place. businesses such as the Arctic Slope Regional and preparation to ensure there is no harm to Other improvements include enhanced logistics Corporation (ASRC) to offer contracts for jobs and people or the environment, and this will remain a management; improvements to the Arctic skills transfer that can support the local economy. priority for future operations in Alaska. It is also containment system; detailed contractor important that we work to stringent environmental management procedures; focused audit and review We also support several education programmes standards and consult with local communities, plans, and improvements to the overall integration in Alaska, which will help us develop a trained including Alaska’s indigenous population, at every of programmes. workforce among the local communities. stage of our operations. This includes support for the Alaska Native How are Shell’s activities managed to limit negative Science and Engineering Program, the Ilisagvik We improve safety by analysing the risks, minimising impacts on the existing communities, culture and tribal college in Barrow and the Alaska Technical the possibility of incidents occurring and reducing infrastructure? Center in Kotzebue. the potential consequences. Safe well operations We are very aware of the potential impacts of our demand highly competent people and strict safety operations and have already taken steps to reduce procedures as well as rigorous design, construction impacts in the communities closest to our leases. and maintenance standards for all equipment. This includes providing a camp for our employees in Barrow on Alaska’s North Slope to reduce strain OUR ACTIVITIES 21 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 What research has Shell conducted on the Shell claims to have a strong safety culture. Alaskan environment to ensure that you How do you prepare for a worst-case scenario in Rex Rock operate responsibly? an area like Alaska, such as an oil spill? President and Since 2005, Shell has invested around $95 million We are committed to lowering the risk of incidents CEO of ASRC, Barrow, on Alaskan science, including work with other by investing in prevention and operating safely, but Alaska, USA companies in the oil and gas sector. The Alaska we must also prepare for a worst-case scenario. Arctic Science programme builds upon traditional Our oil-spill response plans are very robust and knowledge and observations of indigenous have been approved by US Federal Government peoples, along with input from other stakeholders, Agencies, with input from Alaska state agencies, to identify research priorities and strategies. A and are publicly available on our website. signiﬁcant portion of the programme involves local “ people working with experienced scientists. First, Shell has a signiﬁcant focus on prevention of External opinion any well control incident. We have developed an Our science programmes are some of the most oil-spill prevention toolkit, a strong safety culture and signiﬁcant contributors to emerging science in the ice management strategies. Second, in the unlikely “Arctic Slope Regional Corporation Arctic area of the USA. In an agreement with the event of a well control incident, we have a three-tier (ASRC) is a family of companies that National Oceanographic and Atmospheric programme with a dedicated on-site ﬂeet; sets ambitious goals to beneﬁt our Administration (NOAA), the data and results of our near-shore barges and response vessels, and region, our shareholders and our studies will be available to the NOAA and the onshore response teams staged across the North businesses, using our Iñupiaq values as broader scientiﬁc community. Slope of Alaska. We are better prepared for any a guide. We aim to balance the spill than any other company in the world – no subsistence and economic needs of our We have developed innovative technologies and other company has ever deployed immediate, people and value taking part in conducted many scientiﬁc studies that enable us to onsite response resources similar to ours. We have discussions where critical decisions are work responsibly in this challenging offshore also prepared subsea capping and containment being made about potential impacts to environment. This approach includes the use of systems to capture and recover hydrocarbons at our lands and future. unmanned aerial drones and marine acoustic the wellhead. recorders, as well as ecosystem studies that ASRC values its relationship with Shell combine traditional and scientiﬁc knowledge. because the company shows commitment and follow through in supporting our goals. Shell has been A trained team of people from the community assist in an oil spill response drill in Alaska, USA. working with our communities to understand the importance of our subsistence lifestyle, while working with our companies as world-class contractors. These types of relationships have helped both organisations to grow. We look forward to pursuing partnership opportunities with Shell in the future.” We believe the industry can work together on prevention and response. In 2012, we joined several international oil and gas companies, co-ordinated by the American Petroleum Institute, in a cross-industry project. It aims to create international research programmes to enhance industry knowledge and capabilities for oil-spill response in the Arctic. What are Shell’s plans for future exploration off Alaska? A US Ninth Circuit Court decision against the DOI in January 2014 raised obstacles to our plans for drilling offshore Alaska. As a result, we have decided to suspend our exploration programme for Alaska in 2014. We look to relevant agencies and the court to resolve their open legal issues as quickly as possible and will continue to review the situation as we develop our plans. 22 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM INTERVIEW NIGERIA: Q&A WITH MUTIU SUNMONU Mutiu Sunmonu Chairman of Shell companies in Nigeria The Chairman of Shell companies in Nigeria, Mutiu Sunmonu, answers questions about the cause of the spill, measures the damage and Shell’s operations in Nigeria during 2013. calculates the volume of the spill. On average over the year, approximately 70% of the spilled volume Shell has described Nigeria as a “challenging SPDC has a number of initiatives to tackle the was recovered from the environment. operating environment”. In 2013, you announced problem of crude oil theft, which remains the main that the company will sell some of its oil and gas cause of oil pollution in the Niger Delta today. These We clean up and remediate the affected area, production projects and leases in the Niger Delta. include operational measures such as increased which includes cleaning or removing vegetation and Does Shell remain committed to Nigeria? pipeline surveillance, doubling the number of repair assessing the impact on the soil. This assessment Shell experienced another very challenging year in crews to tackle pipeline sabotage and more determines the area and depth of soil that needs 2013. However, Shell is committed to a long-term collaboration with local communities. We have to be remediated, in accordance with regulatory future in Nigeria, as we have said on many improved levels of transparency so that people can requirements. We typically use bio-remediation occasions. We have a history of more than 70 years follow our progress. processes, which can take a long time to complete. in Nigeria where we have been the pioneer in SPDC conducts a quality check and the regulators onshore oil, gas and LNG, and offshore in shallow Throughout 2013, the international level of are invited to certify the sites. and deep water. awareness of the oil theft problem has risen due to high-proﬁle reports including a publication by the Our oil spills website has weekly progress reports As announced in June 2013, we have decided UK think-tank, Chatham House. This report explored on clean-up activities, investigation reports and to reduce our presence in the Niger Delta while the role of the international community in stopping photographs of spill sites. SPDC is the only reiterating our commitment to other areas of Nigeria, the theft and trade of Nigerian crude oil. I believe international oil company to maintain this type of such as deep water and onshore gas operations. that a broader, co-ordinated approach is needed website. The industry regulator is working on a This is part of a consolidation that is intended to to end this criminality. Governments need to take a country-wide website, based on this website, which strengthen our position in the country. It will enable leading role and we, at SPDC, are committed to will cover spills from all operators. local companies to increase their presence in the playing our part. upstream oil and gas sector, and it supports the What contribution have you made to residents in Nigerian government’s policy of encouraging Better security, collection of evidence and law the communities of the Niger Delta during 2013? investment by indigenous companies in its oil enforcement are required on the ground, while During 2013, the focus of SPDC was to build and gas industry. international action is needed to trace, track and entrepreneurial skills among the most vulnerable apprehend the international networks trading in people within the Niger Delta’s communities. For You have been calling for government action to stolen crude. example, we set up four centres for women to teach work in collaboration with civil society to tackle oil skills in areas such as catering, fashion, design theft and sabotage of SPDC’s pipelines and other What clean-up operations take place after and printing. We also supported the Nembe City facilities. What steps have been taken? oil spills? Development Foundation with 35 vehicles to help In 2013, production loss due to crude oil theft, SPDC responds to all oil spills, regardless of young people develop skills to work in the sabotage and the related temporary shut-downs the cause, originating in the area immediately transport business. increased by around 75% compared with 2012. surrounding its pipelines and other facilities. We start On average, around 32,000 barrels of oil per day by shutting down production and containing the spill. SPDC and its joint venture partners provide funds to (bopd) were stolen from SPDC’s pipelines and other For every spill, a joint investigation is carried out support projects that are nominated by community facilities. On top of this, SPDC lost production of with regulators, oil company representatives, groups. A GMoU enables communities to access around 174,000 bopd due to the related shutdowns. community members, and local and state ofﬁcials. these funds and over $130 million has been spent on This equates to several billion in revenue losses for Secure access to the area is important to keep these projects in the past seven years. For example, the Nigerian government and SPDC. This particularly everyone safe. a community group implemented solar-powered affects the Nigerian government as around 95% water systems that ensure a steady supply of potable of revenue after costs goes to the government. In 2013, we started to invite non-governmental water to the local communities. organisations to accompany us as observers on joint investigation visits to oil-spill sites. The team assesses OUR ACTIVITIES 23 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NIGERIA Crude oil theft and sabotage continued to affect our operations in the Niger Delta during been certiﬁed by the local regulatory body as 2013. This had severe social, economic and environmental implications. We are working with being compliant with both soil and groundwater our sector, governments, non-governmental organisations and the international community remediation requirements. Another recommendation towards ending the theft and sabotage. of the report was to verify the condition of non-operational equipment and facilities in During 2013, production was shut down many SPDC continues to take further steps to improve Ogoniland. Due to more recent increased access to times to remove illegal connections to pipelines oil-spill response and clean-up. Of 167 sites in perform this veriﬁcation process, SPDC has and make repairs. These shutdowns limit the need of remediation identiﬁed at the start of 2013, identiﬁed 125 additional sites in need of environmental impact of theft and sabotage SPDC had cleaned more than 85% by the end of remediation. along SPDC’s pipeline network. However, it also the year. In 2012, the International Union for reduces SPDC’s production leading to lost revenues Conservation of Nature (IUCN) set up an The Nigerian government will need to take the lead for SPDC and the Nigerian government. independent scientiﬁc panel, at the request of on co-ordinating other restoration activities in SPDC. Its goals were to identify improvements in Ogoniland that were recommended in the report. SPILLS AND RESPONSE SPDC’s oil spill clean-up and remediation practices, However, a full clean-up is only possible when theft SPDC continues to improve its infrastructure within as well as the rehabilitation of biodiversity at oil spill and illegal reﬁning are contained. this deteriorating security situation. This has led to sites in the Niger Delta. Its ﬁrst report, published in a reduction in the number of operational spills from September 2013, made speciﬁc recommendations FLARING SPDC operations, which fell from 37 in 2012 to for SPDC, the industry, government and communities In 2013, SPDC’s total ﬂared gas volume was 30 in 2013. The volume of operational spills from to support rehabilitation activities. SPDC is working reduced by 23% compared with 2012, in line with SPDC operations increased to 0.4 thousand tonnes. together with all parties involved to follow up on the lower production. SPDC has delivered around 60% Around 0.3 thousand tonnes of this volume was Panel’s recommendations. reduction in gas ﬂaring intensity over the last decade from a single spill. and is reducing this further. Reductions in ﬂaring are In 2011, the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) part of a long-term strategy and include a number In 2013, the number of spills caused by sabotage published an Environmental Assessment of of key projects. Once these projects are complete, and theft increased to 157, compared to 137 in Ogoniland, a study of oil pollution in the Ogoniland SPDC ﬂaring will be below current industry 2012. However, the volume of oil spilled due to region of Rivers State in the Niger Delta. The report average. In 2012, SPDC announced additional sabotage and theft decreased to 2.2 thousand was commissioned by the Nigerian government. investments of around $4 billion on projects to tonnes. This decrease was due to intensiﬁed SPDC has shown leadership by undertaking a develop new oil and gas ﬁelds that will include inspection of our facilities, including over-ﬂights. range of activities related to the report in advance gas-gathering facilities for ﬁelds that currently ﬂare. of the government, where it was able to do so. This Operational spills accounted for around 15% of the included increasing community access to potable total volume spilled from SPDC facilities in 2013. A water in Ogoniland. key priority for SPDC is to achieve its goal of no operational spills. In 2013, it continued work to SPDC has also investigated the 15 sites identiﬁed in maintain and replace pipelines and other the report and they have been remediated, where infrastructure and, in the past three years, SPDC has required, despite cases of recontamination from oil replaced around 770 km of pipeline. theft and illegal reﬁning. The remediated sites have Illegal makeshift oil reﬁneries contribute to economic loss and environmental damage in the Niger Delta, Nigeria. SHELL’S ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd (SPDC) is the operator of a joint venture between the government-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC, 55%), Shell (30%), Total (10%) and Agip (5%). Shell Nigeria Exploration & Production Company (SNEPCo, 100% Shell-owned) hold interests in a number of offshore licences including the Shell-operated Bonga ﬁeld (Shell interest 55%), Nigeria’s ﬁrst deep-water project. Shell also has a 25.6% interest in Nigeria Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (NLNG), which exports LNG around the world. $44 billion: revenues from SPDC to the Nigerian Around 4,000: number of direct employees government from 2009 to 2013. working at SPDC and SNEPCo, and tens of thousands indirect jobs created. $4.0 billion: Shell share of royalties and taxes paid to the Nigerian government in 2013 (SPDC About 95%: proportion of employees at SPDC $2.6 billion, SNEPCo $1.4 billion). and SNEPCo who are Nigerian. 95%: share of revenue after costs that goes to the $180.6 million: SPDC and SNEPCo funds to the Nigerian government from each barrel of oil Niger Delta Development Commission in 2013 SPDC produces. (Shell share $69.8 million). $1.5 billion: value of SPDC and SNEPCo contracts $104.1 million: 2013 contribution from SPDC awarded to Nigerian companies in 2013. and SNEPCo to community development projects (Shell share $32.3 million). 24 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM NIGERIA CONTINUED These projects are heavily impacted by two factors a network to bring current scholars together with that are not within SPDC’s full control: the external past beneﬁciaries who now occupy inﬂuential Esuike Joy Obukohwo security situation and joint venture partner funding positions in business, government and other Recipient of services at constraints. If left unresolved, it will result in delays institutions. This helps to develop mentoring Obio Cottage Hospital, Port Harcourt, Nigeria to some of the projects that would help to deliver relationships and encourages the sharing of reductions in ﬂaring over the coming years. experiences across generations. However, SPDC remains committed to ﬂaring reduction from its operations. SPDC sponsors projects that increase the community’s access to energy. The Bonny Utility WORKING WITH COMMUNITIES Company, for example, is a collaboration between In 2013, SPDC maintained its strong commitment oil and gas companies, the Nigerian government “ to community investment in the areas of community and local communities. It delivers a safe and External opinion development, access to energy, environment and reliable electricity supply to more than 11,000 education. The Obio Cottage Hospital in Port households and provides employment to more Harcourt, set up by SPDC, has become one of than 50 local residents. SPDC also supports “My husband and I came to Obio the most visited health facilities in the region (see the Nigerian Alliance for Clean Cookstoves to Cottage Hospital after recommendation opinion). This is due to a community health introduce clean and efﬁcient stoves to households from a friend. The services were free, insurance scheme which was the ﬁrst of its kind for for cooking and heating (see box, below). once we registered with a fee for one the Niger Delta. SPDC supports 27 health facilities year, because of the community health in the Niger Delta. Despite challenges such as funding constraints and insurance programme supported by security, SPDC is making progress on major projects SPDC. My second child was delivered For more than 50 years, Shell scholarship to boost Nigeria’s future supply of gas and power. at Obio Hospital. programmes have supported the education of For example, the Okoloma gas plant and Afam thousands of Nigerians. In 2013, almost 1,800 power plant were constructed and delivered in It has all the services we need: in secondary school places and 850 university less than two and a half years despite security addition to ante-natal care services, scholarships were offered, with more than challenges. This integrated power plant has I have received laboratory testing and $7 million invested in the programme. Shell contributed 14% to 20% of Nigeria’s current power treatments whenever I am ill. It also offers launched its Shell Scholars Forum in the same year, supply, together serving industrial and domestic use. immunisation and family planning services. The hospital is hygienic and is powered by solar and wind energy, so there are no power cuts. It is very different from other health facilities in the area.” CLEAN COOKSTOVES SHELL FOUNDATION Globally more than 1 billion people are without access to electricity and around 3 billion people rely Shell Foundation is a UK-registered charity that on wood or other biomass to cook and heat their homes, according to the World Bank. In Indonesia, applies business thinking to global for example, around 75% of the population use biomass and rudimentary stoves, with many people development challenges such as job creation, using wood as fuel. access to energy and urban mobility. Shell Foundation works with partners to create The smoke emitted from traditional or inefﬁcient cookstoves also poses severe health risks. The World social enterprises that deliver societal and Health Organisation’s Global Burden of Disease project estimates the total annual deaths from all environmental beneﬁts on a global scale – household smoke exposure from cookstoves at 4 million. The emissions from inefﬁcient cookstoves, such providing business support, grant funding and as carbon dioxide and soot, also contribute to climate change. market links to help them grow and achieve ﬁnancial independence. In 2013, Shell renewed its support for the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves, in its efforts to introduce 100 million homes to clean and efﬁcient stoves and fuels by 2020. Shell is the single largest For example, Shell Foundation co-founded private-sector contributor to the Alliance, pledging $12 million since 2010 to the public-private partnership. GroFin to provide a range of business skills, ﬂexible funding and commercial links to help Our contribution has led to the development of regional testing centres and country-based assessments entrepreneurs in Africa expand their businesses. for the cookstoves sector. The assessments are used by organisations to help drive the adoption and More than 16,000 jobs have been created long-term use of clean cookstoves. Shell has funded assessments for Brazil, China, Indonesia, Nigeria, and sustained in Africa since 2004. In 2013, South Africa and Timor Leste. Shell companies in Nigeria also support the local Nigerian Alliance for Shell Foundation assisted GroFin’s expansion Clean Cookstoves to grow the market for efﬁcient stoves in Nigeria. This includes increasing access to into the Middle East with the launch of ﬁnance for clean cooking enterprises and raising awareness by producing a local documentary. Shell Nomou, a regional initiative that offers core also supports the Spark Fund, which provides grants to grow businesses that have the potential to support to small and medium enterprises in transform the cookstoves sector. Egypt, Iraq, Jordan and Oman. Shell’s support builds on the efforts of Shell Foundation, a UK-registered charity, which has been working Shell Foundation was set up in 2000 with Shell to build an international market for affordable clean cookstoves for more than 10 years. Their work has providing a $250 million endowment and further beneﬁted more than 4 million people, serving low-income consumers in Asia, Africa and Latin America. donations of $190 million to the end of 2013. OUR ACTIVITIES A family transports dry reeds across the ﬂooded Hawizeh marshland, near our Majnoon project in Iraq, to be used as feed for their buffaloes. FOCUS ON PARTNERS AND COLLABORATION Collaboration among business, government and civil society is necessary to address the We also continue to run a business mentoring scale of the challenges that the world faces. We work at the international and local level programme with Earthwatch, to work with to enhance our understanding of these challenges. managers of World Heritage sites to develop business plans and improve the management of Our partnerships and broader collaborations are We have been involved in numerous initiatives these areas. The Shell employees taking part of vital importance to our new projects and ongoing with IUCN, the world’s largest conservation provide mentoring for a year. operations. They can also play a beneﬁcial role in network, over the last 15 years. Our joint work has helping to build trust among our stakeholders. We focused on enhancing biodiversity conservation PARTNERING FOR COMMUNITIES work with government, business and civil society, performance, strengthening the management of We work with organisations that focus on social including non-governmental organisations, to protected areas, advancing science, developing challenges or community development. These contribute to broader public dialogue, academic public policy and improving general awareness collaborations can help to raise operational debate and advocacy in areas such as energy and through the support of IUCN knowledge products practices in our business and for the energy sector. climate policy. We also partner with organisations such as the IUCN Red List of Threatened SpeciesTM. For example, we continue to work with the Danish that can advise us in speciﬁc areas such as Institute for Human Rights to help us integrate human biodiversity or human rights. Wetlands International has been a partner since rights into the areas of labour practices, procurement, 2008. We are working with them to support security and community impact. This work can lead to improved practices or new the conservation of biodiversity of the sensitive guidelines, such as the IPIECA guide for the oil and marshlands near our Majnoon project in Iraq. We are also a core member of the Global Road gas industry on human rights. IPIECA is the global These wetlands were severely damaged by past Safety Partnership, along with four other oil and gas industry association for environmental drainage and war, which constrained water international companies, which works to reduce and social issues. We also work with organisations availability. Restoration of these marshlands will road accident injuries in lowand middle-income such as the European Commission and the World help the environment and the communities who countries. Many Shell locations also implement Business Council for Sustainable Development to depend on this resource for their livelihoods. local road safety programmes. In Turkey, for apply effective advocacy on environmental and example, Shell worked in co-operation with the community topics. This includes advocacy on issues Our work with The Nature Conservancy has World Health Organization (WHO) and relevant such as carbon pricing. continued for more than ﬁve years. We are government departments to raise public awareness currently assessing the potential to deploy natural of road safety across the country. The campaign ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERS systems such as oyster reefs and ﬂoating islands particularly encouraged people to wear seatbelts We work with several environmental organisations, to help protect one of our pipeline systems in the and reached 96,000 people over two years. including Earthwatch, the International Union Gulf of Mexico. These natural systems can serve for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), The Nature as a breakwater and help reduce coastal erosion. Across the world, we work with organisations like Conservancy and Wetlands International, to ﬁnd In 2013, we advanced this project and identiﬁed the United Nations Development Programme effective ways to address environmental challenges, a specialised environmental engineering (UNDP) to implement our community programmes. including protecting and enhancing the environment company that aims to design these natural These organisations can offer local knowledge and around our operations. These collaborations infrastructure solutions. help us to identify community needs, such as jobs or can be mutually beneﬁcial by reducing our better health care. For example, in Iraq the UNDP environmental impact and sharing knowledge. We are now in the 16th year of our employee helps us to improve our programmes which help volunteering programme, Project Better World, in women to build businesses and support youth Working with our partners leads to improvements partnership with Earthwatch. Our employees have development skills. In Somalia, we are part of a in our projects and operations. For example, our the opportunity to take part in scientiﬁc expeditions shipping industry initiative with the UNDP and its work with Wetlands International has helped us to for two weeks at multiple locations around the partners to support long-term employment gain a better understanding of wetland conservation world. In 2013, we introduced a new Enhanced opportunities for young adults by providing viable techniques around pipelines in Brunei. Our Learning Programme for employees. Those who employment alternatives to illegal activity such as collaborations can also help to advance science take part in the programme must implement an piracy. The initiative supports projects for young and conservation information. We are a founding action plan related to sustainability that is relevant adults in agricultural and ﬁshing industries. member of the Proteus Partnership, where we to Shell. Three Enhanced Learning Programme support the work of IUCN and the United Nations expeditions will take place in 2014. Environment Programme’s World Conservation Monitoring Centre to maintain the free and publicly available World Database on Protected Areas. 26 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM OIL SANDS Oil sands are one of the world’s most signiﬁcant energy resources and provide an important source of energy for North America. They are energyand water-intensive and must be developed responsibly. Oil sands are found in three deposits in Alberta and parts of Saskatchewan in Canada. Dr. Dan Wicklum Oil sands are a mixture of bitumen – a heavy oil – Some opposition exists to the development of oil Chief Executive, sand, water and clay. Some of the oil sands are sands. We work with aboriginal peoples in local Canada’s Oil Sands found within 70 metres of the surface, where they communities so that any development has limited Innovation Alliance can be mined, but most are deeper underground. impact on traditional land use and culture. We are (COSIA), Calgary, Conventional wells are used to produce deeperhelping to develop local skills and businesses Alberta, Canada lying resources, often with steam injected into among the aboriginal communities: AOSP has “ the reservoir to heat and thin the bitumen to ease invested over C$1.5 billion since 2005 in contracts External opinion its ﬂow. with around 70 aboriginal businesses and contractors that provide a broad range of products The Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP, Shell and services to our operations. “COSIA is an alliance of oil sands interest 60%) uses giant trucks and mechanical producers, established in 2012 and shovels to extract the oil sands mixture at its Muskeg MANAGING CO2 EMISSIONS representing 90% of production from River and Jackpine mines. Once separated, the We continue to operate responsibly to reduce our the Canadian oil sands. The COSIA bitumen is diluted with solvent for piping to the environmental impact by working on ways to members aim to improve environmental Scotford Upgrader, and converted into synthetic improve the management of carbon dioxide (CO2) performance in Canada’s oil sands crude oil for reﬁning into products. In 2013, Shell’s emissions, water and land in our oil sands through collaborative action and share of AOSP production was around 126,000 operations. Oil sands typically emit 4% to 23% innovation. Member companies are barrels of oil equivalent (boe) a day and production more greenhouse gas emissions than the average currently working on 185 joint industry from deeper-lying, or in situ, oil sands operations crude consumed in the USA from production projects across four key environmental was around 19,000 boe a day. This makes up through to use as a transport fuel, according to areas of land, water, tailings and around 4.5% of Shell’s global oil and gas Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA). greenhouse gases. production for the year. We are working to manage our CO2 emissions by improving energy efﬁciency and using lower-carbon Some of the environmental technologies In 2013, we announced our decision to go ahead energy supplies. With the support of the Canadian and innovations shared through COSIA with the Carmon Creek project in Alberta. This is an government we are also building a carbon capture are already being put to use to in situ oil project that is expected to produce up to and storage facility, Quest, that is linked to the accelerate the pace of environmental 80,000 barrels of oil a day. The project has been Scotford Upgrader (page 11). performance improvement. As Shell designed to make efﬁcient use of the gas and water pursues its Carmon Creek oil sands that is produced with the bitumen. We also Collaboration with other companies can help us to project in north-west Alberta, it will draw received regulatory approval, with environmental develop technologies that reduce our environmental on expertise shared through COSIA in and community conditions attached, for the impact. For example, we are founding members of building pipelines that reduce the Jackpine Mine Expansion, and began a review of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), impact on land.” its operations with our partners. The potential which brings oil sands producers together to share expansion could add 100,000 boe a day of environmental technologies (see opinion). production. settled the water is recycled at our mines, reducing WATER USE AND RECYCLING the need for river water in our operations. We use around 1.2 barrels of river water from the An operator prepares to start work at the Athabasca River for every barrel of bitumen extracted Tailings ponds at the Muskeg River and Jackpine Muskeg River Mine in Alberta, Canada. from our mining operations. No water used in our mines covered 24 km2 at the end of 2013. Shell mining and extraction processes is returned to the has invested over C$250 million since 2005 in river, and our recycle rate is more than 75%. While developing technologies to speed up the tailings Shell has permits to withdraw 0.6% of the drying process. We actively share this research and Athabasca River’s average annual ﬂow, we used work with other companies to ﬁnd solutions. The less than 0.08% in 2013. Alberta government has regulations in place to reduce the amount of liquid tailings and we continue In 2013, Scotford Upgrader operations used to work with it to meet these requirements. around 0.4 barrels of river water from the North Saskatchewan River for every barrel of bitumen We aim to reclaim the land used in our oil sands that was upgraded. Around 90% of the waste mines by reﬁlling the mined-out areas with dried water from the upgrading is reused in operations. tailings and restoring the contours of disturbed land, then placing topsoil and planting suitable TAILINGS AND RECLAMATION vegetation. Reclamation is required by law. The Oil sands mining generates tailings, a mixture of land will be able to support local plants and water, sand, clay and residual hydrocarbons that animals, although it will not be exactly the same as remain after the bitumen is extracted. They contain the previous landscape. As we complete our mining concentrated naturally occurring chemicals that are operations, reclamation work is under way and will toxic. We store them either in tailings ponds or in proceed in stages. mined-out pits. Once the sand and clay have OUR ACTIVITIES We invested in GlassPoint technology and use it to generate steam for enhanced oil recovery in Amal, Oman. FOCUS ON TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Innovation and the development of advanced technologies are central to our strategy. ENERGY EFFICIENCY Our research and development programme includes technologies to manage carbon dioxide We continue to work on improving the energy emissions and to make alternative sources of energy commercially available. efﬁciency of our existing operations. By reducing heat loss or power use, we can also reduce CO2 Advances in research and development (R&D) can Shell Technology Ventures (STV) is our corporateemissions. In 2013, we improved a cooling system help meet the world’s growing energy demand and venturing arm, which invests in companies across within a gas-gathering network at our Magnolia reduce the impact of our operations. We also use the energy sector to speed up the development tight gas operations in Louisiana, USA. Through R&D to help develop new businesses where we and deployment of new technologies which improved monitoring we were able to shut down can apply our existing knowledge and skills. For complement our business. It offered funding and around half of our air coolers and the associated example, the handling and sale of biofuels is similar expertise to California-based company, GlassPoint. small gas engines that were providing power. to our existing business, and we are able to expand This followed a decision by Petroleum Development This led to a reduction of 28,000 tonnes in into new areas, such as the production of biofuels, Oman (Shell interest 34%) to select GlassPoint for a CO2 emissions. supported by R&D. demonstration project. GlassPoint’s technology uses moving mirrors that focus sunlight on water-carrying A 1% improvement in energy efﬁciency across our SOURCING NEW IDEAS pipes to capture solar energy and generate steam manufacturing sites is equal to $5 million to We have leading scientists working in our – using sunlight instead of natural gas to boil water $7 million savings per site. A new energy technology centres around the world, including can reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by monitoring system has improved efﬁciency in major centres in the Netherlands, India and the up to 80%. Glasshouses protect the mirrors from energy, mainly due to CO2 and energy USA, whose work includes developing cleaner sand or dust and wind. We saw the potential management. Used across 20 of our manufacturing energy technologies. Research in the Netherlands to use the GlassPoint technology to produce the sites, this has led to savings of more than has included turning natural gas into transport fuel steam sometimes injected into oil reservoirs to $20 million in 2013. and other liquid products (gas-to-liquids or GTL) as boost recovery. well as developing more efﬁcient chemical FUTURE ENERGY STORAGE processes. In both the Netherlands and the USA, CAPTURING EMISSIONS Renewable sources will help meet the growing scientists are researching opportunities to provide Shell is working on ways to capture CO2 from demand for energy, but energy from wind and the liqueﬁed natural gas (LNG) as a transport fuel. power plants and industrial facilities and store it sun is intermittent. One way to overcome this is to In India, our research includes more effective ways safely underground. We support a number of store the wind and solar energy until it is needed, of boosting oil production from existing ﬁelds, carbon capture and storage (CCS) demonstration such as during peak hours. This can be done by improving water management and energy use in projects around the world. For example, Quest is taking electricity generated from renewable energy our operations. the ﬁrst project to reduce CO2 from oil sands and using it to create different energy sources that operations in Canada (page 11). can be stored. People outside of Shell are encouraged to come to us with their innovative ideas. Our GameChanger We are also developing new ways to capture Our Future Energy Technologies team, set up in programme identiﬁes and helps develop ideas that emissions. Shell Cansolv offers gas-processing units 2010, is researching ideas for energy storage could have an impact on the future of energy. This to industrial customers to capture sulphur dioxide technologies such as batteries, compressed air, includes ﬁnding ways to produce energy from (SO2), which contributes to local air pollution, and heat, water pumped to a high elevation, or cleaner sources. GameChanger offers ﬁnancial CO2. The technology can be added to an existing hydrogen. For example, liquid hydrogen could be support and expertise to take ideas through to plant or incorporated into a new installation. The stored underground in salt caverns and then turned testing. GameChanger funded early research CO2 can be sold to oil companies to inject into back into a gas to release its energy in fuel cells or that led to the development of the Prelude ﬂoating reservoirs to boost oil production, or be stored through combustion. liqueﬁed natural gas (FLNG) facility, a project safely deep underground. In 2013, Shell Cansolv to turn natural gas to liquid at sea. It is designed and RWE nPower started operations in the UK to We are exploring ways in which hydrogen can to produce and liquefy gas and then transfer it to capture both SO2 and CO2 at the world’s ﬁrst be used for road transport. We have hydrogen ﬁlling LNG tankers. This eliminates the need for complex demonstration plant. stations in Germany, Japan and the USA that allow infrastructure such as pipelines to shore and loading us to evaluate a range of different technologies. jetties, and reduces the environmental footprint. When built, it will be the world’s largest offshore facility, with a hull measuring nearly half a kilometre in length. 28 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM The winning vehicle of the Urban Concept FUELS AND PRODUCTS category at the Shell Eco-marathon in the Netherlands. At Shell, we develop transport fuels and lubricants that can help motorists to reduce their fuel consumption and improve engine efﬁciency for vehicles. This can help to reduce the environmental impact of transportation as the number of vehicles is expected to grow signiﬁcantly in the coming decades. Shell supplies fuel to millions of drivers every day. onboard electronic technology to monitor their More than 340 scientists and engineers work drivers’ fuel use and driving habits. The system full-time on researching and developing more transmits data to transport companies which can efﬁcient lubricants and fuels. Shell designs systems improve their overall ﬂeet performance as well and programmes to inform its customers about how as provide speciﬁc tips for drivers on techniques to use fuel more efﬁciently. to reduce fuel consumption. Around 10,000 commercial vehicles are signed up to the We have a range of more efﬁcient regular priced programme and several new features were fuels called Shell FuelSave Diesel and Shell introduced in 2013 that improve communication FuelSave Unleaded petrol. They are designed to between drivers and ﬂeet managers. help motorists save fuel by improving combustion SHELL ECO-MARATHON in the engine and reducing energy loss. These fuels PROGRESSING SCIENCE Shell Eco-marathon challenges teams of are now available in 20 markets across Asia, We work with vehicle manufacturers to develop students to design and build ultra energyAfrica and Europe. We are also continuing our and test new fuel and product technologies. This efﬁcient vehicles to travel the furthest on the development in gas for transport (page 16) includes working with top motorsport teams, like least energy. It is an annual event that takes and biofuels. Ferrari, to develop more efﬁcient lubricants and place in the Americas, Europe and Asia. The fuels. Our technical partnership with Ferrari allows competition is split into two classes: the Prototype Our approach to energy efﬁciency includes helping us to transfer proven innovations from the racetrack class focuses on maximum efﬁciency, while the customers to change driving behaviour. The Shell to our commercial products. The partnership led to UrbanConcept class encourages more practical FuelSave global campaign aims to help 1 million the development of Shell Helix Ultra, a synthetic designs. Cars can be powered by conventional motorists drive more efﬁciently, save fuel and reduce motor oil formulated to clean and protect car petrol, diesel, fuel made from natural gas (GTL), the cost of motoring. Launched in 2012, the Shell engines, and Shell V-Power performance fuel. biofuels, hydrogen, solar or electricity. FuelSave Target One Million programme equips motorists with new skills and car-care tips through a Our Shell Rimula range of heavy-duty engine oils In May 2013, students from Lycée La Joliverie, series of interactive, online games. Over 400,000 was developed with leading engine makers, France, achieved the equivalent of 2,980.3 km motorists across 18 countries had taken part by the including a product developed with Daimler. The on a single litre of fuel with their self-built car end of 2013. oils help truck, bus and coach companies improve – enough to drive from Rotterdam to Athens. the fuel economy of their ﬂeets and protects the They were competing in Shell Eco-marathon We also help the commercial road transport sector vehicles’ engines. This also extends the intervals Europe, held in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, to reduce fuel consumption. Shell FuelSave Partner between the need to service the vehicles. and attracted an audience of more than is a system developed for ﬂeet operators which uses 50,000 in a week. Student teams set ﬁve all-time records during the Shell Eco-marathon Europe – four in the UrbanConcept class and one in the Prototype battery-electric category. Interactive online games are part of the Target One Million campaign The Eco-marathon events around the world are to change driving behaviours. designed to encourage debate about the future of mobility as well as including educational attractions for children and students, like the Shell Energy Lab. Other activities included public debates on the future of energy challenges, including the growing pressure on energy, water and food. In 2013, Houston, USA, received more than 1,000 student entrants from across the Americas and vehicles competed on city streets. MARINE PRODUCTS Many ship operators seek to reduce the fuel consumption of their ships through slow sailing. However, this can add to the stress on engines. We have developed a cylinder oil for ships, called Shell Alexia S4, which protects engines moving at all speeds and in various shipping conditions. Since its introduction in 2012, Shell Alexia S4 has been used for more than 18 million hours of safe and efﬁcient operations in more than 3,400 vessels. OUR ACTIVITIES 29 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 BIOFUELS The use of low-carbon biofuels is one way to reduce carbon dioxide from transport fuels in the coming years. Our joint venture Raízen, in Brazil, is one of the world’s largest producers of sugar-cane ethanol, a low-carbon biofuel. We are also making signiﬁcant investments in advanced biofuels. The production of biofuels needs to be managed uses ash that is produced in the process from in a responsible way that safeguards land use, burned bagasse for organic fertiliser. Sven Sielhorst Solidaridad’s the environment and communities. Overall carbon International Sugarcane dioxide (CO2) emissions can differ widely, Raízen was the ﬁrst sugar-cane producer to certify Programme Coordinator, depending on the raw materials used as well as the a mill using the Bonsucro sustainability standard Utrecht, the Netherlands production and distribution methods. Shell has been in 2011. Raízen continues to work towards the “ working to improve sustainability standards in its certiﬁcation of all 24 sugar-cane mills to the External opinion supply chain for many years. In 2013, we used Bonsucro standard. By the end of 2013, 10 of around 9 billion litres of biofuel in our petrol and Raízen’s mills were certiﬁed. As a result, 32% of diesel blends worldwide. Raízen’s ethanol was certiﬁed. “Shell took meaningful steps through its joint venture with Cosan in establishing We have clauses in our new and renewed contracts Raízen also supports government efforts to protect Bonsucro as the global standard for for biofuels that we purchase for blending which the land rights of indigenous peoples in Brazil and better sugar cane. The experience detail environmental and social criteria. These signed an agreement in 2012 with FUNAI, the and leadership of Raízen have been clauses are designed to make sure that these biofuels National Indian Foundation, conﬁrming that it would invaluable in this respect. are not knowingly linked to human rights violations not buy sugar cane grown on land that belongs to nor produced from raw materials cultivated in areas the indigenous Guaraní people. I would expect the same leadership of high biodiversity value. from Shell in the market place going IMPROVING STANDARDS forward, by purchasing larger quantities More than 99% of biofuels volumes that Shell We work with other companies and organisations of Bonsucro-certiﬁed material. This will bought and blended into fuels were covered by to develop recognised standards for the biofuels encourage producers like Raízen to our sustainability clauses, with around 30% of this industry, covering social and environmental aspects. continue with Bonsucro certiﬁcation. volume certiﬁed as sustainable by an independent The organisations we work with include the I hope Shell can be that change auditor. We aim to increase the proportion of Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials, the agent again in 2014 and lead other independently certiﬁed volumes (see opinion). Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), the companies into creating a real market We conduct a risk assessment of any new supplier Round Table on Responsible Soy, and Bonsucro for for certiﬁed ethanol.” and regularly monitor our supply chain to maintain sugar cane. All the standards have been approved sustainability standards. under Europe’s Renewable Energy Directive after working with governments, non-governmental ADVANCED BIOFUELS RAÍZEN organisations, farmers and other industry players. A key challenge with the current generation of In 2013, Raízen produced more than 2 billion litres biofuels is that they use crops that can compete of low-carbon biofuel from Brazilian sugar cane. In 2013, Raízen also worked with the International directly with food crops for land. Advanced biofuels This biofuel can reduce CO2 emissions by around Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to assess can reduce some of these challenges because they 70%, compared with petrol, from cultivation of the how effective Bonsucro certiﬁcation is in helping to do not depend on food crops for raw materials. sugar cane to using the ethanol as fuel. The Raízen protect local biodiversity. A team of experts from production process is efﬁcient as it uses the waste organisations such as WWF, The Nature In 2013, Raízen started construction of a facility at material (bagasse) to power the production unit, Conservancy, Ecoagriculture and Rainforest Alliance one of its mills that can produce advanced with surplus electricity being sold to the grid. It also conducted a review of Bonsucro certiﬁcation low-carbon biofuels from bagasse, leaves, bark and impacts on biodiversity and water at the Maracai other sugar-cane waste, with technology provided Our Raízen joint venture in Brazil uses mill, São Paulo. The ﬁnal report is publicly available by Iogen Energy. We are also developing sugar cane to produce low-carbon biofuel. and identiﬁes some areas for improvement, such as low-carbon biofuels that have comparable energy introducing environmental management plans at content to petrol and diesel. They can be used in sites and improving conservation. today’s vehicles and distribution networks without the need for blending with ordinary fuels. A pilot facility In 2012, Shell started a jointly funded project with at our Shell Technology Center Houston, USA, Patum Vegetable Oil Company, a Thai producer of continues to advance these technologies. We have edible palm oil and biodiesel, to produce sustainable dedicated biofuels research teams and research palm oil in Thailand. The project involves preparing agreements with leading academic institutions across selected palm oil crushing mills and training their the world, including the University of São Paulo, associated smallholder farmers for certiﬁcation Brazil, and the University of Utrecht, the Netherlands. against RSPO standards. To date, nine mills and around 1,800 farmers are taking part in the project. The project will take at least two years, with the expectation that up to 40,000 tonnes of palm oil will be certiﬁed as a result. OUR PERFORMANCE In 2013, we continued to work to reduce our impact on the environment, to work closely with our neighbours in the communities where we operate, and to generate jobs and business opportunities for local economies. Throughout the year, we maintained our strong investment in projects that will deliver energy resources for decades to come. This section provides data on our economic, environmental and social performance in 2013. An employee takes measurements from a storage tank at the Bintulu gas-to-liquids plant, Malaysia. Our Performance 31 Shell sustainability report 2013 Economic 2013 key facts 2% Our income in 2013 was around $16.5 billion, and we announced dividends of some $11.3 billion for our shareholders. Our net capital investment of around $44.3 billion will help to build and sustain our business for the future. We also spent $1.3 billion on OUR SHARE OF THE WORLD’S OIL PRODUCTION our research and development programme. 3% Shell generated $40.4 billion of cash flow from its interest 34%) enhanced oil recovery project in operating activities in 2013. Our average organic Oman as well as the Majnoon project in Iraq (Shell reserves replacement ratio, which represents our interest 45%). The Basrah Gas Company (Shell OUR SHARE OF THE WORLD’S GAS PRODUCTION ability to grow and maintain production, was interest 44%) officially started operations in Iraq. around 112% over the last three years. It aims to use gas, that is currently being flared, for In 2013, Shell was part of a consortium that won the power generation or for export in the future. This is expected to increase production capacity from an 3.2 MILLION bidding process for the giant Libra field offshore initial 0.5 billion standard cubic feet a day (scf/d) OUR EQUITY PRODUCTION IN BARRELS OF OIL Brazil. We have a 20% interest in this oil field, to potentially 2.0 billion scf/d. EQUIVALENT A DAY which is potentially one of the largest discoveries in the last decade. Shell’s oil and gas production in 2013 was We took the final investment decision on the 3.2 million boe a day, down slightly from 2012. Our sales of liquefied natural gas decreased to 52% Carmon Creek in-situ oil project in Canada during around 20 million tonnes. Exploration and SHARE OF OUR PRODUCTION THAT WAS NATURAL GAS the year. Shell has a 100% working interest in this commercial activities continued to add potential project that can potentially produce 80,000 barrels resources. This underpins our long-term growth plan. 19.6 of oil a day. Co-generation and water recycling facilities have been integrated into the design to SHELL SCORECARD MILLION reduce its environmental impact. In 2013, we also In 2013, sustainable development continued to TONNES EQUITY SHARE OF LNG SOLD took the final investment decision on the Gbaran account for 20% of the company scorecard, which Ubie Phase 2 (Shell interest 30%) and the helps determine the annual bonus levels for all our $16.5 Trans-Niger pipeline loop-line projects (Shell interest employees, including members of the Shell Executive 30%), both in Nigeria, with a combined expected Committee (EC). In 2013, the EC’s sustainable BILLION peak production of around 250,000 barrels of oil development measures were split evenly between income equivalent (boe) a day. Shell’s safety and environmental performance, including targeted measures covering operational $44.3 During the year we started up Phase 2 of the spills, energy efficiency and use of fresh water. Parque das Conchas (BC-10) project (Shell interest Targets are set each year by the Board’s BILLION 50%) off the coast of Brazil, the Amal steam (Shell Remuneration Committee taking into account the NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT performance achieved in the last three years. REVENUE TRANSPARENCY Our operations generate revenue through taxes and royalties for governments around the world. $40.4 BILLION CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES These funds can help support a country’s economy and contribute to local development. We believe greater transparency in payments to governments, and how they are used, is important for building $20.3 trust between businesses such as ours and the communities we work alongside. BILLION We work openly with governments on matters of taxes and royalties. We are a founder and board member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). This initiative requires both CORPORATE TAXES PAID governments and companies to disclose revenues received from oil and mineral activities. In 2003, Shell was the first company to publish the royalties, taxes and other payments made to the Nigerian government, with the government’s permission and support. Shell started to voluntarily $4.1 BILLION publish an annual revenue transparency report in 2012. It provides an overview of the revenues we ROYALTIES PAID TO GOVERNMENTS pay to host governments in certain key countries in respect of our activities, where such disclosure is $80.9 not prohibited by the host government. We took this step to reinforce efforts to increase transparency on revenues to governments ahead of any mandatory requirements taking effect. BILLION To help improve accountability, we support a mandatory global reporting rule for extractive industries, COLLECTED IN EXCISE DUTIES AND SALES TAXES in line with EITI goals to achieve greater transparency. We are monitoring implementation of US and EU regulations and are actively engaging with others to find a workable and common global standard. In 2013, Shell paid globally $20.3 billion in corporate taxes, and $4.1 billion in royalties. We collected $80.9 billion in excise duties and sales taxes on our fuel and other products on behalf of governments. For further details and a breakdown of payments made to governments by country, see www.shell.com/payments 32 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM ENVIRONMENTAL SPILLS ENERGY EFFICIENCY Our reﬁneries and chemical plants continue to Shell has clear requirements and procedures to One of the ways we can manage our direct implement their carbon dioxide (CO2) and energy prevent operational spills, and multibillion-dollar greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is to work on management programmes (pages 10 and 27) programmes in place to maintain and improve our improving the energy efﬁciency of the facilities to improve their energy efﬁciency. facilities and pipelines. However, spills still occur we operate. for reasons such as operational failure, accidents GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS or unusual corrosion. Our requirements include In 2013, the overall energy intensity for the The direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from establishing and implementing spill response plans. production of oil and gas in our Upstream business facilities we operate were 73 million tonnes on a (excluding oil sands and GTL) worsened compared CO2 -equivalent basis in 2013, which is slightly In 2013, the volume of operational spills of oil with 2012, with rising production of hydrocarbons higher than 72 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in and oil products amounted to 0.9 thousand tonnes, that need more energy to access. All our major 2012. The main reasons for this increase were the down from 2.1 thousand tonnes in 2012. The facilities have energy management plans in place ramp-up of production at the Pearl GTL plant in number of operational oil spills also decreased to make the best use of those facilities, including the Qatar and the restart of production at Majnoon in in 2013 to 174, down from 207 in 2012. These use of improved ﬁeld management techniques. We Iraq following completion of refurbishment activities are the lowest levels recorded and continue the expect that maintaining the energy efﬁciency levels and start-up of the new central processing facility. long-term improvement trend. of recent years will be more difﬁcult in the future as These increases were partially offset by reduced existing ﬁelds age and new production comes from ﬂaring in Nigeria in line with lower production, We continue to investigate and learn from all more energy-intensive sources. This is expected to and the conversion of the Clyde reﬁnery in Australia spills to help improve our performance. We are increase our GHG emissions over time. and our Harburg reﬁnery in Germany to terminals. working to extend the signiﬁcant improvements made in previous years to decrease the number In our oil sands operations, energy intensity Around 50% of our direct GHG emissions came of operational spills through our ongoing investment in 2013 improved slightly compared with 2012. from the reﬁneries and chemical plants in our in improving the maintenance and reliability of Downstream business. The production of oil our facilities. In 2013, the overall energy intensity for the and gas in our Upstream business, including GTL, manufacturing of oil products at our reﬁneries accounted for more than 45% of our direct GHG In 2013, sabotage and theft remained a signiﬁcant improved compared with 2012, due to improved emissions, and our shipping activities for less than cause of spills. The scale of oil theft in Nigeria efﬁciency of operations. 5%. We continue to work on improving operational escalated, leading to multiple shutdowns of performance and energy efﬁciency to reduce production. This was reﬂected in the number of The overall energy intensity of our chemical plants GHG emissions. spills due to sabotage and theft increasing to 157 improved in 2013 compared with 2012, due to spills, from 137 in 2012. The volume of these spills lower unplanned downtime and improved energy The indirect GHG emissions from the energy we decreased to 2.2 thousand tonnes, down from efﬁciency of our operations. purchased (electricity, heat, steam and cooling) 3.3 thousand tonnes in 2012. See pages 22 and were 10 million tonnes on a CO2 -equivalent basis 23 for more information on spills in Nigeria. in 2013, which is slightly higher compared to SPILLS – OPERATIONAL [A] SPILLS – SABOTAGE [B] ENERGY INTENSITY – UPSTREAM (EXCLUDING OIL SANDS AND GTL) gigajoules/tonne production 20 800 20 800 0.9 10 400 10 400 0.7 0 0 0 0 0.5 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Volume in thousand tonnes Number of spills Volume in thousand tonnes Number of spills [A] Over 100 kilograms [B] Sabotageand theft-related spills over 100 kilograms ENERGY INTENSITY – OIL SANDS ENERGY INTENSITY – REFINERIES ENERGY INTENSITY – CHEMICAL PLANTS gigajoules/tonne production [C] Reﬁnery Energy Index [D] Chemicals Energy Index 8 110 100 6 95 4 100 90 2 0 90 85 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 [C] Includes mining and upgrading operations [D] Indexed to 2002; based on 2006 Solomon EIITM methodology OUR PERFORMANCE 33 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2012. We Operational ﬂaring occurs for safety reasons, or In 2013, the amount of fresh water we used estimate that the CO2 emissions from the use of our during the start-up of Upstream facilities. We aim decreased to 198 million cubic metres, down from reﬁnery and natural gas products were around to minimise this operational ﬂaring. 203 million cubic metres in 2012. Our Downstream 600 million tonnes in 2013. Further information on business accounted for around 75% of our fresh-water GHG emissions is available on our corporate Continuous ﬂaring takes place due to a lack of use for the manufacture of oil products and chemicals; website. equipment to capture the gas produced with oil. our Upstream operations used around 25%. At Most of the continuous ﬂaring in 2013 took place our major facilities in water-scarce areas, we are FLARING in Nigeria and Iraq. Flaring from the Majnoon developing water management plans that include The ﬂaring of natural gas in our Upstream business ﬁeld in Iraq will continue to rise in future years how our operations will minimise water use and decreased in 2013 to 7.4 million tonnes of CO2 as production increases. We are currently increase water recycling. We expect that our equivalent, from 7.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent working with partners on plans to capture the fresh-water use will change over time in line with our in 2012. The decrease was mainly due to lower associated gas. portfolio, and our efforts to use water more efﬁciently. ﬂaring in Nigeria in line with lower production as well as completion of start-up activities at the Pearl Outside Nigeria and Iraq, the few facilities that GTL plant in Qatar, partially offset by the restart of continuously ﬂare accounted for less than 1% of production at Majnoon in Iraq. our total direct GHG emissions in 2013. Some of these facilities are at ageing oil ﬁelds where Our HSSE & SP Control Framework requires our the associated gas pressure is too low to power new facilities to be designed so as not to ﬂare or the compressors used to gather the gas and avoid vent (releasing gas to the atmosphere) continuously. ﬂaring. In 2013, the venting of hydrocarbons When we acquire or become the operator of an amounted to around 1% of our total direct existing facility that is already ﬂaring or venting, it GHG emissions. takes time before these activities can be stopped. WATER Overall, ﬂaring made up around 10% of the total The way we manage our use of fresh water is direct GHG emissions in 2013. Nigeria and Iraq especially important in areas of the world where the accounted for around 50% and 10% of this ﬂaring availability of water is constrained due to limited in 2013, respectively, with the remainder mainly supplies or extensive use. We assess the availability from the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar and operations in of water where we operate, and design and run our the UK and Malaysia. In 2013, we further reduced facilities in ways that help reduce their water use. the ﬂaring intensity – hydrocarbons ﬂared per tonne of production – to the lowest level we have recorded for our Upstream business. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FLARING – UPSTREAM FRESH WATER WITHDRAWN million tonnes CO2 equivalent million tonnes CO2 equivalent million cubic metres 120 30 400 90 300 60 15 200 30 0 0 100 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY (LTIF) FATAL ACCIDENT RATE (FAR) FREQUENCY (TRCF) injuries per million working hours fatalities per 100 million working hours injuries per million working hours 3.0 1.50 8 6 1.5 0.75 4 2 0 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 34 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM SOCIAL PERSONAL SAFETY social impacts. In 2013, we trained 441 more $65 billion on goods and services worldwide. Following steady and signiﬁcant improvements in employees in our social performance requirements. Around two-thirds of this was spent in the USA, our safety performance in recent years, in 2013 we Canada, the UK, the Netherlands and Nigeria. achieved our lowest-ever number of injuries per million SOCIAL INVESTMENT We estimate around $12 billion was spent in working hours, the total recordable case frequency Across our operations we invest in projects that countries that have a gross domestic product of less (TRCF). We maintained our lowest-ever level of beneﬁt communities. We aim to make our social than $15,000 a year per person, according to the injuries that led to time off work in 2013, the lost-time investment projects beneﬁcial to society in measurable UNDP Human Development Index 2013. In these injury frequency (LTIF). ways and to be sustainable beyond Shell’s countries, Shell companies spent over 80% of this involvement. In 2013, we launched a tool across $12 billion with local companies. We check that our Sadly, however, ﬁve people lost their lives while Shell to help us to better evaluate the impact of our suppliers are complying with key sustainability criteria, working for Shell in 2013. This was three fewer than social investment projects. Also in 2013, we spent including good working conditions. In 2013, we in 2012. All ﬁve fatalities were industrial accidents around $159 million on voluntary social investments conducted 72 rigorous assessments of suppliers in during construction and operations. Our fatal accident worldwide, compared to $149 million in 2012. Africa and the Middle East; 150 in the Americas; rate (FAR) – the number of fatalities per 100 million This rise was mainly due to increased spending 182 in the Asia-Paciﬁc region, and 173 in Europe to hours worked – improved in 2013 compared to in the Philippines, Qatar and Oman. check their compliance against our Supplier Principles 2012, and we achieved the lowest FAR that Shell in areas such as human rights, labour practices and has recorded. We spent around $41 million on our three global business integrity. strategic themes of enterprise development, road PROCESS SAFETY safety and energy access, and around $118 million OUR PEOPLE At Shell, we place great emphasis on process safety on our locally tailored programmes covering Our people are vital to the implementation of our management. This means making sure our facilities community development, disaster relief, education, business strategy. Shell recruits, trains and rewards are well designed, well operated and well health and biodiversity. We estimate that almost employees to build business capabilities. This ensures maintained, so that they can run safely without $74 million of our spend in 2013, compared to our businesses are well resourced and enhances harm to people or the environment. We have rigorous $67 million in 2012, was in countries that according employee performance and engagement levels. controls in place and monitor indicators that focus to the UNDP Human Development Index 2013 on the strength of these controls to prevent incidents. have a gross domestic product of less than $15,000 We have 92,000 employees in more than a year per person. Our ﬁgures do not include 70 countries, with just under 40% in countries outside We follow industry standards for measuring process investments that are part of contractual agreements of Europe or North America. To execute our strategy safety performance. In 2013, we recorded 65 Tier 1 with host governments. We also provide signiﬁcant and growth plans for the future, we recruited around process safety incidents (as deﬁned in line with support through voluntary work by Shell employees 1,200 graduates and around 3,200 experienced oil and gas industry guidelines) related to our and donations of equipment. professionals in 2013. The majority of each came operations, an improvement compared to 91 Tier 1 from technical disciplines. More than 30% of our incidents recorded in 2012. We also experienced LOCAL PROCUREMENT graduate recruits came from universities outside improvements in the number of Tier 2 process safety Where possible, and when it makes economic sense, Europe and the Americas. We employ skill-pool incidents, with 246 recorded in 2013 compared to we buy goods and services from local suppliers managers to ensure robust resourcing and succession 308 in 2012. We investigate and learn from these and provide support to develop local businesses and planning for our critical positions and to create incidents in order to improve our performance. skills. For example, in 2013, we signed contracts with development opportunities for our employees. local suppliers to provide equipment in countries such Our salaries reﬂect market conditions in the country SOCIAL PERFORMANCE as Nigeria and Qatar. In 2013, we spent around where employees are based and the high level of Social performance involves working with communities to reduce the impact of our operations and share the VOLUNTARY SOCIAL INVESTMENT VOLUNTARY SOCIAL INVESTMENT beneﬁts of our activities. We respectfully engage with IN 2013 IN 2013 relevant parties, evaluate impacts, plan mitigation proportion of spend split by region strategies and ﬁnd opportunities to help communities, such as helping to build local economies through 3% 2% the creation of jobs and business opportunities. Our community feedback mechanisms enable members of 16% 13% 6% the community to share their concerns with us and 26% 7% help us learn how to better address them. We aim to 8% provide opportunities for local companies in countries 11% where we operate. 4% 10% We have management systems in place that set out our social performance requirements. These deﬁne requirements for activities such as engagement and 25% 23% 23% 23% impact assessment, and align with international standards. We have specialist employees who support our managers to ensure we meet these standards. Each year we review the extent to which our operations, as well as our contractors Enterprise development Education MENA Europe and suppliers, have processes in place to prevent Energy access Biodiversity Africa Asia Pacific violations of human rights, such as the use of child Road safety Other Americas Russia and CIS Community development Asia or forced labour. We continue to build a systematic Global social investment (spent in various regions) approach of early identiﬁcation and mitigation of OUR PERFORMANCE 35 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2013 KEY FACTS 53 skill and experience needed. We regularly review In 32% of the countries where Shell subsidiaries, joint comparative remuneration for men and women ventures and associates are based, local nationals in selected countries. Shell manages the effects ﬁlled more than half of the senior leadership positions, NUMBER OF VESSELS IN WHICH WE DELIVERED LNG on people of business changes as consistently as compared with 42% of countries in 2012. From – THE LARGEST LNG SHIP OPERATOR possible. Affected employees are treated respectfully 2014, we will no longer apply this metric, as it does and transparently and will be supported in searching not reﬂect expatriation of local nationals for talent for alternative employment as appropriate by country law and policy. We provide ﬂexible working development purposes. Instead, we will start using a revised metric that better represents our activities 8% practices wherever necessary and reasonably in this respect. OUR SHARE OF THE WORLD’S LNG SOLD possible. Our employees are encouraged to take part in social responsibility projects and employee Senior leaders actively engage in diversity interest networks. and inclusion networks, internally and externally, and we have numerous active employee interest $12 BILLION EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION networks representing different communities within SPENT IN LOWER INCOME COUNTRIES AND INVOLVEMENT the organisation. Our annual Shell People Survey also Two-way dialogue between management and measures employees’ views on the inclusiveness of employees is embedded in our work practices, and we strive to maintain healthy employee relations. their workplace. In 2013, 70% felt positive about this, up 1% from 2012; 11% felt negatively about inclusion $1.3 BILLION Dialogue can take place directly and, where in the workplace, down 1% from 2012. SPENT ON R&D appropriate, through employee councils or trade unions. On a quarterly basis, senior management TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT briefs employees on Shell’s operational and ﬁnancial results through various channels. The Shell People We continue to invest in developing the skills of our employees and joint venture partners. In 2013, 9 BILLION Survey is one of the principal tools used to measure we invested over $304 million in training and LITRES OF BIOFUELS DISTRIBUTED employee views on a range of topics including development. Our focus is on building technical employee engagement and the degree of afﬁliation capability and safety-critical competencies and and commitment to Shell. The average employee engagement score increased by 3% in 2013 to 80% skills. In 2013, we provided more than 795,000 training days for employees and some of our $750 MILLION favourable; the unfavourable score was 4%. Since joint-venture partners. This included training more INVESTED IN SAFETY AND RELIABILITY OF OUR 2010, there has been a 9% increase in employees than 4,000 people in leadership skills. REFINERIES, CHEMICAL PLANTS AND DISTRIBUTION scoring employee engagement favourably. FACILITIES EXTERNAL VOLUNTARY CODES $159 We have multiple channels in place for employees to The Shell General Business Principles and Code report, conﬁdentially and anonymously, breaches of of Conduct guide the business activities of Shell MILLION the Shell General Business Principles or our Code of companies. We also support a number of external Conduct, or other concerns. These include a global voluntary codes. These include the United Nations’ SPENT ON VOLUNTARY SOCIAL INVESTMENT WORLDWIDE telephone helpline and a dedicated website in (UN) Universal Declaration on Human Rights, addition to local channels. the UN Global Compact, the Organisation for $304 Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the MILLION We have a culture that embraces diversity and fosters International Labour Organization Declaration SPENT ON TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT inclusion. By embedding these principles in our on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. OF EMPLOYEES operations, we have a better understanding of the needs of our varied customers, partners and CODE OF CONDUCT VIOLATIONS stakeholders throughout the world and can beneﬁt from a wider talent pool. We provide equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, Shell employees and contractors working for Shell must abide by our Code of Conduct. In 2013, 181 violations of the Code of Conduct were 70+ NUMBER OF COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATED promotion, training and reward for all employees reported (209 in 2012; 226 in 2011). As a result, regardless of colour, ethnicity or physical ability. we dismissed or terminated the contracts of 63 Where possible, we make reasonable adjustments in job design and provide appropriate training for employees who declare a disability. employees and contractors (93 in 2012; 78 in 2011). 92,000 AVERAGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE EMPLOYED We actively monitor representation of women and local nationals in senior leadership positions, and have talent-development processes to support us in delivering more diverse representation. The proportion of women in senior leadership positions was 17.2%, compared with 16.2% in 2012. 36 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL DATA ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) Direct total GHGs (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) [A] 73 72 74 76 69 75 82 88 93 101 Carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes) 71 69 71 72 66 72 79 85 89 96 Methane (CH4) (thousand tonnes) 120 93 133 128 127 126 119 124 173 192 Nitrous oxide (N2O) (thousand tonnes) 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Hydroﬂuorocarbons (HFCs) (tonnes) 17 23 22 23 25 23 28 24 20 13 Energy indirect total GHGs (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 10 9 10 9 9 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Flaring Flaring (Upstream) (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 7.4 7.7 10.0 10.4 7.8 8.8 9.7 14.3 20.8 24.6 Flaring (Upstream) (million tonnes hydrocarbon ﬂared) 2.1 2.3 3.4 3.6 2.6 2.8 3.4 4.8 7.0 8.1 Nigeria [B] 1.1 1.5 2.0 2.4 1.9 2.3 2.5 3.7 5.8 6.6 Rest of world [C] 1.0 0.8 1.4 1.2 0.7 0.5 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.5 Energy intensity Upstream excl. oil sands and GTL (gigajoules per tonne production) [D] 0.86 0.78 0.75 0.74 0.76 0.74 0.78 0.78 0.71 0.69 Oil sands (gigajoules per tonne production) [E] 6.5 6.6 6.4 6.8 6.6 6.4 5.7 5.3 5.2 5.8 Reﬁneries: Reﬁnery Energy Index [F] 95.6 98.4 100.8 101.8 102.2 98.9 98.6 98.4 98.0 96.7 Chemical plants: Chemicals Energy Index 89.8 91.7 90.8 89.3 92.0 93.0 92.6 92.5 95.8 93.3 Acid gases and VOCs Sulphur oxides (SOx) (thousand tonnes SO2) 99 113 136 139 141 175 212 233 226 247 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousand tonnes NO2) 156 147 146 159 142 150 145 154 157 172 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (thousand tonnes) 89 89 129 147 126 130 148 185 199 213 Ozone-depleting emissions CFCs/halons/trichloroethane (tonnes) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 1.4 0.6 0.3 0.8 2.3 Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbons (HCFCs) (tonnes) [G] 8 8 12 21 24 26 27 35 35 42 Spills and discharges [H], [I] Sabotage spills – volume (thousand tonnes) [J] 2.2 3.3 1.6 3.0 14.0 6.5 3.4 1.9 1.5 1.1 Sabotage spills – number [J] 157 137 118 112 95 115 197 123 111 101 Operational spills – volume (thousand tonnes) [K] 0.9 2.1 6.0 2.9 1.4 8.8 3.5 3.9 3.4 3.4 Nigeria 0.4 0.2 5.3 0.7 0.3 7.1 1.6 1.4 0.1 0.0 Rest of world 0.5 1.9 0.7 2.2 1.1 1.7 1.9 2.5 3.3 3.4 Operational spills – number [L] 174 207 211 195 275 275 392 465 560 711 Nigeria [M] 31 37 64 32 37 42 52 41 63 48 Rest of world 143 170 147 163 238 233 340 424 497 663 Hurricane spills – volume (thousand tonnes) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.9 1.0 Oil in efﬂuents to surface environment (thousand tonnes) 1.0 1.0 1.3 1.6 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.8 2.3 2.1 Water Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic metres) 198 203 209 202 198 224 235 n/c n/c n/c Waste disposal Hazardous (thousand tonnes) 770 820 740 1,048 962 688 907 716 631 714 Non-hazardous (thousand tonnes) 2,065 2,295 1,850 1,079 1,139 996 1,899 1,154 632 421 Total waste (thousand tonnes) [N] 2,835 3,115 2,590 2,127 2,101 1,684 2,806 1,870 1,263 1,135 [A] Greenhouse gas emissions comprise carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydroﬂuorocarbons, perﬂuorocarbons and sulphur hexaﬂuoride. The data are calculated using locally regulated methods where they exist. Where there is no locally regulated method, the data are calculated using the 2009 API Compendium, which is the recognised industry standard under the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. There are inherent limitations to the accuracy of such data. Oil and gas industry guidelines (IPIECA/API/OGP) indicate that a number of sources of uncertainty can contribute to the overall uncertainty of a corporate emissions inventory. [B] Nigeria includes SPDC onshore operations (1.0 million tonnes ﬂared in 2013) and SNEPCo offshore operations (0.1 million tonnes ﬂared in 2013). [C] Flaring from the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar and the Majnoon ﬁeld in Iraq amounted to 0.1 and 0.3 million tonnes of hydrocarbons respectively in 2013. [D] 2013 data reported on a consistent basis with previous years in accordance with IPIECA/API/OGP guidance 2005. [E] The data includes mining and upgrading operations. It does not include in-situ production. [F] Data is indexed to 2002, based on Solomon Associates Energy Intensity Index 2006 methodology. [G] We have updated our 2011 ﬁgure following review of the data. [H] All spill volumes and numbers are for spills over 100 kilograms. [I] As of the end of March 2014, there were four spills under investigation in Nigeria that may result in adjustments (all were before 2013). [J] All sabotageand theft-related spills have occurred in Nigeria except in 2007 (0.7 thousand tonnes outside Nigeria) and 2006 (0.6 thousand tonnes outside Nigeria). [K] Nigeria includes SPDC onshore operations and SNEPCo offshore operations. A single spill at the Bonga ﬁeld offshore Nigeria amounted to 4.8 thousand tonnes in 2011. [L] We have updated our 2012 ﬁgure following review of the data. The numbers of operational spills reported for 2004 and 2005 contain a small number of hurricane spills. [M] We have updated our 2012 ﬁgure following review of the data. Nigeria includes SPDC onshore operations (30 operational spills in 2013) and SNEPCo offshore operations (1 operational spill in 2013). [N] In 2013, we sent waste offsite for recycling or reuse, or sold over 450 thousand tonnes of material that would otherwise have been disposed of as waste. n/c = not calculated. OUR PERFORMANCE 37 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 www.shell.com/performancedata See page 41 for more information about our data. SOCIAL DATA 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Fatalities Total number 5 8 6 12 20 26 21 37 34 31 Employees 0 3 1 0 1 2 1 2 3 2 Contractors 5 5 5 12 19 24 20 35 31 29 Fatal accident rate (FAR) 0.79 1.32 0.96 1.56 2.3 3.4 3.1 5.6 5.0 4.6 Fatalities per 100 million working hours (employees and contractors) Injuries Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) 1.15 1.26 1.24 1.23 1.4 1.8 1.9 2.1 2.5 2.6 Injuries per million working hours (employees and contractors) Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 0.36 0.34 0.36 0.35 0.4 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.0 1.1 Lost time injuries per million working hours (employees and contractors) Illnesses Total recordable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) 0.77 0.51 0.66 0.76 0.6 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.0 2.1 Illnesses per million working hours (employees only) Security Using armed security (% of countries) 19 17 14 9 17 17 16 15 19 18 Using armed company security (% of countries) 3 0 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 Using armed contractor security (% of countries) 8 10 9 6 10 9 12 9 11 11 Gender diversity [O] In supervisory/professional positions (% women) 28.8 28.1 27.3 26.3 26.4 24.7 24.6 23.2 21.8 20.7 In management positions (% women) 18.8 18.2 17.6 17.0 16.1 15.3 17.7 16.2 12.9 12.2 In senior leadership positions (% women) 17.2 16.2 16.6 15.3 14.0 13.6 12.9 11.6 9.9 9.6 Regional diversity [P] % countries with majority of local nationals in senior leadership positions 32 42 34 36 37 32 33 25 36 n/c Staff forums and grievance procedures % countries with staff access to staff forum, grievance procedure or other support system 100 100 99 100 99 100 100 99 100 100 Child labour (% countries with speciﬁc procedures in place) Own operations 100 100 100 99 98 100 99 95 88 83 Contractors 98 89 69 61 100 100 97 96 97 99 Suppliers 96 82 62 63 Forced labour (% countries with speciﬁc procedures in place) Own operations 100 100 100 99 98 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Contractors and suppliers 100 100 97 95 89 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Integrity Code of Conduct violations [Q] 181 209 226 205 165 204 361 n/c n/c n/c Contracts cancelled due to incompatibility with Business Principles 22 14 11 40 24 49 35 41 63 64 Joint ventures divested due to incompatibility with Business Principles 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Contracting and procurement Estimated expenditure on goods and services from locally owned companies in lower-income countries ($ billion) [R], [S] 12 14 12 13 12 12 13 10 9 6 Social investment [T] Estimated voluntary social investment (equity share) ($ million) 159 149 125 121 132 148 170 140 127 106 Estimated social investment spend (equity share) in lower-income countries ($ million) [U] 74 67 45 61 54 61 65 n/c n/c n/c [O] Diversity data obtained from our human resources system. [P] Diversity data obtained from our human resources system. From 2014, we will no longer apply this metric, as it does not reﬂect expatriation of local nationals for talent development purposes. [Q] Code of Conduct violations reported to our global telephone helpline and dedicated website, and through internal channels. [R] Estimated expenditure in countries where gross domestic product amounts to less than $15,000 a year per person (source: UNDP Human Development Index 2013). [S] The 2013 ﬁgure is the spend on goods and services by Shell Group Companies. This does not include spend on goods and services in non-operated joint ventures. [T] Social investment spending varies from year to year depending on business climate, locations and type of activities under way. This is voluntary social investment and does not include social investments made through contractual agreements with host governments, voluntary work by Shell employees and donations of equipment. [U] Estimated voluntary social investment spending in countries where gross domestic product amounts to less than $15,000 a year per person (source: UNDP Human Development Index 2013). Social investment as well as contracting and procurement data collected via our ﬁnancial system since 2007. Data obtained from an internal survey completed by the senior Shell representative in each country. n/c = not calculated. 38 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM EXTERNAL REVIEW COMMITTEE Shell, for the ninth successive year, has invited an External Review Committee to assess its The External Review Committee (ERC, or the sustainability reporting. This letter provides our assessment of Shell’s 2013 Sustainability Committee) is pleased to share in this letter its Report. We express our views as individuals, not on behalf of our organisations. independent opinion on Shell’s Sustainability Report 2013 (the report). Our engagement started in October 2013, when the ERC met with senior Shell leaders including then-CEO Peter Voser and Board members Chad Holliday and Sir Nigel Sheinwald. In January 2014, the ERC met newly appointed CEO Ben van Beurden and discussed his perceptions of the challenges facing Shell and his beliefs about sustainable development. The Committee thanks Shell for the way it organises the ERC process. The meetings are well structured and allow for a thorough understanding of the Clarissa Lins (Chair) Tom Burke CBE nuances, challenges and opportunities faced by Founder Environmental Policy Advisor an oil and gas company in the context of Catavento, Brazil Rio Tinto Plc, UK sustainable development. We look forward to the June 2014 in-person meeting with the Shell Executive Committee that will complete the 2013-14 ERC process at which time we will discuss Shell’s sustainability strategy and performance at length. OVERALL REPORT QUALITY The report provides comprehensive coverage of the main issues facing Shell and clear insights into how the company aims to address the main sustainability challenges it faces as it seeks to meet growing James Hoggan Reidar Kvam energy demand in a responsible way. While this President Senior Manager for Policy, Quality Assurance approach has served the company well in the past, James Hoggan & Associates, Canada and Knowledge Management societal expectations are moving faster than International Finance Corporation, Norway corporate reporting is evolving. The comments presented in this letter reﬂect what the ERC believes Shell needs to do more to lead again in the sustainability reporting space. The Committee has consistently encouraged Shell to explain in a more strategic and forward-looking manner how it addresses sustainable development challenges and dilemmas. This may require directly addressing questions such as: how might Shell’s portfolio evolve given the urgent need to curb greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions? How does Shell Ndidi Nwuneli Chris Perceval aspire to further use its inﬂuence and convening Founder, LEAP Africa Director Corporate Relations power to engage with other stakeholders to identify Co-Founder, AACE Foods, Nigeria World Resources Institute, UK and accelerate more sustainable solutions? What sustainability performance targets will Shell commit to deliver, and how will the targets and progress against them be communicated to stakeholders? While the ERC welcomes Shell’s advocacy for meaningful carbon pricing and stronger ﬁscal incentives for Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS), it also recognises that the company’s participation in trade associations and other organisations that sometimes take less progressive positions, or even ones counter to Shell’s views, may undermine stakeholders’ trust. The ERC thinks Shell’s reporting Charles Secrett should explain more clearly how participation in Founder Member such bodies provides net beneﬁt to society. The Robertsbridge Group, UK OUR PERFORMANCE 39 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 As in previous years, the Committee notes the and improve its performance, including of methane stakeholders are identiﬁed, and how stakeholder challenge of developing a sustainability culture and emissions. However, the report should provide more inputs might inﬂuence Shell’s decision-making urges ongoing explanation of the ways Shell information on why it is so important for methane processes both at the local and global levels. transfers lessons from the establishment of its strong emissions from tight gas production to be fully safety culture. The ERC welcomes the report’s understood and adequately controlled, which is still CONCLUSION description of the non-technical specialists who a matter of controversy. The ERC recognises Shell’s commitment to work in the project development process to ensure transparency and reporting best practice. The that Shell understands the societal and economic Tight oil and gas production also require hydraulic Committee also calls on Shell to change its future context as well as the governmental, regulatory and fracturing. While the report mentions possible reporting to better serve the company and the environmental aspects of projects and the ways impacts on emissions and local water resources stakeholders trying to understand its sustainability these contribute to above-ground risk. The related to increased hydraulic fracturing and that the challenges and dilemmas by reading this report, Committee looks forward to further exploration of baseline assessments are often made publicly which could reposition the company as an the unique capacity of these employees. available, it is not completely clear on how and innovative leader in this ﬁeld. when these are shared with stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT This might be accomplished by clearer articulation The ERC believes that the urgency of climate change The ERC notes the report’s explanation of how of the implications of shifting sustainability context and the overall pace of change require reporting investments in biofuels, coupled with R&D in for the evolution of Shell’s business model and that goes beyond the company’s own operations. advanced biofuels, might deliver lower carbon strategy. The report would also be improved by a transport solutions. The Committee welcomes the narrative that cascades from an integrated The International Energy Agency says the current description of Shell’s efforts to improve operating sustainability vision and ambition to speciﬁc, path of global GHG emissions is likely to result in a standards in the biofuel industry, especially through measurable, achievable, real and time-bound goals temperature increase of 3.6 °C to 5.3 °C. Also, the Bonsucro certiﬁcation process. and targets, which in combination would enhance Shell’s New Lens Scenarios are described in the readers’ ability to judge progress. report and depict pathways on which emissions The report is transparent in its treatment of Shell’s overshoot the point at which temperature rise can approach towards gas ﬂaring, outlining the The ERC looks forward to further engagement with be limited to 2 °C. company’s policy against ﬂaring on new projects and the Executive Committee to continue the dialogue progress on reducing ﬂaring. The Report also explains with the same level of openness and transparency. As Shell operates in a rapidly changing sustainability why signiﬁcant ﬂaring is ongoing in some operations, context, the ERC encourages Shell’s reporting to especially Iraq and Nigeria. The ERC looks forward further explore the potential consequences of this to more detail on the types of solutions the company ERC OVERVIEW dynamic and evolving environment on its business is exploring – even when the ﬂaring is not under The Committee met in person twice in model. In particular, future reports should better Shell’s full operational control – to signiﬁcantly and The Hague, the Netherlands, and on other articulate the capacity of Shell’s current investment rapidly decrease ﬂaring in these countries. occasions by teleconference. We held strategy to deliver value if climate change meetings with key Shell senior management undermines investor conﬁdence in the future value SOCIAL INVESTMENT STRATEGY and other personnel to discuss in detail Shell’s of fossil fuel assets. In addition, the Committee AND PERFORMANCE approach to sustainable development and also believes that the report should outline Shell’s The ERC acknowledges the effort made in this report its sustainability reporting. assessment of climate and related stresses on its to clarify the global and local social performance operations and investment cycle. strategy as previously requested by the ERC and In reviewing the sustainability report, the welcomes the introduction of the new social impact Committee concentrated on three main questions: In this context, Shell’s portfolio investments in gas, measurement framework designed to help Shell biofuels, energy efﬁciency and CCS efforts are measure and evaluate the long-term impact of its ■ Has Shell selected the most important topics positive and help prepare for the transition to a community investment activities around the world. for the report? more carbon constrained world. At the same time, the predicted path of global GHG emissions begs In spite of these developments, the ERC still ﬁnds the ■ How well has the report dealt with these clearer explanation of how the company will deal explanation of Shell’s social performance priorities topics and responded to stakeholder interest? with climate change challenges. This might be and social investment strategy unclear in how it is accomplished by expanding report coverage on applied in a consistent and equitable manner at a ■ Did Shell provide sufﬁcient information Shell’s approach to the way it collaborates with country level. The ERC urges future reporting to and access for us to do our job effectively? others and outlining the kinds of step change that explore how Shell’s global social operating policies Shell anticipates will be required in terms of and principles are applied in different country Our review did not include veriﬁcation of technology, public policy and market responses. contexts. The report should clarify how references to performance data underlying the report, or the international good practice standards, like the UN information on which the case studies in the ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, report were based. In addition to our comments The Report explains how technology is unlocking illustrate a coherent and consistent approach to on the company’s reporting, we separately affordable and abundant natural gas resources managing risk and performance at the project level. provided Shell with our observations on worldwide. Shell describes gas as the best way for the company’s strategy and sustainability society to meet energy needs while quickly The report presents community engagement in performance. In recognition of our time reducing emissions, especially by using gas to detail, but it is unclear how Shell ensures that this and expertise, an honorarium was offered, displace coal for power generation. process works consistently to address stakeholder payable either to us individually, to our concerns. The ERC suggests the report articulates organisation, or to a charity of our choosing. There is also clear description of Shell’s approach Shell’s approach to stakeholder engagement more We were also offered reimbursement for the to tight gas and how it applies its operating clearly. Such disclosure would include how expense of our travel and accommodation. principles to address the concerns of stakeholders information is shared with stakeholders, how 40 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTS.SHELL.COM ABOUT OUR REPORTING We began reporting voluntarily on our environmental and social performance with the ﬁrst Shell Report, CONTENT SELECTION PROCESS which covered 1997. We follow a content selection Our reporting focuses on the environmental and STEP 3: Combine the results into a matrix and process to identify the most material topics for our social challenges that matter most to our key assess each topic in terms of its wider economic, reporting (see box). stakeholders. These include local communities, environmental and social impact. Each topic partners, governments, non-governmental is then assigned a weighting according to its We provide regular information to the Carbon organisations, customers, shareholders, investors, signiﬁcance in “sustainability context”. To Disclosure Project, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, employees, media, academics, contractors determine “sustainability context” we review FTSE4Good Index and other organisations that and suppliers. authoritative research and forecasts on assess the economic, environmental and social environmental and social topics published by performance of companies. We use a thorough process to select content for public institutions and governmental organisations. our reporting based on information from external Internal controls such as audit trails and statistical and internal sources. This process includes: STEP 4: We include all the highest priority topics checks help assure the accuracy of the Shell in our report. Those at the next level of Sustainability Report. The External Review Committee STEP 1: Identify and understand topics of importance are included if they have a higher of independent experts helps make sure our signiﬁcance to our stakeholders through a range weight in “sustainability context”; otherwise, they reporting is balanced, relevant and responsive of stakeholder engagements and reviews. are covered on the Shell corporate website. to stakeholders’ interests. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd has provided limited assurance of STEP 2: Identify topics of signiﬁcance to Shell’s STEP 5: Our External Review Committee reviews our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions business strategy through our established internal the content selection to ensure that coverage is data for 2013. processes. complete, relevant and balanced. We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and in line with the oil and gas industry guidelines developed by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP). GRI conﬁrmed our External Review Committee’s previous opinion letter A+ reporting level for the information contained Civil society dialogues in this Sustainability Report, the Royal Dutch Shell Stakeholder relations review plc Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2013, and on our corporate website. The GRI content index Global media review is available on our corporate website. Investor feedback and indexes Reader feedback and social media Shell supports the UN Global Compact and its 10 Reputation tracker survey principles covering human rights, labour, environment Website visits and anti-corruption. Sections of this Sustainability Report cover Shell’s performance in 2013 in these areas. This report is supported on our corporate website by more detailed information on Shell’s approach to sustainable development. www.shell.com/sustainability Resulting topics are considered in their Financial risks broader sustainability context based on: Reputation risks UN Millennium Development Goals Sustainability priorities Planetary boundaries research Key projects WBCSD Vision 2050 report Shell business environment outlook OUR PERFORMANCE 41 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT OUR DATA There are inherent limitations to the accuracy of environmental and social data. We recognise that our environmental and social data will be affected by these limitations and continue to improve the integrity of our data by strengthening our internal controls. All such non-ﬁnancial data in this report are reported on a 100% basis for companies and joint ventures where we are the operator. Environmental data are for our direct emissions unless otherwise stated. We report in this way, in line with industry practice, because these are the data we can directly manage and affect through operational improvements. Operations acquired or divested during the year are included only for the period of our ownership. Other data are collected from external sources, staff surveys and other internal sources as indicated. We only include data in this report that have been conﬁrmed by the end of March 2014. If incidents are reclassiﬁed or conﬁrmed, or if signiﬁcant data changes occur after preparation of this report, they will be updated in the following year’s publication. Certain data, as marked in the social data table, come from an internal survey completed by the senior Shell representative in each country. The accuracy of environmental and social data may be lower than that of data obtained through our ﬁnancial systems. Data provided are subject to internal controls. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd has provided limited assurance of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for 2013. Limited assurance means nothing has come to the auditor’s attention that would indicate that the data are not correct. For GHG emissions we provide more detailed data on our corporate website. www.shell.com/ghg Financial performance data is prepared on the same basis as for the Shell Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013. REPORT SPECIFICATIONS All dollar currencies written in the report refer to The paper used for this report is Satimat Green, a Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certiﬁed paper, US dollars unless otherwise speciﬁed. produced from 60% FSC-certiﬁed recycled ﬁbre and 40% FSC-certiﬁed virgin ﬁbre. All virgin ﬁbres are Elemental Chlorine Free bleached, without using chlorine gas. The inks used are vegetable oil-based. The laminate used for the cover is eco-friendly and allows the report to be fully recycled. The printing of this document was carbon neutral: certiﬁed carbon-offset projects compensated for the CO2 emissions. SHARE YOUR OPINION If you have any views on issues described in this report, or on the report itself, please email us at sustainabilityreport@shell.com ORDER YOUR REPORT Designed by Conran Design Group order@shell.com Printed by Tuijtel under ISO 14001 All our reports are available Download our apps at Check our latest news at http://reports.shell.com www.shell.com/mobile_and_apps ■ Comprehensive ﬁnancial information ■ Company news ■ Follow @Shell on Twitter on our activities throughout 2013 ■ Interactive stories about innovation ■ www.facebook.com/shell ■ Detailed operational information ■ Service-station locations including maps ■ Report on our progress in contributing to sustainable development
