Statement of continued support by the CEO I am pleased to confirm that since joining the Global Compact APTMetrics has continued to support its ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have worked to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. APTMetrics has made a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. APTMetrics has created policy and implemented procedures to ensure our compliance and support of the ten principles. We will continue to work towards furthering our commitment to these principles by reviewing our progress and challenging ourselves to constantly improve. Sincerely yours, Kathleen K. Lundquist, Ph.D. Chief Executive Officer APTMetrics, Inc. One Thorndal Circle Darien, CT 06820 Tel: (203) 655-7779 Fax: (203) 655-8288 Email: KKL@APTMetrics.com www.APTMetrics.com Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals APT Metrics has a policy of respecting the human rights of our employees, clients, and anyone within our scope. This is accomplished through a consistent and legally defensible hiring and employment process that is in line with all federal and state hiring mandates. APT Metrics never has and never will be complicit in human rights abuses. In addition, we ensure that these human rights principles are embedded in the assessment and hiring practices that we implement for our global organizational clients. Implementation APT Metrics has a variety of mechanisms to ensure our adherence to the human rights principle. Training on sexual harassment is necessary for all employees as part of ongoing employment. An employee relations manager is in place to address grievances from employees. APT Metrics also promotes an open door policy regarding any issues employees may have about their workplace. Measurement of Outcomes Kathleen Lundquist, CEO of APT, is a member of the Board of Directors of the National Council for Research on Women (NCRW), which is a network of 120 leading research, policy and advocacy centers dedicated to improving the lives of women and girls. In March, 2013, Kathleen co-chaired the Making a Difference for Women Awards Dinner 2013. This event explored the status of women and girls worldwide in 2013 and highlighted the gains and gaps, and their implications for forward action, with national and international experts, including the authors of some of the most important recent reports. This year's dinner recognized 30 outstanding Trailblazers working to advance women and girls. John Scott, COO of APT, continues to serve on the Board of Directors of Boys Town New York. Opened in 1990, Boys Town New York offers hope and healing to troubled children and families through a variety of programs within its Integrated Continuum of Care. Boys Town New York serves a culturally diverse population of adolescents from all five boroughs of New York City. John also recently served on the planning committee for Psychology Day at the United Nations committee that presented an integrated half-day conference at the UN entitled: Psychology’s Contributions to Sustainable Development: Challenges and Solutions for the Global Agenda. The theme of this year's conference was chosen because the member states and other UNrelated agencies are currently holding meetings to propose the new post-2015 agenda, which will focus on sustainable development. The post-2015 agenda will replace the Millennium Development Goals, which guided the UN agenda during the years 2000-2015. Psychology Day at the UN 2014 focuses on the three pillars of sustainable development -economic, environmental and social -with presentations from psychologists, government policy makers and UN representatives that address the relevance of the science and practice of psychology in advancing social, environmental, and economic wellbeing. John serves as the main NGO Representative to the United Nations for Division 14 of the American Psychological Association (Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology). Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals APT Metrics has policies ensuring fairness in employee compensation and benefits. We are committed to maintaining high level and ethical human resource processes. APT Metrics is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to enhancing diversity within the organization. Implementation Beyond our own policies, we work with our client organizations to ensure that they incorporate diversity as part of their strategic and tactical plans. We recently hired and Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) expert and started a D&I practice area to serve global organizations. For many organizations, the use of metrics to assess diversity and inclusion efforts means measuring the representation (or change in representation) of various groups in the workforce. APTMetrics works with organizations to identify the range of available measures and makes recommendations for when and how to integrate such measures into diversity and inclusion metrics—helping organizations move forward in the diversity and inclusion spectrum. Measurement of Outcomes Since 2002, APTMetrics has been awarded certification by the Women's Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). WBENC's goal is to foster diversity in the world of commerce. Its programs and policies are designed to expand opportunities and eliminate barriers in today's marketplace for women business owners. APTMetrics was a 2013 recipient of the prestigious DiversityBusiness.com Top 50 Diversity-owned Businesses in Connecticut award. Dr. Kathleen Kappy Lundquist, CEO, was also a recipient of their 2010 Champions of Diversity award. This award recognizes individuals who have demonstrated a commitment to solutions in diversity issues on a regional and national level. John Scott, APT’s COO, continues to serve as the main representative to the UN’s ECOSOC for the NGO, Society for Industrial/Organizational Psychology (SIOP). As part of this role, he recently signed SIOP on to the UN Global Compact and also put out a call for all SIOP members and affiliated organizations to do so as well. http://www.siop.org/tip/Apr13/09_UN.aspx. The SIOP UN team continues to partner with the UN Global Compact in identifying ways in which SIOP can promote the Global Compact principles surrounding human rights, labor, environmental sustainability, and anti-corruption in organizations. We are also pursing ways in which graduate programs in I/O Psychology can also become official Global Compact participants, as well as incorporate the Global Compact 10 Principles into their curricula. APTMetrics also recently developed and implemented a suite of web-based, executive and manager evaluation tools called LeadIN to help organizations incorporate their commitment to diversity and inclusion into the assessment of managerial talent. Organizations wishing to build a diverse talent pipeline for senior management positions in the 21st century will find this tool particularly useful. Environmental Principles Assessment, Policies and Goals APT Metrics is a service based company and thus has a limited carbon footprint. We are committed to maintaining a small environmental impact and further reducing it. Implementation APTMetrics uses only recycled paper for printing, provides recycle bins in every office, and biodegradable products whenever possible. APTMetrics delivers all of its products over the web and has eliminated use of paper based products. Measurement of Outcomes The following products are all delivered in an online format eliminating printing costs and paper waste: JobMetrics , SelectionMetrics, PerformMetrics, CareerMetrics , 360Metrics, SurveyMetrics, ChangeMetrics, LeadIN and SELectrics. Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals APT Metrics holds its employees to the highest standards regarding corruption in all its forms. APTMetrics adheres to the American Psychological Association’s ethical principles for Industrial/Organizational Psychologists, maintains a strict ethics policy, and is financially audited regularly by an outside organization. Implementation At APTMetrics outside legal counsel reviews policy and documentation for staff, auditors review financial records, and senior management regularly holds a professional audit to ensure compliance with all policy. Measurement of Outcomes A bi-annual employee survey is used to assess employee satisfaction, ethics and safety in the workplace. Further, auditors have never reported any corrupt behavior.
