2013 Corporate Sustainability Report HESS VALUES Hess Values set the framework Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth. Performance. We are committed to a culture of performance that demands and rewards outstanding results Integrity throughout our business. Value Creation. We are committed to creating shareholder People Performance value based on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth. Social Responsibility. We are committed to meeting Value Social the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting Creation Responsibility the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. Independent Spirit Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made C C+ B B+ A A+ us a successful independent enterprise. Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked Report Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self ✓ Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of Third the United Nations Global Compact. Party Checked ✓ Optional We welcome feedback on its contents. GRI Checked Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is self-declaring a GRI G3.1 Application level of A+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. assurance ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable representation of our performance. An ERM CVS assurance statement has been included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Application Level. table of Contents 2 Message from the Ceo Our CEO’s view on sustainable business practices and performance essential to ensuring our license to operate p. 8 4 about hess An overview of company operations 5 progress and goals Our top short term and medium term priorities, goals and challenges p. 14 6 approach to reporting Our reporting framework, boundaries and material issues 8 how We operate Conducting our business in a manner that meets the highest standards of corporate citizenship 14 Community and social performance p. 22 Integrating corporate social responsibility into the way we do business 22 safety and health Aiming to get “everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe” p. 28 28 our people Creating a company culture and high quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns 32 Climate Change and energy Executing our climate change and energy strategy p. 32 42 environment Managing our environmental footprint 52 assets in transition Discontinued businesses and other portfolio changes 53 performance data p. 42 Five years of key performance metrics 55 gri Content index 58 independent assurance statement 52 On the cover: Utica Drilling Operations, Ohio 2 Message from the CEO I n 2013 our company made remarkable progress in our plan Corporate social responsibility is a way of doing business for to transform Hess into a pure play exploration and Hess and enhances our ability to be an effective, profitable and production (E&P) company with a balanced portfolio of trusted energy partner. In 2013 we continued our participation higher growth, lower risk assets. While our transformation has in key international voluntary initiatives including the United resulted in significant changes across our company, we are Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security unwavering in our commitment to being a trusted energy partner and Human Rights, and the Extractive Industries Transparency that helps meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, Initiative, all of which help to inform and guide our approach to environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. transparency, human rights and the environment. We believe that proactive stakeholder engagement and We made progress in integrating social considerations into our sustainable business practices enhance performance and are business decisions using a three-pronged approach: essential to ensuring our license to operate. stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management Our long term vision for the future is based on the Hess Values of and community benefits. Our social responsibility programs Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social continue to evolve to incorporate a broader understanding of Responsibility and Independent Spirit. Our Code of Business what it means to invest in a community, build local capacity and Conduct and Ethics operationalizes our Values and guides the promote workforce development while minimizing the social way we do business as we develop trusted relationships with our and environmental impacts from operations. stakeholders, including communities, employees, customers, In 2013 we made approximately $37 million in strategic social business partners and shareholders. investments designed to create shared value that improves the The safety of our employees and contractors is an integral part of quality of life in local communities and supports our business our company culture and a foremost priority. In 2013 we saw growth. More than $19 million went to education projects, noteworthy improvements in safety performance across the including Succeed 2020 in North Dakota, which is preparing company. Compared with 2012, the combined employee and students for higher education and careers, and the Hess contractor Total Recordable Incident Rate was down 14 percent Scholars program in Ghana, now in its second year. Another and the Lost Time Incident Rate decreased by 26 percent. We $10 million was earmarked for economic development, health made progress in enhancing our fitness for work, industrial and capacity building. The balance is directed primarily to in-kind hygiene and medical surveillance programs to ensure that contributions, support for arts and culture and disaster relief. employees are capable of safely doing their jobs and protected With world energy demand continuing to rise, all forms of from potential exposure. We continued to undertake appropriate energy will be needed, with fossil fuels continuing to make up reviews to improve contractor transparency and ensure their the majority of supply for the foreseeable future. As an energy safety and health systems and programs align with ours. producer, Hess and others in our industry play a critical role in Process safety remains a focal point as we advance our economic development. We have spoken openly about the workforce’s knowledge and understanding through training need for the United States and world leaders to work with objectives. In 2013 we introduced new process safety key industry to develop comprehensive energy and climate policies metrics to help us continually improve our performance in that will provide energy the world needs for economic growth this area. while promoting energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 3 Hess monitors, measures and takes steps to reduce our carbon additives in frac fluid as well as encouraging suppliers to footprint at existing and planned operations. The end of 2013 develop more environmentally friendly alternatives. We require marked the completion of our five-year climate change target our hydraulic fracturing contractors to provide non-proprietary cycle. While we did not achieve all of our targets, we made individual well data for fracture stimulation water and chemical significant progress toward our goals. Between 2009 and 2013, use, which is publicly available on the FracFocus website. we reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by over Through our membership and sponsorship of the 4 million tonnes on an equity basis from our 2008 baseline Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, a partnership through a combination of improved operating practices and among multiple oil and gas companies and several discontinued operations. We also integrated carbon pricing and environmental groups, we are identifying opportunities to energy efficiency considerations in our value assurance process promote best practices and improvements in environmental for major new investments. Now that our transformation to a performance. pure play E&P company is essentially complete, we plan to Ultimately, our success relies on a company culture and highupdate our climate change strategy with a continued focus on quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns. In 2013 we opportunities to reduce our carbon footprint. focused on completing a thoughtful, thorough staffing process at all levels of our organization and providing resources for employees in transition. We will continue our initiatives in talent We are unwavering in our commitment management, diversity and inclusion, and learning and to being a trusted energy partner development in 2014 and 2015. Looking ahead, we will stay that helps meet the world’s growing focused on creating a work environment that fosters innovation, energy needs in a safe, environmentally professional growth and teamwork so we can achieve our goals. responsible, socially sensitive and Our 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report summarizes our profitable way. strategic vision and our short term and long term sustainability goals, our challenges and opportunities, and our performance results. We are proud of the progress we made this year and committed to building a sustainable enterprise that will make a In the United States, oil and gas from shale is an increasingly positive difference for our stakeholders and the world around important source of supply and an engine for economic us. The ongoing support of our communities, employees, growth. Hess is one of the largest oil producers in the Bakken customers, business partners and investors is key to our play in North Dakota and is pursuing development in the Utica success, and we thank them for their partnership. wet gas play in Ohio. We are committed to responsible shale energy development and to providing the public with information on our programs and performance both in our annual corporate sustainability reports and on our website at hess.com. We have ongoing efforts to invest in building the necessary infrastructure to minimize gas flaring, assess John B. Hess alternatives to freshwater use for hydraulic fracturing and well Chief Executive Officer maintenance applications, and reduce the use of chemical 4 about hess D uring 2013 Hess made significant progress transforming into a more focused, higher growth exploration and production (E&P) company. This transition has strengthened our financial flexibility to fund growth and increase current returns to shareholders. Looking ahead, the company will benefit from continued execution around our focused and balanced portfolio of lower risk, higher growth assets. 2013 Highlights Hess Portfolio of Operations • Averaged 67,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) net production from the Bakken oil shale play in North Dakota, a year-over-year increase of 20 percent • Expanded our Tioga, North Dakota, gas plant to process up to 250 million cubic feet of natural gas per day (completed early 2014) • Achieved production from the first phase of the North Malay Basin Integrated Gas Development Project in October 2013 • Completed the exploration drilling phase on the deepwater Tano/Cape Three Exploration Developments Production Points block, offshore Ghana, which resulted in seven successful Exploration exploration wells Exploration The major exploration locations are Ghana and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Production Appraisal activities have commenced in the Utica in Ohio. Economic Contributions Developments Revise 5.20. In 2013 our direct economic contributions included payments to suppliers, capital and Developments exploration expenditures, wages and Developments are underway at several assets, including at Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as staged developments at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint benefits, taxes and royalties, interest, Development Area in the Gulf of Thailand and Valhall in Norway. dividends $ Millions and social investments. Recordable Supplier Spend (E&P) $7,956 $ Millions Capital and Exploration Expenditures Recordable Supplier Spend (E&P) $6,315 $7,956 Production and Exploration Wages and Capital Benefits (U.S.) Expenditures $1,037 $6,315 Production operations are ongoing globally. Key production assets include the andand Royalties Wages Other (U.S.) Benefits Payments $807 $1,037 Bakken in North Dakota, Okume and Ceiba in Equatorial Guinea, South Arne in Income Tax Expense Royalties and Other Payments $525 $807 InterestTax Expense $406 Denmark, Valhall in Norway and the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area. Income Expense $525 Dividends Interest Expense $235 $406 Social Investments Dividends $37 $235 Carbon Social and NOx taxes Investments $9 $37 336,000 Carbon and NOx Taxes $9 BOEPD Total Net 11.5 Hydrocarbons Produced Years Reserve Life 46% 36% 118% 1,437 46% 6% <1% 5% 3% 2% 36% 1% 6% <1% 5% 3% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 2% 100% 1% Replaced Production Million BOE Proved A 0%portion of 20%capital and 40% 60%expenditures exploration 80% 100% Reserves may include payments to suppliers. 5 progress and goals O ur ongoing challenge lies in Hess’ development of shale oil and gas As we continue to execute our business meeting society’s growing need resources has resulted in both challenges strategy as a pure play exploration and for energy in a way that is and opportunities. The technological production (E&P) company, the people of environmentally responsible, socially advances that have made shale Hess remain our most valuable resource. sensitive, safe and profitable. We recognize development economically feasible in the Hess offers leadership development that non­-technical risks associated with United States have also led to rapid programs and early career programs to communities, stakeholder expectations, development in parts of the country where develop a skilled workforce that will public perception and existing and community resources are struggling to continue to meet the needs of our emerging regulatory requirements can keep up with the influx of workers and company following our transformation. For significantly impact project outcomes and increased oilfield activity. We are working employees whose positions were business success. Our success as a to sharpen our focus on strategic eliminated as a result of our shift to a pure company depends upon managing these community investments that provide play E&P company, we have provided non-technical risks in a fully integrated way long term benefits. Our support of several resources to ease their transition, and addressing them with the same care educational and other community projects including enhanced severance packages we take with technical project risk and at our shale energy assets as well as and financial and career counseling. While financial risk. conventional assets around the world is our changing company has presented aimed at easing the strain on local challenges with respect to our workforce, During 2013 we took steps to improve how resources, building capacity and we also view this transformation as an we understand and manage risk in our strengthening communities. opportunity for employees to make a day-to-day operations. We honed our difference as part of a more focused, enterprise risk management process and In addition to the social and community higher growth company. used this process to conduct a full risk challenges of shale resource development, assessment of our North Dakota operations. there are numerous challenges related to The result was a full non-technical risk the environment. We continue to make profile, with risks that were then prioritized progress in minimizing these risks. We have and mitigated. Our goal is to have set a target to reduce our flaring rate at the assessments completed and integrated risk wellhead to 10 percent in North Dakota by registers initiated for all assets in the Hess 2017, and we have ongoing initiatives to portfolio by year end 2014. reduce the environmental impact of our shale energy operations. Stakeholder engagement is critical to this process of understanding and integrating One of our top priorities is to continue to all aspects of enterprise risk. We seek to protect the health and safety of our establish mutual respect and dialogue with workforce and the communities where we a variety of external groups who have an operate. We have a new contractor interest in Hess’ operations, including prequalification and selection process neighboring communities, supply chain that includes enhanced environment, providers, governmental agencies and nonhealth and safety reviews for certain governmental organizations, among others. companies, and recently we established a These interactions inform our response to cross-functional Rail Transport Working the broad and evolving range of Team to address issues related to crudeTioga Gas Plant Expansion Ceremony, North Dakota sustainability issues. by-rail transport. 6 2013 corporate sustainability report approach to reporting T his report provides information Key stakeholders include employees, Impacts on employees from on our sustainability policies, suppliers, customers and consumers, corporate transformation.......................30 programs and performance in communities, shareholders, governmental Climate change and energy 2013. Financial and governance and non-governmental organizations, strategy and performance............... 32–41 information, including our annual report, industry peers, academics and the media, Flaring.............................................38–40 our U.S. Securities and Exchange among others. These key stakeholders are Water use..............................................43 Commission Form 10-K filing and our essential for maintaining and strengthening proxy statement, is available on our our license to operate. Shale energy development.............. 44–46 website. All financial data are reported Hess conducted a materiality assessment BOUNDARY SETTING in U.S. dollars. consistent with the GRI G3.1 guidelines to The scope of this report includes principal Additional sustainability and investor information is available identify topics for inclusion in this year’s facilities and assets operated by Hess at hess.com/sustainability and Corporation and its subsidiaries and joint hess.com/investors. report. Over the past several years we have made our assessment process more ventures through 2013, unless otherwise REPORTING STANDARDS robust. In 2013 we worked with an external indicated. Data presented are gross figures We report our sustainability performance consultant to pilot a methodology to from operated facilities and third party on an annual basis in accordance with the quantify the financial aspects of potential activities where Hess has overall Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1/Oil & material topics. Collecting source data was responsibility as specified in contractual Gas Sector Supplement guidelines at an a lengthy and resource intensive process. arrangements. Hess is currently in the final A+ application level. Our report is also stage of a significant transformation into a While we report on a broad range of GRI pure play exploration and production (E&P) based on the Oil and Gas Industry and IPIECA indicators, we consider the company. Assets that we have divested or Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability 14 topics listed below as our most material, plan to divest were part of Hess for most Reporting developed by IPIECA, the based on the level of internal and external or all of 2013, so we have chosen to American Petroleum Institute and the stakeholder interest, relevance to our include those assets in company totals. International Oil and Gas Producers operations and level of potential risk and Where possible, information has been Association, as well as on the 10 impact. These topics are listed in the order provided to differentiate data for the future principles of the United Nations (UN) in which they are disclosed in this report: company (pure play E&P) from overall Global Compact. A GRI Content Index, cross-referenced with IPIECA indicators company totals. Data from the St. Lucia Issue Page(s) and the UN Global Compact principles, is terminal are excluded because the asset Ethical business conduct................... 9–10 provided at the end of this report. was sold in 2013, and we were not able to Political spending.................................. 10 obtain the data. MATERIALITY Supply chain and We report some quantitative environment, This sustainability report describes the contractor management...................10–12 health and safety data on a normalized company’s strategy and performance Enterprise risk management.............12–13 basis to facilitate year-on-year regarding significant economic, Stakeholder engagement.................15–16 comparisons. We report greenhouse gas environmental and social issues. These (GHG) emissions on an operated basis for issues have the potential to impact both Social risk management................... 17–19 Hess operated assets and on a net equity Hess and our key stakeholders, with Community benefits......................... 19–21 share basis for operated facilities, joint whom we engage throughout the year Personal safety...................................... 23 ventures and non-operated facilities in as part of normal business practice. which we hold an interest. GHG data for Process safety....................................... 24 approach to reporting 7 the joint venture Bayonne Energy Center consistent and reliable data collection performance. ERM CVS also reviews our are excluded from the reporting boundary and aggregation from all of our Hess self-declared GRI G3.1 Application Level. because 2013 is the first year of operation operated and joint venture assets. We The Independent Assurance Statement is and this asset is part of the downstream conduct quality assurance/quality control provided on page 58 of this report. divestiture. reviews and validation to evaluate the ERM CVS essentially conducts two accuracy and reliability of facility specific We also report our social investments for separate assurance engagements on our and aggregated data. Due to rounding, our operated assets, joint ventures and behalf. These include an assurance individual numbers in the charts, tables non-operated facilities in which we hold a engagement that covers the environmental and text may not sum to the total significant interest. and social quantitative data and qualitative amounts shown. representations in our sustainability report RESTATEMENTS AND ADDITIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE and a separate engagement for verification This report includes no material ERM Certification and Verification Services of the greenhouse gas emissions data restatements of information from our (ERM CVS) conducts annual third party provided herein and also in our CDP previous reports. assurance of our sustainability data Climate Change response. INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE management systems to ensure the We have internal documentation and consistent and objective data collection information systems in place to promote and reporting of our sustainability North Dakota Well Operations Tubular Bells Sailaway HOW WE OPERATE 2013 KEY developments 2014 Goals Further strengthened our Global Compliance Program Roll out enhanced enterprise wide environment, health and safety standards on a prioritized basis Enhanced the contractor selection, contracting and performance management processes Implement our updated Conflict of Interest Policy and our new Gifts, Meals, Entertainment, Hospitality and Travel Support Policy Completed a risk assessment and integrated risk register for non-technical risks for our North Dakota operations Complete risk assessments and begin development of integrated risk registers for all assets in the Hess portfolio how we operate 9 W e seek to conduct business Hess supports international voluntary The company takes disciplinary actions for in a manner that meets the initiatives that pledge to respect human violations of the Code of Conduct and highest standards of rights, protect the environment and related policies, including termination of corporate citizenship, creates a long encourage financial transparency. employment or services. lasting, positive impact on the communities These are described in more detail in See our Code of Conduct online where we do business and delivers long the Community and Social Performance at hess.com/code-of-conduct. term value to our shareholders. section of this report. We also Our compliance policies and procedures participate in several sector-specific Our long term vision and six core Hess all stem from the Code of Conduct. The and multi-stakeholder associations, Values underpin our business. The Hess Global Compliance Program establishes, allowing us to learn best practices from Code of Business Conduct and Ethics maintains and enforces policies, sector peers and engage with our (Code of Conduct), along with our Social procedures, processes and initiatives to external stakeholders. A list of key Responsibility Policy, Human Rights Policy prevent and detect compliance violations. associations in which we participate is and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Its aim is to promote an organizational provided at the end of this report. Policy, build on our Values to define our culture that encourages commitment to internal expectations for sustainable In keeping with a precautionary approach, ethical conduct and compliance with the management and performance. we evaluate identified risks and develop law. To continuously improve compliance and implement mitigation plans as part of controls and embrace best practices, our Our management systems provide a our enterprise risk management and new Global Compliance organization focuses framework for ensuring operational country entry processes. We also use on internal investigations, anti-corruption excellence. They help us track key environmental and social screening tools and other enterprise programs. performance metrics, maintain regulatory and conduct environmental and social compliance and manage risk. We are After adding a new Chief Compliance impact assessments for major new currently developing and implementing an Officer (CCO) position in 2012 we further projects. More information about these enhanced framework of standards, strengthened our Global Compliance processes is provided in the Enterprise consistent with broadly recognized Program in 2013. The CCO reports to our Risk Management Strategy callout later in international standards and guidelines, to General Counsel and informs the Audit this section, and in the Community and formalize enterprise wide expectations Committee of the Hess Board of Directors Social Performance section and the and accountabilities and support a on an annual basis. With the assistance of Environment section of this report. systematic approach to environment, outside counsel, the Global Compliance health, safety and social risk management. Ethical Business Conduct group launched an anti-corruption The first set of these enhanced standards Our Code of Conduct, updated and diagnostic to both assess the level of will be rolled out in 2014, with the distributed worldwide in 2012, describes compliance risk to which Hess is exposed remainder to be launched in 2015. the business conduct and behaviors that and to develop process improvements to Hess expects of its employees, officers, reduce that risk. By year’s end, a Internal and third party reviews, audits directors and contractors. We expect that corporate-level risk assessment and two and third party assurance guide our our suppliers, contractors, agents and market-level risk assessments were conformance with internal requirements, other business partners will follow similar completed, and work had commenced on compliance with legal and other principles when working for Hess and our the development of new policies and requirements and disclosure of reliable subsidiaries. The Code of Conduct has compliance training modules to be information to the company’s directors been translated for each of our countries implemented globally. and stakeholders. of operation outside the United States. 10 2013 corporate sustainability report The Hess Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery funds. We annually report and confirm our We recognize that our positions do not Policy, Executive Directive 26 (ED26), adherence to our policies on corporate always align with all formal positions of aligns with applicable anti-bribery and political spending to the public. the associations, organizations and anti-corruption laws. These include the See our Code of Conduct online collaborative working groups in which we U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and at hess.com/code-of-conduct. participate. Our funding should not be the U.K. Bribery Act. Our Global considered a direct endorsement of the It is the company’s policy not to coerce Compliance organization conducts anti‐ entire range of activities undertaken by political contributions from employees, corruption compliance training in these membership organizations. To directly or indirectly reimburse an coordination with country management address concerns related to potential employee for a political contribution or and the Legal department. The frequency misalignment, we publish our positions on channel a contribution through an of such training is prioritized based on the key sustainability issues in this corporate employee to disguise its origin. Employees level of risk in each market. sustainability report. wishing to engage in the political process Global Compliance expects to increase may do so as private citizens. On occasion, Hess also supports other engagement in 2014, rolling out a new tax-exempt organizations, including those In February 2014 the company formed a online training program, as well as organized under section 501(c)(4) of the political action committee (PAC) for eligible targeted training for specific markets and Internal Revenue Code, to help advance employee contributions. All contributions internal organizations to ensure greater its public policy goals. In 2013, Hess did to this PAC will be entirely voluntary, and knowledge and global compliance. not support any such 501(c)(4) all contributions made by this PAC will be Enhanced tracking and reporting organizations that engaged in express publically disclosed to the Federal Election mechanisms for employees will also political advocacy. Commission. Going forward, Hess will promote greater access and transparency. annually identify its PAC contributions in Supply Chain In 2014 Hess will also globally implement our sustainability report and provide a Our global reach extends well beyond our the revised Gifts, Meals, Entertainment, report to the Board of Directors. individual company operations to Hospitality and Travel Support Policy and our business partners, suppliers and the Conflict of Interest Policy, to provide Hess belongs to a number of trade contractors. Maintaining a competitive and employees with further guidance associations, primarily to give the secure supply chain is an important part regarding what constitutes ethical company access to the business, of our strategy to reduce operational risk. business conduct. technical and industry best practices expertise of these associations. Hess We rely on a global network of more Political Spending actively engages in various industry and than 8,000 suppliers of goods and Hess policies prohibit political trade groups (organized under section services. We employ a standardized contributions using corporate funds. 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) in approach to evaluate suppliers on the This includes corporate funds to political the United States. In 2013, no payments basis of total value, including safety, candidates, political parties, political made by Hess to these organizations were quality, delivery and cost. committees, independent expenditure used for express political advocacy. A list organizations or other political entities Supplier Qualifications of memberships and associations that organized and operating under section In 2012 we began implementing a received more than $50,000 from Hess 527 of the Internal Revenue Code. In 2013 centralized system that houses all contract in 2013 can be found on page 59 of there were no political contributions made templates and other key materials and this report. by Hess employees using corporate manages the contractor procurement how we operate 11 process. By year end 2013 the system United States and the United Kingdom. applicable international law enforcement had been rolled out to all but four Elsewhere, we use processes such as principles, humanitarian law and human countries in which Hess does business; supplier questionnaires. rights law. Hess contracts include the system will be used globally by end of clauses covering security and human Supply Chain Transparency year 2014. rights expectations for our upstream and Compliance business. The clauses require our We also use a central, global, electronic Our suppliers of goods and services must security contractors to communicate our sourcing system in a majority of our comply with applicable laws and human rights, social responsibility and locations to collect bids and evaluate regulations in areas such as EHS, drug ethical expectations to their employees suppliers. This system allows for the and alcohol use, conflicts of interest and subcontractors, as well as efficient creation of online Requests for and anti-corruption laws, and must demonstrate compliance. The aim is to Proposals and encourages the maintain any licensing or permitting ensure delivery of a consistent message consistent use of best practices. requirements with respect to their of performance expectations for security activities. Contractors are also required In 2013 we launched an updated contractors and drive consistency across to abide by our Code of Conduct. contractor prequalification and selection Hess operations. New human rights process that helps to ensure we are Standard contract clauses include related clauses have also been working with the most qualified requirements with respect to ethical incorporated into some of our recent companies. Where appropriate, this business practices, human rights, social investment agreements. process involves a credit review, an responsibility, business integrity, search In the event of a security incident with anti-corruption and legal compliance and seizure and quality. In addition, human rights implications, a report is review, and a review of the potential clauses that cover federal contractor made to the head of Global Security. contractors’ EHS programs and requirements are included for suppliers Reports are also issued for those performance. Our procurement staff supporting our U.S. operations. occurrences that highlight potential also reviews the potential contractors’ Contracts typically also include a future risk such as peaceful community insurance, tax, legal and quality requirement that suppliers and protests. No reports were made in 2013. information; in case of discrepancies contractors allow access to all offices with our standards, the relevant and facilities and cooperate fully with all In 2013 our Global Supply Chain department within Hess conducts audits and inspections. colleagues reviewed our progress and an additional review. identified measures for implementation Security Services and assurance in this area. We will EHS reviews are conducted for those Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of continue this effort in 2014. For more contractors that are considered higher military or police personnel services information, refer to the Community and risk, due either to the number of except where required by local Social Performance section of this report. manhours they will work at Hess or the authorities or in cases of emergency. We nature of that work, such as drilling and contract for security services from private Local Content completions or offshore work. The EHS contractors in those areas where such In the United States we used more review will typically include an onservices are required. Our operations than 900 small, minority and women location audit. As one part of the EHS contract for these services locally with owned businesses, which accounted review, we use recognized industry support from our Global Security and for 23 percent of our spend and safety prequalification systems for most Global Supply Chain functions. We 25 percent of our vendor count in major areas of operation, including in the expect security providers to adhere to our U.S. business in 2013. 12 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort Internationally, we often prioritize local prospective suppliers of hydraulic In 2012 Hess joined the CDP Supply suppliers as part of production sharing fracturing services to define acceptable Chain initiative, a third party climate contracts or other agreements with host fracturing fluid systems, including change disclosure program, which countries. These agreements vary, restrictions on the selection and use of provided a platform to collect 2013 but may include approved vendors or certain chemicals. We require suppliers to greenhouse gas emissions information threshold specifications for local publish fracturing fluid chemical from key suppliers of products and companies or workers. composition and quantities via the services. We also engaged directly FracFocus website. While the majority of with those key suppliers who preferred supplier engagement and sustainability chemicals are identified by unique one-on-one discussion. The intent was to Hess continues to engage with suppliers identification numbers issued by the improve our understanding of some of our on issues that are important to our Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) and are major sources of supply chain greenhouse industry and our stakeholders. Since 2009 listed on the publicly available CAS gas emissions; these are described later we have worked with current and Registry, Hess allows its suppliers to use in this report. generic names for proprietary ingredients. Enterprise Risk Management Process We evaluate, manage and mitigate a occurrence. For example, a health and This risk profile is then used to prioritize broad range of risks we face in our safety impact could range from low (a critical risks – known as an “inverted L” business, including social and first aid case) to very high (potential due to their shape on the heat map. environmental risks. Risk management fatalities). Critical risks include high risks – those shapes our business and investment with higher likelihood and impact – and We begin a risk assessment by bringing decisions and drives operational “tail” risks, which are unlikely but would together business and asset level subject excellence. Our risk management have a significant impact if they did matter experts to establish a holistic risk program is continually evolving to occur. These inform the prioritization for profile for a particular asset. Findings address our changing portfolio and new risks in an integrated risk register, which from recent environment, health and business challenges. catalogs actions to manage or mitigate safety and operational excellence audits each risk. Embedded risk managers work Risk management starts with a common also inform the process. Based on these with the asset teams to direct risk language. Our program is underpinned by discussions, a “heat map” is generated mitigation activities and ownership a “risk dictionary,” which defines that identifies each risk and its associated with each scenario. Key risks technical and non-technical risk terms, associated likelihood and potential are aligned to annual business plans. and a risk rating matrix, which includes impact to value, reputation, production, levels of risk (low, medium, high, very compliance, and/or health and safety. high) based on impact and likelihood of Risk Dictionary Heat Map Priority Risks (Inverted “L”) Integrated Risk Register • Alignment through a • Develop a shared view • Prioritize critical risks • Synchronize risk management common risk language of risks activities across disciplines • Focused risk management • Align integrated risk plans, including ownership • Align risk register with business plans registers to heat map how we operate 13 Case Study: North Dakota Risk Management Bakken Drilling Operations, North Dakota Expectations are rising every year for retaining key personnel, industry-wide government agencies and nonoperators to achieve high performance. flaring goals and pipeline integrity. governmental organizations. By early 2014 In 2013 Hess’ North Dakota asset assessed approximately one-third of the risks were non-technical considerations to generate a Weekly meetings and monthly calls adequately mitigated and were full above ground risk profile. In 2014, facilitated status updates and discussions subsequently removed from the priority technical risks were integrated to create a of challenges and successes. Quarterly risk register. In addition, nearly all priority holistic risk assessment. presentations to a broader group of risks that remained had a clear mitigation experts across the business were used to plan with an identified owner. Numerous business functions inform senior management. These participated, including Operations, meetings also presented an opportunity to Learnings from the North Dakota risk Government Affairs, Legal, Supply reshape the risk profile as circumstances profile development process are Chain, and Environment, Health and changed at the asset level. For example, informing future assessments at our Safety. The risk management process the changing regulatory climate warranted other assets. Our goal is to have was carried out for our North Dakota heavier emphasis on various assessments completed and integrated Drilling Operations and Production environmental risks. risk registers initiated for all assets by Operations and the Tioga Gas Plant. year end 2014. Various risks were identified and then Stakeholder engagement was also categorized for prioritization in the risk elevated within the priority category register, including attracting and because of increasing activity with Hess Succeed 2020 Educational Program, North Dakota COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2013 KEY developments 2014 Goals Invested $37 million in social programs around the world Roll out security and human rights tools as part of stakeholder engagement process Held 15 internal corporate social responsibility workshops in our operations worldwide Complete third party social and environmental baseline study for the Bakken North Dakota operation and surrounding communities Developed a Security and Human Rights Policy and toolkit; Training is underway Launch Phase 2 of PRODEGE, Hess’ flagship education program, in Equatorial Guinea community and social performance 15 A t Hess, we view corporate social of environmental and social considerations. community and engagement work responsibility (CSR) as a way of As an international energy company, our accordingly. The needs in rural North doing business, enhancing our access to resources depends on effective Dakota, for example, are very different ability to be an effective, profitable and engagement with governments, regulators, from those in Equatorial Guinea. trusted energy partner. By proactively communities and civil society. Hess works to map its operational engaging with the communities where we As such, it is critical for our company to stakeholders and develop engagement operate, we can maximize our business understand the expectations, priorities plans at each location. We also require value, manage social risks and impacts and concerns of our stakeholders, each of our sites to create, maintain and and create opportunities for stakeholders. including communities, employees, implement a strategic social investment We integrate social considerations suppliers, customers, industry members, program tailored to that operation and into our business decisions using a governments and investors. community. As of this writing, we are three-pronged approach: stakeholder engaged in a companywide effort to As part of our multi-tiered approach to engagement, social risk and impact standardize our stakeholder engagement community work, we collaborate management, and community benefits. process and tools. We plan to integrate with stakeholder groups to identify Each element informs the others as we specialized topics such as security and opportunities benefiting our host work toward continuous improvement. human rights and develop and pilot these communities, while simultaneously This approach fosters long term tools later in 2014. improving our business and relationships, encourages operational strengthening our license to operate. We recognize that risks associated with success and supports profitable growth. our activities can have a significant impact We operate in different global locations For Hess, CSR is more than philanthropy on stakeholder relationships, public with widely varying social, political and and what we do with our profits; it is about perception and the success of a project. economic climates, and we tailor our how we operate. Our programs have evolved over time to incorporate a broader Building a Strong Stakeholder understanding of what it means to invest in Foundation for Engagement Enhanced Business a community. Philanthropy is an element • Understand expectations, Performance priorities and concerns of our for developing communities and stakeholders • Develop trust, confidence maintaining a social license to operate, • Correct misperceptions yet it is not sufficient in and of itself. To • Create early warning system make a contribution to sustainable • Build partnerships development, companies must excel in areas beyond charitable giving, such as local sourcing, capacity building and workforce development, while also Community Social Risk and minimizing the social and environmental Benefits Impact Management • Develop local • Assess and analyze impacts, impacts from operations. employment and contextual risks and development contracting synergies opportunities • Co-create shared value Stakeholder Engagement programs that address • Create proactive and cost effective management programs Discovering and producing oil and gas local and Hess and capacity strategic priorities have become increasingly challenging for • Monitor relationships and operating context our industry, both technically and in terms 16 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort To operate effectively as guests in host not always available locally. Other jobs out seismic surveys, holding training communities requires a mutual are short term and needed only in some sessions on indigenous stakeholder understanding of expectations between phases of a project. By explaining the engagement for employees and Hess and those who live and work nearby. nature of our operations and how it contractors in Australia, and working with Indeed, stakeholder engagement is a changes over the project life cycle, we our trade association and regulators in critical aspect of operational success can help address community concerns North Dakota and with regulators and across the entire life cycle of our business, before they escalate. This is also why leaseholders in Ohio. from the earliest phases of seismic study we emphasize purchasing local goods grievance Mechanisms through the decommissioning of an asset. and services, so that we provide Formal grievance mechanisms support Proactive, continuous two-way stakeholder local benefits beyond direct local stakeholders who are seeking to exercise engagement helps set expectations, employment with Hess. their rights of free expression and share averting miscommunication and Other stakeholder activities in 2013 feedback with companies on their misunderstanding before they start. included working on a pilot grievance operational impacts. Through our One example is managing expectations for mechanism procedure, conducting a membership in IPIECA, the global oil and local employment. While our operations social impact assessment in the Shakrok gas industry association for environmental can create employment opportunities, they block in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, and social issues, and in partnership with are often fewer in number than what providing cultural awareness training for six of our sector peers, we have been communities anticipate. Many of our Kurdistan Region staff to support meetings participating in a voluntary pilot project at positions require technical expertise that is with local representatives before carrying one of our shale energy asset locations. voluntary Initiatives Hess has endorsed or formally joined a The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for number of international voluntary businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 initiatives that pledge to respect human principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antirights, protect the environment and corruption. encourage financial transparency. We have been focused recently on The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights is a multidetermining where we may have gaps stakeholder initiative involving governments, companies and nonin terms of operationalizing these governmental organizations that promotes the implementation of a set of voluntary principles and initiatives and principles that guide oil, gas and mining companies on providing security have been making adjustments if for their operations while respecting human rights. necessary. For example, we have The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative is an effort to strengthen developed companywide training in implementation of the principles to increase transparency of payments human rights and have inserted and revenues in the extractive sector. language regarding our expectations for contractors into every supplier contract. The United Nations Declaration on Human Rights was issued by the United Nations in 1948 and represents the first global expression of rights In addition, we are active in IPIECA, and to which all human beings are inherently entitled. in 2013 we served as chair of IPIECA’s Social Responsibility Working Group The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental and co-chair of the Responsible Principles and Rights at Work is an expression of commitment by Security Operations Task Force. governments and employers’ and workers’ organizations to uphold basic human values. community and social performance 17 Our existing grievance mechanisms are not standardized; thus our goal with our own pilot is to apply best practice learnings from all the IPIECA pilots to establish a consistent process across our operations that better addresses stakeholder grievances. Indigenous Communities In 2012 Hess obtained certain exploration rights in the Canning Basin, which is located more than 1,200 miles north of Perth in the central north of Western Australia. The highly regulated approvals process includes extensive stakeholder engagement and requires exploration agreements be entered into with Traditional Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea Owner Groups prior to issuance of an exploration permit by the state government. existing facilities, we examine the social, Human Rights We began meeting with the Traditional political and economic environment to Although it is the responsibility of Owners of the northern area of the Canning identify non-technical risks and mitigation governments to protect human rights, Basin in 2012 to inform them of, and seek activities and integrate them into our companies like ours must act with care and approval for, our 2014–2016 seismic strategic planning. Recent examples respect for the human rights of all citizens acquisition program and commencement of include the following: wherever we operate. Our strategy is to Heritage Clearance Surveys. Discussions prevent human rights related incidents by with the Traditional Owners representing • We conducted an integrated risk engaging with stakeholders, including four distinct and autonomous Traditional review in North Dakota and an communities, to proactively address Owner Groups from the Southern “Kidson” environmental and social impact potential issues. The complex environments area of the Canning Basin are progressing assessment for our Utica Shale in which we operate present an opportunity toward finalization of exploration project in Ohio. to make positive and lasting contributions in agreements. To date, we have reached • We carried out 15 internal CSR the areas of governance, transparency, agreements in principle with two Traditional workshops for global practitioners, respect for rule of law, and social and Owner Groups and are progressing the final to build upon successes from an economic development. two negotiations. initial 2012 workshop. Our Corporate Social Responsibility and Social Risk and Impact •W  e held discussions with the Human Rights policies, including a new Management World Bank, the International Security and Human Rights Policy that Engaging with stakeholders helps us to Monetary Fund and government launched in early 2013, detail our proactively identify, mitigate and manage representatives from the United States commitments to our employees and above ground risks that can impact and Equatorial Guinea (E.G.) to communities of operation through every communities and projects. Prior to project advocate resuming the E.G. phase of our business activity. These startup, new country entry or expanding revenue transparency initiative. policies also set expectations for 18 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort Assessing Social Impacts and Benefits in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq deportations. In one village near our drilling site in Dinarta nearly every one of the 150 households had suffered the loss of a male family member. Large numbers of residents in both the Shakrok and Dinarta blocks have suffered through forced deportations and are living in exile from their original Iraqi homelands. Moreover, minefields and unexploded ordnance dot the landscape. Before we began our exploration work we conducted a risk assessment to help identify and then mitigate the potential social impacts of our seismic survey and drilling. This in turn allowed us to maximize the benefits to the local stakeholders. We conducted “town hall” style and small group meetings with village elders before we started our operations. We worked with the government to implement a compensation scheme for landowners Drilling Operations, Kurdistan whose land was disturbed as we crossed it. We also worked hard to hire people Hess aims for all aspects of its activities Any time we enter a new location for oil locally wherever possible. One thing we in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, including and gas exploration and production we heard again and again from our meetings those of its contractors, to be conducted endeavor to understand not only the with stakeholders was that they wanted to the highest operating standards in a natural and physical environment, but jobs and opportunities. But even more way that respects our local stakeholders’ also the social and economic important, they said they wanted Hess to culture and environment and advances circumstances of the surrounding perform our exploration and production sustainable development. Hess believes communities. This knowledge is work safely and in a way that respects that demonstrating respect to our host fundamental for project success. the people of the region. communities: We are improving infrastructure in the Our work in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq • reduces the possibility of is a prime example of why this is so region by upgrading roads and bridges misunderstandings important. Hess entered the region in mid that better enable travel across the and causing offense 2011 under a three-year licensing rugged terrain. We are restoring the agreement to explore two areas – environment where we operate and • minimizes the possibility of grievances the Shakrok and Dinarta blocks. planting trees native to the area. Hess and conflict due to our presence From a physical standpoint, these has also provided $500,000 to the regions posed a number of challenges, International Rescue Committee, • helps us develop a positive reputation such as mountainous terrain, inadequate which is working with some 60,000 Syrian among key stakeholders and thus roadways and geographic isolation. refugees in the region and their host supports the company to build and But the cultural considerations were communities. This funding helped maintain its social license to operate equally challenging. This largely tribal provide shelter, clothing and counseling region had a long history of conflict with to refugee families who fled their native neighboring Iraqi provinces, enduring country with little more than the clothes chemical weapons attacks and forced on their backs. community and social performance 19 employees and contractors. Our Hess Values and our Code of Conduct, which includes specific references to human rights, provide a foundation for our commitments to ethical and responsible business practices. We have been working to more firmly align our business practices with our CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy and Security and Human Rights Policy. For example, before we begin exploration activities in a new country, we analyze human rights issues with the understanding that these are clear business risks that must be assessed. This analysis is integrated into the new country entry process to help Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota inform our strategy and approach. to our business. The course reviews our Community Benefits We also educate our employees on the Human Rights Policy, offers employees Our strategic social investments are importance of respecting human rights. In guidance on integrating respect for human designed to create shared value that 2013 we developed an online training rights into their daily work and provides improves the quality of life in local module for all employees that explains direction on how to report suspected communities and grows our business. human rights and why they are important human rights violations. We focus in particular on education and 2013 Social Investment by Country – $37 Million 2013 Type of Investment $ Thousands $ Thousands 0.6% 3% 2% <1% 6% 60% 12% 0.3% 52% 14% 10% 2.5% 11% 0.6% 1.3% 25% United States $22,175 Indonesia $489 Education $19,090 Disaster Relief $1,256 Malaysia $5,038 Norway $239 Community $9,344 Health $557 Peru $3,916 Ghana $229 In-Kind $4,478 Environment $44 Equatorial Guinea $3,526 Thailand $128 Arts & Culture $2,261 Kurdistan Region of Iraq $912 All Others* $380 *Includes U.K. North Sea, Denmark, Algeria, Russia, France, Libya, Australia 20 2013 corporate sustainability report The rise in drilling and production has been accompanied by significant increases in employment in oil field, construction, transportation and services jobs. The increased economic activity has also led to double-digit population growth in several counties in the region, as well as social and environmental impacts from oil and gas operations. Capacity Development Over the past few years Hess has taken a number of steps to help North Dakota implement education reforms and attract skilled graduates to the workforce. Our largest initiative, Succeed 2020, is a five-year, $25 million program to assist students as they prepare for college, careers and the workplace. The program has been carefully planned and implemented as a partnership with the Tioga, North Dakota state of North Dakota and FHI 360, a health, contributing to education During our first five decades in the state non-profit human development improvement and work skill development, our footprint was relatively small, as we organization. It supports college and career which are fundamental to sustainable produced on average 10,000 to 20,000 counseling for students, professional economic growth. We also seek to identify barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd). development for teachers, tutoring and opportunities in the supply chain to We developed a reputation as a online learning. Nominated by the Greater provide lasting economic benefit through responsible operator and a good North Dakota Chamber of Commerce, local job creation. corporate citizen with deep community Hess was recognized by North Dakota’s roots, in part through our commitment to State Superintendent of Public Instruction In 2013 our strategic social investments volunteerism and civic contributions. More with the 2014 ACT College and Career totaled approximately $37 million, with recently, we have also focused on capacity Readiness Award for this effort. more than $19 million going toward building and mitigating social impacts, as education projects. Another $10 million Hess is also participating in and providing our average net shale production in 2013 was earmarked for economic development, more than $400,000 over two years to a increased to 67,000 boepd. health and capacity building. North Dakota Department of Commerce Shale oil and gas drilling and production Economic and Workforce Development Economic Development, from the Bakken formation in western campaign to encourage skilled workers Capacity and Impact Mitigation in North Dakota North Dakota began in 2006. Production and their families to relocate to North Hess’ legacy of conventional drilling in rapidly increased between 2010 and 2012, Dakota for the career opportunities and North Dakota dates back more than 60 moving North Dakota into second place the quality of life. years to our first successful well in 1951. among oil and gas producing states. community and social performance 21 Local Initiatives officials to pass legislation directing surrounding communities. The study One of the unintended consequences of $2.5 billion to impacted areas in support will evaluate issues from Hess and industry increased oil and gas activity has been the of burgeoning business activity and operations along with quality of life increased pressure on housing availability population growth. This funding will impacts to provide valuable information due to the influx of workers. The additional expand emergency service capability and and recommendations. Community population has also put pressure on public upgrade sewage treatment plants, school development and local benefit services and infrastructure such as infrastructure and roadways. opportunities will be an important schools, roads and emergency services. outcome from the study as well. Hess is also conducting a third party In 2013 we worked with the North Dakota social and environmental baseline Petroleum Council and with government study for its Bakken operations and Community Activities North Dakota The Blue Denmark Campaign Houston LEAP Program Hess/GNPC Scholars Program Careers in the Oil and Gas Sector Project LEAP: Learn. Engage. Supporting Education Advance. Persevere. We run a successful internal training In Ghana, Hess sponsors the Hess program on South Arne that allows LEAP is a three-year pilot dropout Scholars Program, an annual scholarship trainees to gain insights into the various prevention program for at-risk middle to benefit education and vocational trades on the platform over a two-year school students at two Houston, Texas, studies, with an emphasis on female period. In addition, we are active inner-city middle schools. Five program students. Launched in September 2012, participants in both the Oil & Gas Denmark partners, including Hess, work the program includes 171 students Skills & Competence (S&C) Committee and collaboratively to provide support to entering senior high school, vocational the Blue Denmark Campaign, a students who are English language institutions and nursing colleges. collaboration with the Danish Shipowners’ learners and over age for their grade Students are selected through an Association. The S&C Committee is level. Students are identified as being application process supported by the working to define our workforce needs and at risk of dropping out before graduating country’s District Education Department. develop strategies to ensure that these are high school, with support provided The scholarships, which are cosponsored met. One of the outcomes is that the through individualized and experimental by the Ghana National Petroleum Technical University of Denmark (DTU) learning opportunities. The Houston Corporation (GNPC), cover the cost of now offers a master’s degree in oil and Independent School District supports tuition, administrative fees and books. The gas technology. The Blue Denmark LEAP, its program partners and initiative was created as the result of a Campaign arranges offshore events for participating schools. baseline needs assessment we conducted students from DTU and the engineering with input from stakeholder groups. colleges, offering information on the many job opportunities available. 22 North Malay Basin, Gulf of Thailand SAFETY AND HEALTH 2013 KEY developments 2014 Goals Achieved a 26 percent decrease in workforce (employees plus Achieve a 90 percent completion target against plan for number of contractors) Lost Time Incident Rate compared to 2012 leadership site visits and workforce safety observations Achieved a 14 percent decrease in workforce Total Recordable Accomplish a 90 percent closure rate against plan for Incident Rate compared to 2012 number of open EHS audit findings and process safety health check observations Continued to integrate a new contractor prequalification and selection process that includes environment, health and safety (EHS) Meet a workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate target of 0.47 reviews for higher risk companies Convened a cross-functional Rail Transport Working Team to focus on crude-by-rail safety safety and health 23 A t Hess, safety is our foremost reported to senior Hess management and We also seek to ensure that all of our priority and an integral part of are components of the bonus formula for contractors’ safety and health systems our company culture. Our aim is executives and employees. We strive for and programs align with ours. We insist on “everyone, everywhere, every day, home continuous improvement in our transparency from our contractors, and we safe.” That is an ambitious goal, given the performance while acknowledging areas undertake appropriate reviews to ensure personal and process safety risks inherent that pose challenges. Periodically we commitments are being met. in our industry. We work hard to manage benchmark our performance against personal safety and minimize those risks, so as to industry peers, and we actively participate We improved our safety performance in preserve the safety and wellbeing of our in industry trade associations where best 2013. The Total Recordable Incident Rate workforce, the environment and the practices are shared and solutions are (TRIR) for our full workforce (i.e., communities where we do business. sought for common issues. employees and contractors together) was In 2013 this led to a 14 percent We expect every Hess employee and down 14 percent from 2012 and down improvement in safety performance. contractor to be a safety leader. During 25 percent from 2011. Our workforce Lost We address safety systematically. To 2013 we worked with third party experts to Time Incident Rate (LTIR) was down begin, we have a basic set of Hess Rules develop an Executive Safety Leadership 26 percent from 2012 and was flat for employees and contractors that Program to further engage and energize compared to 2011.1 These rates were focuses on the control of seven activities Hess executives and managers in driven by improvements in both employee that are at high risk for fatalities (see inset safety issues, increase accountability and contractor safety performance. Our on following page). and make improvements that are visible contractor TRIR dropped 17 percent in companywide. The program was 2013 compared to 2012, while our In addition, we monitor key safety and launched at the end of 2013 and will be employee TRIR dropped 8 percent over health metrics across the enterprise, expanded in subsequent years. the same time period. We experienced no consistent with industry guidance and employee or contractor fatalities in 2013. standards. These metrics are regularly Full Workforce Safety Performance2 Employee and Contractor Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours Cases per 200,000 Hours Cases per 200,000 Hours Cases per 200,000 Hours Workforce TRIR Workforce LTIR Employee TRIR Contractor TRIR 2011 2011 0.72 0.71 0.17 0.73 2012 2012 0.63 0.51 0.23 0.70 2013 2013 0.54 0.47 0.17 0.58 This workforce data covers all of Hess and includes employees plus contractors 2 together. Our 2013 workforce TRIR and LTIR for Exploration and Production alone was 0.56 and 0.13 respectively. 1  When calculating LTIR, scheduled work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Absenteeism and Occupational Disease Rate are not primary metrics for Hess. We do not track absenteeism. We include occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees in our companywide safety totals. 24 2013 corporate sustainability report process safety Another effort in 2013 involved delivering Hess Rules Process safety focuses on the prevention process safety awareness training to plant The Hess Rules are seven basic global of events such as fires, explosions and personnel and a cross-section of leaders at requirements for safe work practices. releases of hazardous materials. To the middle and senior levels. An additional They apply to all Hess operated endeavors, and adherence is manage process safety effectively at Hess, process safety training module will be mandatory. Each rule is accompanied we employ: developed by the end of 2014 and will build by more detailed and specific •D  esign integrity – ensuring that upon the training currently being deployed. requirements, as applicable. the risks are as low as reasonably practical in the design and The chart on the following page shows our Energy Isolation Stored energy sources shall construction of facilities process safety performance in 2013, as be identified, isolated, tested measured by Tier 1 and Tier 2 process •T  echnical integrity – inspecting, and communicated to testing and maintaining our hardware safety events, based on industry criteria for appropriate personnel before Tier 1 (greater consequence) and Tier 2 work shall proceed.  perational integrity – ensuring that •O we work within operational design (lesser consequence) process safety events. Lifting and Hoisting parameters Use only locally qualified We will review all Tier 1 process safety •P  rocess safety leadership – ensuring operators and appropriate event investigations to further improve the that our leaders across the equipment for all mechanical quality and effectiveness of the organization effectively manage lifting, hoisting and rigging process safety risks to minimize the investigations and to maximize what we operations. likelihood of catastrophic process learn from these events to improve our safety events Working at Heights overall process safety performance. Personal fall protection In 2013 we continued to implement a equipment must be worn when Select Hess production assets and drilling focused process safety program across working 6 feet (1.8 meters) or and completion operations will begin Hess. This program addresses three higher above ground. tracking Tier 3 and Tier 4 process safety key strategic elements: improving process performance indicators (KPIs) in 2014, Confined Space Entry safety leadership; understanding and Confined spaces shall not be which include such metrics as timely closure identifying process safety vulnerabilities; entered unless authorized by of previous health check action items, and educating key people across the written permit. activation of safety systems and overdue organization in basic process safety safety critical equipment inspections. Hot Work awareness. A written work permit is required for all hot work outside Most notably, in 2013 we completed an Emergency Preparedness of designated safe areas. enterprise wide “process safety health and Response check,” a high-level internal assessment of Unanticipated, safety related disruptions to Excavation and Trenching our business, whether caused by weather the process safety programs at our key All excavation and trenching production assets and drilling operations events or process safety incidents, trigger work greater than 4 feet (1.2m) deep requires written approval. around the world. Through this assessment our emergency preparedness and we identified several opportunities for response plans and procedures. Through Land Transportation improvement. In 2014, on-time closure of these procedures, we seek to protect Identify all threats associated people from injury, the environment from health check action items will be with motor vehicle activity incorporated into the annual incentive plan spills and other accidents, our assets from prior to putting motor vehicle in motion. formula for Hess employees. damage and the company’s reputation from harm – in that order. safety and health 25 Each Hess region has its own Emergency We routinely conduct emergency exercises Containment Company, the Subsea Well Response Network that spans three and drills, as well as engage local Response Project, the Oil Spill Prevention operational levels – asset, regional and emergency management in these efforts. and Response Advisory Group and Clean enterprise. Each level comprises personnel In 2014 we will conduct our most complex Gulf Associates. trained in their roles and responsibilities for exercise yet – the simulation of an offshore In late 2013 we signed a global incident response and mitigation. loss of containment incident similar to agreement with Impact Weather, which the Macondo event that occurred in the In 2013, due to the company transition to a provides risk assessments and detailed Gulf of Mexico in 2010. This exercise will pure play exploration and production (E&P) reports on potential weather threats. In involve Hess’ Gulf of Mexico assets, company, we implemented an in-depth early 2014 persons at each of our assets including approximately 60–70 Hess and “management of change” process to were trained in how to use this service. contractor personnel. ensure we maintained appropriate personnel, standards and emergency We maintain strong relationships with Contractor management escalation models throughout the transition. mutual aid and emergency response At Hess, contractors now comprise Through this process we identified and then organizations at the local, regional and 83 percent of the workforce in our E&P closed several gaps. In August 2013, for global levels to enhance our ability to business. As the proportion of contractors instance, due to the closing of Hess’ respond swiftly and effectively to any in our workforce has increased in recent London office, we shifted responsibility for incident. In 2013 we subscribed to the years, we have significantly strengthened emergency response support for assets in Subsea Well Intervention Service, a new our contractor management processes. seven European and African countries from program that provides well capping and As part of the procurement process, EHS London to Houston. In so doing, we held dispersant equipment and oil spill reviews are conducted for those six training sessions to educate the dispersant that can be deployed contractors that are considered higher risk, Houston-based Incident Support Team internationally. In addition, we partner with due either to the number of manhours they about their new responsibilities. Oil Spill Response Limited, Marine Well will work at Hess or the nature of that work, 2013 Number of Process Safety Events such as drilling and completions or offshore (13) work. As one part of the EHS review, we Tier 1 use recognized industry safety Tier 2 (11) prequalification software for most major areas of Hess operations. Elsewhere, we use in-house processes such as supplier questionnaires. In the United States, potential contractors receive a grade based 5 mil (6) (6) (6) on items such as insurance and safety 4 mil (5) record. If potential contractors receive a low (4) (4) (4) grade, the asset director (or above) must 3 mil (3) (3) (3) endorse a safety action plan before the 2 mil contractor may be approved. The 1 mil procurement process will also typically 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec include an on-location audit. New Note: Tier 1/Tier 2 criteria are based on definitions from the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, contractors take part in a four-step Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. onboarding and engagement program. 26 2013 corporate sustainability report In 2013 we put a particular focus on the the workplace; fitness for task health services to employees in many of safety performance of our existing assessment and health surveillance; our U.S. locations; these include full contractors, ranking all of them from a health impact assessment; health physicals, fitness for duty exams, safety risk perspective and then developing reporting and record management; and immunizations and more. For international safety action plans for the 20 deemed the public health interface and promotion of employee travel or relocation outside the highest risk. We then tracked the good health. United States, we provide appropriate completion of those safety action plans, vaccinations as well as referrals to In 2014 we will conduct an analysis of all and included that as a metric in the bonus medical specialists with expertise in of our programs in these eight categories formula for Hess employees. issues specific to that location. We also – location by location – to identify any give employees access to a variety of health and wellness gaps and priorities and develop online, telephonic coaching and worksite Our health and wellness strategy associated action plans. based health management resources and encompasses eight elements of health At many of our locations, we conduct tools focusing on nutrition and healthy management: health risk assessment and industrial health monitoring to make sure eating, exercise, stress management, planning; industrial hygiene and control of the workforce is not exposed to chemical, tobacco cessation, disease management workplace exposures; medical emergency physical, ergonomic or biological hazards. and mental health. We offer fitness center management; management of ill health in We also offer company sponsored mobile discount programs and subsidized Local Efforts Tioga, North Dakota Okume Complex, North Malay Basin In the first quarter of 2014 the Tioga Gas Equatorial Guinea In the past three years, Hess employees Plant expansion was completed, more Workers at the offshore Okume complex, and contractors in the North Malay than doubling the plant’s capacity. The who are 90 percent contractors and Basin have rapidly ramped up work, last nine months of the expansion were represent about a dozen nationalities, progressing from engineering study to full accomplished with zero recordable worked an incredible six years and production of an offshore site. During this injuries. Though there were many 2.2 million hours without a lost time time, and despite formidable safety challenges – from subzero degree incident. That was accomplished through challenges, they worked more than weather to the sheer complexity and the effective integration of contractors 3 million hours without a serious injury or scale of the project and number of into the asset team, operational potentially severe near-miss incident. personnel involved – proper planning, discipline, constant communication of Their success is credited to having a management of contractor personnel and lessons learned and regular use of stop sufficient number of qualified EHS a strong safety culture enabled this work authority. inspectors, outstanding communication significant accomplishment. systems and excellent safety planning. safety and health 27 Weight Watchers memberships to The HPI works with companies’ reporting increases in energy levels. employees and their family members. employees to help them enhance their In subsequent years the program will be personal performance, energy levels and expanded to Hess executive leadership. In 2013 we piloted a program developed emotional wellbeing. Our HPI pilot was a by the Human Performance Institute (HPI) success, with 80 percent of participants aimed at improving health resilience. Rail Safety In North America, the transport of crude oil by rail has increased markedly in recent years due to the rise in shale oil production in the United States. Over the past year, these rail shipments received heightened scrutiny and publicity, as a few train derailment incidents dominated the headlines. In 2011 Hess worked with railroad companies, regulators and industry experts (including manufacturers, lessors and shippers) to design a better railcar, commonly referred to as the AAR Petition Tioga Rail Terminal, North Dakota P-1577 design. We had the first fleet in the Bakken in North Dakota – and in the industry Rail Terminal, load our crude oil and prepare of rail crude oil transport. Hess is – made up entirely of this newer type of our trains for departure. We also work represented on the American Petroleum railcar, which was precisely designed to closely with the railroads, including BNSF, Institute (API) Rail Policy Committee, safely transport crude oil, including light, Union Pacific, CSX and Norfolk Southern, to Government Affairs Committee and Rail sweet crude, such as from the Bakken. ensure that our oil is delivered safely. In early Transportation Group. We also co-chair the These railcars are equipped with enhanced 2014 we finalized a new light sweet crude Characterization and Classification of Crude features, including thicker and stronger safety data sheet (SDS) suitable for Bakken Oil Standard Development Working Group, steel, half head shields, top fittings and other light crudes. The SDS, which which is developing a new API Standard. protection and a reclosing pressure relief details the material’s hazards and Because improving crude-by-rail safety is a device. In addition, our cars are equipped appropriate emergency response measures, shared effort among regulators, the rail with running gear specifically selected for accompanies rail shipments and is used by companies and operators, we are also active high mileage unit train service. Hess personnel and contractors working on several task forces that include all these with Bakken crude. We also operate a state-of-the-art loading stakeholders. These include the American terminal in Tioga, North Dakota. In operation We also recently organized and convened Association of Railroad’s Task Force T87.6, since late 2011, this terminal was designed an internal Rail Transport Working Team, which is working on improved tank car for safe, compliant and efficient operation which now meets weekly. The team design and operations, and the Surface with heavy duty rail infrastructure and includes Hess employees from our North Transportation Board’s Rail Energy loading facilities. The terminal has enhanced Dakota operations team as well as Transportation Advisory Committee. safety features, including a fire suppression employees from other functions, including We have also engaged directly with rail system and an environmentally responsible Communications, Government Affairs, company executives to discuss “closed loop” loading system with vapor Commercial and Marketing, and EHS. The opportunities for improving and maintaining recovery to minimize fugitive emissions of purpose of the team is to better share rail safety and infrastructure, such that volatile organic compounds during the relevant information regarding any and all the potential for future derailments can loading process. issues relating to rail safety. be minimized. We use a terminal and port specialist Hess is actively engaged with oil and gas company, Watco, to safely operate the Tioga industry efforts to further improve the safety 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort Safety Audit, North Dakota our people 2013 KeY developMents 2014 goals Completed a thoughtful, thorough staffing process at all levels of our Continue programs for employees in transition organization Implemented programs to ease the transitions of employees leaving Progress initiatives in key programs, including talent management, the company due to our major corporate reorganization diversity and inclusion, and learning and development Launched CareerManager, a new employee performance management system that supports employees in achieving their career goals our people 29 H ess’ success relies on a company Employee Demographics help us understand and assess our culture and high quality workforce We began 2013 with about 13,200 leadership and technical capabilities and that innovates, leads and learns. employees (excluding the Hetco front develop succession and hiring plans. In This past year was one of the most office and Russia operations, which are not 2013 we were able to leverage the output challenging in our company’s history. supported by Hess’ Human Resources of our 2012 talent management process to It was a time of significant change as we function) and ended the year with quickly and effectively manage the began the final phase of a transformation approximately 12,100 employees. The sale changes and promotions of our people as that will turn Hess into a focused, of the Terminal Operations business to required for our reorganization. pure play oil and gas exploration and Buckeye and the closures of our Port In 2013 our formal talent management production company. Reading refinery and our London office process was postponed to 2014 to allow accounted for the majority of the 8 percent As we complete our transition in 2014 and sufficient room for reorganization activity. decrease in employee headcount. 2015, we will have a renewed focus on our However, the reorganization activity itself key workforce programs, including talent To date, the sales of Hess Energy was an opportunity to engage in talent management, learning and development, Marketing and the company’s Indonesia related conversations relevant to Hess’ and diversity and inclusion development. We and Thailand businesses to new owners future leadership. will stay focused on continuing to create a have resulted in approximately 640 fewer All managers and professionals receive work environment that fosters innovation, employees. Later in 2014, we expect that regular performance and development professional growth and teamwork so we the divestment of Hess Retail Marketing reviews. In early 2013 we launched a new can achieve our goals. Leveraging the will lead to an additional 8,100 employees performance management system, skills and experience of our workforce is leaving our payroll, as we complete our CareerManager, which supports critical to achieving success. exit from our downstream businesses. employees in achieving their career goals Talent Management by integrating goal-setting, development Hess has used a robust annual talent planning and performance reviews into management process for several years to individual development plans. 2013 Employees by Region 2013 Turnover and New Hires Total Number of Employees: 12,128 Number of Employees MaleMale Turnover Turnover Male Male New New HiresHires Female Female Turnover Turnover Female New New Female HiresHires Africa Africa 11,013 21 214 4 (91%) 265 4 24 2 (2%) Americas Americas 988 988 231 231 163 163 47 47 232 618 (2%) Asia-Pacific (5%) Asia-Pacific 68 68 32 32 13 13 6 6 Europe Europe 94 94 49 49 Excludes Hetco (Hess Energy Trading Company) front office. The North America 9 09 0 employee count includes approximately 8,100 Retail Marketing employees. 30 2013 corporate sustainability report Learning and Development courses (virtual and instructor led) on to the Learning Center and the Resource Hess offers leadership development many topics, ranging from technical to Center. The Learning and Resource Centers through a suite of three leadership soft skills. In 2013 employees logged are critical portals for managing one’s programs. Each is tailored to meet the over 70,000 training hours across more career development path. The onboarding competency development needs of than 400 unique courses. program for new hires also establishes a different levels of leadership within the system for supervisors and new employees New Hires and Early organization, from early-career supervisors to work closely together for the first 90 days Career Programs through senior leadership. at Hess and to make sure the integration One of the issues affecting the U.S. oil and process goes as smoothly as possible. New gas industry is an aging workforce. Hess In 2013 throughout the year we conducted Hess employees may also be eligible to join has developed and implemented programs targeted programs in supervisory the supplemental early career development to speed up the integration of new management and mid-level leadership in programs we offer. employees and the development of early the United States and Malaysia. career technical hires as skilled older Our Global Professional Development Participating supervisors and managers workers choose to retire. Program, first piloted in 2011, was collectively logged 3,400 hours of training. modified during 2013 to focus on Employees new to Hess benefit from our Training offerings in leadership and many supplementing and enriching the skills and onboarding and orientation process, known other topics are available to all employees knowledge of newly hired technical as Passport to Hess. The Passport to Hess through our Learning Center, which personnel participating in the Hess Global intranet site provides information about the provides access to more than 1,000 Foundation Program. This program is company and Hess Values, as well as links Employees in Transition Immediately following the company’s employees with external job searches. To keep employees informed, we sent out March 2013 announcement of the changes In 2013 the majority of employees who were regular updates by email, conducted to the Hess portfolio, we worked on part of U.S. businesses that were sold were multiple “town hall” style meetings, and transition plans to provide our employees offered jobs at their new employers with no hosted monthly “breakfasts with leaders” with information about how the disruption in pay or benefits; these where employees could ask questions and reorganization would impact each employees also received lump sum get additional details about the transition. individual. For several months, team severance packages. Our goal was to provide a constant flow of members did not know what positions information to keep our people as up to Employees in our London office, which we would continue in the new structure. We date as possible. We also established a closed in the last quarter of 2013, were recognize that this created uncertainty, but company intranet site where employees offered enhanced severance and provided it was important to allow time to complete could find details about severance with financial counseling, as well as career a thoughtful, thorough staffing process at packages, retirement, medical and other counseling to assist them with external job all levels of our organization. employee benefit plans, staffing searches. Employees were encouraged to reorganizations and other key issues. The Employees whose jobs were ultimately apply for open positions within Hess in site included a question and answer slated for elimination were provided other locations. We also reached out to oil section where we addressed the most enhanced severance packages and and gas companies to make them aware common queries about the reductions and financial counseling. In addition, career that employees were leaving. the changes in operations. counseling was offered to assist these our people 31 designed to fully prepare our engineers our Code of Conduct, Equal Employment two-thirds, the proportion of new female hires and geoscientists for challenging Opportunity and affirmative action policies and U.S. minorities was similar to 2012. assignments early in their careers and to and training (for U.S.-based managers) In keeping with our aim to foster diversity help them keep pace with the rapid and other Human Resources policies, and and cultivate leadership, we employ a high evolution of their chosen disciplines our Human Rights and Corporate Social number of local nationals in our through training, mentorship and on-theResponsibility Policies. international operations and report publicly job assignments. The proportion of women and U.S. minority on those where we employ 100 or more Diversity and Inclusion employees (as defined by the U.S. people. The percentage of local nationals Hess is committed to diversity and equal Department of Labor) increased slightly from increased in Equatorial Guinea and employment opportunities for all employees 2012. Although new hiring was down by Malaysia as compared to 2012. and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, creed, national origin, disability or veteran 2013 National Employees* status. We also consider more than 30 National Managers/ National Employees Professionals (% of managers attributes of diversity, including elements Country (% of employees) and professionals) such as cultural and physical differences; lifestyle; and diversity of background, Denmark 83% 75% experience and perspective. Equatorial Guinea 74% 41% We do not tolerate any form of workplace Malaysia 72% 70% harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through *In significant areas of operation (>100 employees). Indonesia, divested in early 2014, had 99 percent national employees in 2013; 98 percent of managers and professionals were nationals. 2013 Women and Minority Representation WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) MINORITIES (U.S.) Total Total Employees in Number Percent Employees in Number of Percent Job Category Job Category of Women Women Job Category Minorities Minorities Executives and 76 10 13% 70 5 7% Senior Officers First and Mid-Level 2,080 689 33% 1,820 456 25% Managers Professionals 1,905 651 34% 1,365 360 26% Other 8,067 3,826 47% 7,758 3,510 45% Total 12,128 5,176 43% 11,013 4,331 39% Note: There are 1,861 U.S. employees that are both minority and female. Excludes Hetco employees. Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY 2013 KEY developments 2014 Goals Achieved six out of seven of our five-year climate change targets Refresh our climate change strategy Reduced absolute greenhouse gas emissions (on an equity basis) by Reduce our flaring rate at the wellhead in North Dakota to 4.3 million tonnes between 2008 and 2013 10 percent no later than 2017 and possibly sooner, depending on timely completion of infrastructure projects Provided more in-depth discussion of carbon asset risk in this year’s sustainability report Reassess our Scope 3 emissions inventory and material Scope 3 categories for reporting in 2014 climate change and energy 33 H ess is committed to help meet climate change, biodiversity impacts and Hess monitors, measures and takes steps the world’s growing energy access to energy – issues that are too big to reduce our carbon footprint at existing needs in an environmentally for individual companies to tackle alone. and planned operations. We aim to be responsible manner while making a IPIECA represents its members at the transparent about our climate change positive impact on the communities where United Nations’ Conference of Parties programs and performance, and we have we do business. The end of 2013 marked meetings, engaging with governments on been included in the CDP (formerly the completion of our five-year target climate related issues. Carbon Disclosure Project) annual Global cycle. We achieved six of our seven 500 and S&P 500 leadership indices since We have spoken openly about the need strategic objectives as described below. 2009 for the quality of our disclosures. In for U.S. and world leaders to work with 2013 we were ranked third in the energy There is no quick and easy solution to industry to develop comprehensive sector in the CDP Global 500 index and meeting the world’s energy demand and energy and climate policies that will help second in the CDP S&P 500 index. reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. meet future energy demand and reduce Our CDP responses contain more detailed Climate change is a global challenge that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. information on the company’s climate must be met with collective action. Hess Transparent and equitable carbon price change related risks and opportunities. is an active member of IPIECA, an signals should be given serious international oil and gas industry consideration as the domestic and global See our CDP Investor disclosure at www.hess.com/ association actively engaged in economies continue to recover from docs/CDPresponse. sustainable development issues such as sustained recession. Strategy and Progress Strategic Objective Status 2008– 2013 Completed Target Status Due to the transition of Hess into a pure play exploration and production (E&P) Establish, publicly communicate and achieve a company, our target of 20 percent reduction in net equity emissions intensity by five-year GHG emissions intensity reduction 2013 was no longer achievable. However, from 2008 to 2013 we reduced absolute target. GHG emissions on a net equity basis by 40 percent (4.3 million tonnes). Account for the cost of carbon in all significant We incorporated carbon cost considerations into the project planning process for future investment decisions. major investments and held training workshops for project engineers. Evaluate industry best practices to minimize We incorporated energy efficiency considerations into the project planning emissions when designing production facilities. process for major investments and held training workshops for project engineers. Reduce combined flaring in Algeria and We continued to review flare reduction options in Equatorial Guinea while having Equatorial Guinea by 50 percent over five years reduced combined flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 53 percent from (by end of 2013 compared to 2008 baseline). 2008 to 2013. We implemented monthly collection of energy use and spend data at our Implement a corporate wide energy efficiency assets. Due to the transition, a corporate wide energy efficiency target was not program. appropriate. Select assets have initiated energy efficiency projects. Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity We purchased renewable energy certificates equivalent to 14 percent of our 2013 for company operations from renewable sources. net electricity use. Offer Hess Energy Marketing customers products Hess Energy Solutions expanded its integrated commodity contract offerings, and services to help them minimize their carbon incorporating energy efficiency, renewable energy and fuel conversion services. footprints. Due to the divestiture of downstream assets, this strategy no longer applies. Achieved Partially Achieved Did Not Achieve 34 2013 corporate sustainability report Carbon Asset Risk Report Beginning in 2011 the concepts of A review of the International Energy Agency combination of slow growth in domestic “unburnable carbon,” “stranded assets” (IEA) World Energy Outlook indicates that electricity demand, competitively priced and a “carbon bubble” have been promoted the world will require approximately 35 natural gas, programs encouraging by a number of groups, gaining the percent more energy in 2035 than it did in renewable fuel use, and the implementation attention of investors, academics and the 2010 to meet growing demand.† In this of environmental rules dampens future coal media.† Supporters of the carbon bubble scenario, energy efficiency will keep growth use. Hess’ reserves are mostly light crude theory suggest that capital markets have in energy demand in Organization for oil and natural gas and thus less likely to be mispriced the risk borne by fossil fuel Economic Cooperation and Development significantly impacted by initial carbon companies. They postulate that investors (OECD) countries stable, while growth in regulations. believe that all coal, gas and oil reserves energy demand in non-OECD countries will A global policy that results in a low carbon will be produced and that investors are not continue to expand rapidly.† Meeting the scenario where emissions are held to a 2°C fully versed regarding climate risks, growing demand for energy will require the change is most likely to harm less presumably because companies have not use of all forms of energy, including developed countries where the need for quantified them fully. Furthermore, they traditional fossil fuels, all forms of affordable, reliable and accessible energy suggest that once investors understand the renewables and commercial-scale carbon is most urgent. While such a policy is potential consequences of climate policies, neutral technologies. Even with rapid possible, Hess believes that governments they will be less inclined to invest in growth in renewables, the IEA forecasts will choose a more moderate path that hydrocarbon producers. that fossil fuels will still comprise at least allows for economic growth while mitigating 60 percent of the world energy mix in 2040 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate the effects of GHG emissions through a compared to 70 percent today. Change has stated that the world will need combination of policy related programs and to keep to a trillion tonne budget of carbon The carbon bubble concept assumes that efforts at adaptation. emissions, from the beginning of the coal, oil and gas are equally vulnerable to As a result, we believe that markets are industrial era to the year 2100, to maintain a climate policies restricting fossil fuels pricing carbon intensive assets rationally. greater than 66 percent chance of limiting without considering the differences in They are determining the value of firms the maximum global atmospheric carbon intensity. Coal is the most carbon mostly based on their expectations of temperature rise to two degrees Centigrade intensive fossil fuel, with a significantly future profitability, not just on the size of (2°C). This assumes that governments unite larger CO2 footprint than traditional forms their mineral reserves. The risks associated to enact climate policies by 2020 in line with of natural gas and oil, making coal more at with climate change have been disclosed in the 2°C goal, and means that approximately risk than other fossil fuels. For example, annual reports and discussed with half of discovered oil, coal and gas according to the U.S. Energy Information investors for many years. resources will remain unburned. Agency’s Annual Energy Outlook 2014, the † Source: Exploring the concept of “unburnable carbon,” IPIECA Fact Sheet, June 2014. 2013 Hess Proved Reserves by Region 2013 Hess Proved Reserves by Resource Type 1.437 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent (BOE) Conventional Unconventional Deepwater Conventional 10% Acid Gas Unconventional 23% Deepwater 13% 46% 10% Acid Gas 47% 13% 15% 16% 47% 30% 30% * D eepwater and acid gas are conventional resources but they are shown separately here to provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves *Proved reserves consist of 77 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, found below 1,000 feet of water depth. Acid gas refers to conventional reserves condensate and natural gas liquids) and 23 percent natural gas. with acid components that require additional treatment prior to sale. climate change and energy 35 We use various risk ranking models to strategies to address climate change and accounts for carbon related factors that ensure that our new and existing assets related impacts. Recently, the Audit may affect operating costs in the future in evaluate and rank all non-technical risks, Committee of our Board of Directors the event of regulation. These analyses including those related to climate change. formed an Environment, Health & Safety enable us to address potential regulatory A more in-depth discussion of our Subcommittee to increase focus on and risks and opportunities driven by current enterprise risk model can be found on oversight of environmental matters, and future costs of carbon and promote page 12 of this report. Steps are then including climate change. more carbon efficient choices for taken to mitigate risks that we consider equipment investment decisions. Carbon Cost Accounting likely to impact new projects and existing Since 2012 we have accounted for the Greenhouse Gas operations. We also participate in industry cost of carbon in the formal evaluation Performance initiatives and working groups that focus process for major new projects, defined We report GHG emissions from our oil on quantifying and disclosing emissions as investments greater than $50 million. and gas assets on an operated and net performance and climate change related Beginning in 2013 the value assurance equity basis. The majority of our direct risks and opportunities. For example, process was expanded from new (Scope 1) emissions are associated with we chair the IPIECA Climate Reporting projects to include an annual review of all fuel combustion and flaring. We report Task Force. significant existing assets. This new indirect emissions associated with Climate Change annual review of existing assets allows purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other Governance Structure for a recurring evaluation of carbon risk in indirect emissions (Scope 3) resulting The Hess Leadership Team, composed of our ongoing activities. from employee business travel and the senior executive officers, holds the transport and use of our products. highest direct responsibility for climate The analysis accounts for carbon in the base project economics for all major new Operated Emissions change in our company. The Operating (Scope 1 and 2) Committee provides strategic business projects and significant assets in areas In 2013, of the 5.2 million tonnes of gross guidance and makes key operational where carbon is regulated; in areas GHG emissions from our operated oil decisions for the company, which where carbon is not regulated, the cost and gas assets, 4.4 million tonnes were includes oversight and approval of Hess’ of carbon is included as a sensitivity that Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source Million Tonnes CO2e Thousand Tonnes CO2e Flaring 2,375 Scope 1 Emissions Fuel Combustion 1,854 Scope 2 Emissions Scope 1 Emissions Flaring 2,375 Scope 2 Emissions Indirect 753 Fuel Combustion 1,854 3% 7.00 0.76 Other 168 7.00 0.76 0.75 Indirect 753 0.74 3% 15% 6.00 0.74 0.75 Other 168 6.00 5.00 15% 5.00 46% 4.00 4.00 4.34 4.97 4.40 3.00 46% 4.34 4.97 4.40 3.00 2.00 36% 2.00 1.00 36% 1.00 0.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 36 2013 corporate sustainability report on a net equity basis is significantly more difficult than tracking emissions on an operated basis; however, it provides a more accurate reflection of our overall carbon footprint. Our major sources of emissions from non-operated oil and gas assets in 2013 included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) and SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures and our equity interests in the Pailin field, Thailand, which has subsequently been divested. Total emissions from these assets accounted for approximately 2.3 million tonnes of our Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf of Thailand 6.5 million tonnes of net equity emissions. In 2013 major sources of emissions from Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring 0.6 million tonnes from the prior year, operated assets included those from our and fuel combustion, and 0.8 million primarily as a result of the shutdown of Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota tonnes were Scope 2 emissions (gross) the Port Reading refinery. assets and the Seminole and Tioga Gas from purchased electricity. Process Net Equity Emissions Processing Plants, which altogether operations (primarily fuel combustion), (Scope 1 and 2) accounted for 2.9 million tonnes of net flaring and indirect emissions (purchased Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG equity emissions. All of our other electricity) accounted for 36 percent, emissions from our operated and operated and non-operated assets made 46 percent and 15 percent of GHG non-operated oil and gas assets based up the balance of net equity emissions of emissions, respectively. GHG emissions on our equity interest. Tracking emissions 1.3 million tonnes. from operated assets decreased 2013 Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013 Net Equity Emissions by Country Hess E&P Thousand Tonnes CO2e 7,000 Other U.S. (E&P) Non-operated E&P 32% 12 50 Malaysia 6,000 7,000 HOVENSA JV 10.8 Hess E&P Equatorial U.S. (E&P) Guinea MTJDA Block A-18 28% Other 9.5 U.S. (M&R) Malaysia 32% Emissions Rate (tonnes/1000 BOE) 10 45 GHG (thousand GHG (thousand tonnes tonnes CO2e) CO2e) 9.0 9.1 5,000 6,000 Samara-Nafta Non-operated E&P 44 12 43 Algeria Equatorial Guinea 19% 50 Normalized HOVENSA JV GHG 8.0 28% 10.8 Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE) 8 40 Thailand U.S. (M&R) 4,000 GHG (million CO2e) tonnes CO2e) 39 5,000 SonaHess JV A-18 MTJDA Block 38 6.5 Other countries* 5% 10 9.5 45 Algeria 19% GHG (Mill tonnes Hess M&R Samara-Nafta 6 44 9.0 9.1 35 Indonesia Thailand 43 4% 3,000 4,000 Normalized GHG 8.0 5% 8 40 Denmark Other countries* SonaHess JV 4 39 38 30 6.5 Indonesia 4% 4% 2,000 3,000 Hess Marketing 6 35 Denmark and Refining 2 25 4% 4% 1,000 2,000 4 30 *O ther countries: 3% 0 0 G hana <1% Norway 1.5% 4% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Iraq <1% U.K. <1% 2% 0 1,000 2 assets that are in transition. 25 Libya 1.4% U.S.V.I. <1% 3% The hatching pattern represents 2% 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CliMate Change and energY 37 Between 2008 (our baseline year) and 2013, we have reduced net equity GHG emissions from oil and gas operations by 4.3 million tonnes of absolute emissions or approximately 40 percent, primarily through a combination of improved operating processes and discontinuation of refinery operations in Port Reading, New Jersey, and at HOVENSA, in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. scope 3 emissions We are continuining to develop our capability for reporting Scope 3 emissions. We have reported emissions from customer and consumer use of sold Gas Compression Station, North Dakota products since 2008; these comprise the majority of our Scope 3 emissions. Our In 2013 we expanded our Scope 3 goods and services, and disclosed methodology for calculating product use emissions identification and reporting, in information on all Scope 3 categories emissions addresses the products that part to evaluate the materiality and in our CDP Investor disclosure. we refine and sell, as well as the natural relevance of each of the 15 categories See our CDP Investor disclosure at www.hess.com/ gas that we produce and sell for third included in the Corporate Value Chain docs/CDPresponse. party consumption. We have closed our (Scope 3) Standard. We joined the CDP refineries and, as a result, product Supplier Initiative to improve our We also joined IPIECA’s Scope 3 emissions have dropped from 47 million understanding of third party GHG Reporting Task Force, which is in the tonnes in 2008 to 14 million tonnes in emissions associated with purchased process of developing an oil and gas 2013. These emissions result primarily from the natural gas that we sell for third 2013 Scope 3 Emissions party consumption. Million tonnes co2e In addition to our product use emissions, Use of Sold Products 13.9 100% Purchased Goods 10.4 we began identifying and quantifying and Services 90% Use of Sold Products 13.9 100% potential carbon hotspots in our value Other* Purchased Goods 0.8 10.4 80% 90% 70% chain in 2009, and since then have and Services 56% 80%60% Other* 0.8 collected data associated with third party 70% 56% 50% supply and distribution and business 60%40% travel. We refined our approach in 2012 41% 50%30% 40% to focus on third party activities where 20% 41% 30% 10% we were able to obtain accurate and 3% 20%0% reliable source data. 10% * Includes the following Scope 3 categories as set forth in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain 3% (Scope 3) Standard: Capital goods, Fuel-and-energy-related activities, Upstream transportation and0%distribution, Waste generated in operations, Business travel and Processing of sold products. 38 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort sector Scope 3 standard. As Hess asset continued to make progress with production and minimize flaring. We are completes its transformation to a pure flaring reduction and natural gas capture meeting this challenge by investing more play E&P company, and as oil and gas initiatives and piloted a water-by-pipeline than $1.5 billion to capture and monetize sector methodology develops that initiative that will reduce truck natural gas from our shale energy wells ensures more consistency and transportation. by building gas gathering systems and comparability, we plan to reassess our expanding our Tioga Gas Processing flaring Scope 3 emissions inventory and material Plant. We have set a target to reduce our Prior to the development of the Bakken Scope 3 categories for future reporting. flaring rate at the wellhead in North formation in North Dakota, Hess had one Dakota to 10 percent no later than 2017, We have purchased carbon credits of the lowest flaring rates in North Dakota and possibly sooner depending on the annually since 2010 to offset 100 percent for the industry for conventional wells, at timely completion of these infrastructure or more of business travel emissions. For below 5 percent. This low flaring rate was projects, many of which are subject to the past two years we have purchased achieved by consistently expanding the obtaining permits and rights of way. these credits from The Climate Trust infrastructure necessary to gather and (TCT). In addition, we provided a $25,000 commercialize natural gas associated In the first quarter of 2014 we completed grant to TCT to support an avoided with oil production. Several years ago, the Tioga Gas Processing Plant grasslands conversion carbon offsets our expansion in the Bakken formation expansion. This more than doubles the project in the Prairie Pothole Region of by acquisitions included acreage in plant’s capacity from 100 million to North Dakota. The grant advanced remote areas of the Bakken play, where 250 million standard cubic feet per day validation of a new carbon offset protocol gas gathering infrastructure was not built. (MMscf/d) and increases the liquids for avoided grasslands conversion by This resulted in a significant increase in processing capacity almost tenfold, from the American Carbon Registry. our flaring rates in North Dakota. 260,000 to 2.5 million gallons per day. The methodology enables grassland The expanded capacity will contribute to Our challenge has been and continues to producers to earn income from a reduction in flaring from production be having the necessary infrastructure in preserving grasslands and the soil operations in the region. In addition, place to monetize the associated gas carbon present in these systems. As a 10 gas gathering projects are planned to result, this project will support ranching families and rural communities in a region North Dakota Flaring Rates at the Wellhead of noted rural population loss while Hess Hess Industry preserving sensitive habitat. Industry 35% 35% eMissions reduCtion 30% initiatives 30% We track year-on-year changes in air 25% 25% emissions from each of our assets, with 20% 20% special attention to those that are 15% 15% significant contributors to total corporate 10% 10% Hess 2017 Target GHG emissions. We then focus on those Hess 2017 Target 5% 5% contributors where GHG reductions are 0 02008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2017 technically and economically feasible 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2017 Flaring rates for conventional and unconventional wells. within their operating rhythm, such as Source: North Dakota Industrial Commission, Department of Mineral Resources Oil and Gas Division. North Dakota. In 2013 our North Dakota (www.dmr.nd.gov/oilgas) CliMate Change and energY 39 be completed by year end 2015, which will add an estimated 170 MMscf/d of capacity. These projects include new and expanded gas gathering lines and compression stations. natural gas Capture In addition to addressing our long term flaring challenge by increasing gas processing capacity at Tioga and expanding gas gathering lines and compression stations, in the nearer term we are also mitigating flaring by exploring ways to capture gas at the wellhead for use in our drilling operations and for conversion to Natural Gas Liquids (NGLs). Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota Improving our Understanding of Methane Emissions There has been much debate in recent Fund (EDF) on a study that aims to quantify during 2014. It is hoped that these years about the climate implications of national methane emissions associated projects will inform the ongoing debate increased natural gas usage. Although with the natural gas industry’s gathering and, where necessary, refocus emission natural gas burns cleaner than other fossil infrastructure and processing plants. reduction strategies. fuels, methane escaping during the Researchers are working with six We have been a partner in the Natural Gas production, delivery and use of natural gas companies and using tracer gas releases Star program of the U.S. Environmental has the potential to reduce some of the to quantify methane emissions from Protection Agency (EPA) for 17 years. This benefits. Methane emissions come from these activities. program created a partnership between the a range of sources and sectors of the This study in turn is part of a much broader EPA and industry to identify and share best economy, which are unevenly dispersed collaborative effort spearheaded by EDF practices that yield reduced methane across the landscape. These that involves partnerships with emissions. Hess continually looks for characteristics complicate measurement Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea approximately 100 universities, research opportunities to reduce our methane and attribution and lead to significant institutions and companies. It is divided footprint. We were an industry leader in uncertainties in estimates of current and into 16 distinct projects that will estimate the use of air for pneumatic controllers in projected methane emissions. methane emissions in given areas or from place of natural gas. We also prefer the use Better data collection and measurement specific pieces of equipment. A range of of vapor recovery units to capture and use will improve our understanding of methane sophisticated scientific techniques are natural gas from tank batteries rather sources and trends, and enable more being deployed across all projects. In than venting or flaring that gas. We use effective management of opportunities to many cases, the measurement techniques catalytic converters on our large gasreduce methane emissions. Hess, together are paired to provide greater insight fired compressor engines to improve with a number of other companies, is and certainty. The goal is to have all hydrocarbon combustion and reduce collaborating with Colorado State project results submitted for publication air emissions. University and the Environmental Defense in peer reviewed scientific journals 40 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort quantified but are known to decrease with be used to pipe water directly from the an increase of gas usage. The project water source to our wells. The 600-foot used 27,413 MCF of gas to replace sections of hose can be connected to 240,287 gallons of diesel, resulting in 30 lengths of several miles. We conducted fewer truck deliveries. our first pilot with this type of hose in September 2013 with four well pads and We also began a wellhead gas capturing have now expanded its use to 20 percent project in North Dakota that uses a mobile of our wells. Use of these flat hoses system to recover high BTU gas from flared eliminates the need for trucks to haul locations and produce NGLs and treated water, resulting in less noise and lower lower BTU gas. This project provides both GHG emissions, transportation costs and economic and environmental value by risk of vehicle accidents. The hoses are converting gas into marketable products, much easier and less expensive to set up thereby reducing the amount of gas flared Seminole Gas Plant, Texas than permanent pipelines and, because and the associated air emissions. The they are temporary, have a smaller project began with two prototype units and In 2013 Hess launched a bi-fuel installation environmental footprint. During the pilot, soon expanded to include a 500 MCFD project by retrofitting diesel engines on we piped more than 500,000 barrels of built-for-purpose unit. When operating at seven of the 14 drilling rigs operating for fresh water using these hoses, eliminating full capacity, the 500 MCFD unit is Hess in the Bakken. The retrofit allows the the need for more than 5,000 truckloads. designed to average four to five gallons of engines to operate on a mixture of natural For 2014 we have set a goal to obtain 25 NGL per MCF processed. At full capacity gas and diesel fuel, resulting in cost percent of our water in North Dakota via and runtime, the potential emission savings from the use of gas rather than flat hoses rather than trucks. reductions from the 500 MCFD unit are 30 diesel, as well as several environmental percent for NOx and carbon monoxide, 64 energY use benefits: lower air emissions from the percent for volatile organic compounds Energy management is an integral part of cleaner burn of natural gas compared to and 42 percent for carbon dioxide. Hess’ business strategy because it makes diesel, natural gas capture and use at the economic sense and reduces greenhouse wellhead, instead of flaring, and fewer Hess has ordered an additional 14 gas emissions. diesel delivery truck trips. As part of this built-for-purpose units for delivery during project, nine boilers were converted to 2014, bringing the total capacity to 10 Our operations make and purchase energy operate exclusively on natural gas during MMCFD and a potential production of 1.1 primarily for power, processing, heating winter operations. million gallons of NGL per month (over and cooling. In 2013 energy consumption 314,000 barrels per year) with full from Hess operated assets was Based on emission testing of three rigs in utilization. In 2014, higher utilization is approximately 38 million gigajoules, a 20 2013, average emissions of nitrogen expected due to an improved design of the percent decrease from 2012 primarily oxides (NO x) during bi-fuel operation were new units and better site selection. related to the shutdown of the Port 23 percent lower than before the retrofit. Reading refinery in early 2013. SeventyBased on fuel usage and EPA emission transportation two percent of our energy use was factors, carbon dioxide emissions In North Dakota we have begun to use flat generated directly by our operations, decreased by 31 percent when operating steel hose for freshwater transport instead primarily at our Seminole and Tioga Gas on bi-fuel. Reductions in particulate matter of trucks. This type of hose collapses flat Processing Plants and at our production and sulfur dioxide emissions were not when not in use, like a fire hose, and it can facilities in North Dakota, South Arne and climate change and energy 41 Equatorial Guinea. The remaining 28 we estimate that approximately 11 percent of megawatt hours or about 14 percent of our percent was gross indirect energy this electricity was generated from purchased electricity. Overall, (including energy burned by utilities to renewable sources, primarily wind and approximately 25 percent of our indirect provide net purchased electricity) hydroelectric power. An element of our energy use was from renewables. purchased for our North Dakota and climate strategy is to use more renewable We continue to look for ways to reduce Permian basin operations and gas energy through the purchase of renewable energy consumption and improve energy processing plants. energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to at efficiency at our operations. In 2012 we least 10 percent of net electricity used in In 2013 our U.S. operations accounted for began issuing internal monthly reports our operations. In 2013 we purchased more than 99 percent (approximately 1 million containing energy use and spend data, 140,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for megawatt hours) of our purchased electricity. which help us to identify additional energy wind power, equivalent to 140,000 Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, efficiency and cost reduction opportunities. Energy Use 2013 Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules Thousand Gigajoules 50,000 U.S. (E&P) 23,877 Direct Equatorial Guinea 4,831 DirectIndirect 50,000 U.S. (E&P) 23,877 <1% <1% 11,853 U.S. (M&R) 3,717 Indirect 40,000 11,932 Equatorial Guinea 4,831 Indonesia 2,694 <1% 6% <1% 40,000 11,853 11,932 U.S. (M&R) 3,717 10,607 7% Denmark 2,178 6% 10,607 Indonesia 2,694 30,000 10% 7% Thailand 201 Denmark 2,178 30,000 France 69 Thailand 201 10% 20,000 13% 34,021 34,993 26,960 France 69 20,000 34,021 34,993 29,826 13% 64% 10,000 64% 10,000 0 2011 2012 2013 0 2011 2012 2013 2013 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source 2013 Purchased Electricity by Primary Energy Source Thousand Gigajoules Thousand MWh 100% Natural Gas 22,147 Coal 388 100% 90% Diesel Natural Gas 4,544 22,147 Coal 388 <1% Natural Gas 388 38% 90% Fuel Oil Diesel 245 4,544 1% <1% Natural Gas 388 38% 80% <1% Nuclear 133 80% Petroleum Fuel Oil Coke 25 245 1% <1% Nuclear 133 70% Wind 72 70% Renewables (Solar) Petroleum Coke 2 25 Wind 72 60% 17% Hydro 31 60% Renewables (Solar) 2 Hydro 31 38% 50% 17% Biomass, Solar, 10 38% 50% Other Renewables Biomass, Solar, 10 40% Other Renewables 40% 30% 13% 30% 20% 13% 20% 7% 10% 82% 10% 3% 7% 0% 82% 3% <1% 0% <1% Approximate figures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) 2012 state electricity generation profiles. Seminole, Texas environMent 2013 KeY developMents 2014 goals Reduced water and chemical use in North Dakota hydraulic Continue initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of fracturing operations shale energy development Decreased overall company water use by 12 percent from the Identify opportunities for the promotion of best practices previous year and improvements of environmental performance through the Environmentally Friendly Drilling Program Conducted environmental impact assessments or environmental and social impact assessments at four of our assets Implement an enhanced electronic waste tracking system environment 43 W e consider responsible water for hydraulic fracturing. Our Aqueduct water risk mapping tool. Water management of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy demand in the region is driven primarily by environmental footprint to be commits us to conserving natural agricultural uses. Texas Water Development an important component of our resources, including water. That is why we Board data for the Llano Estacado operational excellence. We continuously closely monitor our water use and are region indicate that our withdrawals from strive to reduce the amount of water and striving to reduce our water footprint. We the aquifer represent only 0.1 percent energy we use, limit the level of also work hard to safeguard underground of estimated annual water demand. greenhouse gas (GHG) and other air drinking water aquifers in the areas near Additional Information is available pollutants we emit, prevent spills and our wells. at the Texas Water Development Board website (www.twdb.texas.gov). reduce the time it takes to remediate Reduction Initiatives affected sites. Our overall water use in 2013 decreased Even so, we strive to optimize water use We dedicate significant staff and resources by 12 percent compared to 2012, mainly wherever possible. The facility recirculates to ensuring compliance with environmental due to the closure of our Port Reading water in its cooling towers between three laws and regulations, international facility in early 2013. to five cycles, and to prevent buildup of standards and our voluntary commitments. solids in the circulating water, a portion is Our Seminole Gas Processing (SGP) plant Our assets have spill preparedness and removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown in West Texas is our biggest single water response plans and conduct emergency water, totaling 888,000 cubic meters in user, accounting for 59 percent of our response exercises. We have several key 2013, is reused in our Permian Production usage in 2013. The SGP plant uses water performance metrics that we track at the operations to maintain reservoir pressure. mainly for process cooling and sources it asset and enterprise levels, and from a Hess owned and operated We have also begun a feasibility study to performance on these metrics is included groundwater well field that withdraws from evaluate current water sources, inventory in the employee bonus formula. the Ogallala Aquifer. process quality and quantity requirements, Water and identify and analyze efficiency SGP is located within a region where baseline At Hess, we recognize that fresh water is measures. This study is expected to yield water stress is categorized as “high risk” an increasingly scarce resource, and we good practice recommendations as well based on evaluations we have conducted are keenly aware of heightened public using the World Resources Institute’s (continued on page 47) sensitivity about our industry’s use of Freshwater Use 2013 Freshwater Use by Business and Facility Million Cubic Meters Thousand Cubic Meters 15 15 Exploration and Production (E&P) 2% Groundwater 15 0.02 Seminole Gas Plant 6,210 Municipal Exploration and Production 2% Groundwater 0.07 North Dakota 1,350(E&P) 12 12 0.02 Seminole Gas Plant 6,210 9% Surface Water Municipal 0.07 0.45 Ohio 337 Surface Water 12 4.6 North Dakota 1,350 International 214 10% 9% 0.45 Ohio 337 99 4.6 Tioga Gas Plant 188 5.5 International 214 <1% 10% 9 3.8 Other U.S. 34 3% 2% 5.5 Tioga Gas Plant 188 2% 59% <1% 66 3.8 8.5 Other U.S. Marketing and Refining 34 (M&R) 3% 2% 13% 2% 59% 6 Retail 1,102 8.5 Marketing and Refining (M&R) 6.5 6.3 Port Reading 975 33 Retail 1,102 13% 6.5 6.3 Terminals/ 194 3 Port Reading Woodbridge 975 00 Terminals/ 194 Woodbridge 2011 2011 2012 2013 2013 0 2011 2012 2013 44 2013 corporate sustainability report SHALE ENERGY According to the U.S. Energy Information stakeholder concerns that may put practices prevent potential surface water Agency, the productivity of oil and natural our “license to operate” at risk, as and groundwater impacts. In addition, the gas wells is steadily increasing in many discussed in the Community and practices allow for the recycling of drilling basins across the United States because of Social Performance section. materials and reduce the volume of waste the increasing precision and efficiency of that needs disposing onsite in lined Protection of Water Quality horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing impoundments or transported offsite for To prevent or minimize the potential for our for oil and natural gas extraction. Hess disposal at regulated facilities. activities to adversely impact local water uses these technologies to develop tight oil resources, we continue to make water water use and associated gas from the Bakken quality monitoring of groundwater and We understand the importance of formation in North Dakota and shale gas surface water prior to drilling and managing resources responsibly. As and condensate from the Utica Shale completion activities a priority. In Ohio we part of our environmental commitment, formation in Ohio. follow a formal “life of project” operating we aim to reduce our freshwater use. The potential effects of shale energy practice. The objective of this practice Unconventional shale operations present operations on the environment, public is to establish baseline groundwater significant resource challenges due to the health and safety are recognized by and surface water conditions at sites amount of fresh, locally sourced water Hess, and we employ multidisciplinary and enable the assessment of potential needed to extract hydrocarbons. risk management to drive planning and changes in water quality and yield Hydraulic fracturing accounted for about decision making. Our enterprise risk throughout the life of a project. We also 13 percent of Hess’ total freshwater management process, which is discussed perform post-drilling assessment and, consumption in 2013, with North Dakota in more detail in the How We Operate depending on risk, we have undertaken at 10 percent and Ohio at 3 percent. section of this report, includes activity the annual sampling of wells and surface No flowback water was reused, due to aspect identification and technical water beyond that post-drill assessment high salinity in North Dakota and limited review as well as value assurance at select assets. quantities in Ohio. activities. In North Dakota, the state operates a We are pursuing alternatives to fresh water, All of our assets also undergo several regional network of groundwater quality including non-potable water sources such stages of detailed, activity-based risk monitoring wells. We sample surface water as treated domestic wastewater, saline assessment during the capture, appraisal, where requested by the landowner and water and frac fluid flowback, to assess development and production phases. when the surface water body is close to our their suitability for hydraulic fracturing. In These multidisciplinary risk assessments activities and test the water to assess its 2013 we conducted a pilot study in North help us identify mitigation measures we suitability for hydraulic fracturing. Dakota to test the technical and economic can pursue to ensure protection of the feasibility of using regionally available Groundwater resources are protected by environment, protection of communities in brackish groundwater for hydraulic sensible onsite operating practices, which we operate, and the safety of our fracturing and well maintenance. In the including the development of facility spill combined contractor and employee hydraulic fracturing pilot in two Bakken prevention plans to prevent spills of workforce. We also have a multi-year wells, about 14 percent of the frac fluid chemicals used in the well construction internal audit plan in place that ensures freshwater volume was replaced by and completion process. In 2013 at our we perform Environment, Health and brackish water. The tests proved successful, North Dakota and Ohio shale energy Safety audits of our assets regularly. Our and we plan to expand the evaluation of drilling sites, we employed closed-loop North Dakota and Ohio assets were brackish water for freshwater substitution. fluid containment systems for drilling fluids. audited in 2012 and 2013. Furthermore, we Frac fluid flowback is stored in closed top Also in 2013 we tested the viability of using continue to identify and address tanks with secondary containment. These treated sanitary wastewater from the crew environment 45 camps that house our workers. Though practice. Well completion designs can vary between the frac string and the technically suitable, the volume is currently from asset to asset due to differences in intermediate casing to boost integrity. insufficient for fracturing applications. In the formation, the management of drilling • Real-time microseismic monitoring is 2014 we plan to investigate using produced risks and technology applications. conducted during select stimulation water for hydraulic fracturing. To document Additional measures are taken to maintain operations. This technology allows the what we have learned and to communicate well integrity during hydraulic fracturing. mapping of fractures to check if the best practices within our operations, we For example: stimulation was within the targeted developed an internal fracturing fluid water • A “surface casing” is installed from the interval. quality and reuse guideline. surface to below the lowest known freshwater zone and then cemented in Frac Fluid Additives Well Integrity that interval from the deepest point to Although we expect our fracturing Although the well completion and hydraulic the surface around the casing, thereby fluids to never come in contact with fracturing activity typically occurs miles creating a physical barrier between the groundwater aquifers or surface waters, below the earth’s surface, groundwater is materials in the well and the strata we know stakeholders are concerned encountered at shallower depths during containing the groundwater being about the chemical makeup of these fluids. drilling and well construction. When well protected. installation is through freshwater zones, We do not use diesel or benzene, toluene, we investigate their depth and lateral • Inside the surface casing, a second ethylbenzene or xylene (BTEX) in frac extent in the subsurface prior to designing “intermediate” casing is installed and and constructing the well. This ensures cemented in place. that we protect fresh groundwater and • An acoustic cement bond log is conform to regulatory requirements and selectively employed to ensure a internal standards. cement barrier is in place, which prevents fluid migration to the surface. We take great care to engineer physical barriers to contain the fluids used in • The well completion is performed drilling, completion and maintenance through a third casing (Ohio) or liner activities as well as produced oil, gas and (North Dakota) placed inside the water. State agencies require companies to intermediate casing to the depth of the design casing and cementing programs lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is Conductor that isolate freshwater intervals. We submit then run and connected to the top of the Casing this information in applications for well liner. This provides an additional physical construction permits, which must be barrier to isolate fluids within the well. reviewed and approved by regulators. Our Cement • Due to potential fracture stimulation Fresh wells are lined with multiple layers of steel Surface Water interference (i.e., stimulating one well pipe and encased in cement to depths well Casing Aquifer and observing increased pressure on below the deepest freshwater zones. Using nearby producing wells), nearby wells these and other practices, we have are shut-in during fracturing activity experienced zero cases of failed well Frac String (based on distance from the well being integrity in our unconventional operations. stimulated), and wellhead systems are Intermediate tested for integrity prior to any activity. Casing Hess applies prudent industry well Note: Not to Scale construction standards globally even • During the hydraulic fracturing activity, where regulations do not require this pressure is maintained on the annulus 46 2013 corporate sustainability report SHALE ENERGY (cont.) fluids. We require our hydraulic fracturing developing science-based frameworks for develop our acreage. In North Dakota, we contractors to provide non-proprietary the evaluation of hazards and risks continued the transition from a single well individual well data for fracture stimulation associated with chemical additives and the per pad to hold the lease to multi-well pad water and chemical use. This information is promotion of safer and less toxic drilling. In 2013 up to 12 wells were sited on publicly available on the FracFocus alternatives. We respect our frac fluid and a single well pad with shared surface website, and we conduct periodic audits of service providers’ right to keep proprietary facilities. In Ohio, we employed a FracFocus submissions to ensure accuracy. formulations confidential, while also geographic information systems (GIS) tool supporting the announcement from our for use during appraisal activities in order We continually look for ways to reduce or Ohio asset’s key supplier to voluntarily to minimize impact on the environment and eliminate the use of chemical additives or disclose all chemical additives. streamline permitting. The tool to use safer alternatives. In 2013, for incorporates environmental and social example, we reduced our use of biocides Air Emissions baseline data as GIS layers and is used to by 50 percent compared to 2012. Biocides Air quality impacts from shale energy identify sensitive areas and select are used to hinder bacterial growth in the operations are associated with drilling rig well pad locations. frac fluid. We encourage fracturing fluid emissions and flaring during flowback and suppliers to use the least toxic chemical production operations when infrastructure Transportation Impacts formulations available, develop less toxic is not available for immediate connection to Due to the increased truck transport additives and disclose chemical the wellhead. Where a pipeline connection activity associated with the rapid ingredients. In addition, we participate in is unavailable, flaring of the natural gas development of the Bakken, we have stakeholder forums that are engaged in produced during flowback may be utilized participated in multi-stakeholder to create a safe working environment initiatives aimed at minimizing the oil during that process. In Ohio, we drilled 29 industry’s impact on public roads wells in 2013. Each completed well was and traffic congestion. We have flared for only a few days during flow collaborated with community partners testing before being connected to gas and state officials in North Dakota to gathering infrastructure that enables ensure adequate infrastructure funding producing without flaring. In North Dakota, to improve traffic safety and support this type of infrastructure is still being built road maintenance. Progress has also and is not available to all of our well been made through the implementation of locations. We have a flaring reduction local ordinances that regulate oilfield strategy for North Dakota and have been trucking activity. Hess, along with other steadily investing in infrastructure, as operators, has built and maintained discussed in detail in the Climate Change portions of farm-to-market roads during and Energy section of this report. More drilling and completion activities, when the information on greenhouse gas emissions most intensive truck traffic occurs. In 2013 can be found in the Climate Change and we conducted a pilot project to bring fresh Energy section and on other air emissions water for hydraulic fracturing operations to in the Environment section. the well site by flat steel hose instead of truck transport. More information on this Land Use initiative can be found in the Climate Our approach is to minimize land use and North Dakota Change and Energy section. Utica Shale Drilling Operations, Ohio reduce the number of well sites needed to environment 47 as technology-based solutions focused on accordance with country specific laws and reducing the plant’s overall water demand. regulations. The ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screening of Our activities in the Bakken formation in identified species against the International North Dakota comprise our second-largest Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) water use. Most of this water is used for Red List and threatened, endangered and hydraulic fracturing. Water is an issue of protected species lists. ESIA results are concern not just for our company, but for made public where required. In instances our entire industry. Because of that, and in where a full ESIA is not appropriate, we still keeping with our broad commitment to routinely conduct biodiversity risk promote the conservation of natural screenings and impact assessments. resources, we participate in the Energy Water Initiative, a multi-stakeholder forum We continue to improve enterprise wide that evaluates knowledge and data gaps in consistency in our execution of ESIAs. In the shale energy extraction water cycle 2013 we made progress in incorporating and promotes research projects to relevant elements of ESIAs into our initial address such gaps. project risk assessment process. This is Whales are native to ocean habitat near our operations in offshore Ghana part of a multi-year harmonization effort Biodiversity around risk and opportunity identification. In all of Hess’ global locations – and site development would not interfere with especially when we operate in sensitive In 2013 we conducted several ESIAs and the bat’s migration cycles. biological habitats – the protection of environmental impact assessments (EIAs). Throughout the United States in 2013, we animal and plant life is carefully factored In Ghana, for example, we conducted an identified locations where new into our project decision making. Our EIA and developed a Preliminary assessments and mitigation plans may be Environment, Health and Safety Policy Environmental Report to support our warranted, due to the FWS’s plan to make calls on us to “identify, assess and exploration work there. In the Gulf of determinations on the potential inclusion of manage the environmental, health and Mexico we finalized ESIAs for our Tubular approximately 250 new species on the safety risks and impacts of our existing Bells project and began work on an ESIA national endangered and threatened and planned operations.” This includes for our Stampede project. In Southeast species lists. Our assessments will help to risks and impacts relating to biodiversity Asia, an EIA was completed for the North determine if any of the species could be and ecosystem services. Malay Basin Early Production System, and adversely affected by our operations and, an EIA was submitted for the North Malay We routinely conduct biodiversity if so, what mitigation activities could be Basin Full Field Development. screenings for major new projects as part put into place. Already, in anticipation of of early site evaluation and selection. In In Ohio, we conducted biological and risk some of these determinations, we have many cases, we conduct formal assessments on the Indiana Bat, a federally adjusted drilling site locations to environmental and social impact listed endangered species, as well as on accommodate certain habitat features assessments (ESIAs) and use them to the Northern Long-Eared Bat, a species and priorities. create mitigation strategies for that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service During our exploration activities in Ghana environmental and biodiversity risks. (FWS) has identified as potentially in 2013, we utilized best practices for the These ESIAs are performed for Hess by endangered or threatened. Based on those protection of marine mammals. experienced third party consultants in assessments, we were able to ensure that 48 2013 corporate sustainability report Environmentally Friendly Drilling Program Hess is a sponsor and active member of on commercial development of promising with a means for objectively assessing and the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) technologies that may help to minimize the continually improving their environmental program. EFD is a partnership among environmental impacts of unconventional performance and that of their service multiple oil and gas companies and several oil and natural gas drilling. Some of the providers. In 2013 Hess initiated an asset environmental organizations, including The technologies under investigation include level review to determine performance Nature Conservancy, Environmental treatment options for flowback water, against the Scorecard. The review will Defense Fund and Ducks Unlimited. The smaller footprint rigs and improved spill continue in 2014 to identify opportunities primary goal of EFD is to provide unbiased prevention techniques. for the promotion of best practices and science and develop solutions to address improvements of environmental Another key EFD workflow is the issues associated with oil and gas performance. Environmentally Friendly Drilling Systems development. For example, the EFD Scorecard. In development since 2008, the For more information on EFD, Technology Integration Program focuses see www.efdsystems.org. Scorecard provides oil and gas companies Specifically, we employed marine mammal Hess is an active member of the and ecosystems. The CSBI aims to bolster observers and passive acoustic monitoring Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services each industry sector’s ability to effectively during our seismic work. working group of IPIECA, the global oil and apply the International Finance gas industry association for environmental Corporation’s Performance Standard 6 on Hess Environmental Affairs maintains a list and social issues. In 2013 this working Biodiversity, Conservation and the of IUCN Red List species compiled and group began to develop a workshop series Sustainable Management of Living Natural updated using environmental due for oil and gas industry employees, to help Resources. In 2013 the CSBI launched a diligence, screening and impact build capacity around biodiversity issues “timeline tool” designed to assist project assessment reports. Most of the and to foster the integration of these planning in the extractives industries, to endangered or critically endangered issues within oil and gas operations better align project development, species on this list are marine life that throughout the project life cycle. The biodiversity impact management and thrives in tropic and subtropic regions, two-day workshops are designed to raise financial timelines and milestones. including some coastal and offshore awareness of the latest expectations, good regions in the vicinity of our project areas. Waste practices, tools and practical examples No Hess asset is located within an IUCN Our operations generate a variety of waste associated with biodiversity and protected area, with the exception of the streams. These wastes are managed ecosystem management, as well as Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field in according to the waste management plan provide attendees with ideas on how to northeastern Thailand, which was divested specific to each operating location, which build the business case for these activities in early 2014. is designed to not only comply with all within their organizations. applicable regulatory requirements, Hess also participates in the Cross Sector but also to protect human health and the IUCN Number of Category Species Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), a partnership environment. Some of the generated of IPIECA, the International Council on wastes include construction debris; scrap Critically Endangered 15 Mining and Metals and the Equator metal and wood; oily tank bottoms; Endangered 28 Principles Association. This initiative brings contaminated soil; office and domestic the mining, oil and gas and financial waste such as paper, cardboard, and light Vulnerable 56 sectors together to develop and share bulbs; and other waste items specific to Near Threatened 62 good practices to safeguard biodiversity drilling and production operations. environMent 49 In 2013 we generated 196,000 tonnes of waste, a 7 percent increase from the previous year. Approximately 96 percent of our waste was non-hazardous, and 19 percent was reused or recycled. Following our waste philosophy, our operations try to minimize waste generation and recycle wherever possible. We are currently in the process of implementing an electronic waste tracking system, which will improve the consistency of our waste tracking process and ensure reliable, accessible data across the company. disCharges Emergency Preparedness Drill, Gulf of Mexico Discharges from our offshore facilities include drilling mud, drill cuttings and previous year, primarily because we drilled spill prevention produced water. At some of these substantially fewer offshore wells. We maintain strong relationships with facilities, these waste streams are mutual aid and emergency response Offshore produced water discharges totaled reinjected for disposal or reservoir organizations at the local, regional and 16.7 million cubic meters in 2013. Produced management, whereas others discharge global levels to enhance our ability to water discharges had an average oil content directly to the ocean. respond swiftly and effectively to any of 10 parts per million volume (ppmv), incidents. In 2013 we subscribed to the Offshore discharges of drilling mud and totaling 136 tonnes of oil discharged, Subsea Well Intervention Service, a robust cuttings in 2013 contained approximately primarily from our offshore operations in new program that provides well capping 25 tonnes of oil. This represents a more Equatorial Guinea and Indonesia. and dispersant equipment that can be than 90 percent decrease from the deployed internationally, as well as access Waste Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea Oil Volume in Produced Water Oil Volume in Produced Water (tonnes) thousand tonnes 200 6.9 (tonnes) Oil Volume in Produced Water Oil Conc. in Produced Water Non-hazardous 9.0 (tonnes) (ppmv) Oil Conc. in Produced Water 6.9 189.3 Hazardous (ppmv) Oil Conc. in Produced Water 9.0 173.6 160 Non-hazardous 4.3 189.3 (ppmv) 149 160 12.0 Oil Volume in Water (tonnes) Hazardous 150 149 140 OilOil Concentration in Produced 4.3 152.8 230,000 173.6 160 136 12.0 OilOil Volume in Water (tonnes) 140 11.5 119 Concentration in Produced 149 120 136 220,000 152.8 140 119 11.5 Volume in Water (tonnes) 120 11.0 119 100 120 10 11.0 210,000 100 100 10.5 80 100 10 10 10.5 200,000 80 10.0 10 60 10 Water (ppmv) 80 10.0 60 9.5 Water (ppmv) 190,000 30 50 60 9.5 9 30 9.0 9 20 180,000 30 9.0 20 9 8.5 0 170,000 20 8.5 0 2011 8.0 2012 2 0 0 8.0 160,000 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 150,000 2011 2012 2013 50 2013 corPoratE sustainability rEPort to a major stockpile of oil spill dispersant. Hydrocarbon Spills In addition, we partner with Oil Spill Response Limited, Marine Well 900 900 Volume Volume of of Spills Spills (bbls) (bbls) Containment Company, Subsea Well 800 800 798 798 Volume Volumeof of Spills Spills Response Project, Oil Spill Prevention (Pure (Pure Play Play E&P) E&P) 700 700 Volume Volumeof of Spills Spills and Response Advisory Group, (Assets (Assets in in Transition) Transition) 600 600 200 200 Number Numberof of Spills Spills Sakakawea Area Spill Response LLC and 500 500 463 463 456 456 150150 Clean Gulf Associates. Refer to the Safety Volume of Spills (bbls) 400 400 140 140 125 125 and Health section for more information Number of Spills 300 300 117117 100 100 about our emergency preparedness and 200 200 Volume of Spills (bbls) 5050 response program. Number of Spills 100 100 0 0 0 0 Criteria pollutants 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) result from fuel combustion, process operations and Non-Hydrocarbon Spills flaring activities. Volatile organic Volume of Spills (bbls) compounds (VOCs) are emitted during Number of Spills Volume of Spills (bbls) 5,000 100 product loading and storage. In 2013 our Number of Spills 89 5,000 90 100 normalized emissions of these 4,000 89 80 4,330 90 70 constituents remained relatively consistent 4,000 61 80 4,330 with the previous year. We have begun a Volume Volume of Spills of Spills (bbls)(bbls) 3,000 60 51 70 61 50 3,000 60 bi-fuel installation project in the Bakken to Number Number of Spills of Spills 2,000 51 40 1,923 50 30 retrofit diesel engines to run on diesel and 1,783 2,000 40 1,000 20 natural gas. This project has resulted in 1,783 1,923 30 10 1,000 20 cost savings as well as air emissions 0 0 2011 2012 2013 10 reductions. For more information, refer to 0 0 2011 2012 2013 the Climate Change and Energy section. Criteria Pollutants site deCoMMissioning As offshore oil and gas facilities reach the SOX Emissions (tonnes per million BOE) end of their commercial lives, VOCs 10 10 9.3 8.9 decommissioning those assets presents NO VOCs X 10 8.4 10 NOX /VOC Emissions SOX 8 9.3 8 unique engineering, environmental NOX 8.4 8.9 SOX 6 8 6 8 protection and waste management 5.8 5.8 SOX Emissions (tonnes per million BOE) challenges. Hess is currently undertaking NOX(tonnes /VOC Emissions 6 6 per thousand BOE) 5.8 5.8 4 4 3.8 3.0 3.2 the decommissioning of two major assets 4 2.6 4 3.8 3.2 2 3.0 2 in the United Kingdom (U.K.) sector of the (tonnes per thousand BOE) 2.6 0 2 0 2 North Sea: the Fife, Fergus, Flora and 0 0 Angus fields (FFFA) and the Ivanhoe and 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Rob Roy fields (IVRR). environMent 51 Decree with the DOH for past emissions exceedances of sulfur dioxide at our Tioga Gas Plant. We paid a $90,000 fine and recently completed facility upgrades as part of the plant expansion. environMental eXpenditures Our capital expenditures for facilities, primarily to comply with federal, state and local environmental standards, were approximately $100 million in 2013. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $65 million for our E&P facilities and approximately $8 million for our downstream businesses in 2014. These fields are the largest subsea In almost all cases, all infrastructure is We have continuing expenditures for decommissioning operation in the North removed and the seabed is returned to its environmental assessment and Sea. As these mark the first major subsea natural state. In isolated instances where it remediation for sites that have been abandonment in U.K. waters, our activities was unsafe to remove the subsea affected by our activities. We accrue for are setting a precedent for future projects in infrastructure, rocks were placed over the environmental assessment and the region. Hess has been actively involved infrastructure and it was regraded to remediation expenses when the future with industry groups and regulatory bodies permit normal vessel traffic and fishing costs are probable and reasonably in developing guidance for responsible operations in the future. Nearly all of the estimable. As described in Item 7 of our decommissioning practices. infrastructure removed from the seabed – 2013 SEC Form 10-K filing, at year end more than 90 percent in 2013 – has been We strive to minimize impacts to the 2013 Hess’ reserve for estimated reused or recycled. We anticipate environment and to fishing and other remediation liabilities was approximately completion of this major undertaking commercial activities in the area. Full $65 million, which we expect will within the next two years. environmental impact assessments were adequately cover costs to assess and conducted prior to commencement of regulatorY CoMplianCe remediate known sites. Information about work, with steps taken to address risks and legal proCeedings estimated asset retirement obligations, that were identified. In 2013 we paid approximately $550,000 which are accounted for separately, is in environmental fines and penalties. provided in our 2013 SEC Form 10-K filing. Great care has been taken to conduct the Our remediation expenditures totaled operations safely and effectively. A guard We have completed the requirements of the approximately $16 million in 2013 and vessel remains in place during the Administrative Consent Agreement with the were primarily associated with the activities to keep shipping traffic and North Dakota Department of Health (DOH) downstream businesses. fishing vessels clear, and the areas are related to emissions from our production marked as exclusion zones on fishing facilities. More detail about that agreement charts that are made available to fishing was provided in our 2012 Sustainability vessels via an auto-update process. Report. In addition, we entered a Consent 52 2013 corporate sustainability report assets in transition H ess has substantially completed a The NEC is being developed by a joint NUVERA FUEL CELLS multi-year transformation to a venture of Hess Newark Plant Holdings, Nuvera Fuel Cells (nuvera.com), a wholly pure play exploration and LLC, a subsidiary of Hess Corporation, owned Hess subsidiary, conducts applied production (E&P) company. This and EIF-NEC, LLC, a subsidiary of private research and development and transformation includes exiting our equity funds managed by Energy Investors commercialization of motive fuel cell power downstream businesses, including refining, Funds (EIF). Hess is in the process of systems and hydrogen delivery solutions retail, energy marketing and energy divesting its interests in these facilities. for industrial mobility, automotive and trading. In addition, we are creating a more aerospace applications. Nuvera has REFINING AND TERMINAL focused E&P portfolio by divesting assets conducted research with industry partners, OPERATIONS in Indonesia and Thailand and pursuing the academic institutions and the U.S. Hess permanently shut down refining monetization of our Bakken midstream Department of Energy National Energy operations at the Port Reading, New assets in North Dakota. In this section we Labs to advance hydrogen fuel cell Jersey facility in the first quarter of describe the key products and services of technology by continuing to improve fuel 2013, completing our exit from all the downstream businesses and E&P cell durability and the efficiency of fuel cell refining operations. assets divested in 2013. stack technology. We completed the sale of our Terminal ENERGY MARKETING One of Nuvera’s key technologies is the Operations business to Buckeye Partners, Hess completed the sale of the Energy PowerTap® hydrogen generator, which L.P., in December 2013. Our Terminal Marketing business to Direct Energy, a uses steam methane reformation to Operations operated a network of 20 liquid North American subsidiary of Centrica plc, generate high-purity, high-pressure petroleum product terminals with a total in November 2013. Hess Energy Marketing hydrogen. This technology capitalizes on storage capacity of 39 million barrels along provided natural gas, electricity and fuel oil abundant natural gas as a source of clean the U.S. East Coast and in St. Lucia. In to more than 21,000 commercial, and cost effective hydrogen and can also 2013 our biodiesel and ethanol blending industrial, government and small business use biomass methane and other renewable operations generated approximately customers in 2013. The Energy Solutions feedstocks. PowerTap® units are currently $131 million in surplus renewable fuels group within Energy Marketing offered a deployed in industrial applications. credits which we sold to other companies. portfolio of products and services, More information online at including integrated commodity contracts, RETAIL marketing hess.com/gri-index. demand response, and energy At year end, Hess had 1,350 retail stations benchmarking and audits, to help in the Eastern United States that provide EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION customers become more energy efficient ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD) and Hess completed the sale of its Pangkah and reduce their carbon footprints. conventional and reformulated gasoline asset in Indonesia in January 2014, and (RFG) to consumers. Hess stations sold 506 announced the sale of its interests in the Hess and joint venture partner ArcLight Pailin and Sinphuhorm Fields in Thailand in million gallons of ULSD fuel and 2.5 billion Capital Partners own the Bayonne Energy April 2014. The monetization of our gallons of gasoline (59 percent of which was Center. This 512-megawatt natural gas Bakken midstream assets in North Dakota RFG) in 2013. In May 2014, we announced fueled electric generating facility in is planned for 2015. an agreement to sell our retail business to Bayonne, New Jersey, provides electricity Marathon Petroleum Corporation. to New York City. In 2013 construction began on the Newark Energy Center (NEC), a 655-megawatt natural gas fueled electric power plant in New Jersey. 53 performance data This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. An expanded version is available at hess.com/sustainability. Additional information is provided in the company’s 2013 SEC 10-K and proxy statement at hess.com/investors. Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenues $ Million 22,284 37,691 38,466 33,862 29,614 Net income attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million 5,052 2,025 1,703 2,125 740 Total assets $ Million 42,754 43,441 39,136 35,396 29,465 Total debt $ Million 5,798 8,111 6,057 5,583 4,467 Stockholders' equity $ Million 24,784 21,203 18,592 16,809 13,528 Debt to capitalization ratio % 19.0 27.7 24.6 24.9 24.8 Exploration and Production Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 336 406 370 418 408 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,437 1,553 1,573 1,537 1,437 Liquids (Crude Oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 77 75 74 72 67 Gas % 23 25 26 28 33 Reserve life Years 11.5 10.3 11.4 9.9 9.5 Replaced production % 118 141 147 176 103 Economic Contributions Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 6,315 8,265 7,462 5,855 3,245 Operating costs $/BOE 22.6 20.6 19.7 14.5 13.7 Income tax $ Million 525 1,675 785 1,173 715 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 807 920 947 1,542 414 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 235 171 136 131 131 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 1,037 1,045 1,057 992 794 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 406 419 383 361 360 Supplier spend* (approximate) $ Billion 8 8 6 2 2 Communities and Social Performance Total social investment $ Million 37 40 23 18 13 Education % 52 47 33 34 13 Health % 2 4 5 12 23 Disaster relief % 3 13 5 9 8 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 25 22 20 19 29 In-kind % 12 9 28 18 25 Arts and culture % 6 5 8 7 — Environment % <1 <1 1 1 2 Our People Number of permanent employees # 12,128 13,277 13,021 12,587 12,229 U.S. % 91 90 91 91 91 International % 9 10 10 9 9 Part time employees % 27 23 24 NC NC Full time employees % 73 77 76 NC NC Employee turnover – voluntary (excluding hourly retail) % 9.1 6.8 7.2 NC NC Employee layoffs (excluding hourly retail)* % 9.9 0.9 1.0 NC NC Female employees (U.S. and international) % 43 40 39 40 40 Minority employees (U.S.) % 39 38 37 36 36 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 4 6 7 9 9 Safety Performance Fatalities employees + contractors # 0 2 0 0 0 Hours worked workforce (employee + contractor) Million hours 64.2 63.3 53.3 40.8 38.2 Employee Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.47 0.51 0.71 0.81 0.83 Contractor Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.58 0.70 0.73 0.50 0.45 Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.54 0.63 0.72 0.68 0.69 Employee Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.21 0.29 0.22 0.26 0.31 Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.15 0.19 0.12 0.07 0.15 Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.17 0.23 0.17 0.18 0.25 Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 Health and safety fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 0 0 0 0 98 * Also excludes Terminals employees who were employed with the new owner after the divesture 54 2013 corporate sustainability report performance data Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMscf 29,375 26,437 21,760 15,607 17,125 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes CO2e 4.4 5.0 4.4 3.7 4.0 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 4.2 4.7 4.2 3.5 3.6 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e 166.5 207.4 139.6 123.7 294.7 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 31.1 24.5 21.8 23.6 24.6 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 54 49 43 36 40 Fuel combustion % 41 46 55 61 57 Other % 5 5 2 3 3 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e nil 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.12 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 3.1 7.8 7.2 6.7 5.2 Net equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million Tonnes CO2e 6.5 8.0 9.1 9.0 9.5 Scope 3 emissions Million Tonnes CO2e 25.1 22.3 35.9 40.3 45.9 Product use Million Tonnes CO2e 13.9 22.1 35.7 40.2 45.8 Energy Use Production energy intensity Gigajoules/BOE 0.12 0.13 0.12 0.11 0.10 Operated direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 26,960 34,993 34,021 33,238 33,688 Operated indirect energy use (gross) 000 Gigajoules 10,607 11,932 11,853 11,218 9,850 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** 000 MWh 1,022 1,145 1,137 1,076 949 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) 000 MWh 140 140 180 140 100 Freshwater Use Groundwater Million m3 6.3 6.5 8.5 6.6 6.6 Municipal Million m3 3.8 5.5 4.6 3.7 3.9 Surface water Million m3 0.45 0.07 0.02 0.04 0.04 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 10.3 9.0 11.1 NC NC Waste Non-hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 189.3 173.6 152.8 83.5 116.5 Hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 6.9 9.0 4.3 4.2 9.4 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 22 10 0 0 0 Spills Hydrocarbon spills – number # 125 140 117 94 117 Hydrocarbon spills – volume bbls 463 798 456 348 297 Non-hydrocarbon spills – number # 51 61 88 40 52 Non-hydrocarbon spills – volume bbls 1,923 1783 4,330 437 3,751 Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs) Sulfur oxides (SOx) Tonnes 2,946 3,402 3,300 3,181 3,112 SOx intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 8.9 9.3 8.4 7.6 7.2 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 10,448 11,046 10,153 9,306 7,695 NOx intensity Tonnes/Thousand BOE 3.2 3.0 2.6 2.2 1.8 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 19,098 21,033 14,861 19,486 24,851 VOC intensity Tonnes/Thousand BOE 5.8 5.8 3.8 4.6 5.7 Exploration & Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 136 119 149 221 136 Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 10 9 10 13 19 Produced water to sea Million m3 16.7 16.5 17.4 20.1 8.3 Produced water reinjected Million m3 22.2 28.5 19.5 19.5 18.2 Other Environmental Indicators ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 2 8 12 13 16 ISO 14001-certified operations # 2 3 3 3 3 Environmental fines and penalties – operated assets $ Thousand 550 935✶ 160 96 264 Capital expenditures $ Million 100 70 95 85 50 Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 16 19 19 13 11 Environmental reserve $ Million 65 55 60 55 55 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures. * Supplier spend for 2008–2010 is U.S. only; 2013 data are E&P only. ** Third party power generation ◆ The gross operated hydrocarbon production/throughput (normalization factor) was 903,000 BOE/D in 2013. ✶ Restated to include $850,000 U.S. EPA penalty paid under the terms of the Port Reading Refining Facility‘s Consent Decree 55 gri content index This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at hess.com/investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF 14A. An expanded GRI Index is available at hess.com/gri-index. GRI G3.1 Core & OGSS Indicator GRI G3.1 Additional Indicator IPIECA only ● Fully reported Partially reported GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the CEO 2–3 ● 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2– 5 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.9 Organizational profile (a) 4, 52– 53, 57 ● 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 59 ● Report Parameters 3.1– 3.3 Reporting period, scope and boundary 6–7 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 59 ● 3.5 – 3.8 Determination for content 6 –7 ● 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations 6–7 ● 3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 6–7 ● 3.12 GRI content index 55 – 57 ● 3.13 External assurance 7, 58 ● Governance 4.1 – 4.7, Information on highest governance body (a, b, c) 9 –10 ● 4.9, 4.10 4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct and principles 9 –10, 17–19 ● 1–10 4.11 The precautionary approach 9 ● 7 4.12 Externally subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives (c) 12, 16 ● 1–10 4.13 Key memberships and associations 25,49 – 50,59 ● 4.14 – 4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 6, 8, 15 –16, 18, 46 ● Economic EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to economic performance (a, b) 2– 4 ● EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to market presence 2– 4 ● EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 4, 11, 15 – 21 ● EC1 Direct economic value (a, b) 4, 53 ● SE4, SE13 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 33 – 34 ● 7 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b) OCI ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (c) OCI ● EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage (c) OCI ● 1 EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 11 –12 SE5, SE7 EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation 31 ● 6 SE5, SE6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 19 – 21, 53 ● SE4 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (c) 19 – 21, 53 SE6 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 4, 34, 53 ● OCI: GRI Online Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors NM: Not Material c – See GRI Online Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K 56 2013 corporate sustainability report gri content index GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Environment EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 32–51 ● 7 EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials (c) 44 8 EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 40 – 41, 54 ● 8 E2 OG2, OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated by source 41, 51 ● 8, 9 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 38 – 41 8, 9 E2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable products and services 52 ● 8, 9 E3 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 35 – 41 8, 9 E2 EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 43 – 47, 54 ● 8 E6 EN10 Water recycled and reused 54 ● 8, 9 E6 EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 47 – 48 ● 7, 8 E5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 37– 38, 47– 48, 50 –51 ● 8 E5 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 47– 48 ● 8 E5 OG4 Significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored 47– 48 7, 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 48 ● 7 EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 35 – 38, 54 ● 8 E1, E4 EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results 45–49 8 E1 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (c) OCI NM 8 E7 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 50, 54 ● 8 E7 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 49, 54 ● 8 E9 OG5 Volume of formation of produced water (c) 49, 54 ● 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 48 – 49, 54 ● 8 E10 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 54 ● 8 E8 EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 54 ● 8 EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 47– 48 ● 8 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons 54 ● 8 OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for treatment and disposal 49 8 EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 33 – 50 ● 7–9 EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI ● 8, 9 OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI ● 8 EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances 51, 54 ● 8 EN29 Transportation impacts 37– 38, 40, 46, 54 ● 8 EN30 Environmental expenditures 51, 54 ● 8 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management LA DMA 28 – 31 ● relations, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity (c) LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety (c) 22–27 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 31, 53 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 29, 53 ● 6 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 OCI ● or part time employees, by major operations (c) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (c) 53 ● 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational changes (c) OCI ● 3 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees (c) 22 – 27 1 HS1, SE16 LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities by region (c) 23, 53 1 HS3 LA8 Disease prevention programs (c) 26 – 27 ● 1 HS2 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements (c) OCI ● 1 SE16 LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category (c) OCI ● SE17 LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 29 – 30 ● SE17 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 29 – 30 ● SE17 LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators (c) 31, 53 ● 1, 6 SE15 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category (c) OCI 1, 6 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (c) OCI NM IPIECA Process safety 34 – 35 N/A — HS5 57 gri content index GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Human Rights HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 8 –13, 17–19 ● HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements (c) 16 –19 1–6 SE8 HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights (c) 10 –12, 17–19 1–6 SE9 HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 17–19 ● 1–6 SE8 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (c) OCI ● 1, 2, 6 SE18 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: freedom of association and collective HR5 10 –12 1, 2, 3 bargaining HR6 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: child labor (c) OCI 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: forced and compulsory labor (c) OCI 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 11 ● 1, 2 SE10 HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples' rights (c) 17 ● 1, 2 0G9 Indigenous communities present or affected by operations; location of engagement strategies 17–19 ● HR10 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 17–19 ● Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved though formal HR11 OCI ● grievance mechanisms (c) Society Disclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, anti-competitive SO DMA 8 –13 ● 10 behavior and compliance SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to community 14 – 21, 24 –25 ● SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on communities 8 –13, 14–21 ● SE1–SE5 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (c) OCI ● 10 SE11–SE12 SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 8 –10 ● 10 SE11 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (c) OCI ● 10 SE11 SO5 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and lobbying 2–3, 10, 33 – 34 1, 10 SE14 SO6 Political contributions 10 ● 10 SE14 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes (c) OCI ● SO8 Fines and penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations (c) OCI ● Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities, SO9, SO10 12– 21 ● prevention and mitigation measures OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples (c) OCI ● Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process OG11 50 – 51 ● of being decommissioned OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement (c) OCI ● OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 25 ● Product Responsibility PR DMA Disclosure of management approach (c) OCI ● PR1 Life cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services (c) OCI ● 1 HS4 PR2 Non-compliances with health and safety impact requirements for products/services (c) OCI ● 1 HS4 PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (c) OCI ● 8 HS4 PR4 Non-compliances with product and service labeling requirements (c) OCI ● 8 HS4 PR5 Customer satisfaction practices (c) OCI ● PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs (c) OCI ● HS4 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes (c) OCI ● PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss (c) OCI ● 1 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations re: products and services (c) OCI ● OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria (c) 52 ● 58 independEnt assurance statement ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance in relation to the 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). Engagement Summary Scope: Whether the report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G3.1 including the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement guidelines. Scope: Confirmation of Hess’ self-declared GRI Application Level. Confirmation that the report meets the common elements of the IPIECA/API reporting requirements. The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (including the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement) Reporting Criteria: and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) – Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd Edition, 2010 ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) Assurance Assurance Standard: Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Assurance Level: Limited assurance Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information within it. Respective ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and responsibilities: exercising our professional judgement Our conclusions Based on our assurance activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. GRI application level and IPIECA reporting requirements We conclude that the Application Level A+ as stated on page 6 and based on the GRI Content Index on page 55 of the Report is consistent with the GRI criteria for this Application Level. We also confirm that the report meets the IPIECA/API reporting requirements. Our assurance activities A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. • Visits to two production sites in Texas, USA (Seminole Gas Plant and Permian Basin Field Locations) and decommissioning activities in the U.K. to verify the source data and review sustainability management systems. • An analytical review of the year end data submitted by all sites included in the consolidated 2013 group data. • A visit to the Hess Exploration and Production office in Houston, Texas, and office in Woodbridge, New Jersey, USA to review the data from all sites, the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process. • Reviewing selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. • Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings, including the results of ERM CVS seperate engagement providing verification of the Hess 2014 CDP submission. The limitations of our engagement The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. Our Observations We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report. Due to the Hess’ move to become a “pure play” oil and gas company this past year, there has been less time invested in addressing the recommendations from last year’s assurance engagement. Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have the following key observations: • In order to further improve data consistency and transparency of the data chain of custody Hess should use clear collection methodologies based on its own data mapping from inception through to Corporate consolidation; and • Additional user guidance is required to ensure consistent reporting and review of GRI/IPIECA performance data at individual reporting units. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London www.ermcvs.com Email: post@ermcvs.com Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Partner, Head of Report Assurance 27 June 2014 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect. 59 AWARDS AND recognition Sustainability • Carbon Disclosure Project • STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index • Environmental Investment Organization Leadership indexes • NYSE Euronext Vigeo US 50 Index Environmental Tracking Global 800 Global 500 (#3 in Energy Sector) • MSCI ESG Indexes Carbon Rankings S&P 500 (#2 in Energy Sector) MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes Oil & Gas Sector (#3) • Dow Jones Sustainability Index North MSCI Global SRI Indexes Workforce America • Workforce Diversity for Engineering & MSCI KLD 400 Social Index • Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 IT Professionals magazine’s Top 50 • Maplecroft, Climate Innovation Index, Best Corporate Citizens Employers Cycle Three • Newsweek Green Rankings • Woman Engineer Magazine’s Top 50 U.S. Companies (#6) U.S. Energy Sector (#2) Employers List • Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations Memberships and Associations • IPIECA, the global oil and gas association • Extractive Industries Transparency • U.S. Oil and Gas Association for environmental and social issues Initiative • MIT Energy Initiative • International Association of Oil and • Council on Foreign Relations • Business Roundtable Gas Producers • Center for Strategic and • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • American Petroleum Institute International Studies • Center for Offshore Safety requests for information Special Note Regarding For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Forward-Looking Statements Policy or our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, regarding our operations, please visit our website at Hess.com. expectations and other forward-looking statements, including information about sustainability goals and targets and planned We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more information or These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect additional copies of this report, please contact: to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance Vice President, can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, Environment, Health and Safety program or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement Hess Corporation will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from 1501 McKinney Street those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors Houston, TX 77010 affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com. factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 The savings below are achieved when PCW Savings from the use of emission-free certified printer with Forest Stewardship recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: wind-generated electricity: Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody printed 169 trees preserved for the future 7,946 lbs ghg emissions not generated the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind 488 lbs water-borne waste not created Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: power resulting in nearly zero carbon 71,773 gallons wastewater flow saved 8 barrels of fuel oil unused emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, a 7,941 lbs solid waste not generated In other words your savings from the use of process-chlorine-free 100 percent postwind-generated electricity are equivalent to: 15,636 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured Not driving 7,864 miles or entirely with 100 percent certified wind 119,680 BTUs energy not consumed energy and containing 100 percent Planting 541 trees post-consumer recycled fiber. www.hess.com
