This Report focuses on our core work and accomplishments through the year (September 2013 November 2014), and describes the priorities, challenges, and achievements within our movement. This Report is an integral part of our separate website for the Sustainability & Corporate Social Responsibility (http://www.csr-dkggroup.com). Contents Pages Statement 1 Group Profile 2-4  Stakeholder Groups 5  The Board of Directors 5  Meet the People behind the Group 6  Partners 7  Customers 8  Sustainable Stategy 9  External Commitments 9  Code of Conduct 10  Brand Promises 10 Communiaction On Progress 11  Human Rights 12  Labor 13-14  Environment 15-18  Society 19-21  Anti-Corruption 22 Information on the Report 23-24 Statement of Continued Support 2013-2014 saw years of great changes in Greece. What has not changed, however, is our commitment to corporate responsibility. It remains as strong as ever. The social purpose of our business is something that we are very proud of and of course it’s central to how our people feel about working here. By doing business responsibly and building relationships with customers and the communities we are part of, we’re managing our risks and motivating our people – ensuring we’ll be around for the long term to deliver on our commitments. This means doing all we can to help our customers when the big things happen in life. To be trusted, respected for the way we do things, sustainable in our business practices, and make a real contribution to society through our corporate responsibility agenda. What gives our corporate responsibility strategy the edge is the dedication of our people. They demonstrate their commitment by acting responsibly every day – putting our customers first and giving them great service. Even during this challenging year, our corporate responsibility agenda has remained core to who we are and what we do. Throughout this report you’ll see details of some great achievements during the reporting period. Christos D. Katsanos Executive Director The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 At a Glance CONSULTING Specialized sustainable solutions are provided by DKG Consulting to individuals, professional groups and corporations within the fresh DKG Group is a diversified international group of produce industry creating value through people, and for people, all companies and initiatives with operations in driven by a brand-centric philosophy. different divisions. Actually we are a consulting, DKG Consulting services are focused on greenhouse and farm inspection, urban farming, foliage based activities include general advice regarding hydroponic techniques, architecture, intelligent crop supplies and training crop or product selection, cultivar (variety/ies) selection, plant facilitator body, offering specialized sustainable propagation processes, general cultivation practices, distance crop monitoring, feeding solutions recipes, harvesting, packaging and postsolutions to individuals, professional groups and harvest practices based on Total Greenhouse Management ®and corporations within the fresh produce and agro Total Farm Management® methodologies. supplies trade industry creating value through DKG Consulting Ltd is also a service provider for quality, people, and for people, all driven by a brandenvironmental & food safety systems and brand building. centric philosophy. DKG Consulting Website Although the headquarters of the Group is located AGRICULTURAL SUPPLIES in Thessaloniki, Greece, with additional advocacy IQ CROPS Ltd (member of DKG Group) provides intelligent agricultural office operating in Crete, Greece, the activities are supplies to the agricultural sector. conducted principally in Balkan and Southeast In general, IQ CROPS Ltd promotes innovative solutions based in new Mediterranean Countries (Greece, Romania, technologies and scientific results offering safety to the consumers Bulgaria, Serbia, FYROM, Bosnia, Montenegro, and the environment towards natural systems and biological solutions Albania, Cyprus, Egypt and Turkey). that promote plant health and growth. More specific: • Trade (wholesale – retail level) and distribution of various agricultural products such as special types of fertilizers, growth agents and pesticides for professional growers as well as hobby market. • Alternative forms of energy solutions (e.g. photovoltaic systems, geothermal heat, alternator of heat, wind generators, etc.) Iqcrops.com Website RESEARCH & TRAINING The International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) is a training facilitator organisation that provides a greater understanding of key issues for the agriculture industry and provide solutions for those with an interest in the sector, through top quality speakers and presentations from industry leaders and researchers. Training Programs : • Total Greenhouse Management •Total Farm Management • Hydroponic techniques • Greenhouse personnel technical skills • GLOBALG.A.P. protocol • AGRO 2-1&2-2 standard (Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) • ISO 9001:2008 (Quality) • ISO 22000:2005 (Food safety) •Total Quality Management and logistics (In corporation with DKG Consulting Ltd, TUV Hellas (TUV NORD) SA, GreenQ B.V and University of Macedonia, Greece. IRTC Website The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 BRANDING TROPOS BRANDING Co: a one stop creative shop, led by Christos D. Katsanos and Dimitris Gartzonikas. We are creating stories for audiences of the digital age. In the Social Age, digital storytelling is about making your reader part of the story – letting them tell it, retell it, live it, resolve it!! We design brands from the ground up (big B), and help existing companies present themselves better (little b) by applying Zero to Low Budget Branding Methodology. B2B is OK, B2C is fantastic but H2H is an ...obsession for us!! What exactly do we do? We are passionate with people. We do believe that the only constant situation in earth is ....change itself! Solving the problems means that the people understand the change environment. In such cases our contribution consits to be Agents of Change. Videostories, Copywriting, Identities, Art Direction, Web & Interactive, Product & Packaging Design, Advertising -Whatever it takes are our tools. We're always interested in joining forces with Startups and established businesses alike through mutually beneficial Collaborative Marketing. TROPOS Branding Website FRESH PRODUCE DRIKA Farm was founded in 1996 by Evagelos N. Drimtzias and Katerina Kaparaki. DRIKA Farm's facilities are located in an area of 9,5 Ha on the site Ammoudares -Ierapetra, Crete,Greece, 200 meters from the sea side.Its production focused in Mini Cucumber. In 2006 the second level of investments was implemented (upgrading heating oil to LPG, a thermal, freezer, packing). In 2008 the enterprise was awarded the GLOBALG.A.P. Certification by TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) Certification Body. In 2011 DRIKA FARM became a proud member of The DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives in order to complete the whole chain from the farm to the shelf . Drika Farm Website ASK ME The AskMe Translation and Localisation Department of the DKG Group was formed with the objective to undertake complex translation projects, offering a complete range of translation and localisation services in the Greek market. Over these years, it has specialised in the development and implementation of advanced quality-driven Greek-specific localisation techniques and the provision of turn-key localisation solutions (from planning to post-production) for the Information Technology sector. As a result, significant framework-contracts and longterm collaborations have been established between DKG and FOODPLUS , GRODAN GROUP and EUROPEAN COMMISSION DIRECTORATE. Today AskMe offers a full range of technical translation and localisation services almost 6 manyears in total greenhouse management, inspection – certification and Project Management tasks. Askme Website The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 AGRICULTURAL SUPPLIES • IQ CROPS TRAINING & RESEARCH • IRTC BRANDING • TROPOS BRANDING HYDROPONICS • HYDROPONICS.GR • GRODAN SUBSTRATES • URBAN FARMING • LIVE CELL TRANSLATIONS • ASK ME FRESH PRODUCE • DRIKA FARM QUALITY SYSTEMS SUSTAINABILITY TOTAL GREENHOUSE MANAGEMENT TOTAL FARM MANAGEMENT • VITICULTURE • AROMATICS & MEDICINAL PLANTS • ARBORICULTURE SPONSORSHIP • M-F • RODOPI ULTRA TRAIL • ORIZONTAS • EN XORO The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 • LIMONCHELLO DKG Group has identified and categorized its stakeholders into five main groups: Employees, clients, shareholders, Partners and other, the latter including both authorities and society at large. • Employees • Partners • Clients • Shareholders • Others (professional and non-governmental organizations, international or regional bodies, authorities and local communities). THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Group conducts its business through its employees, the President and the Executive Director under the direction of the Board of Directors, all with a view toward enhancing the long-term value of the company. The Board of Directors comprises the President, the Executive Director, the Finance Director, the Quality Executive and the Project Manager. The Board is primarily responsible for the following:  the strategic direction of the Group and the operations  the integrity of financial statements and accounting practices  the contribution to sustainable development  the Human Resources The Board of Directors holds regular quarterly meetings in order to review the Group's strategy, approve its business plan and budget, act on the Group's annual proxy statement. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 MEET THE PEOPLE BEHIND THE GROUP Passion is the right word to describe our people • KATERINA KAPARAKI Production Manager • DIMITRA NOTIOU Management Assistant • ELENA GADONA Visual Communication • CHRISTINA PAPAIOANNOU Researcher & Trainer at IRTC KATERINA DIMITRA ELENA GADONA KAPARAKI NOTIOU • HAROULA SPINTHIROPOULOU Ph.D, Viticulturist & Oenologist • ELENI MATHAIOPOULOU Head of Translation & Localization CHRISTINA HAROULA ELENI PAPAIOANNOU SPINTHIROPOULOU MATHAIOPOULOU • EVANGELOS DRIMTZIAS President • DIMITRIOS VOURIS Food Scientistic • GREGORY DARIS IT Senior Consultant EVANGELOS N. DIMITRIOS GREGORY DRIMTZIAS VOURIS DARIS • LAMPROS PODIOTIS Finance & Accounting Services • DIMITRIS GARTZONIKAS Project Manager LAMPROS DIMITRIS CHRISTOS D. • CHRISTOS D. KATSANOS PODIOTIS GARTZONIKAS KATSANOS Executive Director • STEFANOS GIALIAS Roof Garden Expert • GREGORY KARAISKOS Green Walls Expert STEFANOS GREGORY DIMITRIOS GIALIAS KARAISKOS DASKALAKIS • DIMITRIOS DASKALAKIS Quality Management Executive • ANDREAS KIZIRIS Researcher & Trainer at IRTC ANDREAS THANASIS • THANASIS MANOLOUDIS KIZIRIS MANOLOUDIS Energy & Renewable Sources Management Executive The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 DKG Group has forged strategic partnerships with leading global companies. It is our pleasure to introduce you to a handful of the organizations whose accomplishments and commitments are representative of all the organizations we are fortunate to call our partners. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 We have the privilege of working with some of the most well-known companies in the world. Our clients engage us in a number of ways—we help them solve business problems, increase visibility and help them thrive in a networked world where customers and employees have become increasingly empowered. We view our clients as partners and work collaboratively with them to achieve results they can measure. We work both diligently and intelligently to ensure that the needs of our clients come first. We are only as good as the reputation of our clients The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 DKG Group’s strategic vision is clear and consistent, is committed to sustainably and responsibly managing all aspects of its operations relating to all stakeholders. Group’s commitment to sustainability provides a guiding framework for all management responsibilities and focuses particularly on achieving best practice standards in:  Health & Safety  Environment  Governance  People & Community DKG Group has operated successfully for over 20 years. This success has been based on a solid foundation and commitment to the fundamental aspects of business. From specialized sustainable consulting services within the fresh produce industry to the intelligent agricultural supplies, branding, research, training & translation services, members of the Group are seeking to create long-term value for stakeholders at each stage of its operations. The fundamentals of Group are managed within a sustainability framework which has a strong focus on Health & Safety, Environment, Governance, and People & Community. In each of these areas, the Group sets and implements policies, develops management systems, monitors performance and incorporates stakeholder feedback, aiming for continuous improvement across all activities. External Some of the many examples of these Commitments achievements are highlighted in this Report. We are driven to be the very best at what we do. Our greatest satisfaction is to provide our clients with exceptional value and service. Along the way, we have been honored to receive recognition for our leadership, community service and success as a sustainability consulting firm. We were proud to receive the following certificates: • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 A big part of our success has come through the sharing and learning that takes place with other leaders in corporate responsibility, including: • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Global Reporting Initiative (Organizational Stakeholder) • Quality protocol GLOBALG.A.P. (Associate Member) The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) DKG Group has declared its support for the UN Global Compact. The Group respects the human-rights guidelines proclaimed in the Global Compact, and upholds international human-rights standards. Principles Summary, measures and results Additional Information Human Rights Principle 1: The DKG Group has had an internal Code of Conduct which states clearly that the Group 12 Businesses should support and undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and employer at all respect the protection of times for all people with whom it deals. We recognize local, national and internationally proclaimed international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them in full. human rights. All employees have received training on subjects covered by the Code of Conduct. and new employees receive their training as part of their job orientation. Principle 2: DKG Group has not been complicit nor does ever expect to be complicit in violation of 12 Make sure they are not complicit human rights abuses whether through direct involvement (through beneficial in human rights abuses. involvement via third party), nor assisting other parties by remaining silent. Labor Principle 3: Our employees are completely free to join labor unions, associations and similar 13-14 Businesses should uphold the organizations. freedom of association and the All employees are currently covered by collective agreements effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: DKG group does not allow the use of any form of forced or compulsory labor. 13-14 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: DKG Group categorically excludes child labor. 13-14 The effective abolition of child It is established a clear policy regarding the minimum age for employment, which labor. complies with national law. Principle 6: Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the DKG Group Code of Conduct 13-14 Eliminate discrimination in and specifies how employees are to behave and how DKG assumes responsibility as respect of employment and an employer in order to counteract discrimination. This includes the discrimination occupation. against any employee on the basis of race, color, region, age, sex or disability. Environment Principle 7: The Group's wide Environmental Policy adheres to the Precautionary Principle. 15-18 Business should support a The achievement of the ISO 14001 demonstrates that DKG has implemented a precautionary approach to sustainable environmental management strategy environmental challenges. Principle 8: DKG Group has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been 15-18 Undertake initiatives to promote committed to environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as the greater environmental development of water-saving and sustainable products. Environmental criteria are responsibility considered in all decision-making processes. DKG Group has had achieved certificate for quality and environment in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Principle 9: Sustainable agricultural practices are encouraged to be adopted by all of our clients, in 15-18 Encourage the development and order to increase the quality, the taste and diffusion of environmentally quantity of their crops friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Our Code of Conduct details the behaviors we expect of our people and it addresses 19 Businesses should work against issues of conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. corruption in all its forms, DKG Group fundamentally opposes any kind of corruption and bribery and is committed including extortion and bribery. to high standards in combating them. We ensure that all employees can understand and practice the Group Code of Conduct in everyday working life. For a series of years, cases of corruption have not been recorded, neither allegations for suspected fraud, bribery or market abuse have been reported. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 All our employees and contractors are required to respect the HUMAN RIGHTS human rights of fellow workers and communities where we operate, as stated in our business principles. We focus on areas Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the across Group’s activities where respect for human rights is protection of internationally proclaimed particularly critical to the way we operate: labour conditions, human rights. communities and supply chains. While it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, we recognize our responsibility to respect them. We work with Principle 2 international organizations, businesses, civil society and other Make sure they are not complicit in human bodies to understand and respond to current and emerging issues rights abuses. on the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Assessment, Policy and Goals DKG Group has an internal Code of Business Ethics which includes Human Rights considerations. This Code was first adopted in their current form by the Board of Directors. The Code of Business Ethics has been made available to all employees and is available in English and Greek. The Code is regularly reviewed and amended to ensure it remains as relevant as possible. Implementation Whistleblowing procedures are in place to ensure any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Code and the related Standards of Business Conduct. The internal guidance sets out examples of the types of wrongdoing which should be raised by employees, including non-compliance with legal obligations or a breach of human rights, as well as identifying who to contact. Measurement of outcomes None of our concern on human rights abuses are occurred during the year and our commitment is to ensure that we will not accept any associations for our stakeholders (employees, customers, suppliers) that do not support internationally proclaimed human rights. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014  We fully support an employee’s right to choose whether or not to join a LABOR union. Principle 3  We forbid the use of any forced or compulsory labor within our own Businesses should uphold the freedom of operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and  We assess the performance of our partners and clients against varied compulsory labor. criteria that include labor practices and human rights. Principle 5  We forbid the use of any child labor within our own operations and the The effective abolition of child labor. operations of our partners and clients. We have policies and procedures Principle 6 in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with Eliminate discrimination in respect of our human rights requirements in this regard. employment and occupation.  DKG Groups' recruitment processes and practices ensure the protection and respect for all people and that no individual is discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran status, genetic information, sex, or age.  Our company Values continue to include “respect”—we treat all people with dignity and provide a diverse, inclusive work environment. Labor: “We believe that respect for the dignity, rights and ambitions of all people is a cornerstone of business excellence in the 21st century. This policy extends to every of our employee. We expect also the customers, suppliers and contractors with whom we do business to embrace similar values and standards. We recognize and respect all labor and employment laws – including those respecting freedom of association, privacy and equal employment opportunity – wherever it operates.” The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Health and Safety Number of Days lost Equal Opportunities indicators incidents due to DKG Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer and Prohibits 2013 2014 incidents Discrimination and Harassment of Any Kind. Number of persons 0 0 injured DKG Group is committed to the principle of equal employment Number of fatalities 0 0 opportunity for all employees and to providing employees with a work environment free of discrimination and harassment. All Illness due to work 0 0 employment decisions at DKG Group are based on business needs, Other illness 0 0 job requirements and individual qualifications, without regard to race, color, religion or belief, national, social or ethnic origin, sex Total 0 0 (including pregnancy), age, physical, mental or sensory disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, marital, civil 12 union or domestic partnership status, past or present military 10 service, family medical history or genetic information, family or parental status, or any other status protected by the laws or 8 regulations in the locations where we operate. 6 DKG Group will not tolerate discrimination or harassment based 4 on any of these characteristics. 2 0 Female Male Health & Safety Employees 6 11 Protection of the health and safety of the people who are affected by by Gender DKG Group’s activities is such an important issues that has defined as one of the Group's core values. Educational Level DKG Group is committed to creating safe and healthy work environment, aims to have zero injuries, zero occupational ill health and Technical Educational Institutes zero accidents. All of the Group's employees have medical insurance University according to the Greek Law. Post-graduate The Group's occupational health and safety management system tracks four key performance indicators: the number of injuries, the number of fatalities, the number of illness due to work and the number of other illness (e.g. flu). All indicators were and still are 0. 2 7 8 Training and Education With the rapid evolution of the sustainability and corporate responsibility field, we recognize the importance of continuous 8 7 7 learning. We set aside professional development funds for 7 education and training opportunities, including conferences, 6 seminars, external training and education opportunities. 5 4 3 2 2 1 1 0 > 25 26-35 36-45 <45 > 25 26-35 36-45 <45 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Our Environmental Code of Conduct is built on national and ENVIROMENT international norms and standards for environmental management. The Code sets a minimum applicable operating standard for all of the Principle 7: Group’s businesses. Each business is expected to implement its own Business should support a precautionary Environmental Management System, tailored to suit its size and type approach to environmental challenges. of activity. Principle 8: Environmental data are consolidated annually, including the energy Undertake initiatives to promote greater we use in our offices, the fuel consumed as we travel, and other environmental responsibility elements necessary to calculate our environmental footprint. The Principle 9: data include our subsidiary companies where the Group has Encourage the development and diffusion management control. The results are disclosed in this CSR report and of environmentally friendly technologies. are communicated internally to employees via the CSR representatives. DKG Group monitors also its customers' environmental performance on regular basis to ensure the continual improvement. We know that the importance of protecting the environment is one of the key foundations of doing business and maintains a comprehensive infrastructure for planning, managing, assessing, improving, monitoring and measuring environmental impacts. DKG Consulting Ltd (member of the DKG Group) has renewed ISO 14001:2004 (the international standard for environmental management systems) & ISO 9001:2008 (the International Quality Standard) Certifications, the scope of certifications is focusing to “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management–Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. The resulting certification applies to all solutions and service s delivered DKG’s customers worldwide. Water Electricity Fuel Paper Printing Natural Gas Consumption Consumption Consumption Consumption Consumption Ink cartridge Toner (m3) (kWh) m3 (kWh) (lt) (sheets) 2013 15 2305 308 3473,00 7591,28 2500 4 x 17 ml 2012 20 1853 306 3444,00 8235,06 1000 2 x 13ml 1 2011 25 2565 658 7368,77 7187,01 2500 12 4 x 13ml 6 x 13ml 2010 10 2507 449 5030,92 6093,98 2500 2 x 17 ml 5 1 x 9ml 2009 23 2501 353 3949,97 9552.25 8500 4 x 13ml 9 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Sustainable Hydroponic Growing • Water conservation D Hydroponic growing uses just one-twentieth the amount of water of field grown crops. The plants receive just the right amount of nutrient-rich water through a computer‐controlled drip irrigation system that feeds the water and nutrients directly to plants’ roots. Any un-used water from the plants is recycled, sterilized and reused to ensure quality and safety. • Soil & Land conservation We exercise soil-free growing practices, by using rockwool substrates, within our clean, sanitary, indoor greenhouse environments, which helps to control F diseases. Apart, there is no depletion of soil nutrients and soil erosion. • Integrated Pest Management Practices (IPM) All of our Greenhouse clients implement stringent sanitary practices and introduces beneficial insects to maintain a safe, natural, pesticide free environment, to provide you with products that are not only delicious, but are also healthy for your family. • Carbon dioxide, heat, ventilation Our Greenhouse clients have turned science into an art. They use high‐tech computer systems that monitor and control carbon dioxide levels, heat, ventilation and plant nutrition. Many greenhouses also store unused heat in 1 large water tanks, that hot water runs through heating pipes during cooler evening temperatures Because of this precision, their vegetables look and taste perfect without doing anything unnatural to them. R Sustainable Hydroponic production Basalt, the raw material for stone wool, is extracted according to strict environmental regulations and in nonprotected areas. The volcanic rock is turned into stone wool substrate by means of a certified process. Recycling stone wool after use means that less new basalt is required. Sustainable Hydroponic cultivation DRIKA Farm and all of our clients have a responsibility to practice sustainable cultivation. These sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) ensure that greenhouses have limited environmental impact. Plants are grown in Grodan rockwool. Growing in this material means our plants can stretch their roots, and we can feed them water and nutrients directly where they need it – on their roots – rather than on their leaves or on other parts of the soil. Growing hydroponically means we feed our plants only as much nutrients as they need for optimum growth. Our growing methods mean we don’t use herbicides. A plastic sheet, which suppresses weeds from growing up through our crops, covers the soil in our greenhouses. At the end of each growing season, the plastic sheet is removed to allow for a proper cleaning of the greenhouse. This cleaning ensures no pests or plant diseases from the previous crop are carried into the new growing season. To keep pests at bay we use biological controls. We’re leaders in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) to protect plants from bad bugs and diseases. Our growers introduce predatory insects – like ladybugs – and mites to eliminate harmful pests. Sustainable Hydroponic recycling A sustainable end of life solutions. Used substrate slabs, blocks and plugs are recycled into new stone wool products or used in the production of bricks, cement, potting compost, or soil improvers. The plastic sheet is separated from the stone wool and used in the plastics industry to manufacture dashboards for the automotive industry. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 FOOD SAFETY & PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Here is how we and our clients grow hydroponically the safest produce you can buy.  No dirt Without dirt, plants cannot get soil-born diseases, cannot be invaded by grubs or other soilbased insects, and cannot absorb toxins and bacteria found in soil.  No Pests By applying an intensive Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program that uses beneficial insects to control pests and stimulate healthy plant growth. Outdoors, plants are more vulnerable to various types of diseases and insects whereas in a controlled environment have the ability to keep a lot of these pressures at bay, so we are able to keep our plants healthy by using also bees for pollination and beneficial predator insects.  No Animal Waste Fertilizers Plants receive just the right amount of nutrient-rich water that gives them everything they need. The plants are not in contact with fields where runoff from animals can carry bacteria. So no chemical residues or bacteria from animals can ever reach a plant.  No Disease Culture faces no such challenges since the plants grow in the perfect environment, by eliminating the dirt, the pests and the animal waste fertilizers, are unaffected by many diseases that plagues the open field grown.  No Acid Rain, No Nasty Weather Greenhouse protects the produce from the rain that carries pollutants or weather damage that ranges from bruises, marks and nicks to the loss of an entire crop. Greenhouse growing ensures optimal environmental conditions by using high-tech computer systems that replicates the best natural growing conditions where temperature, humidity and light are just at the right level. Product Responsibility DKG Group has committed to publicly share its views on the principles that are the foundation for product safety legislation or regulation. Consistent with our commitment to the principles, we support the development of responsible, science-based laws, regulations, standards, practices and procedures that safeguard the community, workplace and environment. DRIKA Farm (member of DKG Group) and all of our clients embrace a strong commitment to growing sustainable products by applying Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P) in order to increase the quality, the taste and quantity of their crops, and to promote safe and efficient working practice. Apart, each of our client's products has the ability to trace the history, use or location of a product by means of registered identifications that is vital for consumer’s safety. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Managing environmental issues across our supply chain Consulting, training services according Good Agriculture Practices DKG Group is focusing to meet increasingly high sustainability standards and to enable its stakeholders to positively influence their impact on environment and society. As a service and training provider we are associate member of GLOBALG.A.P® (the global partnership for safe and sustainable agriculture), we commit to respond to its recommendations by providing advice to greenhouse growers/suppliers to apply sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). Also Group's Executive Director Mr. Christos D. Katsanos is Official GLOBALGAP train-the public trainer and in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A. & IRTC, DKG Group offers training programs for corporations and individuals in the areas of GLOBALG.A.P. protocol, AGRO 2-1 & 2-2 standard (Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) and ISO 22000 standard (HACCPHazard Analysis Critical Control Point). Finally, the Group's department AskMe officially translates in Greek language GLOBALGAP® documents related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification (Integrated Farm Assurance). The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Society Providing Quality Training Programs The International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC), the training facilitator organization (member of DKG Group) has the honor and pleasure to organize and contributing to a series of innovative training seminars believing that beyond Value for Money offers a new concept in industry!! IRTC last year organized or took part as speaker to the following training seminars, forums & symposiums:  “Advanced Hydroponics based on the Total Greenhouse Management Philosophy” Seminar was taught to executives of the Company Agroktimata Xiromerou of the Palouki Brothers. Participants had the chance to update their knowledge on hydroponic cultivation technique of tomato, cucumber and tomaccini snack.  As part of the Educational Excursion of the Regional Technical & Agricultural School AmmochostouAugorou the IRTC hosted students at the premises of the ZAMPPOURIS Farm at Lakkoma Halkidiki, where Hydroponic Technical MarouliBest applied (Hydroponic Lettuce). Students had the opportunity to see an innovative idea in practice, which develops according to the principles of Integrated Farm Management and the certified various types (and color) lettuce is the basis of branded Cut Salad product.  IRTC presented FRAOULABEST SYSTEM in IRLA CONFERENCE at Patras, Greece. IRTC and it's affiliated dissemination tool hydroponics.gr participated in the parallel events of the Symposium by presenting a hands on business case named FRAOULABEST. The FraoulaBest (Hydroponic Strawberry) system is the extract of the research of IRTC's scientists in various geographical regions such as Cyprus, Serbia and Greece. The show case presented by Mr. Christos D. Katsanos , member of IRTC and Ms. Xenia Pitta , head agronomist of Tsahalos Group.  IRTC represented by Mr. Christos D. Katsanos to Greek Agribusiness Forum 2013, which explored the theme: 'EXPORTS & SUPPLY PRODUCTION: TRADE AGREEMENTS AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS .  A Marketing Seminar was organized by Association of Medicinal and Aromatics Plants of Greece (AMAP’s). IRTC represented by Mr. Christos D. Katsanos, which presentation was “MODERN BRANDING Features of a contemporary vertically integrated business with MAP (Medicinal Aromatics Plants) products for entering the market” The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Society Wellness & Volunteerism The 5th anniversary ROUT 100miler was celebrated in the best possible way, since the race left the best impressions on the athletes that had the chance to compete in the beautiful forests of Rodopi. A long, although short in time journey of five years, reached this year’s organization of Rodopi Advendurun, the beloved ROUT of the ultraendurance and adventure Greek athletes. Year after year, since 2009, ROUT leads its athletes through a route of emotions, guided by the limits of their physical and mental endurance. In addition to the journey, above all a difficult 100 miles race of human endurance, which requires devotion and hard preparation. Some members of DKG Group take active part as organizers, participants and some others as volunteers and supporters. A special mention belongs rightfully to the people who supported the event for one more year. We mean of course the volunteers of ROUT, who year after year enrich their knowledge and their experience and offer valuable services, staying awake at the stations under all circumstances. In this year’s race, the very good weather helped their effort and so they managed to maximize their support. The stations were organized mainly by them, and were autonomous in matters of food and first aides. DKG Group supports children development by encouraging them take active part in physical, creative and entertainment activities and helping them to be equipped with creativity, imagination, self esteem, passion, perseverance and patience. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 Society Cultural Herritage The DKG Group contributes to Cultural Heritage by taking active part as a cofounder to the Cultural Foundation Methexis“, that founded to meet the needs and beliefs of founders and its members who place as protractor the quality, culture, participation and cooperation and aims to the universality of the individual and the art of everyday life «The daily art of living». For more please visit : www.m-f.gr & www.ekthesisyrrako.blogspot.com/ Orizontas and En Xoro are two television show series that aims to educate and entertain those who are seeking adventure or cultural treasure. The Orizontas TV show based on natural beauty sides of physical activities and places around Greece. The En Xoro TV Show seek to preserve and exploit the rich cultural heritage of Epirus. For more please visit: www.orizontas.org, www.enxoro.gr & www.youtube.com/user/enxoro The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Group's long-standing commitment to doing business with integrity means avoiding corruption in any form, including bribery, and complying with the anti-corruption laws of every country in which we operate. The Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy provide guidance on how to conduct business in a fair, ethical and legal manner. We conduct periodic anti-bribery assessments and audits of our business to raise overall awareness, detect potential misconduct and monitor compliance with anti-corruption laws and policy. We continue to leverage opportunities to share learnings and successful practices across our system. The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 We value your opinions and feedback, and we would appreciate your thoughts about our initiatives and communications. Tell us what you liked, what we could improve or what you would like to see in our next report. To do so, please contact with Dimitra Notiou, at csr@dkggroup.com The committee of CSR & COP Report Editors: Proof reader: Editing: Photo credit: Christos D. Katsanos & Dimitra Notiou Evagelos N. Drimtzias TROPOS Branding Co Gregory Daris Most photographs belong to the property of The DKG Group. The rest of them (the sources are indicated below) have been legally granted to DKG Group for this report. So, we have to thank for this concession the following people and organizations: ORGANIZATIONS TROPOS Branding Co, Hellenic Greenhouses S.A, IQ Greening Ltd, IQ Crops, IRTC, GLOBALG.A.P., ROUT (Rodopi Ultra Trail), ECOMARATHON, GO-Mountain Running Photos, The Friends of Xinomavro, Limoncello, TUV HELLAS S.A, Grodan Group, HAIFA SSE, AGRIS S.A, ORANGE Groove, Aegean Greenhouses PERSONS Anna Stergiou, Katerina Bousboukea, Katerina Drossou, Gregory Daris, Gregory Gerasimou, Dimitris Gartzonikas, Babis Giritziotis, Sofia Spyridopoulou, George Brovas, Elias Spyridopoulos, Lazaros Rigos, Christina Papaioannou, Andreas Kiziris. Kostantinos Karamoshos, The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 How we intend to make this CSR available to our Stakeholders  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the UN Global Compact website http://www.unglobalcompact.org/  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group website http://www.dkggroup.com/  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group CSR Website http://csr-dkggroup.com/  DKG’s COP & CSR will be sent via e-mail to all our employees Abbreviations AGRO 2.1 & 2.2 Standard (Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GRI Global Reporting Initiative IPM Integrated Pest Management IRTC International Research and Training Centre for Sustainability ISO International Organisation for Standardisation G.A.P. Good Agricultural Practices UNGC United Nations Global Compact The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2013-2014 DKG GROUP : 5 b, Ioustinianou street, 551 34, Thessaloniki –Greece ● Tel: +30 2310 488.915 ● Fax: +30 2310 488.916 ● E-mail: welcome@dkggroup.com ● www.dkggroup.com
