SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Transformation through Engagement SCOPE and Boundaries We have sought to apply the guidance and policy adherence in separate of GRI G4 for the boundary settings, regular updates. focusing on performance data and reporting on aspects which are most Performance data will be focused on significant, as reflected in our Integrated Wilmar’s palm oil operations globally in Policy. We will report at policy-level our upstream business. As such, we are on our policies with regards to crude primarily focusing on the performance palm oil (CPO) suppliers and fresh fruit of our own plantations in Indonesia and bunches (FFB) suppliers. Due to the Malaysia as it is the most scrutinised fact that our policy has only been in among our activities and the key effect since December 2013, we have concern of our stakeholders. Since our very limited data on FFB suppliers and African operations are still at the early outgrowers. We intend to report in more stage of development, only a small detail on our supply chain performance proportion of indicators are covered. Overview of Report Coverage About this Design Detailed Specific issues Policy performance raised commitments 2013 marks a significant milestone in data on material by stakeholders Wilmar’s stride towards sustainability. aspects We made a commitment to an Integrated Policy of “No Deforestation, Plantations in No Peat and No Exploitation” in Malaysia and Yes Yes Yes an effort to accelerate the market Indonesia transformation for responsible palm oil. This commitment is a result of Wholly Owned No Yes Yes Plantations in Africa continuous dialogues and engagement with various key stakeholders. The JV Plantations in design of this Report therefore reflects No Yes Yes Africa the theme we have set for Sustainability Report 2013 “Transformation Through Engagement” and the journey we have FFB Suppliers No Yes Yes made thus far: 1) The different coloured dots represent CPO Suppliers No Yes Yes the various stakeholders in our value chain with whom we work together; Downstream No No Yes our efforts then converge to form operations an aperture (i.e. a focal point) that alludes to Wilmar’s focus on driving change that resulted in this The performance data disclosed does not cover: No Deforestation, No Peat and No • Operations in which Wilmar has less than 51% ownership or those that the Exploitation Policy. Be it our internal Group does not exercise significant influence or operating control employees or external stakeholders such as suppliers, NGOs, the • The Group’s other upstream and downstream activities outside of oil palm financial community, customers, plantations and mills (in particular suppliers and refineries), including Indonesia etc., everyone has a part to play in and Malaysia driving market transformation and • The Group’s unplanted areas within the plantations for environmental figures, positive change. including those in Indonesia and Malaysia, except for fire incidences. 2) Conversely, the dots can also be viewed as spreading out from the centre, representing the objective Reporting Period of spreading Wilmar’s influence throughout the value chain to help This report covers performance data for the calendar years 2012-2013. Due to transform the market through our Integrated Policy! the material changes brought about by the launch of our new Integrated Policy, we have also included some information on progress in 2014 and focused on activities planned for 2014-15. We believe that this is critical to meet stakeholder expectations. Contents Leading Change In Conversation with the Chairman of Wilmar International, Mr Kuok Khoon Hong 3 Overall Assurance Statement 6 Targets and Achievements 8 Seeding Growth About Wilmar 11 Governance and Management 16 Ethics Policy 16 Our Oil Palm Plantations 18 Setting Standards Our Integrated Policy 21 Towards Full Traceability 23 Sustainability Certification 24 RSPO Certification 24 ISCC Certification 25 ISPO Certification 25 Sustainability Management and Governance 26 Engaging Global Stakeholders 28 Sustaining Environments Protecting Our Environment 31 No Deforestation 31 Greenhouse Gas Policy and Accountability 36 No Development on Peat 37 Fire Prevention 39 Fostering Harmony Respecting and Empowering People 41 No Exploitation of People and Local Communities 41 Rights of Workers 44 Occupational Health and Safety 46 Smallholders and Outgrowers 48 Addressing Complaints and Conflicts 49 Base Data and Notes 50 GRI Index 56 About This Report 61 KPMG Assurance Statement 63 Glossary 66 Wilmar International Limited 1 Sustainability Report 2013 Leading Change Driving Sustainable Progress Change comes from the top. Led by a clear vision and dynamic purpose, Wilmar continues to transform itself and inspire others to pave the way for a sustainable future. In conversation with Wilmar’s Chairman & CEO On 5 December 2013, Wilmar International announced a ground-breaking Integrated Policy with sustainability commitments Mr Kuok Khoon Hong entailing the company’s entire palm oil supply chain. The Policy was well received by most international stakeholders, but has also caused some of its business partners to raise concerns on the implementation of the Policy. Q What prompted the No Deforestation, Ms Rikke Netterstrom, Managing Director of Helikonia, has asked Wilmar’s Chairman and CEO, Mr Kuok Khoon Hong, to explain the rationale for No Peat and No Exploitation Policy? these major commitments and their impact on the A Group and its supply chain: In recent years, we have seen an upsurge in pollution, haze and weather changes and we cannot deny that climate change is taking place and impacting lives. People all over the world are increasingly concerned about this, and stakeholders such as green NGOs are pointing their fingers at the palm oil industry. I believe that palm oil is probably the best agricultural crop in the world if produced sustainably: it is the highest oil-bearing crop on a per-hectare of land basis, and brings greater rural development and quality jobs than any other agriculture crop. Just imagine where edible oils prices would be today and what the economy of Kalimantan and East Malaysia would be like without palm oil. The key is to develop it sustainably which to me is not too difficult or costly but it can be achieved only with the concerted effort of all stakeholders, plantations, refiners, consumers, bankers, institutional investors, governments and NGOs. The oil palm sector continues to be embroiled in debates over deforestation, biodiversity loss, greenhouse gas emissions and social conflicts. The global discourse has been highly strained and emotionally charged, and environmental and oil palm interest groups have failed to create a constructive space for idea sharing, collaboration, and innovative problem solving. The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) has made strides to create a constructive dialogue, and we strongly support these efforts. Yet recent conflicts over definitions of “no deforestation” demonstrate limitations of a voluntary sector-wide approach relying heavily on consumer “pull” to create incentives for changing practices at the producer level. Wilmar International Limited 3 Sustainability Report 2013 In Conversation with WilMar's Chairman & CEO “We did it (“Integrated Policy”) because having seen the deterioration in the environment in many countries and changes in global climate, we felt something needed to be done and that big corporations must take the lead in mitigating climate change and work together as never before.” Q Given that Wilmar has a large A key factor preventing resolution of the conflict is that most stakeholders refuse to compromise for the greater good of the community and environment. Plantation companies and multi-tiered 3rd-party want to maximise the area they can plant, believing that supply base, do you think the the more they plant, the greater their profit; refineries want to ensure that they can source maximum quantities of deadline of 31 December 2015 crude palm oil (CPO); users want to ensure that they can to have all your suppliers comply source the cheapest palm oil; and bankers do not want to lose customers. They do not realise that if the confrontation with your Policy is too ambitious between the palm industry and the green lobby continues and unrealistic? and palm oil’s reputation continues to be tarnished by all A the campaigns against it, eventually palm oil usage and It is ambitious but can be achieved if we have the prices will suffer and no one will be better off. support of other big stakeholders. Overall, our new Policy has been positively received. While there were The factors above culminated in our Integrated Policy some initial concerns by some plantation companies, I am on No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation which heartened to hear that the younger generation of suppliers we adopted and announced in December 2013. We did are keenly aware of these issues and understand the not do this due to pressure from the non-governmental impetus behind this Policy; they are willing to implement organisations (NGOs). We did it because having seen the in their plantation but want support from us. There will no deterioration in the environment in many countries and doubt be challenges but we are devoting a lot of resources changes in global climate, we felt something needed to be and building a large team to meet our commitments against done and that big corporates must take the lead and work the timelines we have set out. together as never before. Furthermore, consumers globally are moving towards and favouring responsibly-produced Q There have been reports commodities. The industry must therefore adjust to market needs and expectations if it wants to remain competitive. that Wilmar’s Policy may be Q Wilmar’s Integrated Policy is seen by many stakeholders as having the potential to transform too strict for many smallholders and outgrowers and may restrict poor communities’ access to the palm oil industry. What would development. Some also believe you like the policy to achieve? that Wilmar’s commitments are being dictated by Western green A We hope to convince the key players of the need for sustainability for the good of our industry and to NGOs. How will Wilmar work to work together to achieve it. No one player can hope address these concerns? to achieve this objective on its own and to get consensus on implementation is impossible due to the huge number A of players and their diverse interests. The only way it can It is true that smallholders often have a hard time. be achieved is if the major stakeholders who account for Frequently they are being sold bad seeds and planting the bulk of the industry can get together and implement a materials, resulting in low yields and incomes. We common policy. A handful of companies account for about have always been committed to supporting smallholders, 70% of the palm oil trade; if we work together I firmly and we are very clear on the fact that this Policy must not believe we will succeed in bringing about real change. bring more hardships to smallholders. One of the areas Wilmar International Limited 4 Sustainability Report 2013 Q Wilmar has long been committed to implementing the RSPO Principles & Criteria, and now the Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) and Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil (MSPO). Does Wilmar’s additional commitment mean that these standards are not strong and robust enough? A We remain committed to both the RSPO process and the national standards developed in Indonesia and Malaysia. There is no doubt about this. That said, where we are making clear concessions to smallholders is the RSPO is a bit like the United Nations with its many on customary peat land. In Malaysia, Indonesia and other members and diverse interests which sometimes means that countries where oil palm is grown, the local governments decisions on decisive action can take too long in the face recognise the traditional and customary land rights of local of consumer demands. These standards and organisations communities, including the smallholders. And unlike our are critical to develop broad progress, but working with larger suppliers, smallholders often only have a limited other large companies, we hope to expedite the process of land area, and if that is peat, we do not want to exclude achieving sustainability. them from the value chain. As part of our Ingrated Policy implementation, we are devoting significant resources to ensure smallholders are supported in good agricultural practice and resources. We also encourage industry peers, government agencies, NGOs and the RSPO to work with us, so that smallholders can grow sustainable palm and still increase productivity. ABOUT THE INTERVIEWER Rikke Netterstrom is the Managing Director of Helikonia, a strategic sustainability advisory services based in Malaysia. She is also on the Board of CSR Asia Ltd and a member of University of Nottingham’s Industry Advisory Board. Rikke specialises in Board-level engagement to promote responsible business practices at major Asian and international companies. Rikke has extensive experience in the palm oil sector and works with many of the world’s leading palm oil producers, and has been a member of the RSPO Executive Board and served as Interim Secretary General of the organisation. She holds an MSc in International Business from Copenhagen Business School and postgraduate qualifications from Thammasat University, Thailand. Wilmar International Limited 5 Sustainability Report 2013 overall assurance statement Report Review by Gary Paoli The Palm oil is among the most controversial agricultural and clear channels for communicating commodities traded globally, at the nexus of grievances are being established transformative debates on climate change and biodiversity to • A suspension committee has been established potential of the food security and customary rights. As the world’s and procedures are being developed for Policy is hard largest palm oil processor and trader, and one of engaging with non-compliant suppliers and to its largest palm oil producers, Wilmar International consider supply chain exclusion. to overstate, often features in these debates, and the last three • Special consideration for challenges related to reflecting years have been no exception. smallholder compliance is described Wilmar’s size and its genuine In the commentary I provided on Wilmar’s 2009 Beyond discussions of the Policy, and 2011 Sustainability Reports, I highlighted several new areas of disclosure and commitment Wilmar’s leadership in applying sustainability reports on progress are described to continuous principles to palm oil production, while and should be emphasized. These improvement emphasizing growing stakeholder concerns over include: the impact of Wilmar’s downstream supply chain. and transparent These trends intensified markedly during 2013, • Wilmar has responded to growing concerns over governance. with Wilmar’s downstream operations drawing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by rolling out criticism from diverse stakeholder groups. This emissions accounting procedures using the trend culminated in December 2013 with the PalmGHG calculator under development by announcement of Wilmar’s landmark Integrated the RSPO, with plans to apply this operations Policy, which expands Wilmar’s long-standing wide once the calculator has been finalized and sustainability commitments to cover its entire approved by the RSPO’s Emission Reduction palm oil supply chain. Working Group. In this Report, Wilmar shares data on mills in Sabah, the first to complete The transformative potential of the Policy is a full 3-year cycle of data collection, and will hard to overstate, reflecting Wilmar’s size and its report similarly on other mills in future reports. genuine commitment to continuous improvement • Wilmar has responded to concern over oil and transparent governance. It’s also encouraging palm on peat by extending its prohibition of to see broad stakeholder participation already to new developments on peat to all its suppliers, support Policy implementation. I’m thankful for by disclosing its full extent of established the opportunity to share my views on how these plantations on peat (~13,700 ha, 5.6% developments, as well as progress toward other of Wilmar plantations globally), and by objectives since 2011, are addressed in Wilmar’s committing to implement Best Management latest Sustainability Report. Practices (BMPs) to minimize GHG emissions from established plantations. Wilmar will also The Report clarifies the following consider rehabilitation of plantations on peat in key facets of the Integrated Policy the future. and its implementation: • A welcomed addition in this report is fuller discussion of Wilmar’s operations in Africa, • Wilmar's time bound commitment to a including disclosure of plantation assets and transparent, traceable supply chain is to alleged grievances, and affirmation of its achieve traceability to mills by end 2015, commitment to develop these new projects in with supply base traceability to follow. compliance with RSPO and the Policy. • A clear three-part phasing for implementation • Wilmar describes their associated and is described, with goals and objectives for independent smallholder supply base, progress each phase. towards certification, and a revised time bound • Ongoing restructuring of management systems plan for remaining certifications. to address new priorities is described. • Plans are outlined for recruiting new staff to address internal needs and to provide technical support to suppliers facing challenges complying with the Policy. • Stakeholder participation for detection of supplier non-compliance is being encouraged, Wilmar International Limited 6 Sustainability Report 2013 LOOKING BACK AT THE 2011 REPORT, THREE FURTHER AREAS STAND OUT I HIGHLIGHTED THREE AREAS WHERE WHERE FURTHER DETAILS COULD BE STAKEHOLDERS MIGHT APPRECIATE PROVIDED IN FUTURE REPORTING: MORE INFORMATION AND TARGETS FOR TRACKING PROGRESS. HOW DID WILMAR • Wilmar has taken a strong stance on reducing RESPOND? its GHG footprint. Wilmar should consider setting time bound targets for completing • Building upon Wilmar’s commitment to GHG emission baselines for all mills and reduce its water footprint, I recommended their supply base, as well as structured, timesetting clear targets for continued efficiency bound plans to reduce emissions within six gains in 2011. Such targets have not been months of baseline completion. This will help finalized, but work continues, and after drive forward progress on an issue important five years of data collection, Wilmar shows to stakeholders. reduction in water use since 2009 in most • Wilmar has strong commitments to areas. Where some areas showed increased smallholder development and rural livelihood water use, this should be explored and plans improvement. Wilmar should consider a enacted to address this. system to track and report performance of • In 2011, I suggested that Wilmar’s commitment smallholder productivity and profitability, and to gender equality through ensuring equal pay establish targets for achieving productivity and advancement opportunities for women gains through expanded technical and could be strengthened by setting targets and institutional support. establishing a system for tracking female • Wilmar has enacted procedures for employee advancement. Progress on this issue receiving and resolving grievances lodged by is not addressed in the Report, but Wilmar stakeholders, especially local communities. reaffirms its commitment to a discriminationWilmar should consider systematic, free workplace. operations wide reporting on the frequency of • In 2011, I recommended that Wilmar set explicit grievances and outcome of resolution efforts. targets for improving CPO yields. As in past This will enable robust, transparent reporting. reports, Wilmar presents yield data here, and explains likely causes underlying performance, The level of disclosure on Wilmar operations, but does not set targets or elaborate progress breadth of clarifications on the Policy, toward meeting them. I encourage Wilmar again discussion of alleged grievances and update on to set explicit targets for productivity gains achievements in upstream operations further tailored to local conditions of each plantation illustrate Wilmar’s commitment to sustainability as a driver for continued improvement. and leadership in transforming industry. Progress on some fronts could be faster and disclosure on some issues could be farther reaching, but overall the Report marks a significant step forward in Wilmar’s journey toward sustainability. I congratulate Wilmar on the new Report, and look forward to tracking implementation of the Integrated Policy in the months ahead. ABOUT DR. GARY PAOLI He has conducted research and worked to promote biodiversity conservation in Indonesia since 1991, and is a founding director of Daemeter, a leading independent consultancy promoting sustainable natural resource management in Indonesia and other developing countries (www.daemeter.org). Dr. Gary leads Daemeter’s established programme on sustainable palm oil, and is a leading advocate on responsible use of the High Conservation Value (HCV) approach for safeguarding social and biodiversity attributes of production landscapes. He contributes to international meetings on sustainability, especially commodity Roundtables such as the RSPO, and writes for popular media, peer-reviewed journals and open-access venues on tropical biodiversity and its conservation in human dominated landscapes. Wilmar International Limited 7 Sustainability Report 2013 TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS Achievements In our 2011 Sustainability Report, we committed to progress on all material aspects to demonstrate compliance with our commitment and continuous improvement. Commitment Target Completion Remarks CERTIFICATION All Indonesian mills have completed 2016 On track RSPO P&C certification audits Biodiversity No new development prior to the Since 2008 Achieved completion of a High Conservation Value (HCV) assessment All existing plantations will have an 2013 In progress – to be completed HCV assessment year-end 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions No new development on peat, Since October 2011 Achieved regardless of depth Herbicides No use of paraquat Since 2011 Achieved Health and Safety Indonesia – Maintain Lost Time 2012 Achieved for West Kalimantan Incident Rate (LTIR) below 2.5 Achieved in Sumatra mills Not achieved in Sumatra plantations (4.1) Not achieved in Central Kalimantan (mills 3.6, plantations 6.6) Malaysia – Achieve LTIR below 5 2012 Achieved in Sabah in all Malaysian operations Achieved in Sarawak mills Not achieved in Sarawak plantations (8.6) Communities No expansion without Free, Prior and 2012 Achieved Informed Consent from local communities Smallholders All existing associated smallholders 2017 On track in Kalimantan have completed RSPO certification audits All existing associated smallholders have 2019 On track 3 of 12 sites completed completed RSPO certification audits Wilmar International Limited 8 Sustainability Report 2013 ongoing and future targets Commitment Target Completion All Indonesian mills have completed RSPO Principles & Criteria (P&C) 2016 certification audits No new development prior to the completion of an HCV assessment Since 2008 All existing plantations will have an HCV assessment Original target reviewed from 2013 to year-end 2014 No intake of CPO to refineries from plantations developed without Ongoing the completion of an HCV assessment No new development on peat, regardless of depth Ongoing No intake of CPO to refineries from plantations developed on peat after Ongoing 5 December 2013 No use of Paraquat in supply chain 2015 Publish quarterly progress update on the implementation of our Integrated Policy Quarterly to year-end 2015 Indonesia – Maintain Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) below 2.5 Ongoing Malaysia – Achieve LTIR below 5 in all Malaysian operations Ongoing No expansion without Free, Prior and Informed Consent from local communities Ongoing Terminate business with suppliers found in breach of our zero-burning policy Ongoing In addition to the above commitments, we are developing measurable targets and milestones to achieve compliance with our Integrated Policy on an ongoing basis. These will be included in our quarterly progress updates which are available from our website www.wilmar-international.com. Wilmar International Limited 9 Sustainability Report 2013 Seeding Growth Staying Focused on the Triple Bottom Line As one of the largest palm oil producers and processors in the world, Wilmar is in the business of growth – developing our social, economic and environmental responsibility to our stakeholders holistically. About Wilmar Wilmar International Limited, founded in 1991 and headquartered Integrated Business Model in Singapore, is Asia’s leading agribusiness group. Wilmar is ranked amongst the largest listed companies by market capitalisation on the Singapore Exchange. 1 2 Our business activities include oil palm cultivation, oilseed crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleochemical, biodiesel and fertiliser manufacturing and grain processing. At the core of Wilmar’s strategy is a resilient integrated agribusiness model that encompasses the entire value chain of the agricultural commodity processing business, from origination and processing to branding, merchandising and distribution of a wide Origination processing range of agricultural products. We have over 450 manufacturing plants and an extensive distribution network covering China, India, Indonesia and some 50 other countries. The Group is backed by a multinational workforce of about 90,000 people. Wilmar’s portfolio of high quality processed agricultural products is the preferred choice of the food manufacturing industry, as well as the industrial and consumer food businesses. Its consumer-packed 4 3 products occupy a leading share in its targeted markets. Through scale, integration and the logistical advantages of its business model, Wilmar is able to extract margins at every step of the value chain, merchandising products thereby reaping operational synergies and cost efficiencies. & distribution Our business activities can be classified into the following segments: Business Segment Activities Refining and fractionation of edible oils, production of specialty fats, Palm and Laurics Merchandising biodiesel and oleochemicals and Processing Oilseeds and Grains Crushing of oilseeds and milling of flour and rice Blending, packaging, branding and marketing of edible oils. Other Consumer Products consumer products include rice, flour, grains and soy milk powder. Plantations and Palm Oil Mills Cultivation and milling of oil palm Milling of sugarcane to produce raw sugar, molasses and ethanol, Sugar and refining of raw sugar to produce food-grade sugars Others Manufacturing of fertilisers as well as ship owning and chartering Wilmar International Limited 11 Sustainability Report 2013 Financial Highlights Revenues Net Profits USD millions USD millions 50,000 2,000 1,882 45,463 44,710 44,085 45,000 1,800 1,601 40,000 1,600 35,000 1,400 1,324 1,319 30,378 1,255 30,000 1,200 23,885 25,000 1,000 20,000 800 15,000 600 10,000 400 5,000 200 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employees Region Employees % by Region 2013  China 22,313 25 Total 90,785  Indonesia 48,264 53  Malaysia 12,096 13 2013  Europe & Africa 3,716 4 Others  4,396 5 (includes United States) Total 90,785 100% Revenues Region Revenues % by Region 2013  Southeast Asia 9,645,254 22  China 22,000,210 50 2013  India 1,244,612 3  Europe 3,479,008 8  Australia / New Zealand 1,800,170 4  Africa 1,502,916 3  Others 4,412,831 10 Total 44,085,001 100% Wilmar International Limited 12 Sustainability Report 2013 PRIMARY BRANDS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS PRODUCTS (BULK) CATEGORY PRODUCT Palm & Laurics Bulk oil such as RBD* palm oil, RBD palm olein, RBD palm stearin, RBD palm kernel oil; specialty fats; oleochemicals and biodiesel Oilseeds Oilseed meals, edible oils, wheat flour, rice and bran and grains Plantations & Crude palm oil and palm kernel Palm Oil Mills Sugar Raw and refined sugar; sweeteners * RBD – Refined, Bleached and Deodorised BUSINESS-TO-CONSUMER PRODUCTS (CONSUMER PACK) COUNTRY CONSUMER BRAND China Arawana “金龙鱼”, Koufu “口福”, Orchid “胡姬花”, Gold Ingots “元宝”, Golden Carp “鲤鱼”, Huaqi “花旗”, Baihehua “百合花”, Wonderfarm “香满园” Indonesia Sania, Sania Royale, Fortune India Fortune, King’s, Bullet, Raag Vietnam Neptune, Simply, Meizan, Cai Lan Bangladesh Rupchanda, Meizan Australia and CSR™, Chelsea™ New Zealand Wilmar International Limited 13 Sustainability Report 2013 Our global Presence Germany Ukraine Netherlands Belgium France Italy Spain Turkey United States of America Morocco AFRICA Ghana Nigeria Ethiopia Ivory Coast Kenya Uganda Tanzania Brazil Zambia Zimbabwe Mozambique South Africa AFrICA • Leading importer of edible oils into East and South Africa • Operates oil palm plantations, refineries and produces consumer pack oils • Third largest sugar producer in Africa Wilmar International Limited 14 Sustainability Report 2013 #1 PLayer in China • Largest oilseeds crusher, edible oils refiner and specialty fats and oleochemicals manufacturer • Leading producer of branded consumer pack oils, rice and flour • One of the largest flour and rice mills Russia China Japan Bangladesh INdia Australia Myanmar • Largest raw sugar producer and refiner Phillippines • Leading consumer brands in sugar and sweetener market • Top 10 global raw sugar producers Vietnam Sri Lanka Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Australia New Zealand INdia Indonesia & Malaysia • Leading branded • One of the largest oil palm plantation owners and the consumer pack oils largest palm oil refiner, palm kernel and copra crusher, producer, oilseeds specialty fats, oleochemicals and biodiesel manufacturer crusher and edible • Largest producer of branded consumer pack oils refiner oils in Indonesia Wilmar International Limited 15 Sustainability Report 2013 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Our Board of Directors is the highest governing rating for our corporate governance standards. body of Wilmar International, and is responsible We outperformed industry peers and average for the strategic direction of the Group. of all SGX-listed companies across all rated components, in particular scoring 100% in The Board is made up of Directors with a wide 'Equitable Treatment of Shareholders' and a very range of skills and qualifications in areas such as high score in 'Disclosure and Transparency'. accounting, finance, business management and specific relevant industry experience. ETHICS POLICY The Board has 10 members, comprising three Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive The new RSPO 2013 Principles & Criteria Directors, of whom four are considered review requires that companies have in place an independent. Eight are Singaporeans, one is ethical policy. This is included in our company's Malaysian and one is American. Code of Conduct that prohibits the giving and receiving of any types of bribes, including The Board is led by Mr Kuok Khoon Hong, who gifts, entertainment or other benefits which is the Chairman and CEO. A lead independent may influence our employees’ ability to carry director, Mr Yeo Teng Yang, is appointed to ensure out duties legally and / or in line with company adequate accountability and transparency in the interest. Any benefits or gifts must be declared decision-making process. to the reporting superior. This Code of Conduct is codified in our employee handbook. The Board is supported by a management team who are responsible for the execution of the In 2013, we also issued an expanded Group’s strategy and operations. Whistleblowing Policy which sets out guarantees for confidentiality and freedom from reprisals, as Wilmar emerged the winner of Most Transparent well as a number of contact points for reporting Company Award (Food & Beverages category) of fraud, corruption and non-compliance with in the Investors' Choice Awards organised by legal requirements and company policies. the Securities Investors Association Singapore (SIAS) in 2012 and 2013. In conjunction with the award, a Corporate Governance research report by SIAS and Singapore Management University – Sim Kee Boon Institute for Financial Economics also recognised Wilmar's performance from 2010 to 2012 with a five-star Wilmar International Limited 16 Sustainability Report 2013 RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD-LEVEL RISK MANAGEMENT INDEPENDENT MIDDLE COMMITTEE (RMC) OFFICE • Chaired by Lead Independent Director • Captures and measures • Oversees Executive Risk Committee (ERC) Group-wide risks • Reviews overall risk management guidelines / • Monitors for breach in framework, policies & systems limits • Reviews & approves enterprise risk limits / • Circulates daily risk recommends to BOD exposure report to ERC • Alerts risk to merchandising team, ERC and/or RMC when exposure seen reaching EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE (ERC) trigger levels • Comprises Executive Directors • Monitors & improves overall effectiveness of risk management system • Reviews trade positions & limits OPERATING UNITS • Merchandising (commodities price & credit risks) • Treasury (forex and interest rate risks) • Operation / Legal / Reputational Wilmar International Limited 17 Sustainability Report 2013 our Oil Palm Plantations The crude Plantations Geographic Location Wilmar is one of the largest oil palm palm oil As at 31 December 2013 plantation owners in the world with a total planted area of 241,048 hectares (CPO) and (ha) as of 31 December 2013. palm kernel produced by About 71% of the total planted area is located in Indonesia, 24% in East our oil palm Malaysia and 5% in Africa. We also mills are 2013 manage 41,037 ha under the Group’s predominantly Plasma Scheme. We process fresh fruit bunches (FFB) sourced from our own supplied plantations, schemed smallholders and to our own outgrowers, as well as independent refineries and third-party suppliers. The crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel produced by palm kernel our oil palm mills are predominantly crushing Region % of planted area supplied to our own refineries and palm plants.  Indonesia 71 kernel crushing plants.  Malaysia 24  Africa 5 Kota Kinabalu Kota Bharu Sandakan Bandar Aceh George Town Sabah peninsular Brunei Kunak Medan malaysia MALAYSIA Bintulu Rantauprapat Dumai SARAWAK Pasir Gudang Manado Sumatra Kotamobagu Pekanbaru Kalimantan Rengat Pontianak Samarinda Padang Palu Luwuk Jambi Kendawangan Lubuklinggau Kumai Palembang Bengkulu INdonesia Tanjungkarang -Telukbetung Jakarta Merak Geographical location • Ghana • Nigeria Bandung Gresik of our plantations and Java mills in Indonesia, Malaysia and Africa. legend Oil Palm Plantation Africa Palm Oil Mill Wilmar International Limited 18 Sustainability Report 2013 Oil Palm Hectares Group Yield And Extraction Rate 300,000 30.0 235,799 244,965 247,081 255,648 241,048 25.8 25.5 25.4 25.2 25.1 250,000 25.0 20.2 17.9 19.8 18.9 18.8 200,000 20.0 150,000 15.0 100,000 10.0 33,747 34,130 38,021 41,407 41,307 50,000 5.0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013  Total Planted Area  Extraction Rate (MT of CPO and PK/MT of FFB)  Plasma Schemes  Yield (FFB/ha) We are also involved in plantations in Uganda and West In 2013, our plantations produced 4.0 million MT of fresh Africa via joint ventures. Total planted area in Uganda and fruit bunches (FFB), a 4% reduction from 2012 due to West Africa are approximately 6,000 ha and 39,000 ha lower yields. The lower production yield was a result of a respectively. In addition, the joint ventures manage over number of factors, including a low crop trend in Sarawak, 140,000 ha under smallholders and outgrowers schemes. delayed peak harvest season in Sabah, the after effects of dry weather in Kalimantan and Sumatra during the first nine months of 2013, as well as the wet weather in Indonesia that affected the harvesting process in the fourth quarter of the year. Wilmar International Limited 19 Sustainability Report 2013 Setting standards Delivering on Our Commitment Wilmar’s new Integrated Policy of “No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation” is primed to set industry benchmarks. It is a testament to our commitment to uphold the highest standards to accelerate sustainable industry transformation for palm oil. Our Integrated Policy A New Landmark in Sustainability We believe that the palm oil industry can provide The Policy establishes mechanisms to ensure It is possible to a sustainable and affordable source of vegetable that palm oil from Wilmar’s own plantations oil to meet rising global demand for responsible and companies from which Wilmar sources will produce palm products, and that it is possible to produce palm be free from links to deforestation or abuse of oil in a way oil in a way that protects forests, safeguards human rights. It includes measures to avoid that protects air quality, respects local communities and High Carbon Stock (HCS), High Conservation contributes to development and prosperity in Value (HCV) and peat landscapes, and to ensure forests, palm oil growing regions. respect for community rights and support for safeguards development. air quality, To build a structured approach to sustainability we joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm The commitments and plans set out in the Policy respects local Oil (RSPO) in 2005. We achieved certification of were developed as a result of several years’ communities all our Malaysian mills in 2010; and we expect engagement with critical stakeholders, and was and contributes to complete certification audit of the remaining crafted in close collaboration with sustainability mills in Indonesia and Ghana by 2016, followed experts and advisors like The Forest Trust (TFT) to economic by our smallholders by 2019. and Climate Advisors. development. We know from our customers and other We have set a highly ambitious target to stakeholders that there is a strong and rapidly implement the full Policy across our own growing demand for traceable, deforestation-free operations and supply chain by the end of 2015 palm oil; we took a further step in December and are currently developing detailed plans 2013 with the launch of a new “No Deforestation, and consulting with key stakeholders including No Peat, No Exploitation” (‘Integrated Policy’) governments, local communities, civil society, which builds on our RSPO commitment. non-profit organisations and business partners to guide effective implementation of the Policy. Integrated Policy Commitments No Deforestation No Exploitation of People and Local Communities • No development of High Carbon Stock (HCS) Forests • Respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human • No development of High Conservation Value Rights (HCV) Areas • Respect and recognise the rights of all workers including • No burning contract, temporary and migrant workers • Progressively reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) • Facilitate the inclusion of smallholders into the supply emissions on existing plantations chain • Respect land tenure rights • Respect the rights of indigenous and local communities to give or withhold their • Ensure Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) to No Development on Peat operations on lands to which local communities hold legal, communal or customary rights • No development on peat regardless of depth • Resolve all complaints and conflicts through an open, • Best Management Practices for existing transparent and consultative process. plantations on peat • Where feasible, explore options for peat restoration by working with expert stakeholders and communities Wilmar International Limited 21 Sustainability Report 2013 Our Integrated Policy A New Landmark in Sustainability Implementation and mapping Given the extent of Wilmar’s commitment, we adopt a phased approach to achieving our objectives. Phase I work includes a preliminary scoping review of our operations culminating in an action plan to guide implementation activities in Phase II, as well as a series of rapid actions that Wilmar needed to undertake to show our commitment in action and progress towards our vision. Phase I – Mapping, Engagement and Assessment • Obtain buy-in, stakeholder engagement, in particular • Conduct high level desktop risk assessments that socialising its policy to our suppliers; focus on both Wilmar’s managed operations and that • Review all existing policies that are related to the new of its key suppliers; Policy commitment; • Undertake a series of field visits to high-risk sites • Review corporate management structures and develop identified through the assessments above; a clear picture of Wilmar’s palm oil operations • Visit/assess high-risk sites (ongoing). • Review logistic and supply chain; Phase II – Embedding, Guiding and Implementing • Setting up Grievance Panel to handle stakeholder • Develop HCS research/studies and assessments; complaints; • Build and empower capacity (internal and external): • Setting up a dashboard to report on key sustainability ■ HCS – develop tools/guides for plantation planning performance indicators; and conduct workshops to train on use of these • Continually engage with stakeholders on Policy, tools; including Wilmar’s employees and affiliates (JV ■ FPIC – develop manuals/guidelines and conduct partners), suppliers, NGOs, customers, bankers, workshops to train on use of these manuals. investors and other concerned stakeholders; Our vision for year-end 2015 Traceability back to source and supply chain delinked from human rights abuses and deforestation. To ensure that the Policy is being appropriately implemented and progressing towards a traceable supply of palm oil products our first step is to build on our existing supply chain map in order to trace supply flows from ports and refineries back to oil palm mills and over time to plantations. This work will help build much greater transparency of our operations, including supplier locations and knowledge of practices being used on the ground. We already have robust data on our own plantations and the next step is therefore to work with suppliers to obtain data on particular mills and refineries. Priority areas are being identified since it will be challenging to complete mapping to all plantations, including smallholders, by end of 2015. To put this task in context, more than 680 mills supplied crude palm oil (CPO) to our refineries in 2013, and some of these mills have more than 200 fresh fruit bunch (FFB) suppliers. Ultimately, we want to achieve full traceability, not just to mills, but back to plantations. Where this is possible, this will be incorporated into our efforts to map mill suppliers. However, full traceability back to supply base will be a focus area only once we have completed our initial commitments for 2015. TFT is supporting us in developing guidelines to help suppliers work through difficult and challenging issues. For example, practical guidance is under development to enable responsible development of Native Customary Rights (NCR) lands. Other guidance is being developed to help suppliers work through issues with High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest and peat. We believe that ongoing engagement and proactive assistance is most effective in achieving compliance with our Policy commitments. Where we identify ongoing and repeated breaches, we will take remedial action and refer such cases to our Suspension Committee who will assess whether as a last resort whether the supplier should be excluded from our procurement process. Wilmar International Limited 22 Sustainability Report 2013 TOWARDS FULL TRACEABILITY The past two years have demonstrated to us that our 1 Map GPS Coordinates No Name Area (HA) Code Latitude Longitude customers and their consumers want to be able to trace the 2 Map GPS Coordinates No Name Area (HA) Code Latitude Longitude origin of raw materials and ensure these are not linked to deforestation, threats to wildlife or human rights abuses. As a business we have to respond to these concerns and provide adequate reassurance to the 3 No Map Code Name Area (HA) GPS Coordinates Latitude Longitude marketplace that palm oil sold by Wilmar meets these standards. In June 2013, Wilmar, through its joint venture company Olenex C.V., announced a partnership with New Britain Palm Oil Limited (NBPOL) to form an integrated supply chain to Continental Europe with fully traceable and segregated palm oil from NBPOL’s RSPO certified plantations. The certified palm oil is supplied to Wilmar’s refinery in Brake, Germany which is dedicated to the production of a wide range of sustainable palm products and blends for the European food market. Our Integrated Policy is the next step to ensure that all palm oil produced and processed by us will be traceable to the mills by the end of 2015, and over time to their supply bases. 1 PLANTATION (ABOVE 500 HA) 3 KG RUMIDI SMALLHOLDERS (1 HA TO 39 HA) No Map Code Name Area (HA) GPS Coordinates (Latitude) GPS Coordinates (Longitude) No Map Code Name Area (HA) GPS Coordinates (Latitude) GPS Coordinates (Longitude) 1 1001 Plantation 1 1,393.40 6° 1' 15.674 N 117° 15' 47.180 E 1 3004 Smallholder 26 6.07 5° 55' 26.895 N 117° 19' 30.348 E 2 1002 Plantation 2 6,009.44 5° 49' 40.536 N 117° 19' 17.339 E 2 3014 Smallholder 27 12.04 5° 57' 6.016 N 117° 19' 22.126 E 3 1003 Plantation 3 754.17 6° 2' 49.129 N 117° 15' 58.031 E 3 3021 Smallholder 28 35.52 5° 54' 9.041 N 117° 14' 21.890 E 4 3025 Smallholder 29 6.07 5° 55' 59.832 N 117° 20' 4.091 E 4 1004 Plantation 4 809.90 5° 42' 29.133 N 117° 20' 1.556 E 5 3037 Smallholder 30 11.72 5° 56' 29.376 N 117° 18' 56.026 E Total 8,966.91 Total 71.42 2 SMALLGROWER (40 HA TO 499 HA) No Map Code Name Area (HA) GPS Coordinates (Latitude) GPS Coordinates (Longitude) 1 2001 Smallgrower 1 126.36 5° 53' 1.168 N 117° 14' 40.338 E 2 2002 Smallgrower 2 241.55 5° 45' 29.910 N 117° 16' 31.009 E 3 2003 Smallgrower 3 40.03 5° 51' 48.754 N 117° 14' 4.943 E Total 407.94 Wilmar International Limited 23 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Certification RSPO certification We achieved full certification for our Malaysian oil palm mills in 2010 and are currently on track to complete RSPO certification audits for our Indonesian operations by year-end 2016. At the time of publication, 22 of our mills had successfully completed certification audits. As of December 2013, the Group’s annual production capacity of RSPO certified palm oil was about 700,000 MT. We have had to make some minor adjustments to our time-bound plan, but are still on track to have all complete audits of our wholly-owned plantations by 2016. Status of INdonesia Mill Certification Name of mill Location Status PT Milano (Pinang Awan) North Sumatra Completed PT Mustika Sembuluh Central Kalimantan Completed PT Kencana Sawit Indonesia West Sumatra Completed PT Kerry Sawit Indonesia Central Kalimantan Completed PT Tania Selatan South Sumatra Completed PT AMP Plantation West Sumatra Completed PT Agro Nusa Investama (Sambas) West Kalimantan Completed PT Buluh Cawang Plantations 1 South Sumatra Completed PT Bumi Sawit Kencana Central Kalimantan Completed PT Gersindo Minang Plantations West Sumatra Completed PT Sarana Titian Permata Central Kalimantan Completed PT Daya Labuhan Indah 2 North Sumatra RSPO approval pending PT Mustika Sembuluh 2 Central Kalimantan RSPO approval pending PT Kerry Sawit Indonesia 2 Central Kalimantan RSPO approval pending PT Murini Sam Sam Riau 2014 PT Sinarsiak Dianpermai Riau 2014 PT Musi Banyuasin Indah South Sumatra 2014 PT Agro Palindo Sakti 1 South Sumatra 2014 PT Mentaya Sawit Mas Central Kalimantan 2014 PT Agro Nusa Investama (Landak) West Kalimantan 2016  On track according to PT Agro Palindo Sakti 2 West Kalimantan 2016 2011 plan PT Karunia Kencana Permaisejati Central Kalimantan 2016  Adjustments to audit PT Rimba Harapan Sakti Central Kalimantan 2016 dates PT Asiatic Persada, PT Citra Riau Sarana 1, 2 and 3 have been removed from the plan as they are no longer within scope of our time-bound plan. Wilmar International Limited 24 Sustainability Report 2013 Africa In Ghana, preparation for certification audits of mills and plantations is in progress, and the compliance audit is expected to be completed by year-end 2014. Our Nigerian plantations are part of our RSPO time-bound plan. Unplanted areas are being developed according to the RSPO New Planting Procedures, including undergoing the Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) process and High Conservation Value (HCV) area assessments, which will be conducted by independent consultants. ISCC Certification ISPO Certification Wilmar first started pursuing the International The Government of Indonesia introduced in Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) 2011 the Indonesia Palm Oil Certification standards which are developed for the biomass (ISPO) as a mandatory requirement for all and bioenergy sectors in 2011. As at end of companies operating in Indonesia. As of mid2013, 26 of the Group’s sites were certified. ISCC year 2014, four mills and their supply bases had certification of further sites will be determined achieved ISPO certification while seven others based on commercial considerations. have completed certification audits and are awaiting approval. There are two audit stages under the ISPO certification scheme. We target to complete the first stage of audit for all our mills by end 2014. Wilmar International Limited 25 Sustainability Report 2013 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Sustainability forms a core part of our Group’s palm oil strategy, and is guided by our Board of Directors and CEO, who sign off on all critical initiatives. To implement sustainability strategies set out by the Board, we have a core team comprising 37 employees with a wide range of local and/or subject matter expertise. At head quarter level, the team is led by our Group Head of CSR supported by a Senior CSR Manager, who are responsible for overall policy development, reporting and international stakeholder engagement. On the ground, implementation of our commitments, policy and initiatives is coordinated and directed by our Group Sustainability General Manager. Due to the significant demands on engagement for implementation of new policies, we expect to expand and restructure this team significantly over the course of 2014, and add numerous subject specialists as we move through the implementation phases to ensure that we have the relevant skills and capacity to support our internal teams as well as suppliers needing support. CSR MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE CSR COUNCIL CEO / CHAIRMAN Comprises senior management and Directors, and is headed by the Chairman and CEO CSR DEPARTMENT SCOPE OF WORK Global Standards: RSPO Certification Stakeholder Information CSR Strategy and UN Global Engagement Disclosure and Policy Compact LED BY GROUP HEAD – CSR Supported by: Group Sustainability Controller, Senior CSR Manager and team; and respective operational units – upstream and downstream Wilmar International Limited 26 Sustainability Report 2013 CSR Governance Structure Top Level Oversight Chairman, Chief Operating Officer (COO) Suspension Committee Joint Steering Committee (JSC) Chairman, COO, CSR Head, Wilmar, The Forest Trust (TFT) Sustainability GM, • Resolve policy/implementation major issues Procurement Head – Indonesia, • Evaluate progress with Policy commitments Procurement Head – Malaysia • Deal with major issues unresolved from Comms • Assess potential suspensions and Operations groups Technical Advisory Group Operations Team Communications Team NGOs, Wilmar, TFT • Check on activities, prioritisation, efficiency • Input/advice on current • Working through technical issues that need communications issues • Provide advice on specific tricky closure and can be dealt with at this level • Emerging communications issues where team requires • Feed updates to JSC any issues that cannot be issues broader perspective resolved • Crisis communications • Receive inputs and queries from the JSC issues • Seek input from the ‘Technical advisory group’ With operations spread out globally, it is critical that understand the concerns of stakeholders and are our staff and management teams are well briefed able to address these in an effective manner. and prepared to address local challenges and engage with stakeholders from local to international Implementation of our Integrated Policy requires levels. For the Plantation and Mill Divisions, guidance and input at the commercial, technical briefings have been made to a large group of senior and top management level. We have therefore managers to ensure widespread understanding of established a governance structure specifically the Integrated Policy and its implications; these for this purpose, led by our Chairman and Chief managers have been socialising the Policy to their Operating Officer. field staff in Malaysia and Indonesia as well as Nigeria and Uganda. We wish to ensure that we can take early action and avoid issues. To ensure that we are able to For the Procurement, Sales & Marketing Divisions, identify breaches of our Policy at an early stage, we targeted presentations were also made in Malaysia, are proactively mapping high-risk areas and have Indonesia, Singapore and Europe to ensure they put in place a range of monitoring mechanisms. fully understand the core provisions of the Policy Our expanded Whistleblowing Policy allows any to guide them in their sourcing activities and individual to report suspected non-compliance communications to customers. issues. In addition, we have built and are constantly expanding a network of civil society organisations, We have also ensured that relevant operational consultants and local experts who reports staff have been present at stakeholder dialogue on-the-ground concerns or allegations of sessions. Through such engagements, we misconduct. We also make use of the latest ensure that, for example, estate managers and monitoring tools such as the Global Forest Watch to others responsible for ongoing implementation identify suspicious patterns of vegetation change. Wilmar International Limited 27 Sustainability Report 2013 Engaging Global Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement As part of our ongoing operations, we engage extensively with communities, employees and international as well as grassroots NGOs. As a leading company in our sector however, we also find it critical to be part of a larger global dialogue about the direction and expectations of agribusinesses. This provides us with external perspectives and assists us in identifying future priorities and challenges. Overview of stakeholder engagement 2012-13 Stakeholder Type of Major Issues Outcome Group Engagement Raised Financial Investor Briefings; Deforestation; Community Questionnaires; Social Conflicts; One-on-one Communications RSPO Certification Employees Annual Appraisals; Talent Retention; Feedback from annual Social Impact Assessments; Employee Development performance appraisals Trade Union Engagement; were incorporated into Gender Communities strategies for talent retention Local Communities Social Impact Assessments; Native Customary Rights Free, Prior & Informed Consent (FPIC) Non-Governmental One-on-one Deforestation (High Partnerships; Organisations Communications; Carbon Stock); Palm Oil Innovation Multi-stakeholder Forums; Social Conflicts Group (POIG); NGO Events (including FPIC); Manifesto NO Third-party Suppliers DEFORESTATION, Traceability; Fire and Haze; NO Palm Oil Sourcing PEAT, Government and Dialogues; Fire and Haze Singapore Haze Charter Regulators Official Trade Missions and NO Delegation Trips EXPLOITATION Suppliers One-on-one Communications Traceability many suppliers are reluctant to POLICY share their supply base information Customers One-on-one Traceability Indonesian Sustainable Communications; Palm Oil (ISPO) Multi-stakeholder Forums Certification; Malaysian Industry GAPKI (Indonesian Palm Oil Legal Compliance; Sustainable Palm Oil Multi-stakeholder Association); Deforestation (High (MSPO) Certification; Groups Malaysian Palm Oil Carbon Stock); POIG; Association (MPOA); Social Conflicts Manifesto Roundtable on Sustainable (including FPIC); Palm Oil (RSPO) Fire and Haze Media One-on-one Deforestation; Communications; Social Conflicts; Corporate events; Third-party Suppliers Multi-stakeholder Forums Wilmar International Limited 28 Sustainability Report 2013 NGO ENGAGEMENT We engage at both grassroots and international levels with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other civil society groups. Some engagements take place in a structured environment through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), but we also engage extensively through one-on-one dialogues. Over the past years, many of these dialogues have centred around the subjects of deforestation, the sourcing of FFB from external suppliers and social issues in Indonesia and Africa. The major outcome of these engagements has been the design of our Integrated Policy, which touches not only on our plantations operations, but also our third-party supply chain. However, we were pleased to note the great The major encouragement1 we had from a separate group of investors representing more than USD 250 outcome ENGAGEMENT WITH billion in assets under management, which of these FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS issued a detailed letter of support for our new engagements For the past years, we have seen a growing Integrated Policy in January 2014. interest from our investors in sustainability has been the related issues, who see value in the reputational, design of our competitive and operational assets which come GLOBAL NETWORKS AND MEMBERSHIPS Integrated with good sustainability management. We are Wilmar has been a member of the RSPO since increasingly incorporating sustainability topics 2005. Our Sustainability Controller represents Policy, which in our investor briefings, and our CSR team Malaysian Palm Oil growers on the organisation’s touches not works closely with the Corporate Finance and Board of Governors, and over the past two years only on our Investor Relations Departments to ensure that we have been active participants in a range of our financial community is kept abreast of the working groups, including the 2nd GHG Working plantations latest developments. Group and the P&C Review Taskforce. We operations, but also engage with the palm oil sector players also our thirdAfter the launch of the Integrated Policy, we through membership of the Malaysian Palm hosted a two-day briefing in Malaysia, attended Oil Association and the Indonesian Palm Oil party supply by investors and almost all of the major local Association, better known as GAPKI (Gabungan chain. banks. We met with a number of European and Pengusaha Kelapa Sawit Indonesia). regional funds to explain our Policy and our implementation plan. In 2013, we also became a member of The Forest Trust (TFT), a partnership we believe will In the beginning of 2013, the Norwegian support and strengthen the implementation of Government Pension Fund decided to withdraw our Integrated Policy. investments from an extensive list of palm oil companies, including Wilmar. This was followed We have been a signatory to the United Nations by another divestment by Norway’s largest insurer Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008, as a Storebrand in early 2014. As a longstanding commitment to conduct business in a responsible and active member of the RSPO and with manner, especially in the areas of environmental significant progress achieved in certifying our protection, human rights, workers’ rights and extensive operations, this was a disappointment, anti-corruption (See page 56 for integrated GRI/ particularly as there was little engagement prior UN Global Compact Index). to the announcement. 1 http://greencentury.com/wilmar-statement-with-signatories/ Wilmar International Limited 29 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustaining Environments Nurturing a greener Future Wilmar’s plantations cover a considerable amount of land, which is why our responsibility to preserve the Earth is even greater. We strive to continuously refine our practices and policies that will enable us to protect the best of nature. Protecting our Environment No Deforestation Conserving high conservation value areas Our commitment to no High Conservation Value (HCV) development goes back to our initial joining of the RSPO in 2005. Over these years, the proportion of our land set aside for conservation has grown significantly as we are implementing HCV assessments for all new plantings and finalising HCV assessments for existing plantations. Conservation 60,000 260,000 Areas 50,000 47,156 49,653 42,463 43,137 250,000 Total HCV Area 40,959  37,649 245,468 40,000 Riparian 244,965 30,725  Bufferzones 30,000 242,403 25,860 240,000 Set Aside for  20,000 Conservation 228,610 230,000 Total Planted Area 10,000 4,814 6,197 6,516 4,865 0 220,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 * The chart above only illustrates Malaysia and Indonesia figures. ** Reduction in 2013 hectarage because in 2011, the estates in West Kalimantan held a valid Location Permit (Izin Lokasi) which was temporal in nature. The estimated HCV areas then (19,110 ha) was based on what was found within the location permits. As at end 2013, all those location permits had expired. With the expiry of these permits, companies are no longer allowed to acquire land from the local communities within the location permit. All that is left are areas which the company has secured through negotiations with local communities for the release of their land through the Free, Prior and Informed Consent process while the location permit was valid. A good part of the HCVs that were earlier identified were within the local communities land. As the local communities were not willing to release their land which also contained the HCV areas, the company has to carve out those HCV areas from our land concession when we applied for the Land Cultivation Right Permit (HGU – Hak Guna Usaha). This is why the total HCV and Riparian conservation area was reduced from 19,110 ha to 3,255 ha for in West Kalimantan. The inability to secure a contiguous area also posed a big challenge for us to manage our plantations and the HCV areas because of the fragmentations. However, we need to respect community decision to give or withhold their land. Challenges Meetings were held with a large palm oil supplier group in response to allegations of ongoing forest clearance by one of its subsidiary companies during 2014. Wilmar continues to engage with them towards assurance that clearance will cease until HCS and HCV assessments are undertaken by credible assessors and the outcomes adopted in their plantation development plans. We have also been in ongoing dialogue with WWF due to allegations on illegal forest clearing in Riau, Sumatra (See page 35 ‘Tesso Nilo’ for details). Wilmar International Limited 31 Sustainability Report 2013 Protecting Our Environment Avoiding high carbon stock Over the past few years, international NGOs have increasingly called attention to concerns about forest areas containing high carbon stock (HCS). HCS assessment is a new methodology, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from forest conversion and help conserve ecologically viable areas of natural forests. It identifies areas of HCS where development should be avoided; as well as degraded lands on which it is possible to continue the expansion of oil palm plantations. HCS Stratification Provisional HCS Threshold High Carbon Stock (HCS) Forest TO BE CONSERVED MAY BE DEVELOPED High-Density Medium Low Old Young Cleared/ Forest Density Density Scrub Scrub Open Land (HK3) Forest Forest (BT) (BM) (LT) (HK2) (HK1) Remnant forest Remnant Appears to be Mostly young reRecently Very recently or advanced forest but more remnant forest growth forest, but cleared areas, cleared land secondary forest disturbed than but highly with occasional some woody with mostly close to primary HK3 disturbed and patches of older regrowth and grass or crops, condition recovering forest within the grass-like few woody [may contain stratum ground cover plants plantation/ mixed garden] Source: Greenpeace Wilmar International Limited 32 Sustainability Report 2013 What is High Carbon Stock? Forests and trees act as natural carbon stores, but this carbon is released when the trees are felled and the area deforested. The amount of carbon stored within an area of land varies according to the type of vegetation cover, so it is beneficial for developments to take place on areas with low carbon stock (pictured here). The HCS approach distinguishes natural forests from degraded lands with only small trees, scrub, or grass remaining. It separates vegetation into 6 different classes (stratification) through the combination of analysing satellite images and field plots. The Indonesian descriptions of these are: High Density Forest (HK3), Medium Density Forest (HK2), Low Density Forest (HK1), Old Scrub (BT) 3, Young Scrub (BM), and Cleared/Open This area ( LT ) has low carbon stock Land (LT). suitable for oil palm development. A forest considered HCS includes the vegetation classes of BT and above (HK1, 2 & 3). The HCS threshold between BT and BM is largely determined by the vegetation Implementation structure and tree density, where BT can be described mostly as young reWe are currently training our staff to implement HCS in our own operations and growth forest, with occasional patches to provide assistance to our suppliers. Training includes the ability to conduct of older forest within the stratum, and rapid desktop evaluations and full field assessments to ensure HCS or HCV BM as recently cleared areas with some woody re-growth and grass-like forests are identified and protected. The process also includes assessments of ground cover. biodiversity and engagement with local communities to ensure free, prior and informed consent has been granted on proposed development sites, as well as According to current definitions, BM sites proposed for conservation. (young scrub) and LT (cleared/open land) would be considered of low carbon stock and potentially suitable A desktop HCS assessment has been undertaken at our site in Balikpapan, for oil palm plantation development. East Kalimantan, Indonesia which has included stratification of high resolution imagery and detailed on site assessments (please refer to Balikpapan Case Study on Pg 49 for more background information). Our Geographic Information System (GIS) Department has been involved in the process. This will enable them to better support suppliers in conducting similar assessments on proposed development sites. A similar pilot study is underway in Nigeria to ensure the diversity of sites and situations is captured to inform ongoing refinement and formalisation of the HCS methodology. Source: Identifying High Carbon Stock (HCS) Forest for Protection, In addition to our own work, we also aim to contribute to and learn from Greenpeace, March 2013 others. We have therefore partnered with a wider group of international palm oil producers to explore different approaches to HCS assessments in the spirit of working toward consensus definitions and methods. Wilmar International Limited 33 Sustainability Report 2013 Protecting Our Environment Orangutan conservation Since 2007, Wilmar has been actively involved in orangutan conservation efforts in our Central Kalimantan estates. In 2012, we carried on work to expand orangutan transects throughout the HCV areas in our estates to monitor existing orangutan populations and reduce any risks to these populations. We have in place specific orangutan management plans which are regularly reviewed by independent orangutan experts whose recommendations are incorporated in the training of its own conservation teams. We have extended a successful tripartite collaboration with the Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOSF) and the Governor of Central We installed Protecting wildlife Kalimantan to develop Best Management Wilmar continues to step up its conservation Practices for orangutan conservation in oil a number efforts through multi-stakeholder collaborations palm plantations which ended on 31 December of camera and working with academic and research 2012. The partnership will run for an additional traps in our institutes. three years, with the aim of developing these management practices into a formal policy for Indonesian Within Wilmar’s conservation areas, we always the palm oil industry in Central Kalimantan. and Malaysian look to protect and enhance HCV areas, using plantation a variety of methods and equipment. In 2012, We are also supporters of the Orangutan we installed a number of camera traps in our Land Trust (OLT), a not-for-profit organisation estates Indonesian and Malaysian plantation estates to that focuses on supporting the preservation, to survey survey and gather information of HCV species, restoration and protection of land in areas where and gather including compiling a list of medium to large orangutans naturally exist or have existed in the terrestrial mammals present in our HCV areas. past. The main objective of OLT is to ensure information of Staff trainings were also conducted on the use there are safe forest areas set aside within HCV species, of these camera traps. habitats of these primates and other species to including form a healthy ecosystem. Some of the endangered wildlife species found compiling a list in our conservation areas using cameras include In 2013, we attended a number of conflict of medium to the Banteng, Clouded Leopard, Sun Bears and mitigation meetings and workshops aimed large terrestrial Pygmy Elephants. to encourage companies to identify potential human-orangutan conflicts within oil palm mammals plantations. These meetings involved a wide present in our range of stakeholders, including representatives HCV areas. from international and local civil society organisations, central and local government agencies and a number of plantation companies. We have seen positive results from our partnership with the Zoological Society of London under the Biodiversity and Agricultural Commodities Programme (BACP) in two of our most biodiverse areas in Central Kalimantan and Sumatra, Indonesia. The project objectives were to develop, field trial and train companies tailored protocols to monitor HCVs, and consequently Wilmar International Limited 34 Sustainability Report 2013 Banning illegal fruit from Tesso Nilo National Park In July 2013, WWF published a report on oil palm grown illegally by the local communities in the Indonesian national park Tesso Nilo, encroaching on forest areas and posing a threat to endangered species such as the Sumatran tigers and elephants. In the report, Wilmar was mentioned as one of the buyers of such illegal fresh fruit bunches (FFB). We had previously engaged with WWF on this topic and recognised the issues raised in the report, as well as the complexities involved in the local context which includes a variety of tensions between palm oil farmers, customary land use and biodiversity conservation. to help plantation companies maintain and enhance HCVs in their conservation areas. Wilmar is fully committed to buying only FFB from legal sources As part of the project, a software programme and avoiding FFB originating from the Tesso Nilo National Park or FFB from areas where land rights are unclear. Based on called Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tools the concerns raised prior to the report, we proceeded with a (SMART) was developed to help plantations thorough investigation into the issues raised and upon further monitor, analyse and adapt their HCV monitoring engagement with WWF we developed a detailed action plan to systems. Our plantations in Central Kalimantan ensure that we are in full compliance with this commitment: have started using the SMART programme, and we are looking to extend the programme to our Policy and Awareness operations in Sumatra. • Clear direction from top management to all staff that we will only buy FFB from a legal source and an awareness campaign among FFB suppliers. Gibbon rehabilitation in Sumatra • Incorporation of a legal clause in the agreement with all FFB Yayasan Kalaweit Indonesia is an NGO in suppliers and traders to supply only FFB from a legal source Indonesia that deals with the conservation of and land which are in compliance with relevant legal and gibbons and Siamang. Currently Kalaweit only licensing requirements. FFB suppliers or traders found to be in default of this agreement will be severely penalised or has one rehabilitation centre for these mammals dropped altogether. and are actively looking for new sites. They are surveying one of our HCV areas of about 2,200 Check and Monitoring ha in our plantation in Padang, Sumatra as a • Farm/holdings of FFB suppliers are recorded on a GPS by our potential gibbon-release site. FFB procurement team. • GPS co-ordinates are overlaid with government land use Riparian rehabilitation to protect planning maps for the region as well as the WWF area of concern. Proboscis Monkeys • Suppliers that fall within the contentious areas are excluded We have made good progress on the riparian from supplying to Wilmar mills. The same policy applies to management project with the Sabah Forestry those who send their crop through FFB traders. Department in Malaysia, aimed at restoring • Trucks which usually carry crops from the contentious areas and enriching State and company land for the will have their truck registration number recorded, and these trucks are banned from delivering FFB into our mills. population of the endangered Proboscis Monkeys • To avoid that suppliers switch trucks to avoid detection, we through increasing their food varieties, we have stationed a full-time staff at the junction of the Tesso completed the entire 47km stretch of a riparian Nilo Complex to keep track of trucks that are used to transport area, with a total of about 45,200 trees planted crops out of that area; and to ensure that those trucks do not at end 2013. Natural regeneration has helped deliver the crops to any of our three mills. extensively after the pruning exercise, therefore reducing the total of necessary seedlings to be planted in the riparian zone. With 11,948 For a more detailed account of our assessment of the Tesso Nilo seedlings left in the nursery, we will be looking issue, please see http://www.wilmar-international.com/wp-content/ back at the entire stretch to slot in empty spaces uploads/2012/11/Clarification-on-issues-in-Tesso-Nilo-forest-complex.pdf or replace planted trees that have died. Wilmar International Limited 35 Sustainability Report 2013 Protecting Our Environment Greenhouse Gas Policy and Accountability production of palm oil. To reduce emissions from POME, we have installed methane capture facilities at six of our mills in Malaysia and Indonesia, two of which are registered Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects capable of generating carbon credits. In addition, we have six CDM registered biomass boiler projects in our refineries aimed at carbonneutral emission. We have been working actively within the RSPO to develop robust requirements on GHG emissions and have been involved in the organisation’s GHG working groups since 2008. One of the major outcomes of the initial process was the development of the PalmGHG calculator, an informatics tool developed in collaboration with scientists and stakeholders to assist palm oil producers in quantifying GHG emissions from palm oil mills and plantations. In addition, we have been active in the Emission Reduction Working Group (ERWG), which was We have We recognise that climate change is one of the established to support the implementation of most pressing challenges facing mankind and Criterion 5.61 and Criterion 7.82 of the revised been working that our industry can take significant steps to RSPO P&C 2013 during the trial implementation actively within implement mitigation actions to reduce its phase, using the PalmGHG calculator that will the RSPO to ecological footprint. end on 31 December 2016. A pilot programme is ongoing to test the new version of the PalmGHG develop robust In 2007 we were among the first palm oil calculator among the participating companies. requirements companies to commission a global carbon The main aim of the pilot programme is to test on GHG footprint study, the results of which were the functionality and user-friendliness of the discussed in our 2009 Sustainability Report. new PalmGHG interface as well as the ability emissions and The study showed that a very high proportion of of the calculator to accommodate the various have been greenhouse gases (GHG) were derived from land operational setups of mills and plantations. involved in the use change, particularly with regards to peat Feedback from participating companies during lands. This was one of the primary drivers for our the pilot phase will be reviewed by the ERWG for organisation’s announcement to ban further peat developments adjustments and improvements. GHG working in 2011. Since then, we have taken a step groups since further with our peat land policy by extending To that end, we participated and submitted it to include our third-party suppliers. Similarly, data for the pilot study. We have initiated and 2008. our new focus on HCS aims to decouple our completed the RSPO GHG calculation using the palm oil supply chain, and the industry as a new version of the PalmGHG calculator for our whole, from high carbon emissions. mills in Sabah; and we expect calculations for our mills in Sarawak to be completed by the Apart from land use, palm oil mill effluents third quarter of 2014. (POME) are the largest GHG emitters in the 1 Plans to reduce pollution and emissions, including greenhouse gases, are developed, implemented and monitored. 2 New plantation developments are designed to minimise net greenhouse gas emissions. Wilmar International Limited 36 Sustainability Report 2013 Total GHG Emission from Wilmar’s Mills No Development on Peat We will in Sabah based on three years’ data from 2011-2013 explore We recognise that agricultural development of peat areas can be a significant contributor to options Mill PO (MT CO2e/ MTCPO) climate change. In 2011, Wilmar made a formal to restore commitment to cease any further developments Sapi 1.21 some of on peat land defined as soils with more than Terusan 3.08 65% organic matter, regardless of depth. these areas RekaHalus 1.91 rather than We have pockets of peat land among our Sri Kamusan 0.91 replanting planted area in Indonesia, planted prior to the Sabahmas 1.25 announcement of our Integrated Policy. To on them in Ribubonus 1.59 manage these existing peat areas effectively, we 2014-15. have put in place best management practices for peat areas in line with recommendations of Note: The data above is tabulated using the latest version of the RSPO PalmGHG calculator which is still being the RSPO Peat Working Group. The water levels tested on its functionality. are maintained as specified in the RSPO P&C guidance and monitored on a continual basis. The table above illustrates the GHG emissions Peat subsidence is also monitored in permanent per metric tonne of crude palm oil (CPO) sampling locations. produced in our mills in Sabah. The Terusan palm oil mill has the highest emission level As part of our Integrated Policy commitments, due to the age of the estates from which it is we will explore options to restore some of these supplied, resulting in less crop sequestration. areas rather than replanting on them in 2014Such emission levels could potentially be offset 15, when established palms complete their by building a biogas capture facility; and we productive lifespan. are currently developing feasibility plans to add such a facility. Conversely, the Sapi palm oil mill We have also committed to cease buying fruit has a much lower emission as the plantation is and CPO from plantations established on peat relatively young (and sequestering carbon) and is land after 5 December 2013, which is the date of supported by a biogas recovery system. our Integrated Policy announcement. The Policy allows for special consideration for smallholders and owners of Native Customary Rights land who have no other land to cultivate. Peat Area in Wilmar’s concessions as at Dec 2013 Peat area Peat area Location planted (ha) conserved (ha) Sumatra 3,023 238 Central Kalimantan 2,426 549 West Kalimantan 8,224 2,167 Sabah 43 0 Sarawak 84 0 TOTAL 13,800 2,954 Wilmar International Limited 37 Sustainability Report 2013 Protecting Our Environment We are working with a wide range of scientists and NGOs to ensure that we are able to provide robust guidance to help those wishing to establish new plantations in order to avoid areas where peat is present. Part of this work entails reviewing soil maps to provide an initial indication of areas of concern. Expert groups are providing input on soil sampling and analysis methods to help landowners determine appropriate areas for development. Sarawak government Engagement and Response Wilmar’s refineries purchase a significant volume of the CPO produced in the Malaysian state of Sarawak. When we announced our Integrated Policy, the state government of Sarawak raised concerns about the implications of the policy for our suppliers in the state. We took immediate action to set up briefings with government representatives and suppliers to provide reassurance that the Policy applies only to oil palm planted after December 2013; and reaffirmed that due considerations and support would be given to smallholders. We believe that these misunderstandings have now been resolved. Wilmar International Limited 38 Sustainability Report 2013 Fire Prevention reiterated in our Integrated Policy, require all FFB and CPO to be produced in compliance with Over the past decade, Southeast Asia has all relevant and applicable local and national law experienced frequent instances of severe air and regulations. This includes the use of burning pollution and haze, primarily linked to extensive for land clearing as prohibited by Indonesian fires in Kalimantan and Sumatra. To ensure law. Suppliers are advised that breach of this that we do not contribute to this problem, will lead to immediate termination of business. we have a strict zero-burning policy and use only mechanical methods for land clearing. In 2012, a Greenpeace report alleged that one Furthermore, we have in place an extensive fire of our suppliers was the source of significant management and monitoring system to ensure fires in Sumatra. We take such allegations that fires caused by accidents and fires starting very seriously. As this supplier is also an RSPO on the boundaries of our plantations are not member, we participated in RSPO’s investigation allowed to spread. Our head office in Singapore of these claims by overlaying GPS coordinates receives daily fire reports to ensure that any with the supplier’s concessions. instances can be reviewed and stakeholder queries can be addressed immediately. The investigation found that fire hotspots were located on the boundary and not inside the We have in In 2013, when pollution reached hazardous supplier’s concession area. The investigation place an levels in Malaysia and Singapore, we assisted also found that the supplier could markedly extensive fire the RSPO in mapping fire locations in Sumatra reduce risks of such fires near its plantations in and were not found to be the source of any fire the future by improving water table management management hotspots. We also provided a briefing for the in peat areas. Furthermore, we recommended and monitoring Singapore government on means to reduce fire to the supplier that they establish an effective system to risks in the region. fire fighting unit to ensure that such fires are not able to spread. Finally, we reiterated to the ensure that Working with suppliers in fire prevention supplier that external FFB from landholdings fires caused Our sourcing policy, which was developed cleared through fire is not acceptable in Wilmar’s by accidents and communicated to suppliers in 2010 and supply chain. and fires starting on the Fires Recorded 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 boundaries of our plantations Central Kalimantan are not allowed Planted area (ha) 173 1 98 97.42 15.46 Unplanted area (ha) 339 40 182 318.9 113.87 to spread. Total number of fires 76 3 93 85 33 West Kalimantan Planted area (ha) 6.3 2.5 7.38 112.52 7.09 Unplanted area (ha) 20 0 0 0 0.4 Total number of fires 8 1 4 8 8 Sumatra (Riau) Planted area (ha) 8.5 2.5 67.5 67.69 9.25 Unplanted area (ha) 15 0 0 0 0 Total number of fires 7 2 6 21 5 Total Planted area (ha) 187.8 6 172.88 277.63 31.8 Unplanted area (ha) 374 40 182 318.9 114.27 Total number of fires 91 6 103 114 46 Wilmar International Limited 39 Sustainability Report 2013 Fostering Harmony Respecting Human Rights We respect the human rights of the local people and strive to contribute to their livelihoods through seeking their Free, Prior and Informed Consent, providing employment and a decent working environment, or partnering them in smallholder schemes. Respecting and Empowering People No Exploitation of People and Local Communities We are committed to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the International Labour Organisation (ILO) core labour standards. Over the past five years, we have evolved our approach with the guidance of community and NGO partners, particularly with regards to land rights and Free, Prior Informed Consent (FPIC). We operate in the agriculture sector in countries where indigenous and customary rights have historically been weakly enforced, and it has been a difficult learning curve to develop a robust process to address historical conflicts and prevent future issues. Indonesia Asiatic Persada to an Indonesian company, PT Asiatic Persada Disposal Prima Fortune International Limited. Due to From 2011-2013, we were involved in a commercial confidentiality clauses, we were complex grievance around land rights linked to unable to disclose this sale prior to completion. our subsidiary PT Asiatic Persada in the Jambi NGOs led by UK-based Forest Peoples Province in Sumatra Indonesia, which was Programme raised a complaint on behalf of the detailed in our 2011 Sustainability Report. The communities, alleging that Wilmar had acted conflict involved two separate issues; one with in bad faith due to the lack of disclosure and regards to traditional land rights owners, and consultation and requested that we continue to one concerning illegal settlements. We initiated be involved in the grievance procedure. a formal grievance process and sought the assistance of the local Indonesian government We responded promptly to this complaint, and and the Compliance Advisory Ombudsman of have also strongly encouraged Prima Fortune the International Finance Corporation to mediate International Limited to continue the conflict this process, with the involvement of local NGOs. resolution process. However, as we have no further direct influence on and no longer In July 2013, Wilmar made a commercial purchase FFB or CPO from PT Asiatic Persada, decision to divest all shareholdings in PT we cannot be further involved in the process. Wilmar International Limited 41 Sustainability Report 2013 Respecting and Empowering People Africa a technical and financial bid submission Wilmar’s visits to its joint venture operations which also involved extensive negotiations and in Uganda and Nigeria included discussions consultations with key stakeholders including with management teams, workers, and local the local communities, before the acquisition community members at their workplaces process could be concluded. and homes. The visits were constructive and highlighted a range of areas where we could Our planned development includes replanting improve performance, particularly in terms of old plantations that are due for replanting as well community engagement, access to water and as new plantation developments adjacent to the land for food crops, as well as working and old ones. In the former, we engaged extensively housing conditions. As a majority shareholder in with the local government to assure ourselves Nigeria, we will carry on being actively involved that the local communities were already duly in the full implementation of our Policy, and compensated before we took over. On the new whilst we are only minority shareholders in sites, Wilmar undertook the Free, Prior and Uganda, we will provide proactive guidance here Informed Consent (FPIC) approach with the to ensure full compliance. local communities through active engagement and consultation and fair compensation given to Nigeria land grab allegations them based on a mutually-agreed-upon rate. In 2012, Wilmar made its first oil palm plantation investment in Nigeria when the Group made a In 2013, the Rainforest Research and successful bid for six plantation sites totalling Development Centre, an NGO, raised a about 27,000 ha in the Cross River State through complaint with the RSPO, alleging that Wilmar a tendering process. Most of these plantations had not followed adequate FPIC procedures and were first planted in the 1960s but abandoned were in breach of local land and environmental from the 1970s onwards. The process included legislation. Wilmar International Limited 42 Sustainability Report 2013 The RSPO Complaints Panel expressed the opinion that our plantation operations in Nigeria is in compliance with the national laws of Nigeria, including the lawful acquisition of land and that due process of environmental impact assessment (EIA) was followed. In particular, it was noted by the legal expert appointed by the RSPO that our acquisition of the estate in question was considered transparent and in compliance with the Land Use Act. Furthermore, on the claim that we did not settle land rights issue with the local communities, we subsequently obtained written support from the communities clearly stating that an agreement has been reached between the landlord communities and Wilmar. Uganda conflict allegations In a report published in April 2013, Friends of the Earth alleged that our Kalangala oil palm joint venture in Uganda had resulted in eviction of people from land without an appropriate Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) process and with inadequate compensation. It was also With regards to claims of deforestation and On the new alleged that deforestation of an area between destruction of buffer zones, no specific evidence 4,000-5,000 ha had taken place and that a was presented in the reports. In total, the World sites, Wilmar buffer zone of 200 metres between the plantation Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture together with undertook the and Lake Victoria had not been respected. Bidco Uganda and the IFAD conducted three Free, Prior separate EIAs. Two were conducted before The Kalangala oil palm project was initiated in the project commenced, and the final one and Informed 1998 by the Government of Uganda with technical after the project commenced. All three EIAs Consent (FPIC) and financial support from the World Bank and clearly indicated that there was no significant approach International Fund for Agricultural Development biodiversity value in the project area. (IFAD), with the aim of providing development with the local to one of the remotest and poorest districts in The Kalangala project has created jobs and communities Uganda. Prior to project commencement, the development opportunities. Through the through active government undertook extensive consultation company’s growing role as an employer, its with the affected communities, including public substantial impact on both the local and national engagement hearings. economies, as well as through community work, and we believe that this venture is bringing tangible consultation The project has support from the communities and meaningful benefits to the country and and local and district leadership, all of whom its people. and fair came out in public support of the project and compensation reaffirmed that in their view, there had been no given to them compulsory acquisition of land, and that all the land was acquired with FPIC. Where it was not based on a possible for the occupants to leave the land in mutuallyquestion, the specific area was set aside and no agreed oil palm development took place. There were no evictions of people from these areas. upon rate. Wilmar International Limited 43 Sustainability Report 2013 Respecting and Empowering People Rights of workers We employ more than 90,000 people globally. They are the backbone of our business. We want to make sure that each of our employees is treated fairly and with respect, and we are committed to upholding and promoting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights for all workers both temporary and permanent. Wages and working hours We want to ensure that all workers are paid at least the legal minimum wage. In Malaysia, we comply with the recently introduced minimum wage of RM800 per month and in Indonesia our basic wage is slightly higher than minimum wages determined at Provincial level. Our Policy requires that working hours do not exceed 60 hours per week (including overtime), that overtime is worked on a voluntary basis only and that workers have at least one day off in a week. Transparency, record keeping and data protection We maintain transparent and reliable records of working hours and wages for all workers and ensure confidentiality in all of their dealings. We ensure that permission has been given and documented before disclosing, displaying, submitting or seeking confidential or personal information or data obtained in connection with recruitment or employment. We ensure that workers are given the details of their working conditions in writing, including but not limited to the nature of the work to be undertaken, pay rates and arrangements, working hours, vacation and other leaves, and all other benefits of employment. This information must be provided in a language which is understood by the employee. Protecting dignity and respecting diversity We do not discriminate on any grounds and ensure that all employed are treated with respect and paid equally, in accordance with their tasks or responsibilities. We take harassment and abuse very seriously and seek to urgently investigate and remediate reported harassment and abuse. Wilmar International Limited 44 Sustainability Report 2013 Housing Where housing is concerned, we wish to provide safe and attractive housing for all employees. We ensure that single men and women are separate and segregated, that sleeping quarters can be locked, that there are means to protect personal belongings and that there are no restrictions imposed which interfere with workers’ rights to leave the housing facility during their free time. At a minimum we will provide space averaging 3.8m² per person housed. Freedom of association and collective bargaining We support the rights of employees to form and join trade unions of their choice, and to bargain collectively. Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining are restricted under law, parallel means of independent and free association and bargaining are made available for all such personnel. Child labour We uphold a ban on child labour and do not In the oil palm sector, the most prominent risk employ anyone under the age of 18. It is not of force or coercion is the recruitment of workers uncommon for children to work on family farms through employment agencies, particularly in in smallholder operations. This is allowed within the case of foreign workers. We do not accept the RSPO certification scheme as long as the that jobseekers are required to lodge monetary welfare and schooling of children are not at risk. deposits or other collaterals as a condition of As part of our Integrated Policy we will seek to employment. Fees or costs must not be charged identify risks to children in our supply chain, and to job-seekers and workers for the services take appropriate measures to address any risks. directly related to recruitment for temporary or permanent job placement, including when using We provide a range of services such as the services of private employment agency. We kindergartens and schools in our plantation to also seek to ensure that employees are never ensure that children of workers have access subject to the unlawful withholding of wages, to education, and are also setting up stronger identification cards, passports or other travel controls to prevent parents from bringing their documents, and other personal belongings children to their workplace. without their consent. Forced and bonded labour In accordance with the RSPO and our Integrated Policy we do not accept any forced, trafficked or bonded labour, either in our own operations or in our supply chain. Should we encounter any instances, we will employ remedial actions to ensure that victims are referred to existing services for support and assistance. Wilmar International Limited 45 Sustainability Report 2013 Respecting and Empowering People Occupational health and safety We take the safety of our employees very Lost time 8 seriously and are constantly working to ensure incident rate 7 that we reduce the number of accidents in our fields and mills, as well as strengthen our – mills 6 5 4.74 reporting mechanisms. Overall, we have made 4.01 Sabah 4 progress and sites with historically high incident 2.96 3.62 3.44 Sarawak 3 rates have seen significant reductions over the Central Kalimantan past five years. Central Kalimantan and Sarawak 2 West Kalimantan 1.45 (plantation only) have seen an increased number Sumatra 1 0.74 0.75 0.33 of incidents over the past two years, and we are 0 0.23 working to ensure that further strengthening of 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 standard operating procedures is implemented. Sadly, there were a total of nine work-related Lost time 20 deaths in our operations in 2012 and 2013, 18 incident rate 16 four in Malaysia and five in Indonesia. Our management and staff offer our condolences – plantations 14 12 to families of the deceased. Every fatality case Sabah 10 is followed up with a thorough review of cause 7.09 8.60 Sarawak 8 and actions to prevent recurrence. The reviews 6 6.56 Central Kalimantan 4.40 are followed by continued efforts in training 4 4.12 West Kalimantan 2.19 and use of protective equipment. We managed Sumatra 2 2.33 0.23 to bring down fatalities significantly from 2012 0 0.09 to 2013, but will continue to investigate causes 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and improve prevention. Fatalities As part of our Integrated Policy, we have also made a commitment to ensure that all workers are provided with accident insurance covering  Malaysia medical treatment for work-related illness and  Indonesia injury and compensation for work-related illness 9 5 and injury causing death or permanent disability. 7 3 2 2 1 1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wilmar International Limited 46 Sustainability Report 2013 No use of Paraquat and chemical of natural predators as well as seeking to Evellant iatusa stewardship minimise pesticide usage through precision We work to protect workers, local communities application. Our R&D laboratory in Indonesia namus et ut and the environment from exposure to has also identified beneficial microbes which are labo. Sunt in hazardous chemicals. Use of pesticides that are being used to develop environmentally friendly pelectorro cum categorized as World Health Organization Class approaches to controlling or preventing oil palm 1A or 1B listed by the Stockholm or Rotterdam diseases, reducing the use of synthetic fertilisers rem ea cum ut Conventions are not used, except in specific and improving plant growth. aliquam fugiae urgent situations. nem alitas Sprayers are required to undergo extensive and In 2008, we were among the first large-scale oil ongoing training on the handling and use of et rat omniet palm producers to gradually phase out Paraquat chemicals. They are required to wear personal acercitam. in response to stakeholder concerns over the protective equipment, including protective eyesafety and potential abuse of this widely used wear, facial masks, gloves and boots; and they herbicide. We completed the phase-out in 2011. have to be worn whenever the workers carry out As part of the Integrated Policy, we will require their duties. Showering is compulsory after each our suppliers to do the same by end 2015. shift. Workers are subject to regular check-ups to detect presence of residual chemicals. With the exception of very small-scale organic agriculture, herbicides are a necessity in All chemicals are stored in locked facilities to oil palm cultivation. However, through our which only authorised personnel have access, integrated pest management system we apply and containers used for storing chemicals are a combination of natural and mechanical pest collected, stored and disposed of according to reduction strategies such as the introduction legal requirements for hazardous waste. Herbicide usage 7.86 7.56 7.35 – immature 5.84 (excl Paraquat) 4.45 L/ha 3.37 3.41  2013 1.40  2012 0.26 0.32  2011  2010 Sumatra Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sabah Sarawak The increase in herbicide usage for immature plantings in 2012-13 in our Malaysian operations is due to the phase-out of Paraquat, which was used until 2011. Alternative herbicides such as Glyphosate and Basta are used, and they are required in larger volumes. Herbicide usage 5.31 – mature 4.01 3.77 (excl Paraquat) 2.95 3.56 2.59 2.76 L/ha  2013 2012 0.71 0.80  0.41  2011  2010 Sumatra Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sabah Sarawak Wilmar International Limited 47 Sustainability Report 2013 Respecting and Empowering People Smallholder and Outgrowers Wilmar engages in smallholder programmes Time-bound plan for associated smallholders and outgrowers in Indonesia, Malaysia and West Africa. In Indonesia, we support 41,307 hectares of Name of Location Type of Planted Target land under the government-originated Plasma Plantation Outgrower Area (ha) Completion scheme. We support the smallholders in microfinancing, land-preparation, planting inputs PT Permata Anak West Outgrower 1,320 Completed such as seeds, fertilisers and pest control as Negeri Pasaman Sumatra well as technical assistance, especially on good PT Kencana West Plasma 650 Completed agricultural practices. Upon reaching maturity Sawit Indonesia Sumatra (which takes about three to four years), or when the plasma co-operatives are well-established, PT KAMU West Outgrower 1,800 Completed Sumatra the small plantation plots are handed over to smallholder co-operatives for self-management. PT Tania South Plasma 2,774 2014 While awaiting their oil palm trees to mature, Selatan (SP1, Sumatra SP2, SP3, SP4) most of these farmers are employed by Wilmar to work in the Group’s plantations and receive PT Mustika Central Plasma 186 2014 training in essential agronomic skills to equip Sembuluh Kalimantan them to manage their own plots. PT AMP West Plasma 611 2014 Plantation Sumatra In East Malaysia, we had a fruitful discussion with an indigenous group of smallholders seeking PT Gersindo West Plasma 1,306 2015 Minang Sumatra to establish oil palm on a large tract of Native Plantations Customary Rights (NCR) land. Our Geographic Information System (GIS) team has completed PT Permata West Plasma 354 2015 Hijau Pasaman Sumatra an analysis of the area which includes peat and alluvial soils. It was cleared long ago for PT Tania South Plasma 496 2015 shifting cultivation/paddy-planting but part of Selatan-KORPRI Sumatra the area was abandoned and there has been PT Musi South Plasma 1,492 2017 some forest regeneration. We are planning a site Banyuasin Indah Sumatra visit with TFT and will potentially undertake an PT Maju Central Outgrower 401 2017 HCS and HCV assessment. Discussions will also Perkasa Sawit Sumatra encompass issues around community gardens and community-farmed land. to any one mill. Wilmar is not in a position to It is critical to us that smallholders are included impose certification requirements on them. in our certification efforts, and we have worked with a wide range of NGOs, intergovernmental However, we recognise that independent organisations and support schemes to ensure smallholders account for a significant that financial and practical constraints on proportion of the total smallholder palm oil certification can be overcome. production in Indonesia and Malaysia, and we do not wish to exclude them from our We are now making progress with our associated supply chain. On 1 April 2014, we signed a smallholders and have completed certification Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with for plasma and outgrowers for three of our Wild Asia, a Malaysian social enterprise to mills in Indonesia and are on track to complete help independent smallholders towards RSPO smallholder certification by 2017, two years certification. This is a five-year programme to ahead of our original plans. start up a series of smallholder certification schemes to help increase the volume of RSPOIndependent smallholders are self-financed, certified sustainable products from independent managed and equipped, and are not bound producers to the market. Wilmar International Limited 48 Sustainability Report 2013 Addressing Complaints and Conflicts Risk management is an integral part of ensuring and international levels. Our grievance processes Wilmar will a sustainable supply chain. This can be achieved will focus on three key aspects: grievances by develop and with effective stakeholder engagement, based on external parties against Wilmar, internal issues dialogues and feedback from stakeholders. We raised by Wilmar with its own subsidiaries, and maintain believe a grievance mechanism is an important allegations by external parties against thirdprocesses for pillar of this stakeholder engagement process to party suppliers. We will continuously review the the responsible identify and find solutions to problems. effectiveness of these processes. handling of As part of the Policy, Wilmar will develop and Even as development of the grievance procedures all complaints maintain processes for the responsible handling is underway, we have started looking into current at the local, of all complaints at the local, regional, national issues that have already been identified. regional, national and international levels. The Case of Balikpapan Refinery In 2006, PT Wilmar Nabati Indonesia (WINA), a subsidiary revise the EIA development plan once again. NGOs are of Wilmar International Limited, was invited by the local also challenging the quality of our HCV assessment. We government of East Kalimantan to invest in a refinery and have submitted the report to the HCV Resource Network bulking station facilities in Balikpapan Bay. After getting (HCVRN) to be peer reviewed. A good portion of the area all the necessary permits, among which included an (about 60%) has been identified by TFT as non-HCS which Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) approval over the can be considered for development. We have not commenced 50 ha of land, PT WINA started to clear the land in the development in the area since a self-imposed moratorium area in 2007/2008. The area that PT WINA acquired was was made around middle of 2012. an abandoned aquaculture project and therefore it was a degraded site and not a primary mangrove. Under the RSPO To accommodate the concern among our stakeholders in there is no specific requirement for its members to conduct an developing this area, we will scale down our operations and HCV assessment when establishing non-plantation facilities. will concentrate on building the infrastructures on existing areas that have already been developed in 2007/2008. We In 2013, a group of NGOs filed a complaint to the RSPO will construct a road that links our current facilities to the Grievance Panel alleging that PT WINA had violated the newly constructed road on the eastern part of the project that RSPO Principles and Criteria in building a crude palm oil was developed by the local government. In doing this, we processing unit at the site. can reduce our impact on the use of the jetty facility, which may have some impact on marine life such as dolphins that The concern raised by NGOs at our public consultations sometimes frequent the area, as highlighted by stakeholders. for the EIA in February 2014 may have been based on the original and now outdated EIA findings presented for Shortly before the publication of this report, the RSPO Complaints public consultation in Q1 2013. With the announcement Panel announced that it considered the case to be resolved, of our Integrated Policy in December 2013, the plan was subject to full implementation of the proposed action plan and significantly amended. timeline as well as quarterly reporting. The announcement said that ‘the Panel is satisfied that Wilmar has undertaken positive Going forward, we will incorporate findings of both the HCV action to resolve the complaint and is recommending that this and ongoing HCS assessments in our future work plan and complaint be closed for monitoring.’ Wilmar International Limited 49 Sustainability Report 2013 Base Data and Notes Financials Income Statement US$ MILLIONS FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Revenue 44,085.0 45,463.0 44,710.0 30,377.5 23,885.1 Profit before tax 1,775.0 1,655 2,078.7 1,644.2 2,294.4 Net profit 1,319.0 1,256.0 1,600.8 1,324.0 1,882.0 Balance Sheet US$ millions As at 31 Dec 2013 As at 31 Dec 2012 As at 31 Dec 2011 As at 31 Dec 2010 As at 31 Dec 2009 Total Assets 46,632.0 41,920.0 39,639.8 33,969.4 23,448.8 Total Liabilities 30,745.0 26,725.0 25,391.4 21,411.5 12,037.2 Shareholders’ funds 15,005.0 14,346.0 13,370.2 11,855.8 10,931.1 Segmental sales volume breakdown MT million FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Merchandising and Palm and Laurics 24.5 23.1 20.3 20.8 19.1 Processing Oilseeds and grains 20.6 19.6 19.9 18.3 15.6 Consumer products 5.4 4.6 4.4 3.7 3.2 Sugar Milling 3.1 2.8 2.7 Merchandising and processing 5.7 3.7 2.5 Segmental profit before tax breakdown US$ millions FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Plantation and Mills 269.7 410.8 733.8 635.8 396.9 Merchandising and Palm and Laurics 855.7 771.1 585.9 587.1 692.8 Processing Oilseeds and grains 231.7 14.1 422.9 117.5 606.9 Consumer products 219.4 157.2 85.3 149.8 225.3 Sugar (Milling & Merchandising and Processing) 126.6 99.8 141.3 Others (21.3) 110.3 41.6 188.5 84.0 Geographical Revenue Breakdown US$ MILLIONS FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Southeast Asia 9,645.3 11,841.5 10,176.2 7,443.8 5,492.8 People’s Republic of China 22,000.2 21,221.5 21,658.4 15,869.7 13,197.2 India 1,244.6 1,751.9 1,388.9 1,179.3 1,213.0 Europe 3,479.0 3,599.4 3,514.4 2,190.3 1,638.7 Australia / New Zealand 1,800.2 1,789.0 2,007.1 41.6 Africa 1,502.9 1,519.2 Others 4,412.8 3,740.9 5,965.1 3,652.9 2,343.4 Wilmar International Limited 50 Sustainability Report 2013 conservation area statistics HCV Area (excluding riparian zones) Hectares FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Sabah 5,0031 5,816 5,816 5,040 5,040 Sarawak 1,284 2 1,579 1,579 1,579 1,579 Central Kalimantan 13,641 13,259 13,049 14,659 14,659 West Kalimantan 2,6073 17,573 17,431 13,458 NA Sumatra 3,3254 4,910 3,084 2,913 1,261 Total 25,860 43,137 40,959 37,649 22,539 Riparian Zones Hectares FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Sabah 1,080 948 948 930 930 Sarawak 374 374 374 374 374 Central Kalimantan 1,457 1,455 1,270 1,270 1,270 West Kalimantan 6483 1,537 1,507 1,209 NA Sumatra 1,3064 2,202 2,098 1,031 87 Total 4,865 6,516 6,197 4,814 2,611 1 Reduction of HCV area figure due to revision by HCV consultant. 2 Reduction of HCV area figure due to reclassification of landuse from conservation to Native Settlers in Suai Estate. 3 In 2011, the estates in that region held a valid Location Permit (Izin Lokasi) which was temporal in nature. The estimated HCV areas then (19,110 ha) was based on what was found within the location permits. As at end 2013, all those location permits had expired. With the expiry of these permits, companies are no longer allowed to acquire land from the local communities within the location permit. All that is left are areas which the company has secured through negotiations with local communities for the release of their land through the Free, Prior and Informed Consent process while the location permit was valid. A good part of the HCVs that were earlier identified were within the local communities land. As the local communities were not willing to release their land which also contained the HCV areas, the company has to carve out those HCV areas from our land concession when we applied for the Land Cultivation Right Permit (HGU – Hak Guna Usaha). This is why the total HCV and Riparian conservation area was reduced from 19,110 ha to 3,255 ha for in West Kalimantan. The inability to secure a contiguous area also posed a big challenge for us to manage our plantations and the HCV areas because of the fragmentations. But we need to respect community decision to give or withhold their land. 4 Reduction of HCV and riparian area figures due to the sale of PT Asiatic Persada. Wilmar International Limited 51 Sustainability Report 2013 Base Data and Notes agriculture production statistics Agricultural Production Statistics FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Plantation FFB production (MT) 4,041,785 4,210,490 4,072,961 3,348,891 3,213,360 FFB yield 5 18.8 18.9 19.8 17.9 20.2 Mill Crude palm oil (MT) 1,848,148 1,909,330 1,778,882 1,597,890 1,575,534 Palm kernel (MT) 423,481 449,984 413,554 371,626 367,894 Extraction rate 6 Crude palm oil (%) 20.4 20.4 20.6 20.7 20.9 Palm kernel (%) 4.7 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.9 5 FFB yield – Amount of FFB divided by mature area in hectares. Oil palm plantations are considered mature when 60% of oil palm per block is bearing fruits with an average weight of 3 kilograms or more per bunch 6 Crude Palm Oil extraction rate – Metric tonnes of CPO divided by metric tonnes of FFB Wilmar International Limited 52 Sustainability Report 2013 agriculture production statistics Annual Production capacity of Certified sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO) Certified Sustainable Certified Sustainable CSPO Production Palm Oil (MT) Palm Kernels (MT) Country Location capacity (mill) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Reka Halus Sandakan, Sabah 17,556 26,585 27,000 4,180 6,499 7,000 Ribubonus Sandakan, Sabah 20,566 20,566 21,000 3,292 3,292 3,000 Sabahmas Lahad Datu, Sabah 43,295 47,131 47,000 9,790 10,246 10,000 Sapi Sandakan, Sabah 35,090 37,571 38,000 7,097 7,937 8,000 Malaysia Saremas 2 Miri, Sarawak 52,284 52,284 52,000 11,571 11,571 12,000 Saremas 1 Miri, Sarawak 52,266 52,266 52,000 10,921 10,921 11,000 Sri Kamusan Sandakan, Sabah 26,500 26,500 27,000 5,100 5,100 5,000 Terusan Sandakan, Sabah 42,729 42,729 43,000 10,032 10,032 10,000 SUBTotal 290,286 305,632 307,000 61,983 65,598 66,000 PT Bumi Sawit Kencana Central Kalimantan 41,454 – – 7,938 – – PT Kerry Sawit Indonesia 1 Central Kalimantan 51,656 51,656 52,000 9,392 9,392 9,000 PT Mustika Sembuluh 1 Central Kalimantan 81,350 81,350 81,000 16,640 16,640 17,000 PT ANI Sambas West Kalimantan 22,875 – – 4,118 – – Indonesia PT Tania Selatan Sumatra 13,700 13,700 14,000 3,100 3,100 3,000 PT Buluh Cawang Plantation Sumatra 26,373 – – 6,534 – – PT Perkebunan Milano Sumatra 27,554 27,554 28,000 6,262 6,262 6,000 PT AMP Plantations Sumatra 32,880 32,880 – 8,073 8,073 – PT Kencana Sawit Indonesia Sumatra 37,888 37,888 38,000 8,074 8,074 8,000 PT Sarana Titian Permata 45,544 45,544 – 7,921 7,921 – SUBTotal 381,274 290,572 213,000 78,052 59,462 43,000 total 671,560 596,204 520,000 140,035 125,060 109,000 • The annual production capacity here is an estimate of the potential amount of certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernels produced by the mill. • Drop in Sabah volumes due to replanting and adjustment to fresh fruit bunches (FFB) numbers at the time of RSPO recertification which takes place every five years. • PT Bumi Sawit Kencana, PT ANI and PT Buluh Cawang Plantation Palm Oil Mills obtained their RSPO P&C certificate in 2013. • Reporting actual figures as stated in certificate for 2012 and 2013. Wilmar International Limited 53 Sustainability Report 2013 Base Data and Notes Performance Indicators Fire Incidence Year Item Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra – Riau Planted area (hectares) burnt 173 6.3 8.5 2009 Unplanted area (hectares) burnt 339 20 15 Total number of fires 76 8 7 Planted area (hectares) burnt 1 2.5 2.5 2010 Unplanted area (hectares) burnt 40 0 0 Total number of fires 3 1 2 Planted area (hectares) burnt 98 7.38 67.5 2011 Unplanted area (hectares) burnt 182 0 0 Total number of fires 93 4 6 Planted area (hectares) burnt 97.42 112.52 67.69 2012 Unplanted area (hectares) burnt 318.9 0 0 Total number of fires 85 8 21 Planted area (hectares) burnt 15 7.09 9.25 2013 Unplanted area (hectares) burnt 113.87 0.4 0 Total number of fires 33 8 5 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Fatalities FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 LTIR – Plantations Fatalities – Plantations Sabah 2.33 2.19 2.26 2.90 7.00 Sabah 0 1 0 1 1 Sarawak 8.60 7.09 7.14 8.53 17.70 Sarawak 1 0 0 0 Central Kalimantan 6.56 4.40 5.47 4.86 1.90 Central Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 West Kalimantan 0.09 0.23 1.99 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 7 Sumatra 4.12 4.40 7.07 8.56 2.80 Sumatra 0 1 0 6 LTIR – Mills Fatalities – Mills Sabah 3.44 2.96 3.70 4.47 7.20 Sabah 0 1 0 0 Sarawak 4.01 4.74 6.03 6.67 5.70 Sarawak 0 1 0 1 Central Kalimantan 3.62 1.45 1.97 3.43 Central Kalimantan 0 3 0 1 West Kalimantan 0.75 0.23 0.50 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 0.33 0.74 0.50 0.39 0.10 Sumatra 0 1 2 2 Wilmar International Limited 54 Sustainability Report 2013 Performance Indicators BOD levels by region and discharge destination (mg/l) FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 BOD Level – River Discharge Sabah 23.80 21.00 28.80 32.70 37.00 Sarawak 13.50 16.00 17.40 17.50 44.00 West Kalimantan 63.00 282.00 114.39 165.81 Sumatra 84.40 82.00 81.71 123.18 180.00 BOD Level – Land Application Central Kalimantan 636.00 1,178.00 1,864.04 368.22 914.00 West Kalimantan 236.00 301.00 169.00 Sumatra 768.00 835.00 836.17 611.86 866.00 Water Usage Fertiliser Usage FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Water use (m3) per tonne of FFB (Mills) Fertiliser usage – immature (tonnes/hectare) Sabah 1.59 1.46 1.59 1.60 1.89 Sabah 0.75 1.34 Sarawak 0.98 1.4 1.23 1.37 2.14 Sarawak 0.55 0.87 Central Kalimantan 1.68 1.35 1.10 1.40 1.72 Central Kalimantan 0.63 1.11 West Kalimantan 1.66 1.58 0.86 1.07 1.18 West Kalimantan 0.16 0.25 Sumatra 1.47 1.37 1.42 1.48 1.26 Sumatra 0.11 0.08 Fertiliser usage – mature (tonnes/hectare) Sabah 1.04 1.16 Sarawak 1.00 0.95 Central Kalimantan 1.11 1.13 West Kalimantan 0.90 0.90 Sumatra 0.23 0.25 Herbicide Usage FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Herbicide Usage – Immature (Litres/Hectare) Sabah 7.86 5.84 2.85 4.29 4.49 Sarawak 7.35 7.56 1.24 1.02 8.56 Central Kalimantan 3.37 4.45 4.77 4.59 3.37 West Kalimantan 3.41 1.40 2.89 2.32 1.77 Sumatra 0.32 0.26 0.44 0.54 8.80 Herbicide Usage – Mature (Litres/Hectare) Sabah 3.77 4.01 3.08 4.08 4.34 Sarawak 5.31 3.56 4.16 4.67 2.80 Central Kalimantan 2.95 2.59 4.91 4.39 2.72 West Kalimantan 2.76 0.80 3.65 1.49 1.19 Sumatra 0.71 0.41 0.41 0.34 7.39 Wilmar International Limited 55 Sustainability Report 2013 Global reporting Initiative and UN Global Compact INdex GRI G4 Content Index and UN Global Compact cross reference We have sought to apply the principles for defining content specified in the section “About This Report”, we have sought to of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines in apply the guidance of GRI G4 for the boundary settings of each the development of this report. The GRI is the leading identified material aspect. We intend to report in more detail on international guideline for sustainability reporting. We aim our upstream and downstream operations in our next report. As to develop the report with the objective to be in accordance a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are also providing a with the ‘Core’ requirements. cross reference against the 10 Principles as a means to comply with Communication of Progress requirements. For a number of indicators, particularly related to sustainability compliance in our supply chain we have The assurance provided by KPMG does not cover the “in not been able to include quantitative data as we are still accordance level with the ‘Core’ requirements” of the G4 in the process of mapping gaps in supplier performance. guidelines. KPMG performed assurance work on selected Likewise, we have not reported quantitative data on information disclosed in the report, with the aim to extend the grievances, as we record many minor grievances in our scope of the work and opinion for future sustainability reports. operations and have opted to focus on material and Please refer to the section “KPMG Assurance Statement” complex grievances raised in the public domain. Also, as for details. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosures Page, Comments or omissions UN GLobal Compact Principle Addressed Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior In Conversation with the Chairman 3 5 decision-maker of the organisation Organisation Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation About Wilmar 11 13 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services About Wilmar 11 13 G4-5 Headquarters location About Wilmar 11 13 G4-6 Countries of operation About Wilmar 14 15, Our Oil Palm Plantations 18 19 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About Wilmar 11 15 G4-8 Markets served About Wilmar 11 15 G4-9 Scale of the organisation About Wilmar 11 – 15, Our Oil Palm Plantations 18 19 G4-10 Organisation’s workforce About Wilmar 11 13, We are currently reviewing the robustness Principle 6: Labour of our personnel data and are unable to report accurately on this indicator. We will include this data in our 2015 report. G4-11 Total employees covered by Rights of Workers 44 45, We are currently reviewing the robustness Principle 3: Labour collective bargaining agreements of our personnel data and are unable to report accurately on this indicator. We will include this data in our 2015 report. G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Our Oil Palm Plantations 18 19, Our Integrated Policy 21 22, Towards Full Traceability 23 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Annual Report 2013 p 6 9 period regarding size, structure, ownership or its supply chain Wilmar International Limited 56 Sustainability Report 2013 General Standard Disclosures Page, Comments or omissions UN GLobal Compact Principle Addressed G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the In Conversation with the Chairman 3 5, precautionary approach or principles is Protecting Our Environment 21 22, 31 39 addressed by the organisation G4-15 Externally developed economic, In Conversation with the Chairman 3 5, environmental and social charters, Our Integrated Policy 21 22, principles or other initiatives About This Report 61 62 G4-16 Memberships of associations and In Conversation with the Chairman 3 5, national/international advocacy Our Integrated Policy 21 22, organisations Sustainability Certification 24 25, Engaging Our Global Stakeholder 28 29 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s Annual Report 2013 p 93 192 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-18 Process for defining report content and About This Report 61 62 the Aspect Boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process About This Report 61 62 for defining report content G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation Scope and Boundaries inside cover page, About This Report 61 62 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization Scope and Boundaries inside cover page, About This Report 61 62 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in No reinstatement of information previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous Scope and Boundaries inside cover page, reporting in the Scope and Aspect About This Report 61 62 Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged Our Integrated Policy 21 22, by the organisation Sustainability Management and Governance 26 27, Engaging Global Stakeholders 28 29, About This Report 61 62 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Engaging Global Stakeholders 28 29, stakeholders with whom to engage About This Report 61 62 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Engaging Global Stakeholders 28 29, including frequency of engagement by About This Report 61 62 type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been Our Integrated Policy 21 22, Towards Full Traceability 23, raised through stakeholder engagement, Engaging Global Stakeholders 28 29, No Deforestation 31 35, and how the organisation has responded No Development on Peat 37 38, Respecting and Empowering People to those key topics and concerns, 41 45, Occupational Health and Safety 46 47, Smallholders and including through it reporting Outgrowers 48, Addressing Complaints and Conflicts 49 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Reporting period Inside cover page G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Last report covered calendar years 2010-11 G4-30 Reporting cycle Bi-ennial G4-31 Contact point Contact inside back cover G4-32 GRI content index GRI index 56 60 G4-33 External assurance KPMG statement 63 64 Wilmar International Limited 57 Sustainability Report 2013 Global Reporting Initiative and Un Global COmpact INdex GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES (cont'D) General Standard Disclosures Page, Comments or omissions UN GLobal Compact Principle Addressed Governance G4-34 Organisation’s governance structure Governance and Management 16 17, Sustainability Management and Governance 26 27 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, In Conversation with the Chairman 3 5, Principle 10: standards and norms of behaviours Ethics Policy 16, Our Integrated Policy 21 22 Anti-corruption Specific Standard Disclosures Material DMA and INdicators Page Page Omissions UNGC Aspects Principle Addressed G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach In Conversation with the Chairman 3 5, Targets and Achievements 8 9, Our Integrated Policy 21 22, Towards Full Traceability 23, Sustainability Certification 24 25, Sustainability Management and Governance 26 27. No Deforestation 31 35, Fire Prevention 39, No Development on Peat 37 38, No Exploitation of People and Local Communities 41 43, Occupational Health and Safety 46 47, Smallholder and Outgrowers 48 Economic Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and About Wilmar 11 13 performance distributed Market G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Rights of Workers 44 45 Principle 6: presence gender compared to local minimum Labour wage at significant locations of operations Indirect G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Respecting and Empowering People 41 economic including the extent of impacts 48, Smallholders and Outgrowers 48, impacts Addressing Complaints And Conflicts 49 Procurement/ FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from In Conversation with the Chairman sourcing suppliers compliant with company’ 3 5, Our Integrated Policy 21 22 practices sourcing policy As mapping is ongoing, we are unable to provide percentage figures. However, 100% of high risk suppliers will be included in mapping and outreach. Wilmar International Limited 58 Sustainability Report 2013 Material DMA and INdicators Page Page Omissions UNGC Aspects Principle Addressed Environmental Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, No Deforestation 31 35, Principle 8: managed in, or adjacent to, protected No Development on Peat 37 38 Environment areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of No Deforestation 31 35 Principle 8: activities, products, and services on Environment biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored No Deforestation 31 35 Principle 8: Environment G4-EN14 Total numbers of IUCN red list species Protecting Our Environment 34 35 Principle 8: and national conservation list species Environment with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Greenhouse Gas Policy and Principle 7 & 8: (Scope 1) Accountability 36 37, No Development Environment on Peat 37 38, Fire Prevention 39 Suppliers G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Our Integrated Policy 21 22, environmental screened using environmental criteria Towards Full Traceability 23 assessment G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential Our Integrated Policy 21 22, Principle 8: negative environmental impacts in the Towards Full Traceability 23, Environment supply chain and actions taken Engaging Our Global Stakeholder 28 29, Greenhouse Gas Policy and Accountability 36 37, No Development On Peat 37 38, Fire Prevention 39 Environmental G4-EN34 Number of grievances about Addressing Complaints and Conflicts 49 Principle 8: grievance environmental impacts filed, addressed, Environment mechanisms and resolved through formal grievance Due to the wide range of complaints mechanisms received, we report on major and material complaints filed. Social Labour G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Occupational Health and Safety 46 47 Practices and occupational diseases, lost days, and Decent Work absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and gender Supplier G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Our Integrated Policy 21 22, assessment screened using labour practices criteria Towards Full Traceability 23 for labour practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential Our Integrated Policy 21 22, negative impacts for labour practices in Towards Full Traceability 23 the supply chain and actions taken Respecting and Empowering People 44 47 Wilmar International Limited 59 Sustainability Report 2013 Global Reporting Initiative and Un Global COmpact INdex Material DMA and INdicators Page Page Omissions UNGC Aspects Principle Addressed Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of Rights of Workers 44 45 significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in Rights of Workers 44 45 Principle 3: association which the right to exercise freedom of Labour and collective association and collective bargaining bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as Rights of Workers 44 45 Principle 5: having significant risk for incidents of Labour child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as Rights of Workers 44 45 Principle 4: compulsory having significant risk for incidents Labour labour of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Indigenous G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations Smallholders and Outgrowers 48 Principle 1: rights involving rights of indigenous peoples Human rights and actions taken Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of Our Integrated Policy 21 22, operations that have been subject Towards Full Traceability 23, to human rights reviews of impact Respecting and Empowering People assessments 44 47 Supplier G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Our Integrated Policy 21 22, human rights screened using human rights criteria Towards Full Traceability 23, assessment Respecting and Empowering People 44 47 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential No Exploitation of People and Principle 2: negative human rights impacts in the Local Communities 41 48, Human rights supply chain and actions taken Smallholders and Outgrowers 48 Human rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human No Exploitation of People and Total number of Principle 1: grievance rights impacts filed, addressed, and Local Communities 41 48, grievance about Human rights mechanisms resolved through formal grievance Smallholders and Outgrowers 48 human rights mechanisms impacts Society G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and No Exploitation of People and Principle 1: potential negative impacts on local Local Communities 41 48 Human rights communities Wilmar International Limited 60 Sustainability Report 2013 About this report Process for determining report content In 2008, prior to the release of our inaugural sustainability report, we went through a detailed internal process to understand the concerns and priorities facing our business, as well as reviewing input from stakeholders. In 2011, we felt that with a few exceptions, there had been few changes, and an update on material issues identified in the previous report was sufficient. With the release of the GRI G4, we have embraced the reporting principles for defining content, increased focus on stakeholder inclusiveness and have made significant updates to our materiality matrix. As a result, the content of this report has excluded certain aspects (such as water usage and philanthropic contributions) previously covered as they were not considered sufficiently critical measured against those identified as material. Identification We recapped the major topics discussed in various forums and engagements as well as reviewed all email correspondence with stakeholders; and conducted a social media analysis to list aspects which had been raised or queried in 2012-13 by: • Investors • Suppliers • Customers • NGOs (including social media) • Communities and smallholders (or NGOs representing these stakeholders) • Lenders (including both private and intergovernmental funders) • Internal stakeholders across Wilmar’s global operations In addition, we reviewed the aspects covered by other palm-related initiatives such as the Unilever Palm Oil Policy, Ferrero Charter, Palm Oil Innovation Group Charter, the Manifesto and the RSPO 2013 Principles and Criteria. Prioritisation The primary target group for this report is Wilmar’s key stakeholders, including investors/lenders, suppliers, customers and as well as NGOs. (We have assessed that other stakeholder groups such as communities and regulatory bodies require different channels of engagement). We invited approximately 40 stakeholders from these groups with whom we had previously engaged, to participate in an online anonymous survey to identify priorities for aspects to include in the report. To ensure that we understand information needs, respondents were asked their views on our 2011 report and whether they felt we had addressed material issues in a balanced way. We also asked respondents to prioritise the most important aspects identified in the initial stage, ranking these on a scale from 1-5, and invited stakeholders to add any new issues which they wanted to see addressed. This prioritisation is balanced with an internal assessment at Wilmar’s Head Office to assess priorities for the business. Based on this, we devised a materiality matrix and a balanced report content based on areas which are of critical importance to both external stakeholders and the business. Wilmar International Limited 61 Sustainability Report 2013 About This Report Wilmar's Materiality Matrix Critical Carbon Footprint Resolution of Existing Community Conflicts Fire and Haze FPIC Processes Traceability of FFB and CPO New Integrated Policy Deforestation/High Carbon Stock Importance To Wilmar's Stakeholders Labour Conditions Peat development Pesticides and Chemical Usage Corporate governance Wildlife Conservation Health and Safety Smallholders Water Impacts Sustainability Bribery and Corruption Community Investment certification Capacity Philantrophy building Least concern Importance To Wilmar's Stakeholders Critical Validation We validate our material aspects and balance in reporting through three main processes: Through the reporting process continuously monitoring stakeholder concerns to ensure that these are covered by the report; through advice from our report consultant, Helikonia, based on their in-depth knowledge of the palm oil industry and stakeholders; and through reviews and commentary from Dr. Gary Paoli, a renowned expert in palm oil sustainability aspects. Review We recognise that there is no perfect and completely auditable process as it relies on ranking qualitative discussions and feedback into a structured list. As we did for our 2011 report, we are therefore committed to collate feedback of this report to ensure we are continuously improving our responsiveness. Assurance We have for the second time engaged KPMG to perform assurance work on selected information disclosed in the report. The assurance provided by KPMG is for Wilmar's internal improvement review and not intended for any interpretation by any third party. As sustainability reporting is an ongoing process, we chose to disclose and to discuss some of the most pertinent material issues for Wilmar and its stakeholders within the boundaries of the report. Due to the inherent limitations of the internal control structure, it is possible that errors or irregularities in the information presented in this report may occur and not be detected. We endeavour to increase our efforts on the reporting process and present information in as complete and accurate manner as possible. For this report, we have decided to perform review on a limited scope of information disclosed in the Sustainability Report. Our aim is to extend the scope of the assurance work and opinion along the next Sustainability Reports. Please refer to the section “KPMG Assurance Statement” for details. Wilmar International Limited 62 Sustainability Report 2013 KPMG Assurance Statement We were engaged by Wilmar International Limited Management is also responsible for the (‘Wilmar’) to provide limited assurance, covering implementation of processes and procedures the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013 to achieve adherence to the GRI G4 reporting respectively, and the period beginning from principles for defining content; preparing the 1 January 2014 to 30 April 2014, on a selection Assured Sustainability Information in accordance of information (‘the Information’) disclosed with the GRI G4 reporting principles for defining in Wilmar’s 2013 Sustainability Report (the quality; for determining Wilmar’s objectives in ‘Sustainability Report’): respect of sustainable development performance and reporting, including the identification of • Wilmar’s description on pages 56 to 59 of its stakeholders, the sustainability context, the adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative material issues, the completeness and the target (GRI) G4 reporting principles for defining audiences for the Sustainability Report; and content1; and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control • Whether the Assured Sustainability systems from which the reported performance Information, as described below, and as information is derived. reported in the Sustainability Report are, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI reporting principles for defining quality2. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express a Assured Sustainability Information conclusion based on the work performed. We The Assured Sustainability Information conducted our engagement in accordance with contained within the Sustainability Report Singapore Standard on Assurance Engagements includes the qualitative information of in the (SSAE 3000) Assurance Engagements other following sections: than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the Institute of Certified • Towards Full Traceability on pages 22 to 23; Public Accountants of Singapore. These • No Deforestation on pages 31 to 35; Standards require that we comply with applicable • Greenhouse Gas Policy and Accountability ethical requirements, including independence on pages 36 to 37; requirements, and that we plan and perform the • No Development on Peat on pages 37 to 38; engagement to obtain limited assurance about • Fire Prevention on page 39; whether the Information is free from material • No Exploitation of People and Local misstatement. Communities on pages 41 to 43; • Rights of Workers on pages 44 to 45. The engagement was conducted with a multidisciplinary team with included professionals with suitable experienced in both assurance skills Management’s responsibility and in the applicable subject matter including Management is responsible for the preparation stakeholder engagement, environmental, social and presentation of the Sustainability Report in and financial aspects. accordance with the GRI G4 reporting principles for both defining content, as described in We have not been engaged to, and therefore do the “About This Report” and “Scope and not, provide assurance in respect of any other Boundaries” sections of the Sustainability information in the Sustainability Report or any Report, and the information and assertions period prior to the year ended 31 December contained within it in accordance with the GRI 2012. We have only provided a conclusion on 1 stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, reporting principles for defining quality. Wilmar’s description of its adherence to the GRI materiality and completeness. G4 reporting principles for defining content and 2 balance, comparability, on the Assured Sustainability Information based accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. on the work performed. Wilmar International Limited 63 Sustainability Report 2013 KPMG Assurance Statement Assurance approach A limited assurance engagement consists • Reading the Assured Sustainability of making inquiries, primarily of persons Information presented in the Sustainability responsible for Wilmar’s adherence to the Report to determine whether they are GRI reporting principles for defining content consistent with our overall knowledge of, and for the preparation of the Assured and experience with the sustainability Sustainability Information presented in the performance of Wilmar. Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures to the The extent of evidence gathering procedures information, as appropriate. performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance These procedures included: engagement, and therefore a lower level of • Inquiries of management to gain an assurance is provided. understanding of Wilmar’s processes for determining material issues for Wilmar’s key stakeholder groups; conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described • Interviews with senior management and above, nothing has come to our attention that relevant staff at corporate level concerning: causes us to believe that, for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013 respectively, and »» The stakeholder engagement processes the period beginning from 1 January 2014 to undertaken by the business; 30 April 2014: »» The consideration of material issues as well as boundaries setting to both stakeholders • Wilmar’s description on pages 56 to 59 of the and to Wilmar and the prioritisation of Sustainability Report detailing its adherence those issues; and to the GRI G4 reporting principles for defining »» Sustainability strategy and other content, is materially misstated; and operational policies in place to address material issues identified. • The Assured Sustainability Information, as described above, and as reported in the • Interviews with the relevant staff at the Sustainability Report, is not presented, in all corporate level and business unit level material respects, in accordance with the GRI responsible for designing, implementing G4 reporting principles for defining quality. of the key systems, processes and controls for collecting, managing and reporting the Assured Sustainability Information in the Sustainability Report; • Obtaining documentation to support assertions made by management and relevant staff in relation to the above points; • Comparing the Assured Sustainability Information in the Sustainability Report to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Assured Sustainability Information. The processes for evidence collection did not involve any site visits; Wilmar International Limited 64 Sustainability Report 2013 Emphasis of Matter – Restriction of use Recommendations and Observations Our assurance report is provided solely to Wilmar Without affecting our conclusion, we draw in accordance with the terms of our engagement. attention to the description of the operations Our work has been undertaken so that we might and geographical regions excluded from the report to Wilmar on those matters we have been reported information as well as the limitations engaged to report upon in this assurance report of the reporting process as outlined in the and for no other purpose. We do not assume sections “About This Report” and “Scope and responsibility to anyone other than Wilmar for Boundaries” of the Sustainability Report. our work, for our assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached in our report. We also make the following recommendations for the further development of sustainability management and sustainability reporting: Singapore, August 26, 2014 • As described on pages 56 to 59, Wilmar has started to apply the GRI G4 reporting principles for defining content in the development of this Sustainability Report. We recommend further strengthening of the KPMG LLP procedures for the steps of identification, prioritisation, validation and review to ensure a consistent and systematic process for determining report content, in accordance with the GRI G4 Reporting Principles. • We also recommend continuing the development of the boundary settings by broadening the scope of the material aspect to the other relevant activities upstream and downstream, and by reporting on the related performance indicators, in particular those related to the supply chain. • The integrated policy as well as the operational policies have been implemented for the whole Wilmar’s operations. We recommend further development of the reporting systems to report on the performance management and internal control systems demonstrating the correct implementation and performance of these policies. Wilmar International Limited 65 Sustainability Report 2013 Glossary Biodiversity The diversity (number and variety of species) of plant and animal life within a region. Biological Oxygen The amount of oxygen used when organic matter undergoes decomposition by micro-organisms. Demand (BOD) Testing for BOD is done to assess the amount of organic matter in water. CO2 Equivalents Carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) provide a universal standard of measurement against which the impacts of releasing (or avoiding the release of) different greenhouse gases can be evaluated. Deforestation Human-induced conversion of forest to non-forests, with an exception for small-scale low intensity subsistence conversion by indigenous peoples and forest dependent traditional communities (consistent with HCV 5). Effluents Water discharged from one source into a separate body of water, such as mill process water. Emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) or carbon emissions are gasses in an atmosphere that absorb and emit radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Extraction Rate The amount of oil extracted from oil palm fruit at a mill. Oil is extracted from the flesh, crude palm oil (CPO) or from the nut, palm kernel oil (PKO). High Carbon Stock An HCS forest, a concept being defined through multi-stakeholder processes, are vegetation classes (HCS) above the level between degraded lands (former forest now scrub and grassland) and regenerating secondary natural forest. It is identified through a combination of vegetation stratification based on interpretation of remote sensing images and field checks, and a biome or regional specific carbon threshold or range. High Conservation The concept of HCV forests (HCVF) was first developed by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in Values (HCV) 1999 as their 9th principle. The FSC defined HCVF as forests of outstanding and critical importance due to their environmental, socio-economic, cultural, biodiversity and landscape value. International ILO is a tripartite world body representative of labour, management and government and is an agency Labour of the United Nations. It disseminates labour information and sets minimum international labour Organization (ILO) standards called “conventions”, offered to member nations for adoption. Independent According to the UK Combined Code Principles of Good Corporate Governance, an Independent Director Director is “independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.” Integrated Pest IPM is a pest control strategy that uses an array of complementary methods: mechanical devices, Management physical devices, genetic, biological, legal, cultural management, and chemical management. These (IPM) methods are done in three stages: prevention, observation, and intervention. It is an ecological approach with a main goal of significantly reducing or eliminating the use of pesticides. Mass Balance The mass balance mechanism allows certified palm oil to be mixed with conventional palm oil, but the entire process is monitored administratively. This method is slightly more stringent and complex than the book and claim system. Non-executive A Board Director who does not currently hold other employment with the company. Unlike an Director Independent Director, a nonexecutive can have significant financial interests or close personal ties to the company. Wilmar International Limited 66 Sustainability Report 2013 Non-governmental In this report, NGO is used to refer to grass-roots and campaigning organisations focusing on Organisation (NGO) environmental or social issues. Off-set certificates/ Off-set certificates are traded via the GreenPalm trading mechanism. The GreenPalm trading Greenpalm/Book mechanism allows customers to buy certificates for the volume of certified palm oil required, without & Claim physical traceability. Peat Peat is an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation matter. Peat forms in wetlands or peatlands, variously called bogs, moors, muskegs, pocosins, mires, and peat swamp forests. Roundtable on A multi-stakeholder organisation based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The organisation has developed Sustainable Palm Oil a certification scheme for sustainable palm oil. (RSPO) Social Impact Social impact assessments include the process of analysing, monitoring and managing the intended Assessment and unintended social consequences, both positive and negative, of planned interventions (policies, programs, plans, projects) and any social change processes invoked by those interventions. Its primary purpose is to bring about a more sustainable and equitable biophysical and human environment. Stakeholders Any group or individual who are affected by or can affect the company’s operations. Sustainability A term expressing a long-term balance between social, economic and environmental objectives. Often linked to Sustainable Development which is defined as “Development that meets the need of current generations without compromising the needs of future generations”. Traceability Traceability is the capability to track sustainable palm oil along the entire supply chain back to source. Segregation This system allows sustainable palm oil to be kept separate from conventional palm oil throughout the entire supply chain. Wilmar International Limited 67 Sustainability Report 2013 Notes Contact We improve by listening to our stakeholders’ comments. If you have any comments or questions on the contents of this report or on our sustainability performance, we would welcome your contribution. Please contact us here: by email: sharon.chong@wilmar.com.sg / csr@wilmar.com.sg by post: Wilmar International Limited 56 Neil Road, Singapore 088830 This report is printed on Curious Matter and Conqueror Wove. Both paper types are certified against the Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) standard. Compiled and edited by Helikonia. wilmar international limited Co. Reg. No. 199904785Z 56 Neil Road Singapore 088830 t. (65) 6216 0244 www.wilmar-international.com
