United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress March 2014 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Statement of Continued Support I am delighted to announce our partnership with the United Nations Global Compact and express QuickMobile’s full support of the Ten Principles that cover the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual report we describe our policies and practices that we have enacted to lead by example in these areas. These ten principles are being integrated into our business at the strategic and operational levels. We look forward to demonstrating our commitment to continuous improvement in future reporting periods. This report and all future Communication on Progress reports will be made available publicly through our primary channels of communication including our official website. Yours sincerely, Patrick Payne CEO QuickMobile 2013 UNGC Communication on Progress 2 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Contents 04 Environment 08 Labour and Human Rights 11 Anti-Corruption 3 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Businesses all around the world are becoming more aware of concerns for finite resources, impacts from emissions, increasing energy demands and the great inequalities of our world, both within our current generation and between generations past and future. The scarcity of resources is seen as we continue to consume nonrenewables such as fossil fuels, and the impact of pollution through shifts in climate patterns. QuickMobile is committed to the reduction of its environmental footprint and working with our clients, channel partners and service providers to do the same. As the recognized leader in our industry, we are dedicated to leading by example and demonstrating that environmental stewardship is not only a differentiator, but also a requirement for businesses to thrive in the modern world. QuickMobile’s primary product offering is a mobile application platform that is transforming the meetings and events industry. Our mobile applications greatly reduce or eliminate the need for printed materials at conferences and events. By growing our business, we are able to eliminate large quantities of paper waste, while providing faster access to information. 4 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 QuickMobile set a precedent for sustainability in the meeting and events industry in 2008. More than 90,000 pages of paper were eliminated when the first app launched at PhoCusWright’s Travel Innovation Summit, creating a compelling proposition for further adoption. Since then, we have provided in-kind application development and support while forging relationships with sustainability leaders in the industry including the Green Meetings Industry Council (GMIC), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Brands, and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Demonstrating a commitment to continuous improvement, QuickMobile has convened a Sustainability Committee in order to effect meaningful change within our organization. This committee is made up of decision-makers and influencers from almost all functional teams. This initiative is led by a Sustainability Officer with a background in sustainable business leadership and related strategies. Our goals for the upcoming year include an Application Level Check with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the continued expansion of our internal environmental stewardship program, as well a new external program to assist in the sustainable development of our partners and customers. Our current implementation began with an internal survey, conducted to leverage individual knowledge and build a profile of the current culture around sustainability at QuickMobile. We found specific areas that could be targeted to reduce waste, energy consumption and emissions. To reduce waste, we implemented a composting program for our heavily used office kitchen, which has seen tremendous participation by our staff. We provide washable kitchenware in place of disposable plates, cups and cutlery. Staff use refillable water bottles that can be filled at 2 filtered water stations (one on each floor of our office). 5 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Lighting on one of the two floors of our office has been upgraded from incandescent bulbs, to energy efficient, long-life LED bulbs providing a reduction in both energy consumption and disposal thanks to their longer lifespan. We have also replaced all disposable batteries with rechargeable units for peripheral computing devices. Located in Downtown Vancouver, our office is easily accessible by bicycle and public transit. In order to promote an emissions-free commute, QuickMobile has installed a bicycle storage room and shower facilities. Even prior to these initiatives, QuickMobile has always conducted business recognizing the importance of social and environmental responsibility. As part of our ongoing commitment to sustainability and community, QuickMobile has donated a stake in the company to the David Suzuki Foundation in partnership with VanCity Equity. Our CEO, Patrick Payne, has spearheaded board involvement and reporting and ‘puts his money where his mouth is’ by linking his personal compensation to sustainability objectives. As we begin the implementation of our recent environmental impact reduction and reporting program, the Sustainability Committee looks forward to reporting on the progress and successes of these initiatives. Our current methods of measurement include recognition of materials purchased, Individual self-reporting and sample data collected on usage of facilities. The composting initiative is measured by collection weight and totaled monthly. In the 27 weeks of our staff participating in the composting program, we have diverted 810Kgs of waste, which has a CO2 equivalent of 2.2 metric tonnes (as of February 2014). By switching over half our office to LED lighting, our estimation (based on manufacturers’ specifications) is that there has been a reduction in the consumption of energy that will amount to 9,500 kWh annually. The success of our bike-to-work program varies heavily on the weather. We currently have five participants that brave the winter weather to ride to work, and this number increases to over 20 in the summer months, which accounts for more than 10% of our employees. 6 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 In future reports, we will compare these values to previous reporting periods. Goals and future expectations will be based on a combination of the previous achievements and benchmarking against industry leaders. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for monitoring these activities, and for communicating both successes and setbacks directly to the senior management team. 7 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Labour and Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals QuickMobile provides fair and beneficial practices toward the communities in which we operate and gives back by contributing to their strength and growth. QuickMobile supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as well as the Human Rights Code of British Columbia (http://www.bclaws.ca/Recon/ document/ID/freeside/00_96210_01). QuickMobile is committed to fair hiring practices. Hiring is based on the principle of merit including skills, knowledge, personal attributes and experience, and is guided by values that are inherent in QuickMobile’s culture including respect, initiative, integrity, entrepreneurial spirit, accountability and fun. 8 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 We also endeavor to ensure that our hiring practices are non-discriminatory (according to The Human Rights Code in BC and Ontario), objective, transparent, consistent and legally defensible. We use a collaborative approach to assess and select candidates by involving several assessment members and a team-based decision-making process. QuickMobile supports the abolition of forced labour and child labour. All QuickMobile staff and contractors meet legal the requirements for employment according to British Columbia Law. Reports of the use of forced labour or child labour by any of QuickMobile’s resources will be investigated and reported to executive management. QuickMobile is committed to providing a working environment that is free from violence, the threat of violence, harassment and hazing and abuse of employees, supervisors and authority, verbal abuse and discrimination in contravention with the BC’s Human Rights Code and Canadian Citizenship and Multiculturalism Acts. This policy does not replace the rights an individual may have under law. The policy applies when the personal security of a member of QuickMobile’s business community has been violated on the QuickMobile premises or at a QuickMobile sponsored event or activity. QuickMobile recognizes the need to protect freedom of expression in a work context. Nothing in this policy should limit freedom of expression related to public life and professionally debating and having frank discussions to further develop QuickMobile’s strategies and business policies. QuickMobile strives to provide each employee with a safe work environment that complies with applicable health and safety laws. The Company’s policy is to ensure business decisions made at all levels of the organization take the company’s health and safety commitments into account. QuickMobile also expects each employee to take personal responsibility for his/her health and safety while working at all times and to report on workplace issues that jeopardize the safety of others. QuickMobile has a Health and Safety Committee to address workplace health and safety issues. 9 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 We are also aware of potential risks arising from natural disaster, fire or other emergencies. The Health and Safety committee will create and make modifications to QuickMobile’s emergency preparedness plan. The Health and Safety Committee will meet on a monthly basis to review any issues that have occurred and will work to identify areas for improvement. The QuickMobile Human Resources department will immediately undertake or direct an investigation into any allegation of labour and human rights violations. The investigation will be completed and a determination regarding the report will be made. However, if the complaint relates to an employee in the Human Resources department, the complaint will be investigated and resolved by a neutral management member in another department. 10 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The company adheres to a strict anti-bribery policy that applies to all employees, regardless of location. QuickMobile and its employees and directors are prohibited by law and QuickMobile policy from giving or offering to give or promise money or anything of value including company work to a foreign official, political party or official in order to influence that person to obtain or retain business or secure any improper advantage. No payment can be made to a government official indirectly through an agent, such as an independent contractor or service provider. In certain instances, QuickMobile can provide travel and entertainment to foreign officials when it is directly related to the maintenance of the QuickMobile business. Determining whether such an expense is a permissible payment and therefore allowed under the law, or is possibly a violation of the law, is a legal judgment and not a decision to be made without consulting with the Company’s Officers. All employees and directors are required to obtain permission before providing anything of value to the above parties, including expenses related to travel and entertainment. Insider trading and tipping is strictly prohibited. Employees, consultants and directors who are aware of material non-public information about our customers, suppliers, licensors and licensees, as a result of their relationship with QuickMobile are prohibited by law and Company policy from trading in securities of the companies, as well as from communicating such information to others. All employees, consultants and directors are instructed to refrain from providing advice or making recommendations regarding the purchase or sale of securities related to our customers and other external contacts. 11 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | March 2014 Employees who know of or suspect any violation are required to immediately report this to their manager or Human Resources. Escalations and further investigation would elicit support from a committee consisting of HR, Security/IT and members of the executive team. If a conflict of interest is apparent, a neutral third party will be appointed to escalate the issue as appropriate, which may or may not include consultation of experts and/or legal council. 12
