Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress (COP) SADKO 2013 Sadko Statement of Support Dear Sadko Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Sadko Company reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In the annual Communications on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Hadia Sadek Ghabbour President Sadko Egypt HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence. Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Goals 2012 Achievement Company values are reviewed and sessions will take place in the near future to clearly demonstrate each value. Assessment 2013 Some staff complain that they work overtime and are not well compensated Being dealt with through HR Policy 1-All laborours should work equal hours and be compensated fairly if they work Will be done extra hours 2Staff respect one another as per our company Values Goals 2014 1Labour satisfaction on issue of working hours 2Fairness achieved 3Reduce number of complaints to zero to acceptable limits.. 4Respect for one another according to our company Values. 1 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 2014 Implementation 1-HR Manager meets with Managers and staff who have issues on this point Ongoing 2Solutions are proposed 3-Compensation System to solve this is put in place Not yet done 4We have Respect as one of our Values and we will activate workshops to communicate and align on its meaning to all Sadko team Not yet done Measurement 1-Reduced number of complaints from 50 to 5 Not achieved as yet 2-Everyone of the Sadko team has the same concept definition on how to respect Ongoing one another and everyone they encounter at work ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Goals of 2012 Achievement 1More awareness campaigns and data on Environment through the company Ongoing 80% newsletter, boards and workshops 2Injaz Egypt works with students 12-22 years old in middle schools, high schools A new venture with INJAZ and universities. Each semester business leaders send staff into local schools and will happen in February. universities. For an hour a week these 'corporate volunteers' become mentors where they share their professional life with youth, giving them practical training on how to succeed in the private sector. Through the various Injaz programs students progress from learning work readiness and character building skills to acquiring financial literacy skills and entrepreneurial mind sets. Assessment 2013 1Staff are still not engaged or completely aware of environmental challenges and concepts 2Staff are still not fully involved in Volunteer work in the community INJAZ will initiate more collaboration from staff. Policy 1All staff should be aware of priority issues concerning CSR. More precise information will be publicized that will enable staff to understand the crucial importance of saving energy and water consumption 2All staff lean towards volunteer work and this will enable us to increase INJAZ initiative participation in community efforts whether in less fortunate communities or in schools. Goals 2014 1Increase in the number of staff who are aware of CSR projects Will be done 2 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 2014 2Increase the level of engagement of the staff in Volunteerism Once we start with INJAZ 3Encourage staff initiatives towards energy savings Will be done Implementation 1Publicise information on environmental issues with the aim to prioritize the Using Team boards to environmental issues employees are interested in as well as build their capacity and announce this enhance their organizational ability to develop integrated approaches to environment management. 2-We will activate this initiative to enable them to socialize in an atmosphere of The company magazine is camaraderie and enhance awareness of our country culture. Trips will be set in another vital source of various cultural locations in the area information 2We are sponsors of ENACTUS Egypt & are committed to enhancing student An ongoing process participation in corporate endeavors to motivate them forward. 3The “Kids Corner” has been implemented in one showroom with great success. An Ongoing art competition will be started end of this year to promote child imagination and talent. The main objective is to embody and convey the child-friendly values of Sadko & introduce some environment issues in games to suit different ages Measurement 1CSR. Out of the 450 staff at least 100 people will volunteer Awareness increases by 60% 2Volunteerism. Sadko aims to create opportunities for its employees pertaining to Volunteer awareness and environment, self motivation, solidarity with less fortunate people, to participate in motivation up by 50% volunteering activities in our communities as it is an integral part of our strategic planning to increase our role as a passionate responsible corporate citizen. 3Kids Corner in the showrooms. Presenting clients with a place where their kids Encourage a larger number can enjoy the time they wait for their parents to inspect, choose a product to buy of clients to visit showrooms & motivate children’s participation in different activities. 4ENACTUS initiative informs staff of university students & how encouraging them would benefit all sides Ongoing LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Goals 2014 Achievement Freedom of association & collective bargaining 1The Cafeteria has been a success in giving staff a place to have a meal and socialize. 3 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 2014 2The company Library has been a success by providing books under different categories to suit all tastes. Books requested by staff have also been bought to encourage reading. Assessment 2013 1Encouragement of staff to free socializing and time to relax and proper use Has been well received. of space 2A new dimension within scope of work for staff to break the concentration The Library has achieved this & focus & return refreshed initiative. Policy 1Strict monitoring of free time 2Staff to adhere to set times Has been done 3Set specifications and uphold standard of cafeteria to well serve staff Implementation Regular monitoring of the cafeteria & making sure things presented are Done according to specifications & standards Measurement A survey will be done to check company morale, cleanliness and service To be done standards for both: Library and Cafeteria ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Goals 2012 Achievement 1Transparency in all dealings within the company and towards Assessment 2013 all stakeholders Staff are not fully aligned and as such, workshops will be introduced to 2Clear communication channels strengthen these values will be done Policy All staff should adhere to company policy related to bribes, transparency in information, & always deal honestly and with integrity towards individuals and organizations with which they transact business Implementation 1We have a policy of zero tolerance. 4 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 2014 2Sadko maintains the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all dealings. We work hard to maintain honest and open relationships based on mutual trust, and believe that transparency is the only way forward for a better economy. 3We have integrity as one of our values and we will activate workshops to communicate and align on its meaning to all Sadko team Measurement Everyone of the team will have the same concept definition on how to live by Integrity in our business at Sadko, a survey at the end of 2013 will be conducted to better understand impact of those workshops on implementation Thank you. This is our Communication on progress in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. 5 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 2014
