Sustainability Report Contents Highlights 2013 The only acceptable model for future growth Orkla’s sustainability work Food and product safety Nutrition and health Responsible purchasing Environment Occupational health and safety People Orkla and society About the report The leading Nordic 1 by business area branded consumer goods company Orkla ASA is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and headquartered in Oslo, Norway. Orkla is a leading supplier of branded consumer goods and concept solutions to the grocery and out-of-home sectors in the Nordic and Baltic regions. In addition, the Group holds good positions in certain product categories in India, the Czech Republic, Austria, Orkla Foods 9,730 30% Poland and Russia. The company is also a major supplier to Orkla Confectionery & Snacks 4,755 15% the European bakery market. Orkla’s vision is to improve Orkla Home & Personal 4,743 15% everyday life with healthier and more enjoyable local brands. Orkla International 2,508 8% The Group also operates in the aluminium, hydropower Orkla Food Ingredients 5,939 18% and real estate sectors. As at 31 December 2013, Orkla had Gränges 3,895 12% around 17,000 employ-ees. The Group’s turnover in 2013 Hydro Power 639 2% totalled NOK 33 billion. Number of factories: 97 (businesses Other Business 7 0% in which Orkla has a more than 50% ownership interest) Total sales revenues (NOK million) 32,216 100% Number of countries in which we operate: 28 1 Excluding internal sales and other operating revenues. Key figures* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Operating revenues (NOK million) 33,045 30,001 61,009 57,338 56,228 EBITA (NOK million) 1 3,163 3,295 4,041 3,944 2,448 EBITA1 margin (%) 9.6 11.0 6.6 6.9 4.4 Ordinary profit before tax (NOK million) 2,664 3,873 -923 20 1,071 Diluted earnings per share (NOK) 0.7 1.6 -0.8 -0.9 2.5 Return on capital employed, industrial activities (%) 2 11.1 12.9 10.7 10.5 5.2 Total dividends per share (NOK) 2.503 2.50 2.50 7.50 2.25 Equity ratio (%) 59.1 53.9 51.8 53.6 51.7 *Figures as reported in 2009-2012. 1 Operating profit before amortisation and other income and expenses. 2 EBITA* / (Average net working capital + Average tangible assets + Average intangible assets at cost – Average net pension liabilities – Average deferred tax excess value) 3 Proposed dividend. OPERATING REVENUES EBITA 1 EARNINGS PER SHARE Group operating revenues Group EBITA1 totalled Earnings per share were totalled NOK 33.0 billion. NOK 3.2 billion. NOK 0.7 in 2013. Business areas Orkla Orkla Orkla Orkla Orkla Confectionery Home & Food Foods International & Snacks Personal Ingredients Operating revenues Operating revenues Operating revenues Operating revenues Operating revenues (NOK million): (NOK million): (NOK million): (NOK million): (NOK million): 9,797 4,784 4,770 2,644 5,998 EBITA1 (NOK million): EBITA1 (NOK million): EBITA1 (NOK million): EBITA1 (NOK million): EBITA1 (NOK million): 1,275 682 823 -86 288 Number of man-years: Number of man-years: Number of man-years: Number of man-years: Number of man-years: 4,083 2,247 1,738 4,957 2,366 Associated companies Other businesses and joint ventures Gränges Hydro Shares and Orkla Rolled aluminium Power Eiendom products EBITA1 EBITA1 assets (real estate) Pro forma EBITDA* EBIT* (NOK billion): (NOK million): (NOK million): Book value (NOK billion): Value (NOK billion): (NOK billion): 337 213 1.1 2.3 1.1 1.3 Corporate centre and support functions * The figures from associated companies and joint ventures are on a 100 % basis. 1 Operating profit before amortisation and other income and expenses. Highlights 2013 IMPORTANT RESULTS OUR PLANS AHEAD We will maintain our strict food safety We carried out food safety audits at Food safety Mattrygghet 55 % of our food production plants. procedures and ensure high, uniform standards at all our plants. We launched Felix Smart Mat a We will further develop the smart food S Ernæring og helse range of climate-smart, healthy concept and intensify our focus on nutrition Mattrygghet forcemeat products, in Sweden. and health. The knowledge gained in the SALTO project All varieties of Pizza Grandiosa in will be used to reduce salt in other Orkla Nutrition Miljø and Norway have a lower salt content. products. S health Ernæring og helse We helped to draw up Norwegian guidelines for marketing food and In 2014, Orkla will ensure that the new Miljø beverages to children and adolesvoluntary guidelines are effectively Miljø cents, and to establish the Food and implemented in the Group’s businesses. Drink Industry Professional Practices Mattrygghet Committee (MFU). Ansvarlige innkjøp Miljø Responsible purchasing procedures have been implemented in 23 of By 2020 Orkla will ensure that all purchasing is compliant with Orkla’s Supplier Code of our companies. These companies Conduct and our principles for sustainable account for a total of around 85 % of S Ernæring og helse production. Orkla’s purchasing. Ansvarlige innkjøp All palm oil used in Orkla products is to We have reduced our use of palm be produced in compliance with Orkla’s oil by 15,000 tonnes in the period sustainable production standards by 2017 Responsible 2008–2013. at the latest. Miljø purchasing Mattrygghet Our goal is to ensure that all cocoa All the cocoa we purchase for use in purchased by Orkla is sustainably produced Nidar chocolate is 100% UTZ certified. by 2020. Miljø S Ernæring og helse 100% of Abba herring, the raw mateBy 2015, all herring, cod and hand-peeled rials for Abba fishballs and Kalles kaviar shrimp in brine are to be MSC certified or (fish roe spread) are MSC certified. come from MSC certified fisheries. Miljø Ansvarlige innkjøp More than 92 % of Orkla’s production We will seek to reduce the total amount of waste is recycled or used to produce waste and further increase the recovery rate. biogas, other energy or animal feed. Miljø Environment We have conducted a study to learn In 2014, we will use this knowledge to draw more about how the production of our up ambitious targets for our environmental raw materials affects the environment. efforts. Ansvarlige innkjøp MESSAGE FROM THE CEO The only acceptable model for future growth As the leading branded consumer Responsible purchasing: We are committed to ensuring that the production of our raw materials does not lead to goods company in the Nordic region, overexploitation of natural resources or breaches of labour Orkla is committed to promoting a or human rights. Our decision to use UTZ certified cocoa sustainable value chain. This is not just is a good example of responsible purchasing. In 2013, we our responsability – it also makes good reached our goal of buying 100% UTZ certified cocoa for all Nidar chocolate. This means that the cocoa farmers business sense. Sustainin Côte d’Ivoire receive close follow-up, training in better ability agricultural practices and a higher price for their cocoa. Report Environment: By improving energy efficiency, reducing WHAT WE SEE water consumption and curbing wastage, we save costs The global population now exceeds 7 billion people and is while reducing the environmental impact of our operations. growing by 77 million every year. At the same time, climate One of many examples of win-win environmental initiatives changes are increasing in scale, causing extreme weather in 2013 is Orkla Foods Sverige’s investment in a production conditions in more and more parts of the world. The growth plant for plastic bottles. This is a profitable investment which in population and consumption, combined with climate will reduce CO2 emissions from the transport of bottles. change, is putting increasing pressure on agricultural raw materials, fish and seafood. At the same time, consumer WHAT WE WANT demands with respect to health, product quality, the origin Although we are making progress, we must admit that 4 of raw materials and the environment are steadily growing. much remains to be achieved. Nonetheless, the direction that we must take is clear: sustainable production is the The trend that we are now seeing calls for a willingness to only acceptable model for future growth. We want Orkla subject ourselves to critical scrutiny, and to engage in a to be associated with good raw materials and safe products. dialogue on how we as a society can join forces to We want to make products that are healthier and more ensure healthy, safe and sustainable products for geneenjoyable and that make life simpler for consumers. rations to come. Orkla has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact WHAT WE DO since 2005, thereby pledging to uphold the UN’s Ten We have identified four areas in which we exercise the Principles with respect to human rights, labour rights, the greatest influence and where our efforts can contribute environment and anti-corruption efforts in our day-toto a sustainable value chain. day operations. Through this work, we have experienced 2013 how dialogue and collaboration across industries and Food safety: Being able to trust that the food we eat is centres of expertise can make what is difficult easier safe is fundamental. Good food safety systems, uniformly and the impossible possible. In keeping with the spirit of applied, are therefore a top priority at Orkla. Safe products the Global Compact, we will actively seek to pursue a require a continuous, sustained effort, and we invest dialogue. We are convinced that by making a concerted substantial resources every year in training, audits, quality effort to resolve major issues, we can make a difference. control and improvement measures. I hope that this report gives you a good picture of where Nutrition and health: We are committed to developing we stand and our ambitions for our sustainability work. At healthier products, and have reduced the amount of the same time, I encourage you to contact us if you have salt, sugar and saturated fats in a variety of products in views on how we can improve. the past few years. Toro’s long-term efforts to lower the salt content in soups, sauces and casseroles are a good example of this focus. Since 1983, the amount of salt has been reduced in all of the Toro products, and in some of them it has been halved. Peter A. Ruzicka President and CEO 5 Sustainability Report 6 2013 ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK The big picture The world is facing major sustainability challenges that will have a significant Population growth and pressure on raw materials impact on Orkla and the communities of which we are a part. Lifestyle diseases are increasingly prevalent. Accelerating climate change and increased scarcity of natural resources Climate change and population growth are access to GMO-free raw materials and potential new pathogenic bacteria 7 Our response to these challenges Nutrition and health The environment We seek to promote better public health by developing Through systematic improvement efforts, both in our healthier products, providing good consumer guidance, own operations and in collaboration with suppliers, we marketing our products responsibly and collaborating aim to reduce our energy consumption and minimise with national health authorities and external research the greenhouse gas emissions related to Orkla products. communities. Moreover, we work continuously to increase production yield and reduce waste. We are aware that this is important Responsible purchasing for both the environment and Orkla’s profitability. By making conscious choices in our use of resources, setting clearly defined requirements for suppliers and Occupational health and safety engaging in multi-stakeholder collaboration on solving Through effective risk management and preventive health complex challenges, we strive to promote sustainable efforts, we aim to achieve zero injuries in our operations. production in our supplier chains. Human resource development and corporate culture Food and product safety By investing in our employees’ development and cultivating We are committed to ensuring that the food we make good judgement, we seek to create a strong organisation is safe to eat and our products safe to use, by means of for the benefit of individuals, Orkla, our customers and stringent requirements for raw materials and production society at large. processes and systematic training, risk management and control procedures. ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK Our approach to sustainability Orkla seeks to promote the sustainable corporate responsibility: • Nutrition and health production of food and grocery products • Responsible purchasing through responsible operations and • Food safety and product safety systematic improvement efforts. • Environment • Occupational health and safety • Human resource development and corporate culture SustainAs the leading Nordic manufacturer of food and branded ability consumer goods, we have a farm-to-fork responsibility. For each of these focus areas, we have formulated guideReport We consider it our corporate responsibility to conduct lines and principles with which every company in the our operations with respect for individuals and the environGroup must comply. Every year, we review the companies’ ment, in a way that creates positive ripple effects for the work by means of internal status reports. communities around us. Furthermore, we regard responsible operations as a prerequisite for commercial success. In the past few years, Orkla has made progress in all six main focal areas. By providing training for management Orkla’s ability to achieve long-term, profitable growth and key personnel, improving our internal reporting is contingent on our understanding of the way in which procedures and engaging in a more active dialogue with the global challenges related to nutrition and health, external stakeholders, we have increased awareness of climate change and natural resource scarcity affect our Orkla’s sustainability challenges. operations, and on our active contribution to solving the 8 challenges related to our own value chain. Efforts related to food safety, nutrition and health, responsible purchasing and environment are carried out OUR FOOTPRINT by the individual companies, with support from specialist Our food products and other grocery products are purstaff at central level. In 2014, to ensure that Orkla manages chased regularly by several million consumers, and affect sustainability-related risk effectively, and optimally exploits their diet, health and well-being. Even small changes in the potential offered by sustainability trends, we will product content can bring about important improvements draw up targets and strategies for our work on these in public health. four topics in the period up to 2020. Orkla’s food production makes us one of the largest purchasers of agricultural and fishery raw materials in the Nordic region. In addition, we affect the environment 2013 through our use of energy and water and our purchases of packaging and transport services. Orkla is also involved in certain global commodity chains that pose complex economic, social and environmental challenges. Orkla is a large employer with a significant number of production plants and operations in many countries. Consequently, we have a considerable influence on our employees’ well-being, health and personal development. Moreover, Orkla companies create economic ripple effects in the form of jobs, tax revenues and purchasing from local suppliers in the communities and countries in which we are present. Based on a mapping of Orkla’s footprint, we have identified the following topics as the main areas of focus for our XXX Sustainability Report 10 2013 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY A matter of trust Good food safety systems, uniformly cover all risk factors of particular importance for Orkla’s food production. applied, are top priority at Orkla. The OFSS sets stringent requirements for production premises, management procedures, expertise and opeIt is essential that we are able to trust that the food we rating procedures, and process and product control. eat is safe. This means, first and foremost, that food and The standard includes procedures for hazard analysis drink manufacturers must take responsibility for people’s and critical control points (HACCP) in production. The health and put in place good food safety procedures OFSS is regularly evaluated by Orkla’s central food safety throughout the value chain. department, which makes decisions on improvements as necessary in consultation with Orkla’s Group Executive Board. Our position on food safety All food products launched by Orkla have undergone a thorough risk assessment in the course of the development process to identify and control potential health hazards associated with ingredients, packaging and use. AUDITS All Orkla companies that manufacture food, beverages and dietary supplements must meet OFSS requirements, 11 and compliance is monitored by means of regular audits. Since the introduction of the OFSS in 2004, a total of 589 audits of Orkla’s own factories have been carried out. Binding plans describing corrective measures, assigning responsibility for measures and setting implementation deadlines were prepared in connection with all the audits. TRAINING Orkla has a team of eleven highly qualified internal At Orkla we address this issue by establishing systematic food safety auditors. The auditors regularly undergo quality and control procedures in all our businesses. training with external specialists. Through our own Orkla Food Safety Standard, we ensure high, uniform standards at all our factories. Furthermore, The training programme provided through the Orkla we insist that our suppliers comply with our stringent Food Safety Training Course has been well attended, guidelines for safe raw material production. especially by quality control and production employees in charge of food safety at Orkla factories. Since the course The main risk issues are pathogenic bacteria, undesirable was started up in 2010, 92 employees have completed substance content, allergens, foreign bodies and the risk the training programme. of sabotage. CONTINGENCY MANAGEMENT SAFE FOOD PRODUCTION Orkla has drawn up a contingency plan to deal effectively The Orkla Food Safety Standard (OFSS) is designed to ensure with unforeseen and undesirable incidents. Based on this a high, uniform standard of quality in food production at all plan, our companies carry out emergency exercises at Orkla’s manufacturing facilities. The standard is based regular intervals. Our factories are also required to conduct on the British Retail Consortium (BRC)’s internationally emergency food safety drills at least once a year. recognised food safety standard, and has been further developed by Orkla’s central food safety department to Although we do everything we can to prevent undesirable FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY incidents, we had a major emergency in 2013 arising from kind to health as a result of consumption of the products the lack of traceability of certain meat consignments. For concerned has been reported. precautionary reasons, Procordia1 chose to recall its kebab minipizzas and three tinned products sold in Sweden. In addition, there were 14 minor incidents. Several of the On the same occasion, Orkla Foods Romania recalled matters were related to allergens that were not listed on a minor product and Orkla Foods Finland recalled two the product label. This resulted in some recalls, but no varieties of pizza from the Finnish market. No harm of any consumers suffered any negative effects. Sustainability Report 12 2013 AUDITS TRAINING Results in 2013 Results in 2013 In 2013, 56 food safety audits were carried out, A total of 16 persons participated in the Orkla Food compared with 64 in 2012. The audits covered 55 % Safety Training Course in 2013, compared with 12 of Orkla’s food production facilities. in 2012. Goal for 2014 Goal for 2014 The food safety team will continue their efforts to The Group will continue to provide training in and ensure continuous improvement by conducting monitor food safety in production in 2014. internal audits based on the Orkla Food Safety Standard. 1 Procordia, Abba Seafood and Frödinge have been merged to form Orkla Foods Sverige. Our food safety value chain Raw materials supplier approval and monitoring. Transport Receiving inspection 13 Production Warehousing Transport to customers temperature. FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY Food safety in purchasing Orkla conducts regular supplier audits to Orkla’s central food safety training centre holds courses for quality and purchasing staff in use of the portal, and ensure that raw materials are produced in trains internal food safety auditors. Since Orkla’s system compliance with our stringent food safety for food safety in purchasing was introduced in 2008, guidelines. around 300 employees have participated in training programmes. Orkla has a large number of raw material suppliers all SUPPLIER MONITORING over the world. As a condition for collaboration, we require By following up on suppliers by means of selfassessment that our suppliers comply with the Orkla Supplier Code of forms and physical audits conducted by Orkla’s audit team, Conduct. We also set strict food safety requirements. Orkla ensures that they are highly aware of the importance of good food safety standards. Orkla’s system for food safety in purchasing consists of guidelines for risk identification and supplier audits, audit Some 66% of the factories audited in 2013 met approved tools, supporting documents and an IT portal for regisfood safety standards. Other factories must make imtering information about suppliers and documenting the provements in order to be able to continue to supply measures carried out. products to Orkla. 15 TRAINING SUPPLIER MONITORING Results in 2013 Results in 2013 A total of 32 employees received training in supplier In 2013, 1,219 self-assessment forms were distributed auditing in 2013, compared with 34 in 2012. Furtherto Orkla’s suppliers, compared with 863 in 2012. more, 28 previously qualified auditors participated in a A total of 118 physical audits were carried out, refresher course in 2013. compared with 127 in 2012. Goal for 2014 Goal for 2014 Efforts related to in-house training, supplier audits Efforts related to systematic risk assessment, and the and supplier monitoring will continue in 2014. approval and monitoring of suppliers, will continue in 2014. FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY Product responsibility in companies that do not manufacture food products In the same way as in our food proLilleborg is currently reviewing the documentation for a total of 250 product ingredients and more than 100 products to duction, we follow very strict product ensure that they are in compliance with the new regulation. safety guidelines in developing cleaning products, textiles and personal care PRODUCT SAFETY FOR TEXTILES products. All products manufactured by Pierre Robert Group are Sustaincovered by chemicals regulations that are in line with, or ability stricter than, the EU Regulation on the use of chemicals. Report Spot tests are regularly carried out, in which products are Safe products and safe consumers are Orkla’s number tested by independent laboratories. To date, no non-conone priority. We tolerate no non-conformities that might formance with safety requirements has been found in endanger the consumer, and we set stringent quality requconnection with Pierre Robert Group’s products. irements at every stage of the value chain, from innovation and product development to the manufacturing process of Orkla’s suppliers or Orkla’s own factories, right up until the product reaches the consumer. The Orkla companies that do not manufacture food SUBSTITUTION products have established quality and product safety Based on a precautionary approach, Lilleborg works 16 standards. This applies to Lilleborg (detergents and personal systematically to eliminate ingredients that may have care products), Pierre Robert Group (textiles) and Orkla a negative impact on health or the environment. House Care (renovation and painting equipment). Results in 2013 • New phthalate1 -free perfumes are now used in SAFE INGREDIENTS several cleaning products. When developing personal care products, Orkla uses only • The perfume in some skin care products was ingredients which have well-documented properties, and replaced because new research showed that it which are in compliance with strict EU requirements. could cause reduced fertility. • Preservatives that may potentially cause allergies Research is continuously carried out on chemical ingrewere replaced, with particular focus on disposable dients. Orkla and Lilleborg follow this work closely to stay wipes. abreast of new knowledge. • Tests aimed at eliminating aluminium from anti2013 perspirants began. Orkla’s consumer safety efforts are based on the pre• Work began on ensuring the use of sustainable cautionary principle. The companies systematically focus palm oil. on substitution, replacing ingredients that may have a • Goals for 2014 negative impact on health or the environment with more • Develop aluminium-free deodorants. benevolent alternatives. • Continue efforts to ensure use of sustainable palm oil. NEW RULES FOR COSMETICS • Eliminate phthalates from all Lilleborg products The new EU Cosmetic Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 entered into force on 11 July 2013. The new regulation focuses even more than before on consumer safety and rights, and sets new, stricter requirements for risk assessments and documentation of product claims. 1 Phthalates are a group of substances used in many everyday products, for instance as plastic softeners (plasticisers) and as additives in ethanol to make products with a high alcohol content impossible to drink. FOOD AND PRODAUCT SAFETY Orkla’s position on gene technology Orkla products must be based on safe some traditional crops (primarily soybean, maize and rapeseed) and products derived from them may conraw materials and be manufactured tain traces of genetically modified material due to the using methods that customers and unintentional introduction of extraneous seed, crop or consumers accept. product. The maximum quantity of such traces that does not require GMO labelling is specified in the European legislation on genetically modified organisms. Orkla is responsive to customers’ and consumers’ views on the use of gene technology in connection with the manuOrkla’s food manufacturing companies require their facture of food products. There are no research findings suppliers to establish verifiable systems for separation, that indicate that eating food containing genetically modified documentation and analysis to make it possible to verify raw materials is harmful to health. Nonetheless, Orkla has the origin and quality of products, including the absence decided not to use such materials, since a clear majority of unintentionally introduced GMO material. of consumers do not accept genetically modified raw materials and ingredients. Orkla’s food manufacturing companies comply with EU and national legislation and official requirements with Orkla’s food manufacturing companies use only raw respect to GMOs, and take all necessary steps to ensure materials and ingredients based on traditional production that no Orkla products require GMO labelling. If a methods that do not involve the use of gene technology. company is considering marketing and selling products that require GMO labelling, this must be approved by 17 Orkla’s food manufacturing companies are aware that Orkla’s Board of Directors. XXX Sustainability Report 18 2013 NUTRITION AND HEALTH NUTRITION AND HEALTH A healthier everyday life Orkla wants to make it easier for people consumers to make healthy choices. In the past few years, we have intensified our focus on fish, grain products with a to have a balanced diet. In 2013, we have high fibre content and natural food with no artificial addimade substantial progress in our efforts tives. We have also reduced the content of sugar, saturated to develop healthier products. fat and salt in several of our products. Innovation requires a thorough knowledge of the way food affects the body. In 2014, Orkla will develop a Group-wide The global challenges posed by overweight and lifestyle training programme on nutrition for employees involved in diseases call for a concerted effort by all sectors of innovation and development work. Orkla’s food businesses society. Overconsumption of salt, sugar and saturated also work closely with several external centres of expertise to fat, combined with lack of physical exercise, is among the find effective solutions to the challenges we face. leading causes of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, high blood pressure and a multitude of other related ailments. RESEARCH PROJECTS According to WHO, 1.5 billion people are now overweight. • Orkla Foods Norway is heading the SALTO project, a This includes 200 million school-age children and over 40 three-year joint project carried out by several Norwegian million children under five years of age. food companies and food researchers at Nofima, SINTEF and the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. The aim of the project is to reduce the amount of salt in everyday foods such as cheese, boiled ham, patés and 19 Our approach to forcemeat products by 25-50 %. nutrition and health • Orkla Foods Sverige is engaged in research collaboration with the Igelösa Life Science Community on the development of healthy, climate-friendly foods, based on a high content of vegetable raw materials. This collaboration has resulted in the launch of food products with beneficial nutritional and environmental properties under the brand name FELIX Smart Mat (smart food). This research partnership will be further developed in 2014. • Several Orkla companies are working with the Antidiabetic Food Centre at the University of Lund, Sweden, on developing food products designed to reduce the risk of obesity, age-related diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. In 2013, Orkla Foods Sverige utilised the knowledge gained from this project to launch new varieties of food under the Paulúns brand. The three joint projects will continue in the period 2014-2015, and the research results will be applied in Orkla’s innovation work. CONTACT WITH AUTHORITIES INNOVATIONS FOR BETTER PUBLIC HEALTH Orkla engages in an active dialogue with the health authoOrkla’s ambition is to promote healthy eating. As a leading rities in many of the countries in which the Group operates manufacturer of food, beverages and dietary supplements on the framework conditions for its activities and its efforts in the Nordic region, Orkla can make a positive contribution to promote a healthier lifestyle. In 2013, Orkla participated to public health by developing products that make it easier in meetings with the Norwegian Ministry of Health and Care for people to maintain a balanced diet and encouraging Services to discuss the establishment of new voluntary NUTRITION AND HEALTH guidelines for food and drink marketing (see page 25). ingredients, nutritional content, allergens, certification Orkla businesses also took part in meetings with the Danish schemes and use of other voluntary labelling schemes. Veterinary and Food Administration and the Swedish Work on implementing these guidelines will begin in 2014. National Food Agency on new criteria for the Green Keyhole label for healthy products. A growing number of consumers wish to have additional guidance. The Orkla companies therefore have special CONSUMER GUIDANCE consumer service staffs who deal with complaints and SustainGood information on products’ nutritional content is other inquiries. The companies also provide information ability essential to enable consumers to make sensible choices. on nutritional content, allergens and other relevant issues Report We at Orkla want to make it easy to choose a balanced, on their websites. nutritious diet. Information on the nutritional content of our products must be fact-based, easy to understand and Orkla’s businesses have good procedures for assuring the as easily accessible as possible. In 2013, Orkla drew up quality of nutrition and health claims. In 2013, there were internal guidelines for clear, uniform nutritional labelling five minor issues related to labelling rules, none of which of foods which apply across companies and product entailed a fine. categories. The guidelines cover information on types of Omega-3 for better memory 20 Axellus and the Antidiabetic Food Centre (AFC) at the University of Lund, Sweden, have studied the impact on cognitive effects (working memory and selective attention) of giving healthy elderly persons omega-3 supplements. The study was conducted on 38 healthy individuals between 50 and 70 years of age over a period of five weeks. The results show that the subjects of the study who received omega-3 (Pikasol) performed significantly better in tests of working memory than those who were given a placebo. The study was published in BioMed Central, Nutrition Journal, 2012. 2013 GDA AND THE GREEN KEYHOLE LABEL FOR HEALTHY PRODUCTS Results in 2013 • A total of 2,800 products now bear expanded nutrition labels under the voluntary Guidance Daily Amount (GDA) labelling system. • 37 products carry the Green Keyhole label. A total of 2.5 % of Orkla Foods Sverige’s turnover derives from Keyhole-labelled products. Goal for 2014 We will begin implementation of common guidelines for nutrition information. NUTRITION AND HEALTH Healthy, natural food Several of Orkla’s products are part of the everyday diet of many consumers, Good for your stomach and our climate and even small changes in salt, fat and In collaboration with the Igelösa Life Science Community, sugar content can bring about major Orkla Foods Sverige took an important step towards the food of tomorrow by launching FELIX Smart Mat (smart improvements in public health. food) in 2013. This range of products is an entirely new concept, featuring climate-smart, wholesome forcemeat products. The forcemeat patties contain less meat, and the vegetarian millet products contain adequate protein. Orkla’s food businesses work systematically to reduce FELIX Smart Mat products are available in Sweden. the quantities of salt, sugar, saturated fat and artificial additives in food. Development work is challenging because changes in products can affect shelf life, taste and consistency. The development of healthier foods therefore requires thorough risk assessments, testing and innovative approaches to the use of raw materials, recipes and production processes. SUGAR Overconsumption of energy-rich foods and beverages poses Products with less salt 21 a serious global challenge. Norwegian health authorities recommend that the total sugar content in a person’s diet should not exceed 10% of his or her daily energy intake. We In the past few years, we have worked hard to reduce the amount of salt in several of our products. For example, at Orkla wish to reduce the sugar content in our products, we have lowered the salt content in all varieties of Pizza insofar as taste and commercial considerations allow. This Grandiosa in Norway by up to 30% since 2008. TORO is particularly important in the case of cordials, sauces and has also considerably reduced the salt content in its products, which now contain 0.7-0.9% salt. other foods that are part of a basic diet. SALT Salt is an important taste enhancer in food. However, a high salt intake has been shown to increase the risk of high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases and other health problems. Norwegian and international health authorities recommend limiting the daily intake of salt to five grams. The average intake of salt in the Nordic region is estimated to be around 10 grams per day. Orkla does not wish to use more salt than necessary in its products. If salt is important to improve the taste, we look for alternative ingredients that can be satisfactory replacements for salt. Tasteand odour-free omega-3 oil SATURATED FAT Denomega’s plant in Ålesund produces a totally tasteand There is a proven link between high intake of saturated odour-free omega-3 oil. The plant uses fresh fish such as fat and increased production of LDL cholesterol, which is salmon, cod and sea trout to make the healthy oil, which is associated with a risk of cardiovascular disease. The an ingredient in a wide range of dietary supplements, foods and beverages. Denomega targets the B2B market and its Norwegian health authorities recommend limiting the largest customers are in the USA, Europe and Asia. total content of saturated fat in a diet to a maximum of 10 % of energy intake. NUTRITION AND HEALTH We aim to reduce the percentage of saturated fat to improve the fat composition in the Group’s products. This is particularly important for foods that are basic dietary components, but we also consider it important to In 2013 Orkla Foods Sverige choose beneficial fatty acids for products such as snacks launched a new version of Paulúns and biscuits. Granola, which is fibre-rich and contains no added sugar. The cereal contains only natural raw In the past few years, we have made active efforts to materials and is available in several reduce the content of saturated fat in several of our flavours: hazelnut and dates, carproducts. We have focused particular attention on the damom and mulberries, and cocoa and raspberries. Paulúns is sold in chips and snacks categories in the Nordic region, where Sweden. we have cut saturated fat by more than 50 % in several Sustainproducts. ability Report FIBRE AND WHOLE GRAINS A number of international studies show that the intake of Naturally sweet with no calories fibre and whole grains has a beneficial effect on cholesterol in the body and lowers the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Stevia is a plant with a natural sweetener Norwegian and international health authorities recommend that can help to reduce consumption of eating at least four portions of whole grain products every sugar. The leaves from the stevia bush contain glycosides, which are several day, which is the equivalent of 70-90 grams of whole grain hundred times sweeter than sugar, yet per day. Similarly, the health authorities recommend a daily calorie-free. Orkla has launched several intake of 25-35 grams of fibre. stevia-sweetened products in the past year, under brands such as FUN Light, Ekströms, Felix tomatketchup and Nutrilett. Most people eat too little fibre and whole grain. At Orkla 22 we therefore consider using ingredients with a high fibre and whole grain content wherever relevant. Examples are pizzas, breakfast cereals, pasta, whole grain biscuits and bread ingredients. Palm oil free ALLERGENS There is growing consumer concern about food allergies. Reducing consumption of palm oil has a significant effect According to the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical on people’s overall consumption of saturated fat. Since 2008, Orkla has decreased its use of palm oil by 15,000 Immunology (EAACI), 1-5% of the European population tonnes. This is equivalent to a reduction of around 6,500 have some form of food allergy. tonnes in the saturated fat supplied to the Nordic population. In 2013, Cheez Doodles, Digestive biscuits, Marie Consumers must always feel confident that Orkla products kjeks and Sætres pepperkaker containing no palm oil were launched. In 2014, Sætre aims to eliminate palm oil 2013 are safe. We aim to ensure that good information and profrom Kornmo, Tom & Jerry and Bokstavkjeks biscuits. duct labelling enable persons with allergies to avoid specific allergens. In 2013, Orkla Foods Sverige further developed Felix ParNut, a brand targeting the catering industry. The product range consists of meatballs, meat patties and other forcemeat products that are guaranteed to contain no gluten, lactose, milk protein, soybean protein or egg protein. TORO also has long-standing traditions of developing products that are gluten-, eggand milk-free. In collaboration with the Norwegian Coeliac Society (NCF), TORO has created a special range of gluten-free products. A great many ordinary TORO products, such as soups, sauces, casseroles, pizza fillings and Rett-i-koppen instant soups, are also gluten-free. Developing healthier food In the period 2009-2013 we have reduced the content of saturated fat in several of our products. The effect of this products that are sugar-free or that have a reduced sugar content. Efforts to reduce saturated fat will continue in 2014. Our 23 the beverage and sauce categories. We will also consider reducing the sugar content in other relevant categories. Fibre and whole grain content in a number of our products. The effect of this Efforts to reduce salt will continue in 2014 grain will continue in 2014 in categories where this is in several relevant categories. considered relevant. NUTRITION AND HEALTH Responsible marketing of food Orkla’s marketing must be informative, engaging and based on the principle of responsibility. Our position on marketing to children Orkla is a major advertiser, and its companies’ marketing reaches a substantial number of consumers. Emphasis on responsible marketing is therefore important to ensure that we do not mislead consumers or create undue pressure to buy. The Group pursues a restrictive policy with respect to marketing to children and adolescents. In the period 2012-2013, Orkla participated actively in the formulation of new voluntary guidelines for marketing of food and beverages to children and adolescents in Norway, and in the establishment of the new Food and Drink Industry Professional Practices Committee (MFU), which is tasked with dealing with complaints concerning food and drink marketing. Orkla is represented on both the new 25 Committee and the Committee Board. Orkla’s Legal Affairs Department and the Group’s nutrition and health staff provide guidance for the companies on marketing law and interpretation of the guidelines. In 2014, Orkla will ensure that the new voluntary guidelines are effectively implemented in the Group businesses. In 2013, Orkla had no matters arising from marketing regulations which resulted in a fine. There were six minor matters related to the use of claims in advertising or marketing designs. MARKETING Results in 2013 We helped to draw up Norwegian guidelines for marketing of food and beverages to children and young people, and to establish a control body, the Food and Drink Industry Professional Practices Committee. Goal for 2014 In 2014, Orkla will ensure that the new voluntary guidelines are effectively implemented in the Group businesses. XXX Sustainability Report 26 2013 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Partnering for a sustainable future Orkla is committed to promoting ORKLA’S SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT sustainable development by making Orkla collaborates with suppliers all over the world. We require that all the companies with which we work, conscious choices in its use of resources, irrespective of country, comply with our Supplier Code setting clearly defined requirements for of Conduct. These business ethics standards describe the its suppliers and working in partnership requirements that our suppliers must meet with respect to to solve complex challenges. human rights, labour rights and social conditions, environmental performance and anti-corruption efforts. Sustainable development means meeting the needs of Orkla’s efforts to promote responsible purchasing are today’s population without compromising the ability of based on three main principles: future generations to meet their own needs. According to 1. Communication of our Supplier Code of Conduct the WWF’s Living Plan Index, the global population now to suppliers consumes resources equivalent to those of 1.5 planet Earths. 2. Identification of the risk of breaches of these requirements The consequences are serious, including growing food 3. Follow-up of suppliers at risk of breaching requirements scarcity and reduced species diversity. In the same way, through dialogue, audits and guidance A total of 23 companies have implemented, or are in the Our position on process of implementing, procedures for risk identification 27 and supplier monitoring. These companies account for a responsible purchasing total of approximately 85% of Orkla’s purchasing1. RISK IDENTIFICATION The large number of Orkla suppliers makes it important to give priority to monitoring the suppliers and raw material chains assessed as being at greatest risk of non-compliance with Orkla’s Supplier Code of Conduct . To identify at-risk suppliers, the companies carry out a rough risk assessment of their supplier portfolio. The assessment is based on known factors relating to country, industry and production process which entail a risk of breaches of human rights, working conditions, environmental standards or anti-corruption rules. All suppliers of raw materials and packaging and other important suppliers2 have been subjected to this type of general risk assessment. New suppliers also undergo such risk assessments, and are required to accept Orkla’s breaches of fundamental human rights and exploitation of laSupplier Code of Conduct, which is appended to their bour are leading to social instability in a number of countries. contract. The overexploitation of natural resources and breaches of Some 85% of Orkla’s purchasing comes from suppliers labour rights are neither ethically acceptable nor compatible assessed to be at low risk of material breaches of the Supplier with sustainable development. Our response to these Code of Conduct, 6% from suppliers assessed to be at challenges is unequivocal: sustainable, fair production medium risk, and 9% from suppliers assessed to be at is the only acceptable model for future growth. high risk of such breaches. 1 Applies to Orkla’s branded consumer goods business. 2 Important suppliers are identified on the basis of purchased amounts and the product’s importance for operations. 1 . Sustainability Report 28 Europe excl. Nordic and Baltic regions 23 % NOK 4,025 million 2013 North and South America 1% NOK 175 million 1 Applies to Orkla’s branded consumer goods business. 66 % Nordic and Baltic regions 6% Russian Federation NOK 1,050 million NOK 11,550 million 29 4% Asia NOK 700 million 0% Africa NOK 4 million RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING In the case of potential at-risk suppliers, a more detailed where a company feels a need for a more detailed, inrisk assessment is undertaken. The suppliers are asked to dependent assessment of the supplier’s procedures and carry out a self-evaluation based on a standardised method practices with regard to working conditions, workplace developed by the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). health and safety, protection of the external environment The evaluation covers the supplier’s procedures with and anti-corruption efforts. All audits are summarised in respect to human and labour rights, working conditions, a non-conformance report and corrective action plan, the external environment and anti-corruption efforts. At and the supplier must undertake to remedy the identified the end of 2013, a total of 170 of Orkla’s suppliers were non-conformities within an agreed time period. registered in Sedex, equivalent to 80% of the suppliers classified as high-risk suppliers. The most common non-conformities are lack of adequate protective equipment, inadequate fire safety, first aid THOROUGH AUDITS and noise protection procedures, excessive use of overThe Orkla companies follow up on potential at-risk suppliers time, and non-conformities related to pay and overtime Sustainby engaging in dialogue, conducting audits and providing compensation. No matters were found which resulted in ability guidance. Business ethics audits are carried out in cases the termination of collaboration with suppliers. Report 100 Råvareforbruk (tonn) 31 % 80 Grønnsaker 85 % 27 % Sukker og stivelse 12 % 30 60 Oljer/fett 9.0 % Korn 8.5 % 40 Frukt og bær 5.0 % Meieriprodukter Kakao 2.5 % 20 Sjømat 6% 9% 2.5 % % of Kjøtt 2.3 % total no. Egg Low Medium High of suppliers risk risk 0.3 % risk 2013 RISK ASSESSMENT AUDITS Results in 2013 Results in 2012–2013 In 2013, Orkla carried out an assessment of risk In this period, Orkla carried out 59 business factors and potential corrective action for raw maethics audits of its suppliers. A total of 194 terial categories that present complex challenges in non-conformities were found, 107 of which have the supplier chain. been corrected. In seven of the audits, minor non-conformities were found with respect to Goals in 2014 human rights, labour rights and working conditions. In 2014, Orkla will draw up general goals and guideThese mainly concerned inadequate procedures. lines for further efforts with respect to cocoa, palm oil, fish and seafood, vegetables, fruit and berries, Goals in 2014 nuts and seeds. All potential high-risk suppliers are to be audited in 2014. Non-conformities identified in earlier audits will be followed up. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING In 2013, Ekströms launched the first Swedish Fairtrade-labelled “kladdkake” (Sveden’s version of brownies). The cake is baked in accordance with the classic recipe, but using Fairtrade-certified cocoa and sugar. Fairtrade is an international labelling scheme that supports farmers and workers in poor countries through trade. Fairer trade conditions empower farmers and workers to combat poverty themselves. COMPLEX COMMODITY CHAINS COMPETENCE-BUILDING Orkla companies are involved in certain commodity chains In 2010, Orkla established an internal network for rethat present complex challenges. The most important of sponsible purchasing, in which purchasing staffs from the these are cocoa, palm oil, fish and seafood, vegetables, various companies participate. The network is headed by fruit and berries. The production of these raw materials Orkla’s central purchasing department, and is used for may present serious challenges with respect to poverty, training and experience-sharing purposes. Responsible child labour, breaches of labour standards, unsustainable purchasing is also a topic covered in Orkla’s leadership farming and fishing methods, reduced species diversity, development programme and in the Group’s purchasing, greenhouse gas emissions and land ownership conflicts. marketing and sales training programmes. In 2013, a total of 845 hours of training were provided for 82 management Several Orkla companies are engaged in improvement staff and employees. The corresponding figures for the 31 projects related to the above-mentioned raw materials. previous year were 1,300 hours of training for 90 employees. These include use of certification schemes and particiSkills-building courses and exchange of experience will pation in industry initiatives and collaborative projects continue in 2014. involving companies, authorities and expert organisations. IEH The Ethical Trading Initiative Norway (IEH) is a membership-based centre of resources and expertise on ethical trade, comprising companies, public sector enterprises and organisations. IEH works to achieve trade that promotes human rights, labour rights, development and the environment. IEH members pledge to engage in concrete, targeted improvement work over time. Orkla is a member of IEH, with which it conducts a dialogue on ongoing improvements. In 2013, Axellus participated in a working group chaired by the IEH on improvement work in the fishery sector in Peru. AIM-PROGRESS Orkla is a member of AIM-PROGRESS, an international industry network that cooperates on courses and other improvement activities in the supplier chain. Sedex Sedex is an organisation that offers solutions for standardised risk identification and simple information-sharing. Orkla uses Sedex to identify at-risk suppliers. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Protecting the rainforest The rainforest is the world’s oldest, most We will therefore replace the palm oil in our products with alternatives that are both healthier and more environmentally diverse ecosystem. Animals, plants and friendly. Where this is not possible, we aim to buy only indigenous peoples living in rainforest sustainably produced palm oil. areas are endangered by the unsustainable production of palm oil. Palm oil certification schemes have been established, for instance through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm SustainOil (RSPO). These certification schemes are designed to enability Palm oil is the most commonly used vegetable oil in the sure that production is carried out in a sustainable manner. Report world. Global production totals around 56 million tonnes Several of Orkla’s food manufacturers buy oil that is RSPOper year, and has doubled in the past decade. certified (certificates or mass balance system). In future, Orkla will intensify its efforts to achieve traceability of the Palm oil is used in a wide range of consumer goods, palm oil’s origin and to promote sustainable production. We such as margarine, snacks, breakfast cereals and soap. are committed to ensuring that palm oil is produced without Orkla uses palm oil in some of its products. For nutritional cutting down rainforests or draining peat marshes and with and environmental reasons, several Orkla companies respect for human rights. have decided to eliminate palm oil from their products. The companies that use palm oil are in the process of Our goal is for all palm oil used in Orkla products to be switching to certified palm oil. produced in accordance with sustainable principles by 2017 at the latest. To achieve this objective, we will require our 32 DEFORESTATION AND CLIMATE CHANGE suppliers to meet strict standards and use relevant certifiA substantial part of the global production of palm oil cation systems. takes place in Indonesia and Malaysia. Rainforests are being cut down to establish new palm oil plantations. This deforestation has a negative impact on species PALM OIL diversity in the forests and leads to extensive greenhouse Results in 2008–2013 Orkla reduced its use of palm oil by 15,000 tonnes gas emissions, which in turn contribute to climate change in the period 2008–2013. around the world. Cutting down the rainforest has also had disastrous consequences for the indigenous peoples Goal who live in these forests. By 2017 all palm oil used in Orkla products is to be produced in compliance with Orkla’s sustainable OUR AMBITIONS production standards. 2013 We have an ambition to contribute to rainforest conservation. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Sustainable cultivation of cocoa West Africa accounts for almost 70% of buys only cocoa certified by UTZ Certified for the entire Nidar brand. The certification scheme enables cocoa the world’s cocoa production. Poverty, farmers to make a living from cocoa, and ensures that it weak infrastructure and lack of agricultural is cultivated with the interests of both the people and the know-how increase the risk of breaches of environment in mind. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland labour and human rights. and Kalev also buy cocoa through this certification programme. There are a total of 1 million cocoa farms in West Africa, In 2013, Orkla conducted an analysis of the challenges most of them small and family-run. Small farms, limited associated with cocoa, and started work on a joint farming knowledge, illiteracy and poor infrastructure all strategy for the companies in the Orkla Group. The contribute to the fact that many cocoa farmers have too new strategy will be in place in 2014. low an income, that children and adolescents take part in work, and that many children do not go to school. SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION OF COCOA Orkla wishes to contribute to improving the incomes and Results in 2013 All the cocoa we purchase for use in Nidar chocolate is living conditions of the cocoa farmers. It is important to 100% UTZ certified. us that the fundamental rights of children are observed. Children must not be exposed to risk or take part in the Goals for 2014 family’s work at the expense of their schooling. Increase the proportion of UTZ-certified cocoa in 33 chocolate and other relevant food products from Orkla. Orkla has committed to sustainable cocoa cultivation through a number of projects. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norway RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING A blue planet The ocean covers 71% of the Earth’s the end of the year, moreover, a project coordinator was hired to promote greater knowledge of the project in surface and constitutes 95% of all areas Thailand and facilitate work at the local level. suitable for life. Sustainable management of marine resources is crucial to mainFollow the progress of this project at www.sustainablefish. taining a viable diversity of marine species. org/fisheries-improvement/tuna/thai-tonggol FISH OIL PRODUCTION AT AXELLUS According to the UN Joint Group of Experts on the For Axellus, which is part of Orkla Home & Personal, SustainScientific Aspects of Marine Environmental Protection, monitoring of quality and production conditions in the ability the destruction of habitats for marine species and the facilities of raw material suppliers and contract manuReport introduction of non-native species are the primary facturers is of key importance. In 2013, the company threats to global marine life. succeeded in establishing certification for cod liver oil and fish oil. Möller’s Tran is made from fresh liver from Orkla has long been engaged in a range of initiatives to Arctic cod, which is a sustainable cod stock. In 2013, protect the marine environment. Under the Abba and Kalles the factory at Løren was certified by the environmental brands, Orkla Foods Sverige manufactures seafood products organisation Friend of the Sea. This certification also for the Swedish market and for export to a number of covers Denomega, which supplies tasteand odour-free countries. The fish is sourced from all over the world. omega-3 oil to the industrial market. The Denomega factory at Leknes in northern Norway also received MSC Every year, the company carries out an assessment of the certification in 2013. sustainability situation for fish and shellfish, and establishes 34 purchasing plans that ensure that the raw materials come In 2011, critical attention was focused on the environfrom sustainable stocks. Ensuring that this is the case may mental and social conditions related to the production be difficult, and the company gives priority to maintaining of fish oil in Peru, which is used in omega-3 capsules. a close dialogue with external experts and environmental Axellus has intensified its control procedures with respect organisations, such as the Marine Stewardship Council to its suppliers’ operations, and is engaged in a dialogue (MSC 1) and the Swedish organisation KRAV. with the Peruvian authorities. The tonggol (longtail) tuna species, which is fished in The challenges associated with production in Peru concern the Andaman Sea and the South China Sea, poses special the entire omega-3 industry. Axellus and several other players sustainability challenges. Working with the organisation are therefore participating in a joint industry initiative aimed Sustainable Fisheries Partnership, Orkla Foods Sverige at addressing the environmental challenges presented by therefore runs a public-private project, with support fish oil production in Chimbote, Peru. This work is headed by 2013 from the Swedish International Development Coopethe Ethical Trading Initiative Norway (IEH). ration Agency (SIDA), aimed at assuring the long-term sustainability of tonggol tuna fishing for the future. SUSTAINABLE FISHING Results in 2013 In 2013 the project received further grants from SIDA for A total of 189 of Orkla’s food products based on fish three more years of work. This project, involving close and other marine raw materials are MSC-certified . collaboration between industry, scientists, the authorities All of Abbas herring products are MSC-labelled. 100% and NGOs, the project is creating a sound basis for the of all the fish raw materials used in Abbas fishballs and organic and sustainable management of longtail tuna Kalles kaviar spread come from MSC-certified fish stocks in the future. The project is making good progress. stocks. Möller’s Tran cod liver oil was certified under Important milestones in 2013 included the development of the Friend of the Sea scheme in 2013. a draft management plan agreed to by the Thai authorities Goal in 2014 and a decision reached by the countries in the region to All hand-peeled shrimps in brine produced under the collaborate on management of this tuna species. Towards Hållö brand are to be MSC-certified by the end of 2014. 1 The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) is a certification body that has developed an environmental standard for sustainable fisheries. MSC requires that • fishing must be at a level that is sustainable for the fish stocks • fishing must be carried out in a way that preserves the structure, productivity, function and diversity of the ecosystem on which the fishing is based, • the fishery must be in compliance with all local, national and international legislation RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Responsibility in textile manufacturing Respect for employees’ rights is fundaDecember of unacceptable conditions for animals kept to produce angora wool. As a result, a seasonal item conmental to a sustainable enterprise taining angora (Season Socks) was dropped from Pierre Through Pierre Robert Group, Orkla Robert Group’s range, and there will be no products conhas collaborated with Chinese suppliers taining angora fibre in the range until we can be sure that in the textile industry to improve the the animals are kept under acceptable conditions. working conditions of textile workers. SustainMerino wool is produced by a special breed of sheep that ability produces extra soft, fine-fibred wool. New Zealand, South Report Africa and Australia are all major suppliers of merino wool The Orkla company Pierre Robert Group is Norway’s to the world market. As a result of the special climate in largest supplier of socks and underwear to grocery Australia, merino sheep may be subjected to painful and stores. The company has 29 suppliers with 41 factories, dangerous attacks from flies (flystrike). To prevent this, located mainly in China (70 %) and southern Europe some sheep stations in Australia employ a painful proce(30 %). All the factories are contract producers for Pierre dure called mulesing 1. Robert Group, which thus has no ownership interests. It is possible to prevent flystrike by more humane methods, Pierre Robert Group has been working closely with its and Pierre Robert Group is therefore strongly opposed to suppliers for a number of years to improve their textile mulesing. Pierre Robert Group only buys merino wool workers’ working and employment conditions. Both the from suppliers who can document that their sheep have 36 suppliers and Pierre Robert Group are investing more not been subjected to this procedure. resources in compliance with the increasingly stringent requirements and regulations governing the use of chemicals in manufacturing. In addition to ensuring better working conditions for textile workers, the collaboration and compliance have proved to result in deliveries of a higher, more stable quality. ANIMAL WELFARE Pierre Robert Group’s sourcing of wool raises the important issue of animal welfare. The company imposes stringent requirements on its suppliers, and does not tolerate unethical 2013 or inhumane treatment of animals. News was received in RAISING INTERNAL AWARENESS AUDITS Results in 2013 In 2013 Pierre Robert Group performed audits of 22 In 2013, Pierre Robert Group held internal seminars of its suppliers in China as a means of ensuring that on manufacturing for all employees. The aim was to working and manufacturing conditions and products provide a better picture of the conditions in manuare consistent with the company’s ethical and facturing, what requirements are imposed, and how technical quality requirements. The audits did not suppliers are monitored. reveal serious breaches of the Supplier Code of Conduct. Goals for 2014 Continue to raise both the awareness and the competencies of all employees, to better enable them to support Pierre Robert Group’s sustainability efforts. 1 Mulesing entails the removal of strips of skin from the sheep’s buttocks. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Food manufacturers collaborate on berries Orkla Foods Sverige has joined other This collaboration has resulted in an industry agreement that, amongst other things, stipulates requirements regarding commercial operators to improve the minimum pay for workers and regarding living conditions working conditions of berry-pickers in and hygiene locally during their stay. The workers also receive Sweden. information as to what the job entails before they commit themselves to travelling to Sweden. Orkla considers it important to stipulate clear requireThe purpose of the industry agreement is to ensure that ments for fair and sustainable working conditions for berries are only bought from suppliers who offer their our suppliers’ workers. In recent years, the employment berry-pickers good working conditions. Ideally, the conditions of foreign berry-pickers in Sweden have been market for dubious suppliers will then cease to exist. criticised for being substandard. Orkla Foods Sverige conducts its own audits and spot tests Orkla Foods Sverige is engaged through its trade organisation to ensure that the berry-pickers’ work situation is acceptable, the Swedish Food Federation (Livsmedelsföretagen) in joint and that their employers comply with the guidelines. We are efforts to improve working conditions for berry-pickers. involved in an active dialogue with our suppliers to ensure Other participants include retailers, trade unions, the Swedish that our intentions and instructions are correctly interpreted. Migration Board, the non-profit organisation Swedwatch and berry wholesalers. The collaboration will continue in 2014. 37 Sustainability Report 38 2013 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT With a mission to reduce the burden on the environment Our goal is to reduce energy consumption and minimise emissions of greenhouse gases in all parts of our value chain. Global climate change is without a doubt the greatest Access to raw materials, water, energy and other resources environmental challenge facing the world. The changes is essential to our activities. Orkla is intent on assuming we are experiencing will affect people’s livelihoods in responsibility for the environment and minimising the terms of food production, access to water, health and the impact of all parts of our value chain. Going forward, it will physical environment. The question is how to ensure social be important for us to consider the environmental impact and economic development without causing irreparable associated with the production of raw materials, and how damage to the environment. we can help to reduce emissions and water and energy consumption. We also want to ensure that raw materials are produced in areas where the land use is not detrimental to the environment. Our position on global climate challenges OUR EFFORTS TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT We aim to create awareness and engagement among all our employees regarding our impact on the environment. We cut costs through more efficient use of energy, reduced water 39 consumption and less waste, and at the same time reduce the burden imposed on the environment by our activities. In Orkla, the individual company is responsible for ensuring that environmental work is a part of daily operations. The companies hold internal training courses and plan, implement and report on environmental work. At factory level, the management is assisted by specialists in training personnel and in the day-to-day environmental work. Our business areas coordinate the companies’ work, and are responsible for their annual reporting. Recycling of waste Less food wastage heat spares the environment In 2013, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge Orkla Foods Sverige has worked with the organinvested in a number of different energy saving isations Allwin in Kungshamn and Hjälp i Stan in measures to recover heat energy from manuEslöv to reduce food wastage. These organisations facturing processes at Nidar’s Trondheim factory. distribute products with a short shelf life to the Heat from steam condensate and cooling processes homeless and others in need. is collected and used to heat buildings and water. The project has received a subsidy of NOK 1.5 Orkla Foods Sverige also cooperates with local million from ENOVA. Over the past ten years, the authorities and farmers in several places in Sweden Nidar factory has reduced its energy consumption to recycle food waste to biogas or animal feed. by 20%. ENVIRONMENT ENERGY EMISSIONS Reducing energy consumption is one of Orkla’s most Each year, Orkla prepares energy and greenhouse gas important measures for sparing the climate in the near accounts based on the International Greenhouse Gas term. A number of our companies have scrutinised their Protocol Initiative. The accounts are also reported to the consumption of energy and examined the possibilities of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2013, emissions of using it more efficiently. The study shows that our energy greenhouse gases in Orkla’s branded consumer goods consumption is primarily related to the use of heat in our production amounted to 130,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. factories, several of which have replaced oil with gas or If emissions from purchased energy are included, emispropane. We want to use renewable energy wherever sions totalled approximately 258,000 tonnes of CO2 possible. MTR Foods in India is a good example. They equivalent1. This is a reduction of approximately 6 % on produce some 15 GWh per year by burning coconut 2012, even given increased production and several new shells, which used to be a waste product. branded consumer goods factories. Sustainability Orkla’s own hydropower production in Norway amounted Other emissions to air and water are monitored localReport to 2.1 TWh in 2013, compared with 2.7 TWh in 2012. The ly, using the requisite monitoring systems and plans. total energy consumption in Orkla’s branded consumer Emissions to the air are primarily SO22 and NOx3 due to goods business in 2013 was 1.17 TWh, compared with combustion of fossil fuels for heat energy. Discharges 1.28 TWh in 2012. to water are mainly organic compounds, measured as COD4, and fat from manufacturing processes, which are regulated by local authorities. In 2013 one case resulting in follow-up by national authorities was registered. The incident involved discharge as a result of a fault in the water treatment facility at Boyfood Oy, Finland, which may result in a fine. 40 1500000 300000 250000 1200000 Klimagass utslipp (tonn) 200000 900000 Elektrisitet Fjernvarme 150000 Propan/LPG 2013 600000 Naturgass Tung olje 100000 Fyringsolje 300000 Egne biler Prosess 50000 MWh 0 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 1 “CO2 equivalent” is a term used to show the effect of a given quantity of CO2 on global warming over a specific time period. In climate accounts, emissions of all kinds of greenhouse gases are translated into CO2 equivalent. 2 SO2 (sulphur dioxide): emissions of SO2 lead to acidification. ENVIRONMENT WATER WASTE Water is a prerequisite for all life on earth, and a fundaOne of the global environmental challenges is the mental requirement for all people. Fresh water is in inincreased volume of waste and food wastage. We all have creasingly short supply in many parts of the world, mainly a responsibility for ensuring that less food is thrown away, as a result of strong population growth, climate change and that our resources are utilised more effectively. and topographical factors. In Orkla we work continuously to improve production In many cases, water is a crucial factor in the manufacture yield and reduce waste. This is important for both the of our products. In order to operate in a sustainable manner, environment and Orkla’s profitability, and will be in even we need to reduce water consumption throughout our greater focus in 2014. value chain. The total amount of waste generated by our branded Orkla’s total water consumption in 2013 was 7.5 million m3, consumer goods business in 2013 was 98,000 tonnes. which is the same level as in 2012. Approximately 12% of the Increased production and several new factories have water used is recycled in our own manufacturing processes. resulted in an increased volume of waste in 2013. Some 67% of discharge water is treated in Orkla’s own or a municipal treatment facility. The remaining water is primarily More than 92 % of the recorded waste is further utilised cooling water that has not become polluted. in the production of biogas, other energy production, animal feed and material recovery. The production of many agricultural raw materials, particularly cocoa and oils, requires a great deal of water. The total water consumption related to the production of Orkla’s raw materials is 1,200,000 million m3, of which 92% is green water, 7% grey water and less than 1% blue water5. 41 100 100000 80 80000 av råvarer (m ) (%) Avfall(tonn) 60 Dyrefor 60000 Biologisk behandling/Biogass produksjon Gjødsel 40 Materialgjenvinning 40000 Energi (forbrenningsanlegg) Deponi 20 Spesialavfall 20000 % 0 Tonnes Water Blue water raw materials footprint footprint 10 11 12 13 3 NOx (nitrogen oxide): emissions of NOx contribute to respiratory diseases, formation of ground-level ozone and acid rain. 4 COD (chemical oxygen demand): a measure of the amount of chemically degradable organic matter in water. 5 ”Blue water” is surface water (from streams, rivers, lakes) and groundwater.”Green water” is water from the soil”. Grey water” is recycled water ENVIRONMENT RAW MATERIALS PACKAGING The production of raw materials is the part of our value The packaging of a product must combine adequate chain with the strongest impact on the environment. protection in the interests of food safety and quality with The cultivation of agricultural raw materials6 and animal the least possible burden on the environment. Orkla husbandry generate large quantities of greenhouse gases companies strive to develop optimal packagings, and and the consumption of energy and water is high. It is have gradually reduced the amount used in the past few therefore important for us to maximise the yield of the raw years. An effective packaging design reduces not just the materials while minimising wastage in the value chain. quantity of waste, but also emissions during transport. The total amount of packaging used by Orkla in recent To provide a better understanding of how Orkla’s use of years has been around 100,000 tonnes. raw materials impacts the environment, we conducted an extensive study in 2013 based on purchasing data Our 2013 greenhouse gas study of the environmental Sustainfrom 2012. Using our total consumption of 700,000 tonnes impact of Orkla’s packaging consumption revealed that it ability of biological raw materials7 as a starting point, we developed results in greenhouse gas emissions of 113,000 tonnes of Report a model that can be used to calculate greenhouse gas CO2 equivalent. emissions and water consumption. The model is used to calculate the total environmental burden that can be ascribed to Orkla’s activities, but it can also be used as a basis for calculating the environmental burden attributable to a company or a product. The total greenhouse gas emissions attributable to our consumption of biological raw materials amount to In 2013, Orkla Foods Sverige invested in special 1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. More than 55 % of facilities in Kumla and Fågelmara to manufacture greenhouse gas emissions are due to the production of plastic bottles. These will reduce the climate gas 42 meat, egg and dairy products, despite the fact that these emissions previously resulting from the transport products only account for 8 % of the total quantity of raw of ready-made bottles from other countries. materials. utslipp fra produksjon av 100 Klimagass utslipp fra produksjon av 100 mmelignet med forbruk emballasje sammelignet med forbruk 80 Plast 80 ukter Metall 2013 Papir tivelse 60 Glass 60 r 40 40 ær 20 20 % % Tonnes Carbon Tonnes Carbon raw materials footprint raw materials footprint 6 Vegetable raw materials: grain, potatoes, vegetables, fruit and berries, sugar, oils, cocoa 7 Biological raw materials: meat, fish, dairy products, eggs, grain, potatoes, vegetables, fruit and berries, sugar, oils, cocoa. ENVIRONMENT At its factory at Ski, Lilleborg is focusing on reducing As a result of the company’s continuous efforts to discharges of wash water to the municipal treatment bring about improvements, a successful change was facility. One important means of achieving this objecmade in the autumn of 2013 in the actual washing tive is to recycle as much wash water as possible. Work process in one of the mixing processes. This alone to this end has had high priority and yielded positive resulted in a weekly reduction in COD discharges of a results for a number of years. full 200 kilos (16%). Overall, the company achieved an 11% reduction in COD discharges. 43 ENVIRONMENT Goals for 2014 • Launch more activities to reduce energy consumption, and increase use of renewable sources. • Establish systematic monitoring of energy, and plans for energy-saving initiatives • Take steps to improve monitoring of and further reduce of water use. • Set concrete targets for reducing energy consumption, water use and waste. XXX Sustainability Report 44 2013 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Healthy workplaces for everyone A safe and healthy working environment is SAFETY There were very few serious incidents in Orkla in 2013, but a fundamental right of all workers. Orkla’s a number of cases that could have had a serious outcome. ambition is to operate with zero injuries These cases show that efforts to prevent injuries must continue to receive full attention in all parts of the organisation. The incidents will be analysed with a view to learning and to We aim to achieve our ambition of zero injuries through preventing anything similar happening again. sound management of risk, systematic work to prevent injuries and work-related illness, and by involving all our Although the number of occupational injuries in Orkla is employees. It is in our interests that our 17,000 employees not at a satisfactory level, many companies saw a positive are healthy, motivated and engaged. trend through 2013. A number of companies reported no lost-time injuries in the course of the year. The results show that working according to central EHS principles such as good housekeeping, engagement, skills upOur approach grading and the will to learn from others brings about improvements. Work based on these important principles will therefore continue to be in focus and to receive emphasis throughout the organisation. At the same time, new measures will be introduced to ensure continued progress towards our goal of zero injuries. 45 WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH Our focus on the working environment and healthpromoting measures is not merely about getting people well and back to work more quickly. It is about creating a healthy and good working environment that in turn results in healthy employees in the long term. Orkla’s aim is for the principles of health-promoting workplaces to be adapted to its activities all over the LEARNING TO UNDERSTAND RISK world. A health-promoting workplace is important for One of Orkla’s fundamental principles is that environeach and every employee, but healthy employees also ment, health and safety (EHS) work must be preventive. influence the working environment, and are necessary for An understanding of risk is therefore a crucial aspect of the achievement of good financial results. The systematic our work to prevent undesirable situations and to create work to bring about improvements is driven above all by a good working environment. Risk analysis helps us to a focus on preventive measures and rehabilitation. make improvements and to prioritise the most important means of preventing injury or illness among our employees. We believe it is important to actively follow up sick employees during their absence. We try to adapt everyday work In 2013 we drew up common EHS standards and guidelisituations in consultation with the person on sick leave to nes that are to apply to all business areas and activities. Imavoid long absences. plementation is to start in 2014. Training and enhancement of competencies are an important part of this work, and are based on knowledge and experience across the Group. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Backed by funding from the Danish Fund for Better Working Environment and Labour Retention (Forebyggelsesfonden), Axellus started a project in health and safety Ishøy, Denmark, to create a good safety and job satisfaction culture in the company and improve employee health. The goal was to reduce sickness absence among employees. As one of a number of measures, all employees at the factory have undergone training in risk assessment and verbal feedback to colleagues on aspects of risk in their everyday work. Exercise and stretching courses have also been held to encourage employees to get more exercise and activity. Sustainability Report 46 2013 SICKNESS ABSENCE PERSONAL INJURIES Results in 2013 Results in 2013 Reported sickness absence in Orkla was 4 % in 2012 The Lost Work Day Rate (LWDR number of personal and 2013. Sickness absence for companies in Norway injuries with absence per million working hours) was was 5.4 %, which is the same level as in 2012. There 5,4% in 2013, which is the same level as in 2012. is ongoing work to lower the sickness absence. The Total Reportable Rate (TRR number of injuries Goals for 2014 leading to absence, a need for medical treatment or Our goal is for sickness absence to be less than 4 % restricted work per million working hours) was 11.5 in throughout Orkla. 2013, compared with 12.7 in 2012. Goals Our vision and long-term goal is that nobody should be injured while working at Orkla. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 8 7 7 6 7.0 6 6.6 % 6.5 % 5 5 5.8 5.5 % 5.6 5.4 % 5.5 5.5 % 4.9 4 5.4 4 5.2 % 4.5 % 4.5 4.6 4.3 % 4.5 Sykefravær (%) 4.0 % 4.0 % 3.8 % 4.0 % 3 3 3.6 % 3.6 3.4 % Orkla Globalt 2 Orkla Merkevarer 2 3.2 % Orkla Norge 1 1 d H1-value % 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 47 XXX Sustainability Report 48 2013 PEOPLE PEOPLE Human resource development In order to be successful as a per Antall årsverk company, forretningsområde we need to utilise the full Orkla Foods potential of 24.4 % 4 083 all our human resources, for the good Orkla Confectionery & Snacks 2 247 Orkla Home & Personal 1 738 13.4 % 10.4 % of the individual, Orkla, our customers Orkla International Orkla Food Ingredients 4 957 2 366 29.6 % 14.1 % and the community.Gränges Orkla Eiendom 971 52 5.8 % 0.3 % Hydro Power 47 0.3 % Other Business 276 1.6 % Orkla Group 16 737 100% People thrive when they have an opportunity to use their skills, develop, and be part of a good fellowship. Making it possible for this to happen is a responsibility, but above all it is a sound investment. Good results are created when all our employees master their existing tasks and extend themselves to conquer new ones. Developing capable, competent managers and employees is one of our most important goals, and a prerequisite for success as an organisation in the long term. Our position on human 49 resource development 2013 2013 EQUALITY FOR ALL Orkla has a corporate culture that is characterised by respect and equality. We believe these values are important for success in the competition for labour, and for utilising the full potential of employees in the best interests of the Group and the individual. At the end of 2013, Orkla had 16,756 employees distributed among 140 business units1 in 28 countries. Of these, Orkla does not tolerate any kind of harassment or other 62 % were operational personnel and 38 % administrative behaviour that may be perceived as threatening or deemployees. The great majority are permanent employees, meaning. All employees have the right to fair and equal and for the most part recruited from the country in which treatment. In 2013 Orkla had no cases relating to gender the business is located. The companies’ senior managers equality or discrimination2. are also recruited locally. Orkla has no employees under the age of 18 with the exception of apprentices and trainees. Equal opportunities and diversity are topics in courses on Orkla’s Code of Conduct. In 2013, 1500 managers and employees completed these courses, compared with 1 These include both production and administrative units. 350 the previous year. 2 According to annual internal reporting by companies on disputes, lawsuits, supervisory issues and similar matters. PEOPLE In order to ensure continued positive development also represented on Orkla’s Board of Directors and other in equal opportunities and diversity, Orkla initiated a governing bodies. In connection with the restructuring of collaborative project involving five other Norwegian the two business areas Orkla Home & Personal and Orkla companies. In 2013, the companies cooperated with the Confectionery & Snacks, a liaison committee was established Administrative Research Fund of the Norwegian School between management and employee representatives in of Economics and Business Administration on a survey both business areas. There were already liaison committees of managers in the six companies. Orkla will present this in Orkla Foods, Orkla Food Ingredients and Orkla Internaresearch material to the companies’ management and HR tional. Several companies also improved their procedures functions in 2014, and use the insight gleaned from the project for internal communication and cooperation between to develop a plan for further equal opportunities work. management and employee representatives in 2013. SustainEMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT COMPETENCY-BUILDING ability Most of Orkla’s permanent staff has an annual performance Orkla is known for the quality of the course and compeReport review. Our ambition is that all employees should receive tency-building programmes it runs for Group employees. constructive and regular feedback on the work they deliver. The Orkla companies conduct organised training activities All Group managers are also followed up with respect to on topics that are relevant to operations, such as quality, their results in the spheres of human resource development food safety and production systems, health, environment and working relations. and safety, project management and sales-related tasks. A number of the companies also run occupational training To facilitate regular dialogue and cooperation between programmes, either in partnership with public educational management and elected employee representatives, all institutions, or on their own. Orkla is engaged in arranging Orkla’s companies have established company environa number of central competency-building programmes in mental councils or other formal systems. Employees are leadership and key specialist areas. 50 Equal opportunities in practice In 2013, Orkla Foods Sverige developed an equal Indian MTR Foods received the Healthy Workplace Gold opportunities plan, with emphasis on making it easier Award for 2013 from the non-profit organisation Arogya to combine job and family, secure equal pay for equal World. The prize was a recognition of the company’s work, and increase diversity in management teams and extensive efforts to strengthen the organisation through departments with a skewed gender distribution. In 2013 involvement, training and leadership and employee Orkla Foods Danmark drew up an equal opportunities development systems. During the period 2010–2013, policy designed to contribute to a better gender balance MTR Foods held 45,200 hours of training, averaging 41 at management level. hours per employee. In 2013 the company ran courses on corporate responsibility and business ethics for all its managers and employees. 2013 GENDER DISTRIBUTION CENTRAL COMPETENCY-BUILDING PROGRAMMES Results in 2013 Results in 2013 At the end of 2013, Orkla had 7,798 women employees, A total of 393 employees took part in Orkla’s central or 46.5% of all employees. The corresponding procompetency-building programmes in 2013, compared portion for 2012 was 47%. with 540 the previous year. The proportion of women managers at Group, busiGoals for 2014 ness area and company level at year-end was 27.1%, In 2014, Orkla intends to review the Group’s central compared with 28.6% in 2012. The proportion of competency-building programmes with the aim of women managers at all levels of the Group’s activities increasing the effectiveness of the courses. was 36.3%, as against 34.7% in 2012. PEOPLE Zero tolerance for corruption Orkla has zero tolerance for corruption, TRAINING To prevent breaches of anti-corruption and competition law price-fixing agreements, market sharing or regulations, the Group trains managers and employees in other measures that place restrictions on positions that may be exposed to risk of this nature. Antifree competition. corruption is a regular theme in Orkla’s management training and in the Group’s general corporate responsibility training. Orkla’s overarching goal for its work on anti-corruption and competition law is to develop a corporate culture characCompetition law is also a regular theme in Orkla’s sales terised by good judgement and an ability to handle difficult and purchasing competency programmes. Orkla’s Legal situations, to avoid breaches of competition rules and to Affairs Department also holds courses on the subject for promote sound business practices. All Orkla employees are managers and key personnel. required to abide by the principles described in Orkla’s anticorruption manual, competition law manual and Code of Conduct. TRAINING IN ANTI-CORRUPTION AND COMPETITION LAW The management of each individual company is responsible Results in 2013 A total of 1,320 managers and key personnel for communicating the Orkla Code of Conduct to all emcompleted a course on anti-corruption in 2013. ployees and making all employees who may be exposed to This represents 7.9% of the Group’s total number of risk aware of the requirements in the anti-corruption and employees. In 2013, 144 managers and key personnel competition law manuals. completed a course on competition law. 51 In 2013 Orkla had no cases associated with anti-corruption Goals for 2014 and competition law regulations (according to annual In 2013 Orkla began developing an online training internal reporting by companies of disputes, lawsuits, programme in anti-corruption and competition law supervisory issues and similar matters). which is to be implemented in 2014. Highly Very Corrupt Clean 0-9 10-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 70-79 80-89 90-100 No data Transparency International’s Corruption PerceptionsHighly Index measures the perceived level of public sector corruption Very in countries and territories around the world. © Transparency International 2013. All Rights Reserved. Corrupt Clean 0-9 2013 Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index for shows 10-19 20-29 30-39that 40-49corruption is widespread 50-59 60-69 70-79 80-89 90-100 in several ofNothe data countries in which Orkla operates. XXX Sustainability Report 52 2013 ORKLA AND SOCIETY ORKLA AND SOCIETY The value of dialogue Orkla wishes to promote a sustainable SUPPLIERS The requirements Orkla imposes on suppliers are described value chain. By cooperating with others, in written agreements, and the companies have an we can make a difference. ongoing dialogue with all regular suppliers. Suppliers of ingredients and packaging for food manufacturing are monitored through food safety procedures. Where there is We are convinced that we can contribute to a more a risk of breach of Orkla’s Supplier Code of Conduct, suppsustainable future through product development and liers are monitored by means of inspections and ethical improvement initiatives that create value for society and audits. The companies increasingly provide guidance and Orkla alike. At the same time, we believe that our most support to farmers, to promote safe and environmentally important results will be created through combined friendly agricultural methods. efforts. A fruitful dialogue with stakeholders helps us to understand the views of others and the society of which we In the period 2012–2013, Orkla Foods Sverige helped vegeare a part. Cooperation with other companies, authorities, table farmers make the transition to IP-certified cultivation, research communities and commercial and professional and MTR Foods in India assisted dairy farmers in bringing bodies paves the way for better solutions and advances about improvements. A number of companies have also enthan we can achieve individually. An active and open gaged in projects to make improvements in supplier chains dialogue with stakeholders is therefore a fundamental that present special challenges. This is described in more principle for Orkla’s corporate responsibility work. detail in the chapter on ”Responsible purchasing”. We regard our employees, customers, suppliers, shareSHAREHOLDERS 53 holders, the authorities and the local communities in Orkla holds presentations and meetings with investors which our businesses operate as our most important stakeand analysts in connection with the publication of quarterly holders. All these stakeholder groups are of importance to results. Orkla’s investor relations function responds promptly Orkla from a business perspective, but at the same time to communications from the investor market. Orkla’s annual we have a responsibility to them. financial statements, budget for the coming year and other relevant matters associated with the company’s EMPLOYEES governance are dealt with at the Group’s Annual General Dialogue with our employees takes place through open Meeting. Important topics for dialogues with sharemeetings, our intranet and other internal information holders in 2013 have included Orkla’s transition to a channels, and through annual personal development branded consumer goods company, Group results and dialogues, regular employee surveys and procedures the discontinuation of Orkla’s Corporate Assembly. for working with elected employee representatives. The most important topics in 2013 were restructuring AUTHORITIES and organisational development. Orkla engages in dialogues with politicians and government authorities at EU, national and local level on operating CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS parameters and issues that require cooperation between The Orkla companies have established customer service the business sector and the authorities. Important issues in functions that deal with day-to-day communications 2013 were the marketing of food and drink to children and from consumers and customers. The dialogue centres adolescents, clear labelling of contents on food products, mainly on complaints about products and enquiries grant schemes for Norwegian agriculture and the food about the contents, effect or use of products. Companies industry, efforts to bring about improvements in the often receive questions about food allergies, nutritional supplier chain. content, animal welfare and the environmental impact of products. In addition, Orkla engages in dialogue with In 2013 Orkla held dialogues with Norwegian authorities retailers about current sustainability issues and contingency on self-regulation and marketing of food and drink to management. children and adolescents. We have contributed actively to the establishment of voluntary guidelines and the new ORKLA AND SOCIETY Food and Drink Industry Professional Practices Committee in Ålesund participates in the biomarine business cluster (MFU). Orkla Foods Danmark engaged in a dialogue with LEGASEA in Sunnmøre. The cluster was established in the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration, and Orkla 2013, and consists of 20 companies in the fields of Foods Sverige with the Swedish National Food Agency fishing, fish farming and industrial processing of marine regarding the new criteria for the Green Keyhole label for oils and ingredients in Norway’s Møre region. Their healthy products. Latvian Spilva has been in a dialogue ambition is to cooperate on achieving more sustainable with the Latvian Ministry of Health on taxes and other and profitable utilisation of marine biomass, and the measures designed to promote a healthier diet. Orkla initiative is subsidised by Innovation Norway. has contributed to the establishment of the Food Industry Alliance in Norway, which is a collaborative project between SPECIAL INTEREST ORGANISATIONS agriculture-based manufacturing and the Norwegian Food Orkla and Orkla companies maintain a regular dialogue Sustainand Allied Workers Union (NNN). with consumer, employee and employer organisations ability and with environmental and human rights organisaReport Orkla has also maintained a dialogue with the Ministry of tions about problems relating to our activities. In 2013, a Agriculture and Food concerning potential changes in the number of the companies had a dialogue with Rainforest grant schemes for Norwegian agriculture. Orkla wishes Foundation Norway and Greenpeace about the challenges to issue a warning against changes in the schemes that presented by palm oil production, and Pierre Robert will put Norwegian agriculture and food production at a Group has been in a dialogue with the organisation disadvantage in competition with foreign food production. Green Living about sustainability issues in textile manuIn 2013, Orkla continued its dialogue with the Ministry of facturing. The company has also taken part in a working Foreign Affairs regarding the possibility of establishing a group tasked with making improvements in the supplier joint public-private sector project to bring about longchain for textiles and shoes, under the auspices of the term improvement in the cocoa sector in Côte d’Ivoire. Ethical Trading Initiative Norway (IEH). In 2013, Axellus Axellus has conducted a dialogue with Peruvian authorities took part in a similar working group for fish oil, also under 54 on supervision of fish oil production in Peru, and Orkla the auspices of IEH. Foods Sverige with the Thai authorities on sustainable management of tonggol tuna. Latvian Spilva held a dialogue in 2013 with the Latvian Coeliac Society, and as a result has improved the labelling Orkla received NOK 20.6 million in public subsidies in 2013, of its gluten-free food products. In the course of the year primarily for energy-efficiency measures, research activities the Dutch company Sonneveld had a similar dialogue and wage supplements. In addition the Group received with the Dutch Coeliac Society. NOK 130.7 million in raw material price compensation, i.e. compensation for the disadvantage to Orkla’s Norwegian A number of Orkla’s Norwegian companies were criticised business areas resulting from the regulation of Norwegian in 2013 by the Norwegian Association of the Blind and agricultural products. Partially Sighted (NABP) in connection with the latter’s ”Unreadable” campaign. The aim of the campaign was to 2013 LOCAL COMMUNITIES raise awareness of the importance of having readable text The Orkla companies maintain dialogues with their local on product packaging and other communication surfaces. communities through meetings with the authorities, local The Orkla companies have been in a dialogue with NABP organisations or neighbours about issues associated with in connection with the campaign, and are considering operations or the development of the local community. The how to make information easier to read. senior executive in the individual business is responsible for organising operating procedures that safeguard the interests In 2013, Orkla conducted in-depth interviews with resource of the local community, and the companies carry out health persons in selected organisations and professional commuand environmental risk assessments. nities in order to obtain input for an analysis of sustainability trends in connection with food. Orkla will use this input in In 2013, Lilleborg invited the neighbours to a meeting its work to formulate goals and initiatives for the Group’s and tour of the premises, after complaints of a smell of sustainability work towards the year 2020. Representatives soap from the company’s warehouse in Oslo. Lilleborg of the WWF, the Norwegian Rainforest Foundation, Transhas also held dialogues with municipal agencies about parency International and IEH also contributed input to this challenges relating to the company’s manufacturing work at an internal strategy meeting in the autumn of 2013. operations at Ski and Flisa. A number of the Orkla companies are partnering research communities in projects on nutrition and health. These Axellus’ factory for the production of Denomega fish oil projects are described in more detail on page 19. REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sustainability Report Restructuring of businesses – Product safety and adolescents – questions concerning – and organisational products Raw material price palm oil development – compensation and other – Nutrition labelling operating parameters for – food production – – – Food safety and product labelling (ongoing management of tonggol 56 dialogue with supervisory – authorities) – – cocoa sector the cocoa sector in 2013 Reduction of salt in food products – vocational training labelling – – – Development of healthy and ecologically activities of palm oil sustainable food – – – Restructuring of Gender balance in businesses management ORKLA AND SOCIETY Strong social commitment Many of the Orkla companies hold a Lilleborg supported the Norwegian Society for Sea strong position in their local communities. Rescue by donating a fixed amount per sold can of the The companies contribute to bonding boat-washing agent Jif Båtshampo, and the car-washing within the local communities by partagent Jif Bilshampo. nering local authorities, schools and organisations in the spheres of sport, The Dutch company Sonneveld has been engaged in a project to develop nutritious food for the sick and elderly in culture and humanitarian work. the Netherlands. Among other things, the company was inSustainability volved in the launch of a type of bread that is rich in protein. Report The Indian company MTR Foods contributed assistance to 200 poor children in the local community around the Orkla Foods Norge supported Fredrikstad football team factory, among other things by providing school books. Gatelaget, a team of former substance abusers. MTR Foods has also donated medicines for milk cows to Orkla Foods Sverige collaborates with the two organilocal dairy farmers. sations Allwin and Hjälp i Stan, which distribute food approaching the end of its shelf life to persons in need. Vitana supported local community projects and the Red Cross’ food aid programme. The Latvian company Spilfa supported organisations that 58 assist orphans and foster families. A number of companies support different kinds of sporting activities for youngsters in their local communities. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge supported agricultural training for cocoa farmers in Côte d’Ivoire. Overall, Orkla and the Group companies contributed KiMs in Denmark has formed a partnership with Jobcenter NOK 16.5 million in financial support in 2013 to activities in Nordfyn, to provide work experience to persons who fall the spheres of sport, humanitarian work, culture, education outside the labour market. The company also offers work and efforts to bring about improvements in the supplier experience placements and other support to local job chain. The companies also partner external research centres. In 2013, twelve people were given an opporcommunities in the fields of nutrition and health. Orkla tunity to work at KiMs through these schemes. will provide NOK 7.7 million in support to such projects in the period 2013–2015. 2013 KiMs Danmark also assisted the Danish organisation Child Aid Day in arranging street handball for children who live in institutions. Kalev supported the Estonian Association of Large Families as well as some cultural and sporting activities. Orkla has been a signatory to Axellus participated in a cooperative project managed by IEH the UN initiative Global Compact to bring about improvements in fish oil production in Peru. since 2005. Orkla’s corporate responsibility prinsiples are based Pierre Robert Group donated clothes to the Red Cross, on those of the Global Compact, on the UN Guiding Principles Active Child Aid, street children in Estonia and a maternity on Business and Human Rights clinic in Madagascar. and on the OECD guidelines for multinational corporations. ORKLA AND SOCIETY 6000 5000 4000 3000 3,2 % 4,3 % 2000 1000 mill kr. 2013 2012 Verdiskapning i Orkla 1. Lønn til ansatte 2. Til samfunn i form av betalte skatter (kontantstrøm) 3. Til aksjonærer i Orkla i form av utbytte utbetalt og tilbakekjøp/salg av egne aksjer Total sales revenues (NOK million) CAMPAIGNS WITH A PURPOSE Several Orkla companies partnered organisations’ campaigns in 2013, donating a portion of sales to support the work of the organisations. We used the strength and popularity of our branded goods to create greater interest in the issues 59 we feel most strongly about. Washing hands with soap is the Orkla Foods Sverige has taken an active In 2013, the Dutch company simplest and most effective method stand against bullying. In collaboration Sonneveld continued its partnership we know of preventing illness in chilwith the organisation Friends, they with the foundation Bake for Life. dren. Over 780 million people lack launched a shop campaign whereThe foundation gives persons who are access to clean water today, and 400 by buyers of the brands Felix, BOB, challenged in various ways training million of them are children. In 2013, Ekströms, Risifrutti, Grandiosa, Önos, in baking at its bakeries in Africa. This Lano teamed up with UNICEF to help Fun Light, JOKK, Den Gamle Fabrik enables disadvantaged individuals to many children in poverty-stricken and Paulúns can help the organisation get a job and a wage, and puts them in countries gain access to clean water in its efforts to combat bullying at a position to support themselves and and instruction in hand hygiene. Swedish schools. Up to the present their families. Each Lano product sold in October Orkla Foods Sverige has donated SEK 2013 contributed to 50 litres of clean 592,832 to Friends. The partnership water through UNICEF. has also resulted in an information campaign that has reached 248,000 pupils at 839 schools in Sweden. ORKLA AND SOCIETY Awards to Orkla companies Orkla was on the Dow Jones European sustainability index Rieber Russia was designated the Small Organisation of for the third year in succession. The index consists of the High Social Responsibility by the Moscow Regional Governbest 20 % of a total of 600 European companies. ment for its contribution to the local community in terms of tax income and support for charities. Orkla Foods Sverige was voted Grocery Supplier of the SustainYear in Sweden. Denomega won the prestigious iTQi Superior Taste Award ability for the best tasting, highest quality cod liver, salmon and Report Orkla Foods Norge Storhusholdning was awarded the fish oils. iTQi is an independent organisation of chefs and prize for Supplier of the Year 2013 in the service market sommeliers which judges and rewards food and beverages in Norway. The presentation took place at NorgesGruppen from all over the world. and ASKO’s customer and supplier meeting. Felix Austria came in third in the category Goldener Mittelbau Spilva was voted role model for sustainable development in the voting on Austria’s Leading Companies in Burgenland. by the Lativian employers’ association. The companies’ financial results and efforts to promote sustainability over the past three years form part of the basis Kalev CEO Kaido Kaare was awarded the Badge of Merit for the evaluation. The presentation of awards is arranged of Harju County, Estonia, as a token of appreciation for by KSV 1970, Wirtschaftsblatt and PwC. Kalev’s support for the local community. 60 Felix Austria placed second in the category ”Family-friendly Indian MTR Foods received the Healthy Workplace Gold companies in Burgenland”. The prize was awarded by the Award for 2013 from the non-profit organisation Arogya Burgenland Chamber of Commerce. World. 2013 ABOUT THE REPORT About the report This report presents Orkla’s work in the field of sustainability dard G4, and we made some changes in our in the financial year of 2013. Unless otherwise stated, key reporting to align ourselves with the new requirements. figures are reported for the whole Orkla Group, including Orkla’s sustainability reporting for 2013 includes data for wholly-owned Group companies. In reporting goals and a number of standard disclosures from GRI’s guidelines, initiatives, we have placed the main emphasis on Orkla’s but does not fully satisfy the requirements for reporting branded consumer goods area, which represent Orkla’s according to GRI G4. An overview of the indicators that Sustaincore business. are covered is provided at www.orkla.com/Sustainability ability/Results-and-reporting. Apart from this, choices Report The report is based on information obtained from Orkla and processing of information are based on GRI’s companies through a number of internal reporting systems. principles for good reporting practice. We have placed As a result of differences in the reporting systems, key emphasis on providing a good overall understanding of figures for various subject areas are reported in somewhat Orkla’s work, reporting on material matters and initiatives, varying ways. The underlying data are specified for each providing a balanced presentation, and making a compakey figure. Unless otherwise stated, key figures are as at 31 rison with 2012 possible. December 2013. Data for 2012 are stated excluding Sapa, to make the figures comparable with figures for 2013. Orkla’s Sustainability Report 2013 shows the progress of the Group’s work to promote the Global Compact’s Ten The report is divided into chapters which reflect the main Principles. A detailed overview of Orkla’s reporting for 2013 topics addressed in Orkla’s sustainability work: pursuant to the Global Compact’s Ten Principles is available 62 at www.orkla.com/Sustainability/Results-and-reporting. • Food safety and product safety • Nutrition and health Orkla’s Sustainability Report has been approved by Orkla’s • Responsible purchasing Group Executive Board. The account of corporate re• Environment sponsibility in Orkla given in Orkla’s Annual Report for • Occupational health and safety 2013 has been approved by Orkla’s Board of Directors. • Human resource development and corporate culture The Sustainability Report has not been verified by an external third party. These topics were chosen in 2012 as part of the change in Orkla’s strategy from a complex group to a pure-play The report should be viewed in conjunction with Orkla’s branded consumer goods company and as a natural exAnnual Report for 2013 and other information available tension of the sustainability work of the former business on Orkla’s website. For information on sustainability work 2013 area Orkla Brands. In 2013, Orkla performed an analysis in Orkla’s subsidiaries Sapa and Jotun, please see the of important trends associated with the topics of food companies’ own reports. safety, nutrition and health, responsible purchasing and environment, and among other things conducted in-depth interviews with external experts and representatives of important stakeholder groups. The insight we gained through this analysis has influenced our work on Orkla’s Sustainability Report for 2013, with respect both to the issues selected for scrutiny and to our reporting of risk and opportunities for Orkla. In the report, we have described why we believe each of the six main topics to be material to Orkla’s activities. Orkla has previously reported according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s reporting standard GRI G3. In 2013, we reviewed the reporting requirements of the revised stanCopyright notice The content of this sustainability report is copyright protected material. The content may be freely distributed, reproduced and electronically stored. This consent is given on the condition that the source of the material is correctly cited. © 2014 Orkla ASA Photo: Ole Walter Jacobsen Photo: Orkla Foods Norge (page 15) Photo: Herman Dreyer (page 20-22) Photo: Pierre Robert Group (page 26, 36) Photo: Colourbox (page 32,37) Photo: UTZ Certified (page 33) Photo: Orkla Foods Sverige (page 35) Photo: Moment Studio (page 38) Orkla ASA P.O. Box 423 Skøyen NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Office address: Nedre Skøyen vei 26 0276 Oslo Tel: +47 22 54 40 00 www.orkla.no Enterprise number: NO 910 747 711 If you have views or questions regarding Orkla or our sustainability work, send an email to: info@orkla.no Ø M ER KE ILJ T M 24 16 1 TR 7 YKKERI
