CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Sustainability Report 2013 Vision Contents To be the premier multinational 1 About this Report Empowering Lives corporation providing urban 2 Letter to Stakeholders 84 Health and Safety 6 About Keppel Land 96 People Matter living solutions through the 7 Sustainability Framework twin core businesses of property 8 Commitment to Stakeholders Nurturing Communities development and property 9 Managing Sustainability 108 Community and Society fund management. 18 Awards and Accolades 22 Configured for Growth 118 GRI G4 Content Index for – Shaping a Sustainable Future ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive 126 United Nations Global Compact Mission 26 32 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights Corporate Governance 127 Independent Assurance Statement 131 International Network We are committed to create 42 Risk Management live-work-play environments of 46 Environment 76 Innovation and enduring value for the community Product Excellence with our hallmark excellence, and achieve sustainable higher returns for our shareholders. CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Constantly shaping itself for the future, Keppel’s drive for sustainable growth finds expression in the tangram, a symbol of flexibility and potential. CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH About this Report Keppel Land reaffirms its commitment towards sustainability with the publication of this Sustainability Report 2013. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE The Keppel Land Sustainability Report 2013 is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) new G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the Comprehensive level. Launched in May 2013, G4 is the fourth generation of GRI’s guidelines on sustainability reporting. This Report also takes into account additional disclosure requirements from the GRI G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement, which covers key aspects of sustainability performance that are meaningful and relevant to the sector. In response to GRI G4’s emphasis on materiality, this Report focuses on aspects that have been identified as material to Keppel Land’s business and its key stakeholders, which are detailed in the section on Managing Sustainability. This Report has also been checked and confirmed by the GRI Report Services team that all the materiality-related performance indicators have been adequately disclosed. REPORTING PERIOD AND SCOPE This is Keppel Land’s sixth GRI-accredited Sustainability Report since 2008. It details the Company’s approach and initiatives taken in integrating sustainability into its policies, structure and daily operations. It provides an account of Keppel Land’s sustainability performance as well as its strategies and practices, while highlighting the economic, environmental, and social impacts of the Company’s activities and developments across its properties in Singapore and overseas. The Report is based on Keppel Land’s fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2013, and covers the significant changes during the reporting period in terms of the Company’s size, structure, supply chain and other related aspects. Where possible, the Report provides up to four years of historical information so that there is sufficient basis for comparison. Keppel Land’s approach in aligning its sustainability strategy and business practices to the ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on social responsibility is also detailed in this Report. The Company continues to support the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Report includes the Company’s progress in these areas in 2013. This Report supplements Keppel Land’s Annual Report 2013, which can be found at its corporate website at www.keppelland.com. The Sustainability Report demonstrates Keppel Land’s commitment to keep its stakeholders, including employees, customers, investors, business partners, partner agencies and community members abreast of the Company’s efforts and developments in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Limited copies of this Report have been printed to minimise the impact on the environment. The Report can be accessed and downloaded at Keppel Land’s corporate website. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE An independent CSR consulting company, Ere-S Pte Ltd, was appointed to FEEDBACK provide external assurance on this Report. The content of this Report was Your feedback is valued reviewed and the accuracy and reliability of all statements validated. The to help us improve on assurance standard includes the evaluation of the Company’s sustainability our future reporting. behaviour and performance, based on the AA1000 Assurance Standard. Please send us your All underlying systems and processes that support the Company’s sustainability feedback and comments framework were reviewed, in adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility at csr@keppelland.com. Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The independent assurance statement provides a summary of the audit report findings. G4-17, G4-18, G4-28 to G4-33 About this Report 1 Letter to Stakeholders Keppel Land has achieved significant milestones in our sustainability journey. Our standing in sustainability benchmarks and the awards garnered have raised our profile internationally as well as bolstered investor confidence and placed us on the radar screen of socially responsible funds. 2 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to present Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report for 2013. During the year, we achieved significant milestones in our sustainability journey. Keppel Land was ranked 17th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World 2014, the highest among Asian companies and in the real estate sector worldwide. Our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World Index for the third consecutive year ranks us among the top 10% of global companies based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria. We were also included in the DJSI Asia Pacific and RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Yearbook for the fourth year running as well as named the Regional Sector Leader for Asia (Office category) in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2013 for the second year. In addition, Keppel Land is now a constituent of the MSCI Global Sustainability and Socially Responsible Indices, joining the ranks of companies which rate high on environment, social and governance (ESG) disclosure. Regionally, Keppel Land was named the Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) category at the ASEAN Business Awards. We also emerged winner at the Singapore Environmental Achievement Awards for the services category and the Singapore Sustainability Awards for the large enterprise category. Our standing in these benchmarks and the awards garnered have raised our profile internationally. It has also bolstered investor confidence and placed us on the radar screen of socially responsible funds. MATERIALITY MATTERS Keppel Land has This year, we have raised the bar in sustainability reporting by adopting the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) latest G4 Guidelines, which were raised the bar in released in May 2013. sustainability reporting Accredited by GRI through its Materiality Matters check, Keppel Land by becoming the first is the first in Asia to adopt and align its sustainability reporting at the in Asia to adopt and Comprehensive level. In line with higher reporting expectations, we have align its reporting focused our report on the issues that matter most to our business and key stakeholders. These include issues in the areas of economic with the latest Global performance, health and safety, environmental impact, labour practices Reporting Initiative’s as well as social responsibility. G4 Guidelines at the ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Comprehensive level. To-date, a total of 43 projects in Singapore and overseas have attained the Green Mark rating by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) of Singapore. Of these, five projects are of the highest Platinum standard. Our commitment and drive for continual improvement in sustainability has garnered us the BCA Green Mark Champion Award in 2014. We also expanded the scope of our Environmental Operation Plans to include completed commercial buildings overseas, in addition to those in Singapore and our hospitality properties. These plans provide guidance on the management of our properties’ environmental performance and complement the Environmental Design Guidelines in terms of materials sourcing, energy and water usage, certification as well as provision of green space for new properties. Letter to Stakeholders 3 Letter to Stakeholders To further the green cause, we formed the Tenants Go-Green Committee, comprising representatives from our various commercial buildings. Alongside other initiatives including complimentary environmental gap analysis for existing commercial buildings, we aim to raise awareness and encourage more stakeholders to join Keppel Land on our green journey. Managing SAFETY Recognising the importance of fostering a culture of safety in our supply chain, our second Safety Awareness Centre (SAC) was set up in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, in 2013, to provide mandatory training for contractors’ employees. Together with the first SAC in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC), Vietnam, which was set up in 2011, we have trained over 10,000 workers to-date. In line with international best practices, we have also achieved the OHSAS 18001 certification in occupational health and safety management for our projects in Singapore, China and Vietnam. In recognition of our strong commitment to upholding high safety standards, the British Safety Council has conferred Keppel Land the prestigious International Safety (Merit) Award in 2014. At the same time, Keppel Land is adopting the ISO 9001:2008 quality 1 management system standard for our projects. We are also rolling out an integrated management system that will combine the ISO 9001 with the ISO 14001 environmental management system and OHSAS 18001 into a single framework. EMBRACING INNOVATION In today’s volatile and uncertain business environment, innovative and sustainable business practices have become a necessity. Deloitte’s 2013 report on ‘Sustainability Driven Innovation’ suggests that sustainable leaders are likely to be top innovators as well. The adoption of sustainable practices help companies to think and approach situations differently and in the process, unlock their innovative potential. To continually challenge ourselves to think and do things creatively, a new brand tagline, “Thinking Unboxed”, was launched in 2013. It reflects Keppel Land’s commitment to continually innovate and shape the future. 2 To foster an open, collaborative, entrepreneurial and innovative culture, the Innovation Culture Taskforce and the Product/Service Innovation Team were set up in 2013. The former is tasked to improve the Company’s innovative culture and the latter aims to develop new products and services. Staff are also encouraged to contribute ideas and generate creative solutions at the workplace. We also collaborate with key stakeholders to develop innovative solutions. For instance, the “Tower Crane Proximity Sensors” which allow crane operators to manoeuvre blind spots and hidden corners, was jointly developed with our main contractor during the construction of Ocean Financial Centre. Our relentless efforts toward driving innovation and sustainability have won us the Channel NewsAsia Innovation Luminary Award 2014. 4 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Engaging Employees AND Communities To continually People is our most valuable asset. With talent management and succession planning high on our priority list, we have increased challenge ourselves our bench strength through promotions, staff redeployment and to think and do selected new hires in our key markets of Singapore, China, Vietnam things differently, and Indonesia. Localisation is also an important pillar of our people strategy for overseas offices, with its progress reviewed by top a new brand tagline, management bi-annually. “Thinking Unboxed” As part of our talent retention and management, a Career Review was launched, Committee was set up in 2013 to identify and groom promising reflecting Keppel Land’s employees for leadership roles. commitment to innovate With the increasing popularity of community service, especially and shape the future. among younger employees, Keppel Land actively encourages staff volunteerism and provides opportunities for them to give back to societies in Singapore and overseas. These include our partnership with the Singapore International Foundation on initiatives such as the Water for Life project in Myanmar which provides more than 7,000 villagers in the cyclone-hit districts in Yangon with access to clean water. Through the Words on Wheels (WoW) mobile library project in Hanoi, Keppel Land’s volunteers in Singapore and Vietnam help to promote a culture of learning and reading in the villages, thus opening doors through education. Riding on its success in Hanoi, we have extended our support towards the WoW project to HCMC in May 2014. To further our community-building efforts, CSR Committees have been formed at our offices in China and Vietnam. Modelled after the Singapore CSR Committee in structure and scope, these committees will evaluate and initiate suitable community partnerships in key cities of Keppel Land’s operations. Our ESG initiatives form Keppel Land’s overall strategic plan to align our business practices with international benchmarks, including the ISO 26000 Guidelines on Social Responsibility and the United Nations Global Compact’s universal principles. We look forward to your continued support as we strive to achieve sustainable outcomes for all our stakeholders. Ang Wee Gee Chief Executive Officer 1 June 2014 1, 2. Keppel Land is committed to be a leading green developer with sustainable properties such as the upcoming Highline Residences in Singapore (1) and Hill Crest Residence at Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in Kunming, China (2). Letter to Stakeholders 5 About Keppel Land Keppel Land is the property arm It is also a component of several stock commercial properties includes of the Keppel Group, one of indices including the FTSE ST Real Seasons City in the Sino-Singapore Singapore’s largest multinational Estate Index, FTSE ST China Top Index, Tianjin Eco-City, a Grade A office groups with key businesses in FTSE All-World Index, FTSE Asia Pacific development in Beijing and a offshore and marine, infrastructure ex-Japan Index, FTSE EPRA/NAREIT retail mall Life Hub @ Jinqiao as well as property. Global Real Estate Index and EPRA/ in Shanghai, China, Saigon Centre NAREIT Index. in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, One of Asia’s premier property as well as International Financial companies, Keppel Land is Keppel Land was listed in Corporate Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. recognised for its sterling portfolio Knights’ prestigious Global 100 The Company also plans to develop of award-winning residential Most Sustainable Corporations in Park Avenue Central in Shanghai developments and investment-grade the World 2014. The Company was into a retail-cum-office complex. commercial properties as well as ranked 17th, placing it first in Asia and high standards of corporate also among real estate companies Keppel Land is Asia’s premier governance and transparency. worldwide. Keppel Land is also home developer with world-class a component of the Dow Jones iconic waterfront residences The Company is geographically Sustainability World and Asia Pacific at Keppel Bay and Marina Bay diversified in Asia, with Singapore and Indices. It retains its position in in Singapore. China as its core markets as well as The Sustainability Yearbook for four Vietnam and Indonesia as its growth consecutive years as one of the top With a pipeline of over 66,000 markets. It focuses on a two-pronged 15% of companies worldwide in homes across Asia, Keppel Land strategy of property development for sustainability leadership. The Company is well-positioned to meet the sale and property fund management. is also a constituent of the MSCI Global demand for quality housing driven Sustainability and Socially Responsible by homeownership aspirations. Keppel Land is one of the largest listed Indices, and is recognised as the property companies by total assets on Regional Sector Leader for Asia An established property fund the Singapore Exchange. The Group’s (Office category) in the Global Real manager, Keppel Land has total assets amounted to about Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2013. two property fund management $13.8 billion as at 31 December 2013. vehicles, Keppel REIT, a pan-Asian A leading prime office developer commercial real estate investment in Singapore, Keppel Land contributes trust, and Alpha Investment Partners, to enhancing the city’s skyline with a private equity arm. landmark developments such as Marina Bay Financial Centre, Ocean Financial Centre and One Raffles Quay. The Company is committed to grow its commercial portfolio in key Asian cities. Its portfolio of overseas 6 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Framework Keppel Land is committed to delivering value to all our stakeholders through Sustaining Growth in our businesses, Empowering Lives of our people and Nurturing Communities wherever we operate. NURTURING COMMUNITIES SUSTAINING As a global citizen, we believe GROWTH that as communities thrive, we thrive. Our commitment to business excellence is We give back to communities underpinned by an unwavering wherever we operate focus on strong corporate EMPOWERING through our multi-faceted governance and prudent approach towards corporate financial management. LIVES social responsibility. Resource efficiency is not only People are the cornerstone We cultivate a green mindset our responsibility, but also of our business. among our employees to spur makes good business sense. them towards adopting a As an employer of choice, sustainable lifestyle. We will continue to distinguish we are committed to growing our properties with strong value and nurturing our talent pool Page 108-117 offerings and hallmark quality through continuous training for greater competitive edge. and development to help our people reach their Page 26-83 full potential. We instil a culture of safety so that everyone who comes to work goes home safe. Page 84-107 Commitment to Stakeholders Guided by our vision to be the premier multinational corporation providing urban living solutions through the twin core businesses of property development and property fund management, Keppel Land is committed to create desirable live-work-play environments of enduring value for the community with our hallmark excellence and achieve sustainable higher returns for all our stakeholders. In determining the key stakeholder groups, we assessed the significance and impact of stakeholders’ interests in sustainability issues as well as the potential impact these stakeholders have on the Group’s businesses. The following six key stakeholder groups have been identified: Our Our Business Customers Partners To develop quality homes and To integrate our strong regional products with premier investment network and knowledge with value and build on the Keppel Land the strengths of our partners to brand equity to enhance our capitalise on opportunities. competitive edge. Our Our Partner Investors Agencies To build on strong fundamentals To team up with regulatory and to deliver continued earnings non-governmental agencies to growth and maximise further the cause of achieving shareholder return. higher environmental, health and safety standards. Our Our Employees Community To help employees realise their To be a committed and full potential and cultivate responsible corporate citizen, knowledge-based employees contributing to communities with good work-life balance for a where we operate. motivated and dedicated workforce. G4-24, G4-25 8 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Managing Sustainability 1 At Keppel Land, sustainability is In doing so, Keppel Land aims to as ISO 9001 on quality management, about the Company’s commitment to operate in an economically, socially ISO 14001 on environmental delivering value to all its stakeholders and environmentally sustainable management, ISO 26000 guidance through sustaining growth in its manner to achieve positive outcomes on social responsibility as well as businesses, empowering lives of its for its businesses, the environment OHSAS 18001 on occupational people and nurturing communities and the community at large. health and safety management. wherever it operates. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GRI G4 GUIDELINES Keppel Land is committed to sound Helming Keppel Land’s sustainability In reporting its progress, Keppel Land’s corporate governance practices and efforts is the Corporate Social Sustainability Report is based on the robust enterprise risk management Responsibility (CSR) Committee. Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) processes. Its proactive approach Comprising representatives from Sustainability Reporting Framework. towards environmental management different business units, the Committee This current report is in accordance and protection ensures that its is responsible for formulating the with the latest GRI G4 Guidelines properties are sustainable and cherished Company’s CSR framework, released in May 2013 and the GRI G4 by communities across Asia for their implementing initiatives and Construction and Real Estate Sector quality and innovative features. monitoring sustainability performance. Supplement. It is also externally assured in accordance with the It also actively builds a strong The CSR Committee reports to the AA1000 Assurance Standard. safety culture to achieve a Board of Directors, which has oversight zero-harm workplace. of sustainability matters. At the same time, Keppel Land strives BENCHMARKS OF EXCELLENCE to be an employer of choice, focusing Recognising that sustainability on talent retention and nurturing a is an ongoing journey, Keppel Land competent and engaged workforce seeks guidance from internationally1. Keppel Land’s proactive to drive sustainable growth. It has also recognised standards, including the approach towards environmental pledged to positively impact and United Nations Global Compact management and protection ensures that its properties are enrich the lives of local communities (UNGC) and International Organisation sustainable and cherished by where the Company operates. for Standardisation (ISO) standards such communities across Asia. Managing Sustainability 9 Managing Sustainability CSR Committee STRUCTURE Board of Directors CSR Committee CSR Champions Singapore Risk Management Keppel Land China Investor Relations & Research Regional Investments Finance & Administration Workplace Safety & Health Human Resources Property Management & Group Internal Audit Knowledge Management Project Management & Sustainable Design Defining Report Content regarding the company’s business. The most material issues were then This report has been prepared Materiality also applies across the placed on a 5x5 matrix with clearly in accordance with GRI’s G4 supply chain where the company defined threshold criteria. These criteria Comprehensive level reporting has significant influence. are based on AA1000 Standard’s framework and its principles for five-part Materiality Test comprising: defining report content, including: The aim is to help companies integrate sustainability into its core business 1. Issues that have direct short-term – Materiality: strategy, measure and manage change financial impact; Focusing on issues that impact as well as identify critical risks and 2. Issues where the Company long-term business growth and are of opportunities which will improve has agreed policy statements utmost importance to stakeholders; operations and encourage innovation. of strategic nature; – Stakeholder Inclusiveness: 3. Issues that comparable Responding to stakeholder As part of its continual efforts to ensure organisations consider material; expectations and interests; a focused and performance-based 4. Issues important to stakeholders; – Sustainability Context: approach towards sustainability, and Presenting performance in the wider Keppel Land conducted a materiality 5. Issues that are considered to be context of sustainability; and assessment exercise in September 2013. social norms. – Completeness: Guided by an external sustainability Including all information that are of consultant, this follows the first This allows Keppel Land to review significant economic, environmental assessment in 2011. the significance of such issues and social impact, to enable periodically, based on changing stakeholders to assess the The exercise involved identifying and stakeholder expectations. Company’s performance. prioritising issues that are most relevant and significant to the Company and its The materiality workshop was attended Materiality Assessment stakeholders, then linking these issues by CSR Committee members as well as The new G4 guidelines on sustainability to the overall strategy and risk senior management from the different reporting focuses on materiality, which management approach. business units. The team discussed refers to issues of significance and and deliberated the issues at length relevance. It advocates disclosure on Adopting a matrix-based approach, before they were categorised into key, economic, environmental and social materiality was assessed based on critical and emerging or moderately aspects that can affect a company’s two criteria, namely, the importance material issues. business, or substantively influence of an issue to both internal and stakeholders’ assessment and decisions external stakeholders. G4-18 10 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Keppel Land’s Materiality Matrix D A High B K C E G H I J M L Importance to External Stakeholders F O P N R Q Importance to Internal Stakeholders High Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Key Material Issues Highly Critical Issues Emerging or Moderately Material Issue A Economic performance D Materials use O Market presence B Health and safety E Energy efficiency P Marketing communications C Compliance F Water management Q Anti-child labour G Carbon emissions reduction R Non-discrimination H Effluents and waste management I Sustainable products and services J Employment Legend K Training and education Economic issues L Labour-management Environmental issues relations Social issues M Local communities All categories N Business ethics G4-19 Managing Sustainability 11 Managing Sustainability Stakeholder Consultation material issues that Keppel Land had presented to the Board of Directors In November 2013, Keppel Land identified and highlighted issues which in April 2014. embarked on a stakeholder they deemed important. consultation to ensure that what This report focuses on areas has been deemed material by The positive response rate of 67% and issues that have been identified the Company is aligned to reflects the willingness of the Group’s as material by both internal and stakeholders’ expectations. stakeholders to engage the Company external stakeholders. These on sustainability-related matters. The comprise Level 1 or key material An online survey was conducted survey also verified the importance of issues, Level 2 or highly critical and all six of the Company’s sustainability issues to the Group’s issues as well as Level 3 or emerging stakeholders – customers, investors, long-term performance. or moderately material issues, employees, business partners, partner as detailed in the matrix on agencies and the community – Material Issues page 11. The table below defines participated in the exercise. They The results of the Materiality workshop the aspect boundary and impact provided feedback on the key and stakeholder consultation were of the issues. Keppel Land’s Material Issues Material Aspects Aspect Boundary and Impact LEVEL 1: KEY MATERIAL ISSUES Economic performance Sustainable financial performance; occupational and customer health Health and safety and safety; as well as compliance with national or international standards in areas including corporate governance, environment, safety, product Compliance responsibility and society, are material to both internal (employees) and external (customers, investors, business partners, partner agencies and community) stakeholders. This applies to the Group’s operations in Singapore and overseas. LEVEL 2: HIGHLY CRITICAL ISSUES Environmental impact Environmental aspects including the use of environmentally-friendly Materials use materials, energy and water conservation, reduction in carbon emissions, efficient effluents and waste management as well as sustainable Energy efficiency performance of products and services are important elements Water management in addressing climate change. These aspects are relevant to the Carbon emissions reduction Company’s internal and external stakeholders. Environmental guidelines relating to these areas apply in all geographical locations Effluents and waste management where the Company operates. Sustainable products and services Labour practices Positive employment practices are critical in attracting, retaining Employment and developing its talent pool as the Company strives to be an employer of choice. They impact employees in the Group’s Training and education offices in Singapore and overseas. Labour-management relations Social responsibility The Company strives to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing Local communities and enriching the lives of local communities wherever it operates. Community engagement as well as business ethics are material Business ethics to all internal and external stakeholders, and apply to the Group’s operations in Singapore and overseas. LEVEL 3: EMERGING OR MODERATELY MATERIAL ISSUES Market presence As Keppel Land seeks to integrate sustainable policies, strategies and Marketing communications practices into its business operations, its market presence as well as adherence to standards relating to marketing communications, Anti-child labour prohibition of child labour and policy of non-discrimination are Non-discrimination important and relevant to all its operations. These aspects have an impact on all six of the Company’s stakeholder groups. G4-19 to G4-21, G4-23 12 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY-linkED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORs (KPIs) 10 Principles of Keppel Land has put in place The United Nations systems to link the remuneration of senior executives and relevant Global Compact employees to the achievement of pertinent sustainability-related goals and performance. HUMAN RIGHTS For staff from the Project Management Principle 1 and Sustainable Design unit as well as Businesses should support project managers across the Group, and respect the protection of between 5% and 30% of their individual internationally-proclaimed performance appraisal is linked to human rights. environmental targets covering multiple aspects such as improving Principle 2 energy efficiency and reducing Make sure that they are not complicit carbon emissions. in human rights abuses. All employees have 2% of their LABOUR KPIs linked to safety. For project managers, it accounts for an additional Principle 3 10% to 20% of their KPIs. Any fatality at Businesses should uphold the freedom the end of the supply chain will also of association and the effective recognition affect the bonuses of key staff. of the right to collective bargaining. Innovation and change, collaboration Principle 4 and teamwork as well as risk Elimination of all forms of forced management form part of executives’ and compulsory labour. competency assessment in the staff appraisal and performance Principle 5 management framework, which Effective abolition of child labour. carry a 30% weightage. Principle 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Elimination of discrimination in respect Since 2011, Keppel Land has been of employment and occupation. a signatory to the UNGC, a United Nations initiative to encourage ENVIRONMENT businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible Principle 7 policies as well as to report on Businesses should support a precautionary their implementation. approach to environmental challenges. Sharing the same conviction that Principle 8 business practices which are rooted Undertake initiatives to promote greater in universal principles help the environmental responsibility. global marketplace to be more socially and economically inclusive, Principle 9 Keppel Land has pledged its Encourage the development and diffusion commitment to the UNGC’s of environmentally-friendly technologies. 10 universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and ANTI-CORRUPTION anti-corruption. Principle 10 The Company reports on its progress Businesses should work against in implementing these principles in corruption in all its forms, including its Communication on Progress to extortion and bribery. the UNGC annually. Managing Sustainability 13 Managing Sustainability 1 Keppel Land is also a Gold member attended talks on human rights of the Singapore Compact for CSR, organised by the Singapore Compact the national focal point for the and the Singapore Business Federation UNGC and platform for promoting in May and June 2013 respectively. the CSR movement in Singapore. A member since its formation in 2005, ISO 26000 GUIDANCE ON Keppel Land supports the society’s SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY belief in the importance of integrating Keppel Land is among the first social values and mission with business companies in Singapore to decision-making to achieve positive proactively align itself with ISO 26000, and sustainable outcomes. a voluntary international standard which guides organisations in their To raise awareness about UNGC’s efforts to operate in a socially principles among staff and stakeholders. responsible manner. Keppel Land invited external speakers from the National University of The Company aims to integrate the Singapore (NUS) and Schneider Electric ISO 26000 standard with its wide 1. Keppel Land is to share insights on human rights and coverage of issues ranging from committed to labour as well as environmental policy, reporting and assurance to build sustainable, practices during the Annual Contractors social and ethical, environmental live-work-play environments of and Consultants Health & Safety (H&S) and financial or economic aspects, enduring value. Meeting in July 2013. Employees also into its business practices. 14 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Alignment with ISO 26000 Standard Core Principles of Social Subjects Responsibility Organisational Governance Accountability The way an organisation makes and implements Accountability by an organisation for its impact decisions to achieve its objectives. on society, the environment and the economy, and takes appropriate actions to prevent repetition of unforeseen negative impacts. Human Rights Transparency Respect for human rights including civil Transparency in an organisation’s decisions and political rights as well as economic, and activities that impact society and social and cultural rights. the environment. Labour Practices Ethical Behaviour Policies and practices relating to work Ethical behaviour by an organisation performed within, by or on behalf based on the values of honesty, of the organisation, including equity and integrity. sub-contracted work. The Environment Respect for Stakeholder Interests Impact of an organisation’s decisions Respect, consideration and response and activities on the environment. by an organisation to the interest of its stakeholders. Fair Operating Practices Respect for the Rule of Law Ethical conduct in dealings with other Acceptance that respect for the rule of law organisations such as anti-corruption, is mandatory and compliance with legal fair competition and respect for requirements in all jurisdictions where the property rights. organisation operates. Consumer Issues Respect for International Norms of Behaviours Responsibilities to customers including having Respect for international norms of behaviour, fair and transparent marketing processes while adhering to the principle of respect as well as designing products that are accessible for the rule of law. by all including the less privileged. Community Involvement and Development Respect for Human Rights Support for and building relationship Respect human rights and recognise with the community. their importance and universality. Managing Sustainability 15 Managing Sustainability ALIGNMENT WITH ISO 26000 Keppel Land continues to align its practices with the ISO 26000 standard and bridge gaps in the areas of human rights, community involvement and development as well as respect for stakeholder interests, while bolstering existing strong areas such as organisational governance, environment and labour practices. Principles and Core Subjects Performance in 2013 • The Environment − Adopted the Jurong Lake under Singapore’s national water agency, PUB’s Waters Adopters Programme, and sponsored the Active, • Community Involvement and Beautiful, Clean (ABC) Waters Learning Trail at the lake. Development − Joined PUB’s Friends of Water Programme to encourage • Respect for Stakeholder Interests water conservation. − Invited Schneider Electric to share on environmental best practices at Keppel Land’s Annual Contractors and Consultants H&S Meeting in July. • Human Rights − Invited NUS to share best practices on human rights and labour practices at Keppel Land’s Annual Contractors and Consultants H&S Meeting. • Labour Practices − Participated actively in human rights talks organised by the Singapore Compact and Singapore Business Federation. − Set up a second Safety Awareness Centre (SAC) in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, in July. Together with the first SAC in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, the total number of personnel trained to-date has exceeded 10,000. − Enhanced performance management, staff engagement platforms as well as training and development programmes to encourage greater interaction among employees and improve talent retention. • Community Involvement − Formed CSR Committees in China and Vietnam to implement and Development community programmes. − Partnered Singapore International Foundation to launch the Water for Life (Yangon) project in Myanmar, which provides more than 7,000 villagers with better access to clean drinking water. − Organised the third volunteer trip for Words on Wheels, a mobile library project in Hanoi, Vietnam, which provides some 4,000 village children with access to books and educational materials. − Commemorated Giving Tuesday in December by encouraging employees to participate in SHARE, a monthly donation programme by the Community Chest in support of the underprivileged. 16 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1 KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (KM) A long-term KM plan was developed to SUSTAINABILITY DATA Keppel Land has in place processes support operational needs, promote MANAGEMENT to build organisational intelligence, collaboration amongst staff and build Keppel Land, together with other develop new projects or work organisational effectiveness. business units in the Keppel Group, programmes based on existing has invested in a data management best practices, harness the vast These culminated in a Knowledge system to streamline the management experience and knowledge of Sharing Portal for business units in and reporting of sustainability employees as well as avoid the Singapore. The portal facilitates the metrics across its Singapore and loss of critical knowledge caused appropriate sharing and protection overseas operations. by staff attrition. of highly-demanded knowledge assets by business units in Singapore. The system was implemented for A Steering Committee, chaired by the the Company’s projects in Singapore, CEO, oversees the vision, strategy and The pilot phase, which involved China, Indonesia, Vietnam and effectiveness of KM initiatives. the Marketing, Human Resources, Myanmar in 2013. Environment as well Project Management and Sustainable as workplace health and safety-related In March 2013, audit workshops Design as well as Property Management data are collected every month. were conducted to collect data on and Knowledge Management units Streamlining the data collection, knowledge assets in Keppel Land was launched in the third quarter analysis and reporting processes will as well as analyse knowledge risks of 2013. reduce manpower costs as well as and opportunities in the Company. improve business intelligence. Regular A survey conducted for this initial measuring and monitoring will also KM champions from across the phase showed that most employees enable Keppel Land to better manage Group were invited to identify found the portal useful and that it its sustainability performance. key topics to be included in the facilitated knowledge-sharing. KM system through a questionnaire Feedback will be incorporated in and mapping of responses. This was preparation for subsequent rollout followed by planning workshops to the rest of the business units in 1. Sustainability-related data involving KM champions and Singapore and overseas. from Keppel Land’s projects senior management to ensure in Singapore and overseas the alignment of the Company’s Overseas-based staff were also are collected, consolidated and analysed as part of the KM priorities with its current briefed on KM initiatives during the Company’s efforts to better business goals. Annual Staff Conference in May 2013. manage its performance. Managing Sustainability 17 Awards and Accolades Corporate Social Sustainability Asia Pacific Index, joining the ranks of leading Responsibility 1 sustainable companies from developed markets in Asia Pacific Global 100 Most Sustainable as listed in the Dow Jones Global Corporations in the World Total Stock Market Index. What it recognises: The top 100 corporations worldwide RobecoSAM in terms of sustainability. Sustainability Keppel Land ranked 17th in Yearbook Corporate Knights’ Global 100 What it recognises: Most Sustainable Corporations The top 15% of companies in the World 2014. This is worldwide in sustainability the highest position for an leadership. Asian company and also among Keppel Land continues to be real estate companies worldwide. included in The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 for the fourth Dow Jones Sustainability consecutive year. World Index What it recognises: Morgan Stanley Capital The top 10% in sustainability out of International (MSCI) 2,500 largest companies globally. Global Sustainability Keppel Land is one of only three and Socially Singapore companies to be Responsible Indices selected as a component of What it recognises: the Dow Jones Sustainability Companies in developing and World Index 2013. This is the emerging markets with high third consecutive year that the environment, social and ASEAN Business Awards governance (ESG) ratings What it recognises: Company is listed on the index, relative to sector peers. Significant contributions to ASEAN’s maintaining its standing among Keppel Land is a constituent of economic progress in terms of growth, the world’s largest companies the MSCI Global Sustainability employment, innovation as well as in sustainability leadership. corporate social responsibility (CSR) and Socially Responsible Indices, management and development. Dow Jones Sustainability joining the ranks of the highest ESG-rated companies which make Keppel Land was named the Asia Pacific Index up 50% of the adjusted market “Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise” What it recognises: capitalisation in each sector of in the CSR category at the ASEAN The top 20% in sustainability out of 600 largest companies in the underlying index. Business Awards 2013. The Company developed markets in Asia Pacific. was evaluated on its CSR framework, Global Real Estate adherence to international guidelines For the fourth consecutive year, Sustainability as well as communication and Keppel Land was included as a Benchmark (GRESB) implementation of CSR programmes. component of the Dow Jones What it recognises: Excellence in integrated Singapore Sustainability organisational approach towards Awards measurement and management What it recognises: of environmental key Excellence in implementation performance indicators. of sustainable practices. Keppel Land was named the For its commitment towards 1. Mr Ang Wee Gee (right), Regional Sector Leader for sustainable business practices, CEO of Keppel Land, received Asia (Office) for the second operations as well as performance from Mr S Iswaran, Minister, consecutive year in the management systems, corporate Prime Minister’s Office, the Top Honour for Sustainable GRESB 2013, which measures responsibility initiatives, innovation Business (Large Enterprise) the environmental and social and implementation of green accolade at the Singapore performance of real estate Sustainability Awards 2013. technology, Keppel Land was companies and funds. conferred the Sustainable Business 2. Keppel Land was recognised The Company was named Award (Large Enterprise Category) for excellence in innovation at the Channel NewsAsia the Best Performer in Asia in at the Singapore Sustainability Luminary Awards 2014. the GRESB 2011. Awards 2013. 18 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Channel NewsAsia (CNA) Asia Pacific Real Estate ENVIRONMENTAL Luminary Awards Association (APREA) RESPONSIBILITY What it recognises: Best Practices Awards Business excellence in the region. What it recognises: Keppel Land was lauded for Excellence in corporate Singapore Compact governance and disclosure. CSR Awards innovation excellence at the CNA Luminary Awards 2014. Keppel Land was presented the What it recognises: Merit Award for Accounting Companies with outstanding and Financial Reporting category ESG practices. Asia Responsible Corporate Awards and Best Property Development Keppel Land was named What it recognises: Organisation for Mature Markets Green Champion at the Excellence in CSR practices. at the APREA Best Practices Singapore Compact CSR Awards 2013. Awards 2013. The Company At the Asia Responsible was lauded for its proactive Corporate Awards 2014, and holistic approach in the Keppel Land emerged tops in the CSR Award category for SOCIO-ECONOMIC design and development of its properties and its ongoing efforts its outstanding practices. CONTRIBUTION as a responsible developer committed to improving the Top 10 ASEAN Companies lives of the communities where CORPORATE in China Award it operates. TRANSPARENCY What it recognises: Strong economic and social Singapore Environmental contribution to China. Achievement Awards SIAS Most Transparent Company Award Keppel Land China was ranked What it recognises: among the Top 10 ASEAN Environmental excellence What it recognises: Companies in China for the second by Singapore and Southeast Excellence in corporate consecutive year for its economic Asian companies. governance and transparency. and social contributions to the For excellence in corporate The Company was the country. The award, organised by environmental leadership, merit winner for the Singapore the China-ASEAN Business Council, Keppel Land was named Winner Corporate Governance Award also honoured Keppel Land’s CEO of the Singapore Environmental at the 14 th Securities Investors Mr Ang Wee Gee as one of China’s Achievement Award 2013 under Association Singapore (SIAS) Outstanding ASEAN Entrepreneurs. the Services category. Investors’ Choice Awards 2013. It also emerged Runner-Up for the Most Transparent Company Award in the real estate category for the 13 th year running. 2 The Business Times Governance and Transparency Index (GTI) What it recognises: High standards of transparency and corporate governance practices. Keppel Land emerged 5 th out of 664 companies at The Business Times’ GTI 2013 rankings. Organised by The Business Times and Centre for Governance, Institutions and Organisations, the GTI assesses corporate governance disclosure and practices as well as transparency of companies. Awards and Accolades 19 Awards and Accolades Asia-Pacific Enterprise Leadership Awards 1 What it recognises: Excellence in environmental sustainability and CSR. Keppel Land was awarded the Eco-Advocate Award at the inaugural Asia-Pacific Enterprise Leadership Awards 2013, which honour companies with best practices in sustainability and CSR. Skyrise Greenery Award What it recognises: Best practices in urban landscaping. Ocean Financial Centre was awarded the Skyrise Greenery Award (Excellence) by the National Parks Board (NParks) for outstanding green landscaping. Ricoh Eco-Action Awards What it recognises: Companies with exemplary environmental outreach initiatives. Keppel Land received the Most Creative and Most Effort awards at the Ricoh Eco-Action Awards 2013 for its environmental outreach programmes. Johor Green Awards What it recognises: Outstanding green initiatives. Tanah Sutera, the management company of Taman Sutera, Keppel Land’s integrated township development in Johor Bahru, BCA Green Mark Champion the Green Mark GoldPlus Awards. Malaysia, topped the private What it recognises: The Luxurie achieved the Gold development category at the Outstanding achievements in Award, while Keppel Datahub 2 environmental sustainability. inaugural Johor Green Awards. became the first new data centre Keppel Land achieved the in Singapore to achieve the Water Efficient Building Green Mark Champion Award highest Platinum Award for BCA-IDA Green Mark. What it recognises: Excellence from the Building and Construction in water conservation initiatives Authority (BCA) of Singapore and performance. in 2014. This brings the total number of Green Mark-certified properties Equity Plaza was awarded in Keppel Land’s portfolio to 43 the Water Efficient Building BCA Green Mark Awards to-date, up from 37 in 2012. (Silver) certification by the PUB. What it recognises: Best practices in environmental design and performance. Guinness World RecordS Bugis Junction Towers and What it recognises: World Keppel Bay Tower were record achievements. 1. Reflections at Keppel Bay conferred the BCA Green Mark The green wall at Ocean continues to garner Platinum Awards while Corals at Financial Centre was named numerous international and regional accolades Keppel Bay, The Glades and the Largest Vertical Garden by for architectural and Highline Residences were accorded the Guinness World Records. design excellence. 20 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH SAFETY Euromoney Real World Travel Awards Estate Awards What it recognises: What it recognises: Excellence in the global travel International The best in global real estate. and tourism industry. Safety Awards 2014 At the World Travel Awards 2013, Keppel Land clinched a total of six What it recognises: awards at the prestigious Euromoney Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Strong commitment in (Spring City) in Kunming, China, Real Estate Awards 2013. The Company workplace safety and health. was named the Best Office/Business was named Asia’s Leading Keppel Land clinched the Developer in Singapore for the sixth Golf Resort, while Sedona Hotel Merit Award at the prestigious consecutive year as well as the Yangon and Sedona Hotel International Safety Awards Best Developer, Best Residential Mandalay were named Myanmar’s 2014 by the British Safety Developer and Best Mixed-Use Leading Hotel and Resort Council for its commitment Developer in Vietnam for the second respectively. Sedona Suites to the health, safety and consecutive year. It also bagged the Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) well-being of its workforce. title of Best Office/Business Developer clinched the title for Vietnam’s in Vietnam and Best Residential Leading Serviced Apartment. Workplace Safety Developer in Indonesia. and Health Awards 2013 The Guide Awards What it recognises: Landscape Excellence What it recognises: Excellence Exemplary standards in Assessment Framework in the hospitality industry. workplace safety and health. (LEAF) Certification At The Guide Awards 2013, both Keppel Land is the only What it recognises: Development Sedona Suites Hanoi and Sedona developer in Singapore to be projects with outstanding Suites HCMC in Vietnam were presented the Workplace Safety landscaping and management. presented with Certificates of and Health (WSH) Developer For excellence in greenery provision Excellence and the Green Lotus Award at the WSH Awards 2013 and landscape management, Award at The Guide Awards. for the second consecutive year. Corals at Keppel Bay and 158 Cecil Street attained the LEAF Awards for Golf Courses The Company was also certification by NParks in 2013. What it recognises: selected by the WSH Council Best golf courses in the region. to be a bizSAFE Mentor for BCA Awards the second term. Spring City was named one What it recognises: Excellence of the World’s 100 Greatest in project management, design Golf Courses 2013 by US Golf and engineering safety. Digest. Spring City also came in PRODUCT Reflections at Keppel Bay clinched fourth for Best Course in China EXCELLENCE the BCA Construction Excellence as well as first runner-up for (Merit) Award 2013 for outstanding Best Maintained Course in overall management of the project, Asia Pacific at the Asian Golf FIABCI Prix technical capability and innovations Monthly Annual Awards. d’Excellence as well as product quality. It also Awards won the BCA Universal Design Ria Bintan Golf Club was ranked What it recognises: The best in Mark Platinum Award 2013 for its among the top 10 courses for global real estate developments. comprehensive and innovative Best Value for Money Experience Reflections at Keppel Bay was design features that enhance as well as first runner-up for conferred the highest Gold Award accessibility and user-friendliness. Best Course in Indonesia and fourth under the Residential (High Rise) for Best Course in Asia Pacific. category at the prestigious FIABCI South East Asia Prix d’Excellence Awards 2013. Property Awards Marina Industries What it recognises: Developments Association (Australia) The internationally-recognised with the highest quality in the region. Awards award recognises real estate Marina Bay Financial Centre was What it recognises: Excellence projects around the world that named the Best Commercial in the hospitality industry. display distinction in various aspects Development in South East Asia Marina at Keppel Bay was including concept, architecture (SEA) while Marina Bay Suites was named International Marina of and design, development and lauded the Best Condominium the Year 2013-2014 and winner construction, financial and Development in SEA and Best of Best Environmental Initiative at marketing, environmental impact Condominium in Singapore at the Marina Industries Association and community benefit. the SEA Property Awards 2013. (Australia) Awards. Awards and Accolades 21 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Shaping a sustainable future As environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues dominate global agendas, Keppel Land Harnessing human recognises that sustainability is no longer an option, but a necessity. capital, technology and innovation, Integrating sustainability into Keppel Land was listed in its strategy and operations, the the prestigious Global 100 Keppel Land is committed Company adopts a proactive Most Sustainable Corporations to continually drive approach towards environmental in the World. It took 17th sustainability and provide management and protection, position globally, placing social responsibility and it top in Asia as well as solutions to the challenges corporate governance practices, among real estate brought about by while continually developing companies worldwide. rapid urbanisation. innovative solutions to meet stakeholders’ needs. Keppel Land’s standing in the Dow Jones World Over the years, its sustainability and Asia Pacific Indices, journey has chartered encouraging The Sustainability Yearbook strides. At the World Economic as well as the MSCI Global Forum 2014 in Davos, Switzerland, Sustainability and Socially Responsible Indices also ranks it among the top global companies in sustainability leadership. 1 2 22 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations The Global 100 is the most extensive data-driven corporate “In selecting the world’s clean sustainability assessment to-date internationally, with inclusion capitalism leaders, we adopt a rigorous limited to a select group of the world’s top 100 large-cap companies assessment where corporations are with a market capitalisation in excess of US$2 billion. Organised measured against 12 resource and by Toronto-based media and investment research company, social-productivity metrics. Corporate Knights, the annual Global 100 was launched in 2005 and is announced each year at the World Economic Forum in Davos. “This is the first time a Singapore company (Keppel Land) has done so The Global 100 methodology for evaluating companies’ sustainability well since the launch of the Global 100 or “clean capitalism” performance was cited as a leading global in 2005. It goes to show that there is practice. Shortlisted companies are screened based on four criteria a heightened awareness with regards – sustainability disclosure practices, financial health, product category to sustainability issues among Asian and financial sanctions. Companies that meet the requirements countries today. Similarly, in the real constitute the Global 100 shortlist. estate sector, with growing concerns on building green developments, it Under the Global 100, these companies are scored on up to 12 Key has further encouraged developers Performance Indicators (KPIs) for their respective industries as follows: to implement sustainability initiatives in their business models. Category KPIs “We believe that eco-leaders such Resource Productivity 1. Energy productivity as Keppel Land and the rest of the 2. Carbon productivity Global 100 lead the way for a 3. Water productivity sustainable future with their relentless 4. Waste productivity commitment and efforts toward Financial Performance 5. Innovation productivity changing the way we do business 6. Percentage tax paid 7. CEO-to-average worker pay today, and encourage more 8. Pension fund status corporations to join on this Employee Management 9. Safety performance sustainability journey.” 10. Employee turnover 11. Leadership diversity 12. Clean capitalism pay link Mr Doug Morrow Managing Director, Corporate Knights 1. Singapore Soul, one of the three art installations at Ocean Financial Centre, adds vibrancy to Singapore’s business district. 2. Keppel Land’s support towards the Water for Life (Yangon) project in Myanmar will provide over 7,000 villagers better access to clean water. 3. Efforts are also in place to promote environmental awareness at Keppel Land’s overseas properties such as Stamford City in Jiangyin, China. 3 Configured for Growth Shaping a Sustainable Future 23 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Shaping a sustainable future Bugis Junction also features Singapore’s first glass-covered Thinking Unboxed and fully air-conditioned shopping Driven by its relentless pursuit streets using the stratified cooling towards excellence and a method, which is now adopted Even in the 1970s, the thirdcommitment to continually innovate at other developments such as generation Ocean Building already to shape a better future, Keppel Land Gardens by the Bay. featured roof gardens, long before launched a new brand tagline green buildings became a – Thinking Unboxed – in June 2013. Thinking out of the box when phenomenon. Today, Ocean It reflects the Company’s unwavering designing its properties, Keppel Land Financial Centre features a large approach to think and see things developed a daring architectural icon, assembly of solar panels spanning from a different angle. Reflections at Keppel Bay. Comprising 400 sm on its roof. The skin of the a series of high-rise residential towers building features 120,000 lightInnovation has always been ingrained with curved forms of alternating emitting diode bulbs which consume in Keppel Land’s culture, spurring heights offering breathtaking views 60% less energy compared with it to develop live-work-and-play at every turn, it surmounts several conventional light fixtures. solutions, seize new opportunities, seemingly impossible notions such as tap growth markets and build housing a lift within a curved structure. Ocean Financial Centre also features on its brand equity. Over the years, the Largest Vertical Garden as the Company has achieved To provide homebuyers with conferred by the Guinness World numerous “firsts” by incorporating unique experiences, Keppel Land’s Records. Close to 57,000 pots of innovative features in its properties. residential development at Tanah 25 plant species make up the maps Merah, The Glades, features the of Singapore, Southeast Asia and Bugis Junction was the first Sliding Integrated Multi-function the world on the wall. Proprietary mixed-use development to be (SLIM) movable wall system which designs were adopted to secure constructed above an existing provides homebuyers the flexibility the pots of plants while an automatic MRT line back in the 1990s. to configure and maximise room irrigation and fertilisation system Keppel Land pioneered the use space by concealing furniture when was incorporated to ensure minimal of a laser pointer system to track not in use. The SLIM system is maintenance. Beyond aesthetics, excessive vibration that could impact currently patent pending. the 2,125-sm green wall reduces the the rail line during construction of surface temperature of the carpark, the building. Today, the system is Keppel Land’s developments which is located behind the wall, adopted as a standard operating have also become eco-icons. and filters out vehicular emissions. procedure for developments being The LEED-Platinum Ocean Financial constructed near existing MRT lines. Centre is the fourth building to rise at the same site and stands tall as an architectural eco-landmark. 1 24 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH In developing innovative solutions, Keppel Land further collaborated with Singapore Polytechnic’s Harnessing Ideas Student Agency on product Aiming Higher Keppel Land believes in spurring research and engaged potential Keppel Land’s commitment its people towards value-creating customers on their needs. towards driving innovation was ideas. Two committees, the recognised at the Channel NewsAsia Innovation Culture Taskforce and Innovating Safety Luminary Awards 2014. the Product/Service Innovation Keppel Land is also committed Team, were set up in 2013. to safe practices at its worksites. The Company was also conferred Its project team jointly developed four awards at the inaugural Regular “hack-a-thon” sessions the “Tower Crane Proximity Singapore Good Design Mark are organised where staff can Sensors” with Obayashi-Woh Hup, (SG Mark) by the Design Business contribute ideas on pertinent topics the main contractor for Chamber Singapore in March 2014. and generate creative solutions. Ocean Financial Centre. Keppel Land was the only private developer to have won the Gold Staff of all levels are also encouraged Drawing inspiration from sensors Mark award for the green wall at to attend innovation-related courses. commonly found in cars, proximity Ocean Financial Centre. It also In 2013, Keppel Land’s senior sensors placed on each side of the achieved the Standard Mark award management team attended the crane’s boom will alert the operator for architectural excellence at Innovation Learning Machine whenever the boom comes within Ocean Financial Centre as well as Workshop by ESSEC Business two metres of any structure. This The Glades’ SLIM movable wall School to equip them with skills on simple yet innovative design ensured and multi-touch interactive media driving innovation in the Company. safe manoeuvring of the tower screen that provides prospective The innovation teams are also crane around blind spots during the buyers with information on the trained to facilitate their roles as construction of Ocean Financial surrounding amenities at the touch change agents. Centre Phase 2, which was of a finger. The SG Mark is a symbol completed in November 2013. of design excellence to encourage and champion holistic design Together with its contractor practices for global competitiveness. Woh Hup, Keppel Land also developed the “Bin-Hanging Podium”, Beyond awards, these recognitions a device which helps workers sort reflect the Company’s commitment construction trash safely. to raise benchmarks in building design while creating thoughtful experiences for all its stakeholders. Keppel Land will continue to sharpen its focus on sustainability and innovation to achieve positive and sustainable outcomes for its business, the environment and the community at large. 1. Bugis Junction, which was developed by Keppel Land in the 1990s, features Singapore’s first glass-covered and fully air-conditioned shopping streets using the stratified cooling method, which is now adopted at other developments such as Gardens by the Bay. 2. The Words on Wheels project in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam provides children in rural areas with access to books 2 and multimedia devices. Configured for Growth Shaping a Sustainable Future 25 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights Keppel Land’s diversification strategy – by geography and by business – has enabled the Company to ride out the challenges and deliver a creditable set of results in 2013. 1 $1.46b $4.52 1. Positive take-up at projects such as Park Avenue Heights in Chengdu contributed to Keppel Land’s Achieved record revenue of about Net asset value per share increased strong home sales $1.46 billion for 2013 due to strong 13% year-on-year to $4.52 as at in China in 2013. contributions from residential end-2013. 2. Sales in Singapore projects in Singapore and China. were mainly from two new projects, Corals at Keppel Bay (pictured) and The Glades. 26 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 2 Keppel Land achieved record With higher net profit, earnings Total assets as at end-2013 revenue of about $1.46 billion per share for 2013 was also higher were $13.8 billion, of which for 2013 on strong contributions at 57.3 cents. Net debt-equity Singapore and China accounted from residential projects in ratio remained relatively low at for 90% of the Group’s total assets. Singapore and China. 0.38 times. Keppel Land’s cash position remained strong at about Total assets rose by 20.6% Net profit before fair value gain $1.3 billion, placing it in good from $11.5 billion as at on investment properties grew stead to capitalise on potential end-2012, due primarily to 22% year-on-year (y-o-y) to investment opportunities. the increases in investment $583.7 million. Including fair properties, investments in value gain, net profit was Net asset value per share rose to associated companies and $885.9 million for 2013, 5.7% $4.52 as at end-2013, 13% higher jointly controlled entities, higher than the year before. than $3.99 in the previous year. and properties held for sale. Total Asset Distribution by Country Total Asset Distribution by Segment as at 31 December 2013 as at 31 December 2013 % % Singapore 47 Property Trading 63 China 43 Property Investment 30 Vietnam 5 Fund Management 1 Indonesia 2 Hotels & Resorts 1 Others 3 Others 5 Total 100 Total 100 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights 27 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights Five-Year Group Financial Profile 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 For the year ($’000) Sales 923,869 685,408 948,974 938,856 1,461,048 Pre-tax profit Before fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment 372,010 744,886 885,703 613,813 669,712 After fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment 360,033 1,170,696 1,476,993 987,308 1,000,773 Net profit 272,397 1,068,199 1,374,682 838,368 885,892 At year-end ($’000) Fixed assets and investment properties 1,632,830 1,906,435 837,784 1,590,744 1,894,051 Investments 1,467,837 1,526,709 2,263,559 2,709,394 3,040,799 Non-current assets 940,708 446,161 646,487 775,886 761,409 Net current assets (Note 1) 1,441,094 3,257,294 4,693,077 4,784,231 6,183,482 Deferred taxation (36,148) (35,170) (32,500) (150,544) (182,018) Assets employed 5,446,321 7,101,429 8,408,407 9,709,711 11,697,723 Shareholders’ equity 3,321,162 4,275,736 5,575,314 6,169,141 6,989,419 Non-controlling interests 398,436 309,232 295,680 477,314 496,168 Long-term borrowings 903,570 2,199,669 2,336,200 2,348,613 3,869,749 Short-term borrowings 823,153 316,792 201,213 714,643 283,275 Other non-current liability – – – – 59,112 Total funds invested 5,446,321 7,101,429 8,408,407 9,709,711 11,697,723 Per share Earnings (cents) (Note 2) After taxation but before fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment 22.7 44.7 53.8 31.6 37.8 After taxation and fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment 23.5 74.3 93.8 55.5 57.3 Proposed dividend (cents) 8.0 18.0 20.0 12.0 13.0 Net asset value ($) 2.32 2.95 3.74 3.99 4.52 Financial ratios Return on equity (%) (Note 3) After taxation but before fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment 9.5 18.9 18.4 8.4 9.3 After taxation and fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment 9.8 31.4 32.1 14.8 14.1 Dividend cover (times) (Note 4) 2.3 2.5 2.6 2.6 2.9 Interest cover (times) ( Note 5) 20.4 32.1 47.5 51.4 35.8 Net debt-equity ratio (times) (Note 6) 0.22 0.20 0.10 0.22 0.38 Notes: 1. In arriving at net current assets, short-term borrowings have been excluded. 2. Earnings per share are calculated by reference to the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 3. In the calculation of return on equity, the weighted average basis has been used. 4. In the calculation of dividend cover, fair value gain on investment properties/impairment and related taxation have been excluded. 5. In the calculation of interest cover, fair value gain/(loss) on investment properties/impairment has been excluded. Net interest cost on external borrowings, comprising net interest expense taken to the profit and loss account and interest capitalised under investment properties and properties held for sale, has been used. 6. In the calculation of the net debt-equity ratio, net debt includes borrowings net of cash and equity includes non-controlling interests in subsidiary companies. 28 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH In line with Keppel Land’s policy The property fund management Sales were mainly from two to distribute one-third of net division continues to make steady projects, Corals at Keppel Bay realised profits to its shareholders, progress, contributing about and The Glades as well as the Board of Directors announced $46.7 million or 11% of the Group’s The Luxurie, which is fully sold. a dividend of 13 cents per share, net profit before divestment and amounting to $201 million or about fair value gains in 2013. Excluding divestment and fair value 34% of net profit before fair value gain. gains, Keppel Land’s Singapore Total assets under management by operations achieved net profit of EARNINGS REVIEW Keppel REIT and Alpha Investment $289.5 million in 2013, down Property trading contributed 63% Partners increased by 16% y-o-y to 21% y-o-y on lower contribution of net profit before divestment $17.7 billion as at end-2013, from property trading. and fair value gains at $271.8 million when fully leveraged and invested. in 2013. This was due mainly to the Singapore absence of the bumper profit This is due to the progressive Government measures to tighten from Reflections at Keppel Bay profit recognition from Singapore mortgages and cool the property of about $164 million in 2012 residential projects as well as market in Singapore have impacted following the completion and higher profit recognition from sentiments and moderated handover of units sold under China following the completion home sales. the deferred payment scheme. of residential projects such as The Botanica Phase 6, Take-up of new homes in Singapore Capitalising on good take-up for The Springdale Plot 2-1 and was 32% lower at about 15,000 units CBD-fringe homes, the Company two towers at 8 Park Avenue. in 2013, impacted by the Total Debt acquired a prime residential site Keppel Land completed about Servicing Ratio framework and located next to the Tiong Bahru MRT 2,300 homes in 2013. Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty. station for the development of about 500 homes. Net profit from property investment Private residential prices continued to increased 52% y-o-y to $124.7 million stabilise, chalking only a 1.2% increase Keppel Land’s Grade A development, on stronger contribution from Marina in 2013 compared with 2.8% in 2012. Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Bay Financial Centre Tower 3 and continued to attract new tenants Keppel REIT as well as maiden In Singapore, Keppel Land sold from diverse sectors. Commitment contribution from the retail mall, 370 units in 2013, compared with rose to 95% as at end-2013, up Life Hub @ Jinqiao in Shanghai. about 430 units sold in 2012. from about 79% a year ago. Group Sales ($ million) Group Profit ($ million) 1,600 1,500 1,400 1,250 1,200 1,000 1,000 750 800 500 600 250 400 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 200 Pre-tax profit after fair 0 value gain/(loss) on 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 investment properties/ impairment 360.0 1,170.7 1,477.0 987.3 1,000.8 Group sales 923.9 685.4 949.0 938.9 1,461.0 Net profit 272.4 1,068.2 1,374.7 838.4 885.9 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights 29 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights Earnings and Dividend Per Share (cents) Return on Equity (%) 100 35 80 30 60 25 40 20 20 15 0 10 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 5 Earnings per share after taxation but before fair 0 value gain/(loss) on 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 investment properties/ impairment 22.7 44.7 53.8 31.6 37.8 Return after taxation but Earnings per share before fair value gain/(loss) after taxation and on investment properties/ fair value gain/(loss) impairment 9.5 18.9 18.4 8.4 9.3 on investment properties/impairment 23.5 74.3 93.8 55.5 57.3 Return after taxation and fair value gain/(loss) on Total gross dividend investment properties/ per share 8.0 18.0 20.0 12.0 13.0 impairment 9.8 31.4 32.1 14.8 14.1 Net Asset Value Per Share ($) Economic Value Added ($ million) 6.0 600 5.0 500 4.0 400 3.0 300 2.0 200 1.0 100 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net asset value Economic per share 2.32 2.95 3.74 3.99 4.52 value added 83.0 394.5 511.2 70.3 126.0 Overseas The Group achieved strong Strong take-up at The Botanica The Group’s overseas operations home sales in its overseas in Chengdu, The Springdale performed well in 2013. Overseas markets, especially China. in Shanghai as well as new launches net profit grew by 64% y-o-y of two towers at 8 Park Avenue to $141.1 million on stronger Take-up in China outperformed and Seasons Residence in Shanghai, contribution from completed the other markets with about Park Avenue Heights in Chengdu residential projects in China. 3,870 units sold in 2013, more and Phase 3 of Stamford City than double the 1,650 units in Jiangyin contributed to the This brought the share of overseas sold in 2012, and close to stellar sales. earnings to 33% of net profit before the Group’s record sales of divestment and fair value gains in 2013, about 4,100 units achieved As part of Keppel Land’s strategy up from 19% in 2012. in 2010. to scale up in high-growth 30 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1 cities and grow its commercial As at end-2013, about 53% of the presence overseas, the Group Group’s total assets were held overseas, invested a total of about up from about 49% in 2012, as $472 million in China for the Keppel Land focuses on building up its acquisition of two prime landed overseas presence in key growth cities. residential sites in Sheshan, Shanghai, and Tianjin Eco-City China remained the largest overseas as well as Life Hub @ Jinqiao market for the Group, accounting in Shanghai. for about 43% of total assets, followed by Vietnam and Indonesia, In line with the Group’s strategy which made up about 5% and 2% of to actively unlock value and total assets respectively. recycle capital, Keppel Land sold its stakes in Jakarta Garden Keppel Land remains focused on City and Hotel Sedona Manado building scalable growth platforms in Indonesia during the year, and deepening its presence in Asia, reaping divestment gains especially in Singapore, China, of $151.8 million. Indonesia and Vietnam. The Group then seized the The Group will also tap on opportunity to re-invest and opportunities to unlock asset value acquired a 3-ha residential and re-invest capital to generate site in West Jakarta. higher returns for shareholders. The Group will actively For more details on the Company’s 1. Alpha Investments seek opportunities to grow financial performance, please Partners, together with its commercial portfolio refer to the Financial Review Keppel Land China, acquired a stake in retail overseas to achieve a section of Keppel Land’s mall Life Hub @ Jinqiao balanced portfolio mix. Report to Shareholders 2013. in Shanghai. Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights 31 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance Keppel Land is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and transparency to ensure the sustainability of its businesses as well as safeguard shareholders’ interests. 1 30 days 160 meetings 1. The Board of Directors meet and engage with shareholders at Financial results are disclosed About 160 meetings were held across Annual General Meetings. within 30 days from the end of Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Japan, each quarter and financial year. Germany, Netherlands, UK and US to engage analysts and fund managers. 32 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Shareholders BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit Committee Management Nominating Committee Group Internal Audit Property Development Remuneration and Investment Committee Property Fund Board Risk Management Committee Property Board Safety Services Committee Hotels, Serviced Apartments and Resorts STRONG GOVERNANCE forward-looking with fresh ideas Every Board meeting Keppel Land believes that full so as to be more decisive in includes an update on commitment to high standards the execution of strategies sustainability issues. of corporate governance is and initiatives. essential to ensure the • As part of the Board renewal sustainability of the Company’s The Company has been process, Mr Yap Chee Meng businesses and performance recognised for high standards was appointed as an as well as to safeguard in corporate governance independent and non-executive shareholders’ interests and transparency. Information Director with effect from and maximise long-term on the awards received is 2 December 2013. He was shareholder value. on page 19. also appointed as a member of the Audit and Nominating The Company has adhered As part of its continuous efforts to Committees with effect to the principles and guidelines improve the Company’s corporate from 2 December 2013 of the Code of Corporate governance practices, the following and 25 February 2014 Governance 2012 (Code). changes took place in 2013: respectively. Mr Choo Chiau Beng stepped down from the Board These standards include having • The Board agreed to include and Mr Loh Chin Hua was clear policies, sound internal in its oversight, consideration appointed as Chairman of controls as well as a system of of sustainability issues such the Board with effect from continuous improvements. as environmental, social 1 January 2014. Professor and governance factors Huang Jing, an independent Effective corporate governance in the strategic formulation and non-executive Director supports the Company’s belief in and execution of the was appointed with effect from transparency and helps it to be Company’s objectives. 1 January 2014. Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 33 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance A PRUDENT AND sustainability considerations including As at 1 June 2014, there are 10 Directors, INDEPENDENT BOARD corporate governance practices. nine of whom are non-executive The Board oversees the effectiveness of Directors (NEDs), of which seven are Management as well as the corporate The Board is also responsible for independent Directors (IDs). governance of the Company, with the setting the Company’s core values objective of maximising long-term and ethical standards. The Directors provide relevant core shareholder value and protecting the competencies in areas such as Company’s assets. Each Director acts in The Board has reconstituted various accounting or finance, legal, business good faith and exercises independent Board Committees, namely the Audit or management experience, industry judgment as fiduciaries in the best Committee, Nominating Committee, knowledge, strategic planning experience interests of shareholders at all times. Remuneration Committee, Board Risk and customer-based experience or Committee and Board Safety knowledge. The Board’s decision-making The key roles of the Board include Committee. These Board Committees process is not dominated by any the review and approval of the have clearly defined written terms of individual or small group of individuals. Group’s corporate strategies and reference. Matters which are delegated directions, annual budgets, major to Board Committees for more detailed The NEDs actively participate in setting investments, divestments and funding evaluation and approval are reported the strategy and goals for the Company proposals, and the review of the to and monitored by the Board. and regularly assess the performance of Group’s financial performance, risk Management. They met regularly during management processes and systems, The Board meets regularly on a the year without the presence of the human resource requirements and quarterly basis and as warranted. executive Directors and the Management. The nature of the Directors’ appointments on the Board and details of their memberships in the Board Committees as at 31 December 2013 are set out below. Committee Membership Board Committee Memberships Board Directors Membership Audit Nominating Remuneration Board Risk Board Safety Choo Chiau Beng 1 Non-executive – Member Member – Member Chairman Non-ID Loh Chin Hua 2 Non-ID Member – – – – Ang Wee Gee CEO – – – – Member Non-ID Lim Ho Kee ID – Chairman Member – – Tsui Kai Chong 3 ID Chairman – – Member – Lee Ai Ming 4 ID Member – – Member – Tan Yam Pin ID – – Chairman – Chairman Heng Chiang Meng ID Member – – – Member Edward Lee Kwong Foo 5 ID – Member Member Member – Koh-Lim Wen Gin 6 ID – – – Member Member Yap Chee Meng 7 ID Member – – – – Oon Kum Loon 8 Non-ID Member Member – Chairperson – 1 Choo Chiau Beng stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2014. 2 Loh Chin Hua was appointed as Chairman of the Board and a member of the Nominating, Remuneration and Board Safety Committees, and ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2014. 3 Tsui Kai Chong ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 17 July 2013. 4 Lee Ai Ming ceased to be a member of the Board Safety Committee with effect from 17 July 2013. 5 Edward Lee Kwong Foo was appointed as a member of the Nominating and Remuneration Committees with effect from 17 July 2013. 6 Koh-Lim Wen Gin ceased to be a member of the Nominating Committee, and served as a member of the Board Risk Committee from 17 July 2013 to 17 April 2014. 7 Yap Chee Meng was appointed as an independent and non-executive Director with effect from 2 December 2013. He was also appointed as a member of the Audit and Nominating Committees with effect from 2 December 2013 and 25 February 2014 respectively. He was appointed as a member of the Board Risk Committee on 17 April 2014. 8 Oon Kum Loon served as a member of the Nominating Committee from 17 July 2013 to 25 February 2014. 9 Lim Ho Kee and Tsui Kai Chong retired from the Board at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2014 and did not seek re-election. Edward Lee Kwong Foo and Yap Chee Meng were appointed Chairmen of the Nominating and Audit Committees respectively on 21 April 2014. 10 Huang Jing was appointed independent and non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014. He was appointed as a member of the Board Risk Committee on 17 April 2014. 34 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH The NC also reviews the succession and leadership development plans for management with the assistance of the Talent Review Committee, which is chaired by the CEO and comprises divisional heads as members. A formal process is in place to identify high potential staff and actively plan their careers and development to assume leadership positions. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee (RC) consists of three NEDs of whom two are IDs and one is a non-ID. The RC is responsible for approving the framework of remuneration for the entire Group and reviewing the appropriateness, transparency and accountability to shareholders on remuneration issues of the Directors and key management personnel in the Company. For its commitment towards high standards in corporate governance, Keppel Land received the The aim of the RC is to motivate Merit Award at the Securities Investors Association of Singapore’s Investor Choice Awards 2013. and retain Directors and key management personnel as well as ensure that the Company is able to Audit Committee the effectiveness of the Board attract and retain the best talent in the The Audit Committee (AC) consists as a whole and the contribution market to drive the Group’s businesses of four NEDs of which three are IDs. of individual Directors to the forward in order to maximise Three members have accounting effectiveness of the Board as well as long-term shareholder value. and related financial management to affirm annually the independence expertise, while the fourth provides of Directors. The RC reviews the remuneration expertise in legal issues. One of the of key management personnel members also has experience in risk An ID is one who has no relationship annually and seeks to ensure management. At least two members, with the Company, its related that the level and mix of including the AC Chairman, have companies, its 10% shareholders remuneration is competitive, recent and relevant accounting (as defined in the Code) or its officers relevant and appropriate in finding or related financial management that can interfere, or be reasonably a balance between current expertise or experience. perceived to interfere, with the exercise versus long-term compensation of the Director’s independent business and between cash versus equity The AC’s primary role is to assist judgment to the best interests of incentive compensation. the Board to ensure the integrity the Company. In addition, an ID of financial reporting and that there should have no relationship with The total remuneration mix are sound internal control systems any substantial shareholder of comprises three key components in place. the Company. which are annual fixed cash, annual performance incentive and the Nominating Committee The NC also determines annually Keppel Land Share Plans. The Nominating Committee (NC) whether or not a Director with other consists of three NEDs of which two listed company board representations The annual fixed cash component are IDs and one is a non-ID. The main and/or other principal commitments comprises the annual basic salary roles of the NC are to make the has been adequately carrying out plus fixed allowances which the process of Board appointments and his or her duties as a Director of Company benchmarks with the re-nominations transparent, and assess the Company. relevant industry market data. Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 35 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance The annual performance incentive, IDs and one is a non-ID. It examines The Chairman leads the Board and which is tied to the performance of the adequacy and effectiveness of the is responsible for the management the Company, business unit and Company’s risk management system, of the Board, encourages Board’s individual employee, is inclusive and ensures that a robust risk interaction with Management, facilitates of a portion linked to economic management system is maintained. effective contribution of NEDs, value added (EVA) performance. encourages constructive relations The EVA performance incentive The BRC reviews and guides among the Directors, and promotes is currently extended to only Management in the formulation of risk high standards of corporate key management personnel policies and processes to identify, governance. The Chairman also who have greater line of sight evaluate and manage significant risks, ensures that the Directors receive to value creation. to safeguard shareholders’ interests complete, adequate, timely and clear and the Company’s assets. information, and that there is effective The Keppel Land Share Plans are communication with shareholders. share-based incentives for key senior The BRC also discusses risk management and employees of the management strategies with The CEO has full executive Company. They were approved by Management and the Board. In responsibilities over the business the Company’s shareholders at the addition, the BRC makes visits to the directions set by the Board and Extraordinary General Meeting of Company’s project sites, and holds operational decisions of the Group. the Company on 23 April 2010. meetings with Management at every visit to discuss the risk mitigation The CEO is accountable to the Four scorecard areas: commercial/ actions and issues that the Group Board for the conduct and financial, customers, process and faces in the various markets. performance of the Group. people, which support how the Company achieves its strategic Board Safety Committee The Chairman and the CEO are objectives, have been identified as The Company’s Board Safety not related to each other. key to measuring the performance of Committee (BSC) is made up of the Company. The framework guides three IDs and two non-IDs. The BSC TRANSPARENT PROCESS employees in understanding how guides Management to enhance FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF they contribute to each area of the the Company’s commitment to DIRECTORS AND ASSESSMENT scorecard, and therefore to the workplace safety and foster a safety OF THE EFFECTIVENESS Company’s overall strategic goals. culture in the Company. OF THE BOARD For appointment of Directors, the The RC exercises broad discretion and The role of BSC includes monitoring NC will evaluate the mix of expertise, independent judgement in ensuring the Company’s compliance with and knowledge and experience on the that the amount and mix of adequacy of the approved health and Board and, in consultation with compensation are aligned with the safety (H&S) policies, recommending Management, determine the role interests of shareholders and promote the adoption of acceptable H&S and the desirable competencies the long-term success of the Company. practices in the industries in which the for a particular appointment. Company operates, receiving reports During the year, the RC sought views concerning H&S incidents within Recommendations from Directors on market practice and trends from the Company, and considering any and Management are the usual external remuneration consultants, H&S issues that may have strategic, source for potential candidates. Aon Hewitt, to update the review of the business and reputational implications However, external search consultants long-term incentive plans for the CEO, for the Group. are also considered. key management personnel and employees, as well as the fees for the CLEAR DIVISION OF The NC will conduct formal Directors. The RC undertook a review RESPONSIBILITIES AND BALANCE interviews with the shortlisted of the independence and objectivity of OF POWER AND AUTHORITY candidates to assess their suitability the external remuneration consultants, To ensure an appropriate balance of and verify that candidates are aware and has confirmed that the external power, increased accountability and of the expectations and level of remuneration consultants had no a greater capacity of the Board for commitment required, after which relationships with the Company which independent decision-making, the the NC will make recommendations would affect their independence. Company has clear division of on the appointment(s) to the Board responsibilities at the top of the for approval. Board Risk Committee Company, with the non-executive The Board Risk Committee (BRC) Chairman and the CEO having All appointees should possess integrity, comprises five NEDs, of which four are separate roles. independent mindsets, expert 36 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1. The Company conducts joint press and analysts’ 1 briefings during the announcement of its halfand full-year results. knowledge that meet the needs The evaluation process is managed For the CEO and other key of the Company and complement by an independent coordinator, management personnel, the the competencies of existing who does not have any connection Company adopts a remuneration Directors on the Board, be able with the Company or any of its system that is aimed at attracting, to commit time and effort to Directors, who will consolidate retaining and motivating talent on carry out duties and responsibilities the evaluation returns and present a sustainable basis. effectively, have proven track a report to the members of the NC records and experiences in and the Chairman of the Board MANAGEMENT’S ACCOUNTABILITY other high-performing as well as provide the Board TO THE BOARD AND organisations, good business with feedback on how to improve THE BOARD’S ACCOUNTABILITY acumen and financial literacy. Board performance. TO SHAREHOLDERS Management provides all members The Board recognises that CLEAR DISCLOSURE ON of the Board with management proper succession planning REMUNERATION POLICY accounts which present a balanced plays an important role in The RC will recommend to the Board and understandable assessment ensuring continuous and effective the specific remuneration packages of the Company’s performance, stewardship of the Company. for the Directors upon their recruitment position and prospects on a monthly As such, the NC reviews the and review their fees annually. basis. Such reports enable the Company’s succession plans Directors to keep abreast of annually to ensure the progressive Directors’ fees are established the Group’s operational and renewal of the Board, including annually for the Chairman and financial performance and position. the Chairman and the CEO. the other Directors. Additional fees Any material variances between are paid, where applicable, for the projections and actual results To evaluate the effectiveness of participation in Board Committees. are disclosed and explained. the Board as a whole and the The level of fees takes into account contribution by each Director to the size and complexity of the The Board provides shareholders the effectiveness of the Board, Company’s operations, and the with its results within 30 days from the NC sets objective performance responsibilities and workload the end of each quarter and criteria for evaluation which allow requirements of the Directors. financial year-end. The timely comparison with industry peers release of such financial statements and the Company’s share price The fees are submitted to is important as it enables shareholders performance over a five-year shareholders for approval at each to receive information on the period vis-à-vis the Singapore Annual General Meeting (AGM). performance, position and Straits Times Index and a benchmark The CEO, being an executive Director, prospects of the Company index of its industry peers. does not receive Director’s fees. regularly and promptly. Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 37 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance SOUND SYSTEM OF behaviour pertaining to the offering public, may report suspected INTERNAL CONTROLS and receiving of business courtesies reportable conduct. The AC reviews the internal and as well as issues on conflict external auditors’ plans and findings of interests. The policy encourages the reporting to ensure that they are sufficient to in good faith of suspected reportable assess the adequacy and effectiveness The policy also requires all staff to avoid conduct by establishing clearly defined of the Company’s significant internal any conflict between their own interests processes through which such reports controls, including financial, and the interests of the Company in may be made with the confidence that operational, compliance and dealing with its suppliers, customers employees and other persons making information technology controls, as and other third parties. such reports to the employees’ well as management of risks of fraud supervisors, AC Chairman or Head of and other irregularities. The AC also The rules require business to be Group Internal Audit will be treated reviews the effectiveness of the conducted fairly, impartially and with fairly and, to the extent possible, actions taken by Management on the integrity, in an ethical and proper protected from reprisal. recommendations made by the internal manner, and in compliance with and external auditors in this respect. all applicable laws and regulations. The AC Chairman is kept informed Relevant anti-corruption rules are of all reported cases. Anonymous The Group also has in place the also spelled out to protect the reports are also accepted if there System of Management Controls business, resources and reputation are strong merits to look further Framework (the “Framework”) which of the Company. into the cases. outlines the Group’s internal control and risk management processes and The general rule is that employees Upon receipt of allegations of procedures. The Framework comprises must not offer or authorise the giving, fraud or other misconduct reported three lines of defence towards ensuring directly or through third parties, under the Whistle-Blower Protection the adequacy of the Group’s system of of any bribe, kickback, illicit payment, Policy, the AC will ensure that the internal controls and risk management. or any benefit-in-kind or any other necessary investigations are carried advantage to any person or entity, out in a timely manner. The AC Internal controls are detailed in formal as an inducement or reward for an will also ensure that any disciplinary, instructions, standard operating improper performance or noncivil and/or criminal action that is procedures and financial authority performance of a function or activity. initiated following completion limits policies. Their compliances are Similarly, employees must not solicit of the investigation is appropriate, reviewed by the relevant Board or accept illicit payment, directly or balanced and fair. Committees as well as the Company’s indirectly, from any person or entity internal auditor and ISO Internal that is intended to induce or reward an The AC will also monitor the actions Quality Management System auditor. improper performance or nontaken to correct the weaknesses in the performance of a function or activity. existing system of internal processes In 2013, there were no reported and policies which resulted in or instances of non-compliance with Briefings for all staff were held when may cause the perpetration of the laws and regulations relating to the policy was introduced. New fraud and/or misconduct, to prevent anti-corruption, anti-competitive employees are briefed on the policy any recurrence. behaviour, anti-trust and when they join the Company’s monopoly practices. orientation programme. To maintain All employees are briefed on and awareness, all employees are required are required to acknowledge Employee Code of Conduct to acknowledge the policy annually, the Whistle-Blower Protection The Company has in place an during which any revisions to the Policy annually. Employee Code of Conduct to build policy are highlighted. a culture of integrity as well as to Internal Audit reinforce ethical business practices. Whistle-Blower The Company has its own in-house Protection Policy Internal Audit Department that is The policy addresses the standards The Company implemented the independent of the activities it audits. of acceptable and unacceptable Whistle-Blower Protection Policy as behaviour, personal decorum as well as early as 2004, before the guidelines Group Internal Audit reports directly issues of workplace harassment at were introduced by the SGX-ST in 2007. to the Chairman of the AC and the employee level. The policy provides the mechanisms administratively to the CEO. Group whereby whistle-blowers, which Internal Audit’s authority is specified On the business front, the policy include employees, contractors, in the Internal Audit Charter which addresses the standards of business vendors, purchasers or the general was endorsed by the AC. 38 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH The key role of Group Internal given a first-hand account of the 1. Regular tours to Keppel Land’s Audit is to assist the AC to provide Company’s business strategy and developments such reasonable assurance that the direction. Communicated and as The Glades at Company is maintaining an adequate reiterated at these meetings were Tanah Merah (pictured) provide analysts system of internal controls through four key thrusts, namely deepening better insight into the periodic reviews of material controls presence in core and growth Company’s business. and procedures to test their markets, growing commercial effectiveness. The Group Internal portfolio overseas, recycling capital Audit may undertake investigations for higher returns as well as focusing as directed by the AC. on sustainability and innovation. The AC ensures that the internal audit Management explained that a function has adequate resources balanced portfolio will help diversify and appropriate standing within the exposure and risks in any one market. Company. On an ongoing basis, They also emphasised the Group’s it assesses the effectiveness of the strategy to grow its commercial internal auditors, such as its scope presence overseas, leveraging its of work and quality of audit reports. strong expertise for Grade A developments in Singapore INVESTOR RELATIONS as well as building on Keppel Land’s Reinforcing the reputation and track record in Four Key Thrusts residential developments. In 2013, the Investor Relations (IR) team focused on introducing In today’s volatile market environment, Keppel Land’s new CEO, Management is cognisant that Mr Ang Wee Gee, to the investment investors prefer quicker returns community. During the year, from their investments. Keppel Land the CEO participated in numerous constantly reviews its portfolio and meetings and roadshows where actively pursues opportunities to analysts and fund managers were recycle capital. 1 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 39 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance Engaging Investors Actively Keppel Land is covered by over 20 recognised for its commitment The Company employs platforms research houses in Singapore. The to high standards of corporate such as AGMs, half-yearly combined Company also conducts halfand governance. The Group was ranked briefings with media and analysts, full-year press and analysts results 5th among 664 companies on the regular investor meetings with briefings. These combined briefings Governance and Transparency analysts and fund managers, are helmed by the CEO and Chief Index 2013. At the 14th Securities non-deal roadshows, monthly Financial Officer (CFO), supported Investors Association Singapore’s newsletters as well as its corporate by department heads who will Investors’ Choice Awards 2013, website, to engage its shareholders address specific operational Keppel Land garnered the and the investment community. questions where necessary. Singapore Corporate Governance Merit Award and was runner-up In 2013, about 160 meetings with Keppel Land’s shareholder base is for the Most Transparent Company analysts and fund managers were held well-diversified across North America, under the Real Estate category. across Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Europe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan, Germany, Netherlands, other key Asian cities. Institutional In compliance with Singapore’s United Kingdom and United States. shareholders make up about 25% of Code of Corporate Governance Management and the IR team also the Company’s total shareholding. 2012, Keppel Land has put in place participated in local and overseas an IR Policy with a consistent set of investor conferences organised by Attracting Socially principles governing the Group’s brokerages such as Bank of AmericaResponsible Investors efforts in engaging shareholders Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse, Macquarie, Increasingly, fund managers are and the investment community. DBS Vickers, Citibank, Nomura, integrating environmental, social The IR Policy is published on the Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley. and governance (ESG) considerations Company’s corporate website The IR team hosted about 30 visits to into their investment decisions. at www.keppelland.com. the Group’s projects for analysts and Keppel Land’s inclusion in the fund managers during the year. prestigious Global 100 Most Ensuring Fair Disclosure Sustainable Corporations in the of Information Investors visited Corals at Keppel Bay, World 2014 as well as the Dow Jones The Company treats all its The Glades and Marina Bay Financial Sustainability World and Asia Pacific shareholders fairly and equitably, Centre in Singapore as well as indices will improve the Group’s and keeps its shareholders and projects in Beijing, Shanghai, Wuxi visibility among ESG funds. other stakeholders informed and the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City of its corporate activities on in China. Fund managers also visited Keppel Land will continue to build a timely basis, including changes Keppel Land’s developments in on its sustainability practices in the Company or its business Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, and and reach out more to socially which can materially affect Yangon, Myanmar. responsible funds. It continues to be the price or value of its shares. Market Capitalisation of Keppel Land as at end of year ($ million) 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 5,004 6,961 3,308 6,224 5,163 G4-26, G4-27 40 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH To ensure transparency, electronic poll voting is conducted for all proposed resolutions at the Annual General Meeting. Material information is communicated shareholder is unable to attend, resolutions. The Company also to shareholders on a timely and he/she is allowed to appoint up prepares detailed minutes of non-selective basis. Should an to two proxies to vote on his/her general meetings, which include inadvertent disclosure be made to behalf at the meeting through queries and comments from a selected group, the Company will proxy forms sent in advance. shareholders and responses from make the same disclosure publicly the Board and Management. as soon as practicable. The Company Shareholders are encouraged These minutes are made available disseminates all announcements, to participate in such meetings to shareholders upon request. press releases and presentation slides by raising relevant questions or through its corporate website and the seeking clarification on the motions To ensure transparency, the SGX-ST via SGXNET. The corporate to be debated and decided upon. Company conducts electronic website keeps the investment The Chairman and, where appropriate, poll voting for shareholders/proxies community up-to-date, providing, the CEO and other Directors, will present at the meeting for all the inter alia, key corporate and financial respond to shareholders’ questions. resolutions proposed. Votes cast information, media releases and The Chairmen of the various for and against and the respective stock information. Board Committees and the percentages, on each resolution external auditor are required will be displayed ‘live’ to shareholders/ Queries received via the website to be present at the meetings proxies immediately after each poll are also duly addressed. to address relevant queries is conducted. The total number from shareholders. of votes cast for or against the Communicating with resolutions and the respective Shareholders Each item of special business percentages are also announced The AGM and/or the Extraordinary included in the notice of the in a timely manner after the general General Meeting are principal forums meeting is accompanied by an meeting via SGXNET. The Company for dialogue with shareholders. explanation for the proposed is not implementing absentia voting Shareholders are informed of these resolution. Additional resolutions methods such as voting via mail, meetings three weeks in advance are proposed for separate issues e-mail or fax due to concerns through notices published in the at the meeting, and the Chairman over security and integrity of the newspapers and annual reports or declares the number of proxy information as well as other circulars sent to them. If any votes received for and against the pertinent issues involved. Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 41 Sustaining Growth Risk Management Keppel Land’s steadfast approach towards enterprise risk management ensures that the Company is ready to respond and meet challenges. 1 3 principles 10 years 1. The Company has a holistic risk management framework to ensure that potential risks are The Board Risk Committee has Keppel Land has adopted the identified ahead of time and appropriate adopted three risk tolerance guiding Whistle-Blower Protection Policy for mitigating actions principles which determine the 10 years to safeguard the Company’s are taken. nature and extent of significant risks and its shareholders’ interests against the Board is willing to take to achieve possible improprieties. its strategic objectives. 42 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Risk management is integral in During the year, the Board, assisted In addition, key risk indicators have Keppel Land’s strategic planning and by the BRC, adopted three risk been put in place. Together with daily operations. Recognising that risks tolerance guiding principles which the risk plans, they are reviewed are inherent in business activities, determine the nature and extent of regularly to ensure that the the Group has established a robust significant risks the Board is willing to identified risks remain relevant and enterprise risk management (ERM) take to achieve its strategic objectives. mitigating actions are adequate, framework to enhance operational They are: timely and effective. resilience. This encompasses risk identification, evaluation, control and 1. Risks taken should be carefully PROACTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT mitigation as well as monitoring. evaluated, commensurate with The Company has put in place various rewards and in line with the policies to provide guidance on the The Risk Management department Group’s core strengths and effective management of key risks. focuses on incorporating the ERM strategic objectives. framework and processes into the 2. No risk arising from a single area The Concentration Risk Management Company’s business operations in of operation, investment or Policy guides Management on the Singapore and overseas. It works undertaking should be so sizeable investment parameters and limitations closely with country teams to monitor as to endanger the entire Group. for the Company’s geographically the country exposure, liquidity position, 3. The Group adopts zero tolerance diversified portfolio, thereby minimising project and market-related risks towards safety incidents, country-, sectoror project-specific as well as enhance the Group’s risk non-compliance with laws and risks. These guidelines are constantly management culture and strategy. regulations, as well as acts such as reviewed, taking into account market fraud, bribery and corruption. trends and operational demands. HOLISTIC RISK MANAGEMENT This ensures that the measures used to FRAMEWORK MANAGING KEY RISKS determine exposure limits are current Keppel Land’s Board of Directors, As part of its risk management and relevant, and that the treatment assisted by the Board Risk Committee framework, Keppel Land has identified of exposures synchronises with the (BRC), oversees risk management in a set of 12 key risks and put in place needs of the Company’s businesses. the Group. The BRC comprises five appropriate mitigating measures, Approval from the Board is needed if Independent Directors. as listed on page 45. an investment opportunity exceeds the stipulated limit or falls in It examines the effectiveness of the The Company has in place non-core sectors. Company’s risk management system self-assessment tools for business and ensures that a robust system is units to assess the adequacy and Financial authority limits relating maintained. The BRC meets at least effectiveness of key internal controls. to the appropriate level of once every quarter to review and guide In 2013, an internal self-assessment expenditures that department Management in the formulation of on the effectiveness of these tools heads can approve are also set risk policies, processes and strategies. was conducted among staff. An in place. It covers areas such as external consultant was also engaged procurement, award of contracts, In 2013, the BRC held a total of to conduct a comprehensive risk tender procedures and approvals. five meetings. It also visited projects assessment on the Company’s Set in consultation with the finance in Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Wuxi, information technology (IT) structure team and business units, these Jiangyin, Changzhou, Nantong, in the areas of security, infrastructure, limits help to balance efficiency Zhongshan, Kunming and Chengdu general control and governance. and the need for check-and-balance to better understand the risks Mitigating actions have been taken as the organisation grows. In addition, affecting the Company and its to lower the IT risks identified. a Credit Management Policy guides projects in China. Management in managing Each business unit maintains a operational risks. At the operational level, the ERM risk plan where strategic, investment Committee, which comprises and operational/project risks are To help the Company’s business the heads of business units and identified, assessed and prioritised units manage its customers’ credit functional departments in the according to the likelihood of risks, the Customer Credit Risk Policy Company, monitors and regularly occurrence and their impact on is in place to govern the provision reviews the risk plans of business the business unit. Proactive actions of credit terms based on credit rating units to ensure that the risks identified are taken to mitigate these risks and checks done on customers to and accompanying mitigating measures which could have an operational, ensure that Keppel Land enters into are relevant to effectively respond to financial and reputational impact contracts with credit-worthy tenants challenges that may arise. on the Group. and customers. Sustaining Growth Risk Management 43 Sustaining Growth Risk Management In addition, Keppel Land has a key BUSINESS CONTINUITY ENHANCING RISK-CENTRIC internal Control Self-Assessment (CSA) AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT CULTURE checklist for its main activities. To maintain corporate resilience To foster a strong risk-centric culture CSA is a self-examining process and operational preparedness, within the Company, workshops are aimed at evaluating the effectiveness Keppel Land continually reviews its conducted regularly to raise risk of internal controls to prevent or Business Continuity Management awareness and competency among mitigate risks adverse to the (BCM) framework so as to remain staff. In 2013, six workshops were organisation, so as to provide operationally resilient in the conducted for staff based in Singapore. reasonable assurance that all business ever-changing business and A separate workshop was conducted goals and objectives will be physical environments. for overseas employees during the accomplished. It assists Management Company’s Annual Staff Conference in reviewing the adequacy of key Under the framework, the BCM team, held in May 2013. controls needed to mitigate risks which comprises representatives and avoid major control lapses. from various business units including To encourage ownership of risks It also provides Management with the overseas offices, develops and and ensure accountability at work, opportunities to regularly assess oversees the implementation of the risk management has been embedded any changes in risks, to determine Business Continuity Plans (BCP) in the performance evaluation process if the controls in place are adequate. and processes. It reports to the for senior management. A knowledge Emergency Management Team, portal also facilitates the sharing of Keppel Land has adopted the made up of senior management. good practices and lessons learned Whistle-Blower Protection Policy among staff. since 2004 to safeguard the All business units in Singapore and Company’s and its shareholders’ overseas have established specific FUTURE INITIATIVES interests against possible corporate BCPs, which are regularly reviewed Keppel Land will continue to review improprieties. This policy and tested to ensure effective and refine its risk management institutionalises a mechanism response to unforeseen events while methodology, systems and processes through which employees and any minimising operational disruption. to ensure they are adequate and persons who have dealings with This safeguards the interests of its effective. A robust risk management the Company have an avenue key stakeholders, protects critical system will enhance the Group’s to report, with confidence, possible assets and allows prompt recovery ability to seize opportunities and take improprieties which may cause of business functions. calculated risks that commensurate financial or non-financial loss, with the appropriate returns. including reputational damage, In 2013, Keppel Land’s headquarters to the Company. The policy ensures at Bugis Junction Towers in Continual efforts will be made to that the persons making such reports Singapore and its offices in China, reinforce a risk-centric culture among will be treated fairly and, to the extent Indonesia, Vietnam, Myanmar, India, employees. In addition, emphasis possible, protected from reprisal. Thailand and the Philippines is placed to ensure each business The Company’s Audit Committee conducted exercises and drills unit reviews, refines and stress-tests Chairman will investigate, where to test the effectiveness of their its BCP regularly to strengthen appropriate, all issues raised BCPs based on scenarios such as corporate resilience. under the policy. flood, earthquake, pandemic flu, fire, civil unrest, terrorism and To ensure good corporate power failures. governance throughout the Company, all Keppel Land As part of the Company’s BCM employees are required to read initiatives, Keppel Land has been and acknowledge, via the part of the Corporate First Responder Company’s intranet, a series of (CFR) Scheme of the Singapore anti-fraud related policies annually. Police Force since 2010. Under These include the Whistle-Blower the scheme, identified personnel Protection Policy, the Employee within the organisation are allowed Code of Conduct as well as policies access into restricted areas during on safeguarding information, insider times of emergency to aid rescue trading, safety discipline code, and and recovery efforts as well as end-user computing. Staff also need execute business continuity recovery to complete a Conflict of Interest plans. A total of 10 Keppel Land staff Declaration Form. has been identified as CFRs. 44 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Managing Key Risks • The Company ensures that adequate funding resources are 9. Business Continuity Risks • Business continuity plans are available for investments and cash continually reviewed and tested The key risks identified and the flows are actively managed. to ensure that business units appropriate mitigating actions can respond effectively to undertaken by Keppel Land in 5. Misstatement of Financial disruptions that may affect 2013 are as follows: Statements the business. • The Company ensures that the • Critical business functions 1. Business Strategy Risks consolidated financial statements are determined and • The strategic direction of the and balance sheets are prepared alternative business processes, Company and the associated in accordance with the Singapore resource requirements and business strategies are reviewed Financial Reporting Standards. inter-dependencies are by the Board of Directors and • Internal and external audits are identified to support Management during strategy conducted to provide reasonable critical business functions meetings. Aspects relating assurance on the accuracy of during disruptions. to the various countries’ laws the financial statements. and regulations, market 10. Fraud/Corruption Risks conditions and competitive 6. Project Management Risks • Employee code of conduct, landscape are also examined. • The Project Management & insider trading, whistle-blower Furthermore, Keppel Land Sustainable Design department protection policy and financial assesses technology, innovation reviews the Company’s project authority limits have been put and solutions as part of its management processes regularly in place to mitigate the risk of business strategies to continually and adopts good industry fraud, corruption and improve its products and practices to ensure projects are misconduct by employees. services for its customers. delivered on time, within • Regular audits are conducted budget as well as meet the to prevent, detect and mitigate 2. Concentration expectations of homebuyers fraud risk. Exposure Risks and office tenants. • Keppel Land maintains a • Regular trainings are also 11. Quality of Deliverables Concentration Risk Management conducted to heighten project • Quality assurances and control Policy that governs the exposure managers’ awareness of the procedures as well as Keppel limit of each market and project. relevant processes and to ensure Quality Standards are some • The Company’s exposure for that they are adhered to. of the project management all markets and projects are processes that have been monitored regularly to ensure 7. Human Resources Risks put in place to ensure quality in that it is not overly exposed to • Keppel Land leverages scholarships the delivery of the Company’s any single project or market. as well as its management projects and services. associate and leadership • Customer satisfaction 3. Investment or development programmes to of products and services Divestment Risks identify and nurture talents. rendered is also ensured via • All investment or divestment • Succession planning for key relevant processes such as proposals submitted for approval executive positions is regularly handover procedures and will have to be accompanied reviewed to ensure relevance. defects management standard by a completed set of risk operating procedures. assessment template to ensure 8. Information a comprehensive analysis. The Technology Risks 12. Health and Safety Risks template requires all investment • To ensure the robustness • A health and safety policy or divestment proposals to be of Keppel Land’s IT system, is established to raise staff evaluated based on a set of the IT department has put in awareness on the importance approved parameters. place a Disaster Recovery Plan, of workplace safety and health. which is reviewed and tested • Keppel Land’s Workplace 4. Exposure to Financial on a regular basis. The Plan, Safety and Health unit Market Risks as well as drills and IT audits spearheads and implements • The Company utilises various are carried out frequently. the various health and financial instruments, where Policies that govern end-user safety initiatives and policies. appropriate, to hedge against computing and safeguarding It also ensures that a safety foreign exchange and interest of information are also put culture is inculcated rate risks. in place. among employees. Sustaining Growth Risk Management 45 Sustaining Growth Environment As a responsible green developer, Keppel Land is committed to high standards of environmental protection. The Company also strives to continually improve its environmental performance. 1 Ranked 120 million 1. Ocean Financial Centre stands tall as an eco-icon 17th kWh p.a. in Singapore’s financial district. Keppel Land ranked 17 th in the The total energy savings from Corporate Knights’ Global 100 List of Keppel Land’s 43 Green Mark-certified Most Sustainable Corporations in the projects in Singapore and overseas World, the highest position in Asia and will be about 120 million kWh also in the real estate sector worldwide. per annum when fully completed. 46 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Keppel Land is committed to create optimal live-work-play environments of enduring value across the Environmental communities where it operates. Vision Guided by its vision to develop properties To be a premier developer that harmonise with and enhance the committed to designing, building environment, the Company adopts a and operating properties that holistic and proactive approach towards harmonise with the environment environmental management. It undertakes and enhance the quality of life of the rigorous measures to ensure that both communities in which we operate. new and existing developments comply with regulatory requirements and are aligned with internationally-recognised environmental guidelines. Eco-Principles ENVIRONMENTAL VISION, POLICY AND ECO-PRINCIPLES ECOllaboration Keppel Land’s approach towards environmental management is guided by its vision, the Work with stakeholders as well as Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety policyand decision-makers Policy as well as eco-principles. to build a sustainable future. Endorsed by top management, these are communicated to all staff ECOnomy through various platforms such as the Company’s intranet and newsletters. Balance economic viability and environmental sustainability. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Keppel Land has in place an environmental ECOmmitment sustainability strategy which focuses on five main areas. This includes the formulation Promote environmental of corporate policies and programmes, awareness and support development of new projects, management green initiatives. of completed buildings, implementation of management systems as well as organisation of outreach initiatives. ECOmmunity The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee oversees the Group’s efforts in Create a sustainable future environmental management and protection. for generations to come. Comprising representatives from the different business units, the Committee formulates the Group’s eco-principles, targets and framework for action, implements green initiatives as well as sets performance benchmarks for continual improvement. The Committee also leads the Group’s implementation of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) as well as the Eco-Office and Go Green with Keppel Land outreach programmes. Sustaining Growth Environment 47 Sustaining Growth Environment Environmental Objectives Objectives Targets Performances in 2013 and 2014 Develop Achieve at least the • Conferred the BCA Green Mark Champion Award 2014. environmentallyBCA Green Mark GoldPlus • Achieved four BCA Green Mark Awards for residential friendly properties for new developments projects in Singapore in 2013. that minimise in Singapore and the • Attained four BCA Green Mark Awards for residential and pollution and impact BCA Green Mark Gold commercial projects as well as a data centre in Singapore in 2014. to the environment. rating or its equivalent for • Total of 43 BCA Green Mark Awards to-date, new projects overseas. including five Platinum, five GoldPlus and 30 Gold Awards in Singapore, China, Indonesia, Vietnam and India. Adopt an integrated Reduce carbon footprint • Developed the Carbon Management Plan to monitor and approach in the and implement sustainable reduce carbon emissions. design, construction practices when developing • Incorporated the Environmental Design Guidelines on and development of new buildings and managing environmental management and performance in the sustainable properties. existing properties. design brief to project consultants. • Expanded the scope of the Environmental Operation Plans to include completed commercial buildings overseas in addition to those in Singapore and hospitality properties overseas, thereby improving the buildings’ energy, water and waste management. Meet national or Achieve an Integrated • Achieved ISO 14001 certification for property development international Management System operations in Indonesia. standards on for the Group’s • Achieved independent ISO 14001 certification for property environmental business operations. development operations in Vietnam. protection. • Embarked on ISO 9001 quality management system. Raise awareness Engage and raise • Adopted the Jurong Lake and sponsored the Learning Trail to educate of environmental eco-consciousness youths and the wider public on preserving water resources. sustainability among among staff, tenants • Formed a Tenants Go-Green Committee to raise eco-awareness stakeholders through and the wider public and encourage tenants to embark on a green journey. the Go Green with through regular activities • Engaged and educated tenants through the Green Fit-Out Keppel Land outreach and events. and Green Office Operation Guides. programme. • Shared best practices at sustainability conferences such as the Singapore Compact CSR Summit and the International Skyrise Greenery Conference 2013. Underscore Promote green • Attained re-certification of the Eco-Office Programme importance of practices among tenants by the Singapore Environment Council for Keppel Land waste minimisation, and staff through the and Keppel REIT’s offices from 2013-2015. resource conservation Eco-Office programme • Provided complimentary energy gap analysis services and environmental at Keppel Land’s offices. to tenants at selected buildings to encourage adoption ownership amongst of green initiatives. employees and tenants. Develop green Leverage green building • Trained and equipped another eight project managers capabilities, knowledge technology and build with BCA Green Mark certifications. About half of and skills to enhance a core team of in-house the Company’s project managers in Singapore and building performances. green building specialists overseas have been trained to-date. through sustainability • Key managers from the Project Management and training. Sustainable Design department have attended the biennial Executive Development Programme to upgrade their sustainable management skills and knowledge. Preserve biodiversity in Preserve biodiversity • Achieved the Green Globe certification for Sedona Suites Hanoi local environments. and maintain high and Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam in 2013. standards of environmental • Implemented green initiatives such as enhancing water quality, protection to ensure increasing plant density and natural habitat areas at Eco-City a balanced and intact International Country Club in Tianjin, China. eco-system. 48 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Plans ahead • To attain minimum of the BCA Green Mark GoldPlus Award for all new projects in Singapore. • To achieve at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPlus Award for all completed commercial buildings in Singapore by 2015. • To attain at least the BCA Green Mark Gold Award or its equivalent rating for new developments overseas. • To reduce carbon emission intensity by 16% below 2010’s levels by 2020. • To implement guidelines comprising stretched targets in the areas of environmental certification, energy, water, landscaping and materials used in new developments in Singapore and overseas. • To implement an Integrated Management System which combines the ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standards for environmental management, quality and occupational health and safety management respectively into a single framework. • To continue contributing to the green scene through partnerships with related agencies and bodies in Singapore and overseas. • To continually engage and inculcate a green mindset among various stakeholder groups through sharing of best practices at environmental conferences, organising outreach programmes and supporting eco-related events. • To encourage more tenants to renovate their premises in accordance with the BCA Green Mark for office interior requirements. • To achieve optimal levels of energy, paper and toner usage at the corporate office. • To have all project managers certified as BCA Green Mark Managers within two years of joining the Company, so as to develop a pool of in-house professionals with expertise in sustainable design processes, encourage integrated designs and enhance building performances. • To partake in good stewardship of the environment and adopt best practices and policies that support healthy eco-systems, promote biodiversity and sustain natural resources. Sustaining Growth Environment 49 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Singapore Supply Chain (US) Leadership in Energy and In the selection of main contractors Environmental Design (LEED) for ENVIRONMENTAL for the Group’s new projects in all its new projects overseas. MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Singapore, contractors are assessed Keppel Land has implemented under stringent criteria. These include LEED Platinum an EMS in accordance with track record, financial strength Ocean Financial Centre is the first the internationally-recognised ISO as well as commitment towards high-rise office development in 14001:2004 (ISO 14001) standard high quality, environmental and safety Southeast Asia to achieve the highest for managing and controlling standards. Contractors with ISO 9001, LEED Platinum certification from corporate activities to achieve ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 the US Green Building Council. continuous improvement in certifications are preferred. environmental performance. LEED is the globally-recognised For all project sites covered benchmark for the design, construction The EMS identifies aspects of under the scope of Keppel Land’s and operation of high-performance the Company’s activities that EMS, contractors are required to green buildings. Buildings certified may have significant impact on conduct an impact assessment under the LEED Platinum rating have the environment. Targets are based on their project site to meet stringent standards on then established, with procedures activities prior to construction. sustainability, energy and water and processes put in place to The assessment covers potential efficiency, materials, resources, achieve these objectives. negative environmental impacts indoor environmental quality, design including depletion of resources, innovation and regional priority. ISO 14001 Certification biodiversity disturbance as well as The Company achieved the air, water and noise pollution. Ocean Financial Centre, with ISO 14001 certification for its Contractors are required to establish 850,000 sf of column-free Grade A property development operations and implement appropriate measures office space, is a showcase of in Singapore in 2008. The scope of to mitigate and prevent any significant innovative eco-breakthroughs. certification was extended to its environmental aspects identified. property management operations in These include one of the largest Singapore and property development Through such efforts, Keppel Land photovoltaic (PV) systems for high-rise operations in China and Vietnam in aims to influence and encourage its buildings in Singapore’s central business 2009. In 2013, the scope was further contractors to improve their energy district, an energy-efficient hybrid extended to include Keppel Land’s efficiency and reduce overall emissions. chilled water system and an integrated property development operations paper recycling facility. In 2013, its in Indonesia. Compliance 2,125 sm green wall was named the In 2013, three developments in World Largest Vertical Garden by the The Company renewed its Singapore were fined a total of Guinness World Records. certification in 2011, with its $75,200 by the National Environment operations in China and Vietnam Agency for exceeding permissible BCA Green Mark gaining independent certifications noise levels and incidences of mosquito To-date, Keppel Land has garnered a in 2011 and 2013 respectively. breeding at the construction sites. total of 43 BCA Green Mark Awards This includes fines imposed on for its properties in Singapore, China, To further enhance its environmental the Company’s appointed main Indonesia, Vietnam and India. They management performance, contractors. Mitigating actions have include five Platinum, five GoldPlus, Keppel Land is implementing an since been taken to prevent recurrence. 30 Gold Awards and three certified Integrated Management System awards. Total energy savings from which will combine the ISO 14001, BENCHMARKS OF EXCELLENCE these properties is estimated at ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standards As a leading green developer, about 120 million kWh or on environmental management, Keppel Land has set the benchmark $30 million per annum. quality as well as occupational health for all new projects as well as and safety respectively into a single completed commercial projects In 2013, the Group attained four framework. This will enable the in Singapore to obtain at least the BCA Green Mark Awards for its Group to streamline and align its Green Mark GoldPlus rating by the residential and commercial projects environmental, health and safety and Building and Construction Authority in Singapore. Corals at Keppel Bay quality management targets with its (BCA) of Singapore. The Group is also and The Glades achieved the GoldPlus business objectives. Certification is committed to achieve the minimum rating while The Luxurie received expected to be achieved in the BCA Green Mark Gold certification or Gold. Prudential Tower, previously second half of 2014. its equivalent such as the United States’ a Green Mark Gold building, was 50 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH re-certified with the Green Mark GoldPlus rating. The soon-to-be-launched 1 Highline Residences also received the Green Mark GoldPlus Award in 2014. Launched in 2005, the BCA Green Mark scheme propels Singapore’s construction industry towards achieving a sustainable built environment by incorporating best practices in environmental design and construction as well as encouraging the adoption of green building technologies. It provides a comprehensive framework for assessing the overall environmental performance of new and existing buildings in terms of energy and water efficiency, indoor air quality as well as other green and innovative features. Green Mark Champion For its continual improvement in environmental performance, Keppel Land was conferred the title of BCA Green Mark Champion in May 2014. This award recognises developers for their strong commitment towards CSR and outstanding achievements in environmental sustainability. It is awarded to developers with a substantial number of buildings which have achieved Green Mark Gold rating and above. Green Mark Platinum In 2014, the chiller plant system at Bugis Junction Towers underwent retrofitting. The improved and more efficient system is expected to yield total additional energy savings of more than 5.8 million kWh annually. The building will also feature a PV system that can generate over 180 kWp of sustainable energy. In addition, a comprehensive tenants engagement programme on the benefits of going green has been put in place. For its efforts, Bugis Junction Towers was re-certified as a BCA Green Mark Platinum building. 1. Sustainability is a key feature at The Glades at Tanah Merah, which will boast a fully-equipped net-zero energy clubhouse. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 51 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 1. Mr John Keung (left), CEO of BCA, presents a plaque to Mr Tan 1 Swee Yiow, President (Singapore) of Keppel Land, in recognition of the Company’s efforts towards promoting sustainability among office tenants. Keppel Bay Tower was also re-certified Management tracks data centre development will boast state-of-the-art to a Platinum-rated building in 2014. performance to improve energy eco-friendly features including Total additional energy savings are management. Computational fluid a highly efficient chiller plant system, expected to exceed 760,000 kWh dynamics studies are conducted regenerative elevators and annually. Some of its energy efficient to examine the airflow patterns naturally-ventilated sky gardens. features include an enhanced chiller to ensure uniform temperature plant system and air filters as well as distribution. Eco-friendly materials Investment Buildings the installation of LED lightings at are also used during the construction In Singapore, all seven of the Group’s common areas. of the development. investment buildings have garnered at least the BCA Green Mark Gold Award. Keppel Datahub 2 (KDH2) has set Bugis Junction Towers, Keppel Bay Besides engaging external vendors new benchmarks by becoming the Tower and KDH2 join the ranks of other to conduct audits on the buildings’ first new data centre in Singapore Green Mark Platinum-certified buildings energy consumption and recommend to achieve the Platinum BCA-IDA in the Company’s portfolio. Ocean energy-saving measures, the Group Green Mark, the highest green accolade Financial Centre was the first office has implemented energy-efficient conferred by BCA and the Infocomm building in Singapore’s CBD to attain systems and environmentally-friendly Development Authority (IDA) for data the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award features in its buildings. centre developments. in 2008. Together with Marina Bay Financial Centre Phases 1 and 2, which This results in total annual energy A joint venture between Keppel Land attained the BCA Green Mark Gold savings of about 12.8 million kWh and Keppel Telecommunications & and GoldPlus Awards respectively, total or $3.3 million, more than double Transportation, KDH2 incorporates energy savings for these three buildings from 5.6 million kWh or $1.5 million highly energy efficient and amount to more than 28.8 million kWh, in 2012. This is equivalent to an environmentally-friendly features or over $7.5 milliona per annum. annual reduction of about including the use of Dynamic Rotary 6,400 tonnes of carbon emissions, Uninterruptible Power Systems, which Keppel Land’s International Financial up from 2,900 tonnes previously. reduces chemical waste and improves Centre Jakarta Tower 2 was the first operating efficiency. Efficient cooling office building in Indonesia to achieve systems designed for hot and cold the BCA Green Mark Platinum rating in aisle containment deployment 2012. Expected annual energy savings is maximises energy efficiency, while about 31% or 3.4 million kWh annually. a Energy cost: 1kWh = $0.2608 customised Data Centre Infrastructure When completed in 2015, this (Source: SP Services, 4Q 2013) 52 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Total of 43 BCA Green Mark Awards Project Location Category Year Singapore Residential Highline Residences Singapore GoldPlus 2014 The Glades Singapore GoldPlus 2013 Corals at Keppel Bay Singapore GoldPlus 2013 The Luxurie Singapore Gold 2013 The Lakefront Residences Singapore Gold 2012 Marina Bay Suites Singapore Gold 2009 Sixth Avenue Residences Singapore Gold 2009 The Promont Singapore Gold 2009 Madison Residences Singapore Gold 2008 Reflections at Keppel Bay Singapore Gold 2008 Marina Bay Residences Singapore Gold 2007 The Tresor Singapore Gold 2006 Commercial Keppel Bay Tower 1,3 Singapore Platinum 2014 Keppel Datahub 2 Singapore Platinum 2014 Bugis Junction Towers 1,3 Singapore Platinum 2014 Prudential Tower 1,3 Singapore GoldPlus 2013 Keppel Digihub Singapore Certified 2013 Marina at Keppel Bay 1 Singapore Gold 2011 Equity Plaza 1 Singapore Gold 2010 Keppel Towers & GE Tower 1 Singapore Gold 2010 Marina Bay Financial Centre (Tower 3) Singapore GoldPlus 2009 One Raffles Quay 1 Singapore Gold 2009 Ocean Financial Centre 2 Singapore Platinum 2008 Marina Bay Financial Centre (Towers 1 & 2) Singapore Gold 2008 Overseas China Hill Crest Villa Chengdu Gold 2013 Park Avenue Heights Chengdu Gold 2012 Hill Crest Residence Kunming Gold 2012 Seasons Park 4 Tianjin Gold 2012 Serenity Villa 4 Tianjin Gold 2012 Central Park City (Plot C1) Wuxi Gold 2011 The Arcadia Tianjin Gold 2009 Spring City Golf & Lake Resort (La Quinta villas) Kunming Gold 2009 The Springdale (Plot 1) Shanghai Gold 2009 The Springdale (Plot 3) 4 Shanghai Gold 2009 Villa Riviera Shanghai Certified 2009 Vietnam Saigon Centre (Retail podium) 4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Saigon Centre (Office tower) 4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Riviera Point 4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Riviera Cove Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2009 The Estella Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2008 Indonesia International Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 2 4 Jakarta Platinum 2012 Jakarta Garden City (Phase 1) 5 Jakarta Gold 2011 India Elita Garden Vista 5 Kolkata Certified 2012 1 Projects awarded BCA Green Mark certifications under the existing building category. 2 Ocean Financial Centre also received the Platinum level LEED-CS (core and shell) pre-certification in 2009, which was converted to certification in 2012. 3 Re-certification award. 4 Provisional awards – the final certificates will only be issued upon verification of the green features at the project completion stage. 5 Keppel Land divested its stakes in the residential developments in Jakarta, Garden City and Elita Garden Vista in November 2013 and June 2014 respectively. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 53 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore In 2013, Prudential Tower was The aquatic community continues to In addition, Keppel Land was re-certified as a Green Mark GoldPlus thrive through the marina’s City Reef named Green Champion at the building. Energy savings from its new project, an initiative to encourage the Singapore Compact CSR Awards green features including a highly conservation and appreciation of 2013. The award recognises efficient air-conditioning system and marine life. Among the sea animals companies for best practices energy-efficient lightings is estimated and plants that have made Marina at in minimising environmental at about 550,000 kWh per annum. Keppel Bay home are the clownfish, externalities and influencing other juvenile batfish, tiger tail seahorses stakeholders on the green cause. Cost Savings and sea turtles. When fully completed, the total Taman Sutera, the Group’s reduction in energy consumption SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARKS integrated township development from all 43 of Keppel Land’s Keppel Land continues to gain in Malaysia, topped the private BCA Green Mark-certified projects recognition, both regionally development category at the in Singapore and overseas will be and internationally, for its inaugural Johor Green Awards about 120 million kWh per annum. commitment to high environmental 2013 organised by the Johor State These savings equate to energy standards, incorporation of green government. Green infrastructure required to power more than technologies and features in its and initiatives such as the use of 21,000 homes in Singapore for properties as well as environmental Effective Microorganism Technology one yearb. In terms of greenhouse education and outreach. as an environmentally-friendly gases, these projects will achieve alternative to chemical products an annual reduction of almost The Company ranked 17th in in the development helped raise 60,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide c. Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most eco-awareness among residents Sustainable Corporations in the and visitors to the development. Marina at Keppel Bay World 2014, the highest position The first marina in Asia to receive conferred to an Asian corporation and Keppel Land also took part in the the BCA Green Mark Gold Award, in the real estate sector worldwide. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Marina at Keppel Bay incorporates on a voluntary basis in 2013. The some of the latest in green technology. Keppel Land was also named the CDP is an international non-profit A reticulated vacuum sewer pump-out Regional Sector Leader for Asia organisation that encourages system ensures that sewage from (Office category) for the second year companies and cities to disclose and vessels are not discharged into the running in the Global Real Estate share vital environmental information. water, while individualised advanced Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) It currently holds the largest global metering system monitors power 2013. The GRESB measures the collection of self-reported climate and water usage. Boaters are also environmental and social performances change, water and forest-risk data, encouraged to install four-stroke of real estate companies and funds and is a key source of environmental instead of two-stroke engines on their based on sustainability data gathered performance database for many vessels to reduce exhaust pollution. from property companies and funds partners worldwide. around the world. The Company The 300-sm green wall at the carpark was also named Best Performer ECO-OFFICE PROGRAMME features plants such as the Thunbergia in Asia in GRESB 2011. In recognition of the Group’s Grandiflora and Vernonia Ellipta, which continuous efforts in implementing were specially selected to minimise the At the Singapore Environmental green initiatives at its offices and amount of light and heat reflected from Achievement Awards 2013, encouraging staff to be eco-conscious, the concrete, resulting in less heat Keppel Land emerged winner the Singapore Environment Council trapped in the carpark thus minimising in the Services category. Organised has re-certified Keppel Land’s and the need for ventilation fans. by the Singapore Environmental Keppel REIT’s corporate offices as Council, the award recognises Green Offices for another two years The marina’s berthing area is designed Southeast Asian companies with from 2013. Keppel REIT is Keppel Land’s based on an open concept, which environmental excellence, listed real estate investment arm. allows water to flow freely throughout leadership and innovation. the marina during the change of tides, with nutrients and plankton being The Group also won the b Average consumption of a Housing carried along as the currents flow. Sustainable Business Award in Development Board five-room flat is As a result, Marina at Keppel Bay is the Large Enterprises Category 471 kWh/month (Source: SP Services) c Energy conversion ratio: now an underwater sanctuary at the Singapore Sustainability 1kWh electricity = 0.4977 kg CO2 teeming with more than 40 different Awards 2013 organised by the (Source: National Environment species of marine life. Singapore Business Federation. Agency, July 2013) 54 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Environmental Education & Outreach Employees Tenants General Public Inculcating Green Mindsets Commemorating Key Sharing of Best Practices through Eco-activities Environmental Dates • Shared Keppel Land’s • Participated in the World Water • Keppel Land’s 34 commercial, sustainability journey at Day event at Jurong Lake, which residential and hospitality the Singapore Compact Keppel Land adopted under PUB’s developments in Singapore CSR Summit 2013. Waters Adopters Programme. and overseas participated • Shared best practices in green • Organised a recycling campaign in Earth Hour. building technologies at the and forum on green solutions for • Held eco-awareness drives International Skyrise Greenery construction at the Taman Sutera at seven Keppel Land and Conference in 2013. development in Johor. Keppel REIT office buildings • Keppel Land was a Gold Sponsor • Joined World Wide Fund for during Ricoh’s Eco-Action of the International Green Building Nature‘s (WWF) Earth Hour Day 2013. Conference 2013 organised by the Dance2Power event. Singapore Green Building Council. • Pledged to conserve energy Recycling Initiatives • Organised sharing sessions with at Ricoh’s Eco-Action Day 2013, • Tenants and staff donated Goldman Sachs’ sustainability where Keppel Land was the about 4,000 used books team and United Nations exclusive supporter. for the National Library Board’s Global Compact (New York) • Commemorated World Book Exchange 2013 event on sustainability-related topics. Environment Day with series where Keppel Land was • Shared Keppel Land’s of activities including Jurong the exclusive sponsor. environmental outreach Lake clean-up and participation • Tenants and staff actively programmes at Ricoh’s in an eco-adventure trail. supported the Nokia’s Eco-Action Awards 2013. Recycle a Phone, Adopt a Tree Raising Awareness through and the Lions’ Recycle for Sight Promoting Cooperation Environmental Films initiatives by donating over 400 for Environmental • Screened environmentallyused phones and spectacles. Protection as Members themed films at overseas office of Green Associations in Jakarta, Indonesia. Encouraging • Founding member of the Green Properties World Green Building Council Learning from Industry • Produced Green Fit-Out Corporate Advisory Board. Experts at Eco-talks and Green Office Operation • Board member of the Singapore and Workshops Guides for tenants. Green Building Council. • Organised lunchtime talk by • Provided complimentary industry experts including environmental gap analysis to Developing Green Guides WWF Singapore and biodiversity encourage tenants to adopt the • Participated in feedback on expert Dr Chua Ee Kiam. BCA Green Mark for office interior. BCA’s Green Leasing Guide • Held workshops by aimed at promoting green sustainable companies Educating through Sharing offices in Singapore. including Australian organic • Invited industry experts including • Developing Green Guides for skincare line, Jurlique. BCA and Singapore Compact to guests of the Group’s hospitality 000 words share on the benefits of working properties overseas. in a green office. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 55 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 1. Keppel Land seeks to cultivate eco-awareness among staff through 1 activities such as the Jurong Lake clean-up in May 2013. 2. The Company shares the National Library Board’s vision of encouraging continued education through reading, while cultivating a green mindset through the recycling of books. Within the offices, eco-products BCA Academy’s Green Mark course. Community Partnership such as Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) or As at end-2013, about half of all project In conjunction with Singapore Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) printing and property managers in Singapore World Water Day on 16 March 2013, paper and Energy Star-labelled printers and overseas have been trained and Keppel Land adopted the Jurong Lake and computers are used. A recycling certified as Green Mark Managers, under PUB’s Waters Adopters company has been contracted to Green Mark Facilities Managers or Programme. PUB is Singapore’s collect and recycle waste paper. Green Mark Professionals; or have national water agency. undergone the Singapore Certified During the year, Keppel Land replaced Energy Manager programme organised The two-year partnership involves most of the lightings in its offices with by the National University of Singapore’s the sponsorship of the Active, energy-efficient light-emitting diode Energy Sustainability Unit. Beautiful, Clean (ABC) Waters Learning (LED) lamps, which consume less than Trail @ Jurong Lake. This is part half the energy of fluorescent tubes. To keep employees abreast of green of the Company’s ongoing efforts Energy consumption was reduced to business strategies and best practices, to educate and engage the public, 456,400 kWh, with energy usage per key managers from the Project in particular the youth, on the gross floor area falling by more than Management and Sustainable Design importance of water conservation. 10% to 84.9 kWh/m2 from 95.9 kWh/m2 unit attended the biennial Executive in 2012. The Company is progressively Development Programme on Keppel Land also seeks to cultivate replacing the remaining office lightings. innovations in sustainable design and eco-awareness among the Jurong technology. Jointly conducted by the community, including homebuyers Paper and toner usage in 2013 reduced Stuttgart University of Applied Sciences of its fully-sold residential project, to about 11.5 reams per employee and BCA Academy, the course The Lakefront Residences, which is and 0.89 tonereqd per employee provided insights into self-sustaining located close to the lake. Residents respectively. eco-settlements and models, green can look forward to a myriad of technologies as well as innovative recreational and competitive water DEVELOPING GREEN CAPABILITIES building and construction materials. events at their doorstep when the Keppel Land is committed to development is completed. inculcating in its employees STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT a sound understanding of green The Go Green with Keppel Land technologies and knowledge environmental education and outreach of sustainable management programme continues to play a vital to enhance the Company’s role in inculcating an eco-conscious environmental performance. mindset among its stakeholders. Led by the CSR Committee, outreach activities d Toner eq refers to the equivalent toner In 2013, another eight project and events are organised regularly to that prints 6,000 copies. managers were trained under the raise environmental awareness. G4-26, G4-27 56 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH The adoption of the lake also provides commercial, residential and hospitality For the sixth year running, volunteering opportunities for staff. developments in Singapore and Keppel Land commemorated Eight employees have been trained as overseas to switch off non-essential World Environment Day 2013 Learning Trail guides to introduce lights. Façade floodlights as well as with a series of activities. visitors to the unique sustainable lightings at lobbies, carparks, staircases, The two-week long programme ABC design features that help treat walkways and corridors were turned off included the Jurong Lake water naturally, conduct water for an hour, resulting in energy savings clean-up by Singapore and testing as well as learn and appreciate of about 5,200 kwh. overseas-based staff, a natural the rich biodiversity at Jurong Lake. skincare workshop and a Keppel Land was the exclusive lunch talk featuring speakers Outreach Initiatives supporter of Ricoh Asia Pacific’s from WWF Singapore, Edible Gardens Keppel Land involves its stakeholders Eco-Action Day 2013 campaign Project, Artichoke & Overdoughs in commemorating key environmental in June, while Keppel REIT was the as well as biodiversity expert dates through activities such as building supporter. Awareness drives Dr Chua Ee Kiam who is a prolific lake clean-ups, recycling initiatives were held at seven of Keppel Land nature photographer and writer. and workshops. and Keppel REIT’s office buildings, Staff also took part in the T-NET Club where tenants are encouraged to X-Trail Challenge, an eco-adventure A 150-member strong Keppel play their part in conserving energy. trail at Jurong Lake where contingent, comprising Keppel Land Keppel Land’s employees were also Keppel Land was a prize sponsor. employees and their families as well as encouraged to make individual pledges Keppel Volunteers and students from to conserve energy at the workplace. Tenants were encouraged to the Group’s adopted charity, the recycle their unwanted mobile Association of Persons with Special Keppel Land was the main sponsor phones and spectacles in support Needs, took part in World Wide Fund of the National Library Board’s of Nokia’s Recycle a Phone, for Nature’s (WWF) Dance2Power Book Exchange event for the third Adopt a Tree and the Lions’ event. Participants danced atop an consecutive year in 2013. A nationwide Recycle for Sight initiatives. energy-absorbing platform and the annual event where book lovers Collection points were set up kinetic energy harnessed was then recycle and exchange their used books, at a total of seven Keppel Land used to power an outdoor film designated book collection points were and Keppel REIT office buildings screening as part of the global Earth set up at the Group’s 11 commercial from 27 May to 7 June 2013, Hour celebrations on 23 March 2013. and residential properties. Keppel Land collecting a total of over 340 pieces The Group also rallied its tenants, collected about 4,000 books, up from of handphones and accessories residents and guests at 34 of its 3,000 in 2012. as well as 106 used spectacles. 2 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 57 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 1 Tenants Engagement friendly, Keppel Land together Keppel Land hopes that such As tenants’ energy consumption with BCA and Singapore Compact, engagement initiatives will motivate contributes substantially to the organised a lunch talk on the more tenants to renovate their building’s total usage, Keppel Land benefits of working in a green premises in accordance with the constantly finds ways to work with office in August 2013. requirements of the BCA Green Mark them to enhance the overall for office interior standard. environmental performance More than 20 tenants from Ocean of its properties. Financial Centre, Bugis Junction Green Guides Towers, Prudential Tower and Equity The Green Fit-Out Guide was In 2013, a Tenants Go-Green Plaza participated in the event, which first produced and distributed to Committee was formed. Comprising featured speakers from Singapore tenants at Ocean Financial Centre in representatives from Keppel Land Compact, BCA and an energy 2011. The Guide outlines sustainable and tenants of its various properties, service company. initiatives and environmentally-friendly the Committee seeks to raise fixtures that companies can adopt environmental awareness among In addition, Keppel Land extended when refurbishing their office space. tenants, share good practices on complimentary environmental These include careful selection of environmental issues and encourage gap analysis services to tenants materials to ensure minimal volatile tenants to support green initiatives. at selected office buildings. The organic compound levels in the analysis will help tenants identify office as well as recommended To encourage office tenants energy savings opportunities, thereby energy-efficient lightings and to be more environmentally lowering their operating costs. water-saving fittings. 58 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH In 2011, a similar Green Guide and activities. At the Singapore SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING was produced for homeowners of Compact CSR Summit held in Keppel Land adheres strictly to Madison Residences. The aim is to September 2013, the Group the discipline of disclosure and encourage residents to incorporate received the Green Champion communication with its stakeholders green fixtures when renovating Award and also shared on the on its ESG performance. Believing their apartments and to promote Company’s sustainability philosophy what is measured gets managed, a green lifestyle. and practices. the Group started detailing its environmental initiatives as part Another Green Office Operation In addition, Keppel Land participated of its Annual Report since 1997. Guide, which provides practical tips in the International Skyrise Greenery It produced its first CSR report on incorporating environmentallyConference held in November 2013, online in 2008. friendly practices such as waste where management presented minimisation and recycling, energy on the topic, Growing Value – Keppel Land has adopted the and water conservation as well as The Developer’s Perspective. internationally-accepted Global eco-practices in daily operations, Held alongside GreenUrbanScape Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework was distributed to tenants in 2012. Asia 2013, the conference was in its sustainability reporting since well attended by over 4,000 2009. The Company’s level of Keppel Land is currently developing industry delegates and visitors disclosure improved from Level C a Green Guide for its hotels and from across 37 countries. to Level B+ and included external serviced apartments in the hospitality assurance in 2010. division. Through such efforts, the In support of environmental Company aims to encourage guests sustainability, the Group was a This was followed by assurance in to adopt environmentally-friendly Gold Sponsor of the International accordance with the internationallypractices during their stay. Green Building Conference 2013 accepted AA1000 Assurance Standard organised by the Singapore Green based on the accountability principles In addition, the Company has Building Council and supported of inclusivity, materiality and provided feedback on BCA’s Green by BCA. Held in October, the event responsiveness in 2011. The Group Leasing Guide which promotes attracted over 1,000 delegates further adopted the GRI Construction green offices in Singapore. from 35 countries. and Real Estate Sector Supplement guidelines for its report in 2012. Knowledge Sharing GREEN BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS To foster knowledge exchange, Keppel Land is a founding member In 2013, Keppel Land further Keppel Land shares best practices of the World Green Building Council raised its disclosure standards in sustainability and green building Corporate Advisory Board, working and achieved a Level A+ rating. technologies at conferences. with the global network of Green Building Councils to implement In its sixth and current Sustainability In May and July 2013, the Company strategies, ideas and projects for Report, Keppel Land has adopted the participated in a discussion with a green built environment. new GRI G4 Guidelines released in Goldman Sachs’ sustainability May 2013, at the Comprehensive level, team on areas including environmental, The Company also sits on the complete with a GRI Materiality social and governance (ESG) leadership Board of the Singapore Green Matters check. The report has been as well as stakeholder engagement. Building Council, which propels reviewed and approved by the CSR Keppel Land also invited Dr Puvan Singapore’s building and construction Committee, which also ensures that Selvanathan, Head of Sustainable industry towards environmental all material aspects are addressed. Agriculture at the United Nations sustainability by promoting green Global Compact (New York) and building design, practices and a member of the UN Working Group technologies, integrating eco-initiatives on Business and Human Rights into mainstream design, construction (Geneva), to share his insights and operation of buildings as well as on integrating sustainability into building industry capabilities and business operations. professionalism to support wider adoption of green building 1. Ocean Financial Centre At Ricoh’s Eco-Action Day Awards development and practices. The features the latest in green in June 2013, Keppel Land shared Council complements and supports technology, including one how the Company continually the government’s efforts to accelerate of the largest assembly of photovoltaic cell systems educates its stakeholders through the greening of the city’s buildings for a commercial building regular outreach programmes by 2030. in Singapore’s CBD. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 59 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Total Energy Consumption a,l (million kWh) This section reports on Keppel Land’s energy and water use, waste discharged and recycled, materials used and 80 emissions to air for major properties 60 in Singapore and overseas. 40 It covers data for the corporate office, Singapore and overseas properties 20 under Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s 0 portfolio as well as developments 2010 2011 2012 2013 managed by Keppel Land Hospitality Corporate Office 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Management. Singapore Commercial b,c 22.0 23.0 22.7 23.4 In 2013, historical data were restated to Overseas Commercial e 16.3 14.5 14.4 15.1 exclude tenants’ energy consumption Overseas Retail f 9.4 8.3 9.9 8.9 at Saigon Centre in Ho Chi Minh City, Hospitality Properties g 22.6 23.6 24.0 21.9 Vietnam and BG Junction in Surabaya, Total 70.7 70.0 71.4 69.8 Indonesia, as well as to include Spring City Golf & Lake Resort (Spring City) in Kunming, China. This is to better reflect the actual consumption arising from Energy Intensity a,l (kWh/m2) Keppel Land’s own operations. Residential developments have been 640 excluded unless otherwise stated as 480 they are trading properties, which the Company eventually does not own. 320 160 ENERGY USE In 2013, total direct energy 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 consumption from the use of diesel was about 30,000 GJ e, while total Corporate Office 105 99 96 85 indirect energy consumption from use Singapore Commercial b,c 118 97 92 94 of electricity was about 250,000 GJ f. Overseas Commercial e 160 185 183 164 Overseas Retail f 60 54 64 58 Keppel Land’s total direct energy Hospitality Properties g 153 91 95 101 consumption arising from diesel usage Total 596 526 530 520 was about 920,000 litres, which is 10% higher than 834,000 litres in 2012. Total indirect energy consumption arising from electricity consumption was 69.8 million kWh, down 2% from Energy Intensity at Construction Sitesh (GJ/m2) 71.4 million kWh in 2012. 0.48 Energy productivity, defined as revenue per energy use, was about S$5,200/GJ 0.36 (or USD4,100/GJ) in 2013. This is over 0.24 50% higher than the S$3,300/GJ recorded in 2012, mainly due to the 0.12 increase in revenue. 0 Ocean Reflections Madison Financial at Keppel Residences Centre Bay e 1 litre of diesel = 0.0331 GJ Direct Energy Intensity 0.19 0.45 0.28 f 1 kWh of electricity = 0.0036 GJ Indirect Energy Intensity 0.09 0.12 0.13 G4-22, G4-23 60 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Corporate Office about 24.0 million kWh or WATER USE Keppel Land’s corporate office in 97.3 kWh/m2. Energy intensity of Water Consumption Singapore occupies about 58,000 sf BG Junction was 57.5 kWh/m2, In 2013, Keppel Land’s total water spread across four floors at Bugis about 10% lower than 64.3 kWh/m2 consumption was about 762,000 m3, Junction Towers. The Company in 2012. Energy intensity of the 16.4% lower than 911,000 m3 continues to ensure the use of remaining office buildings was recorded the year before. This was energy-efficient and green-labelled 164.4 kWh/m2 in 2013, 10% lower partly due to the divestment of office equipments. Employees are than 183.3 kWh/m2 recorded Hotel Sedona Manado. constantly reminded to switch the year before. off lights, computers and other Water productivity, defined as revenue office equipment when not in use. Hospitality Properties per water use, was about S$1,900/m3 In 2013, Keppel Land continued Keppel Land Hospitality Management (or USD1,500/m3) in 2013, which was to replace its office lightings with manages Sedona Hotel Yangon significantly higher than the S$1,000/m3 energy-efficient LED tubes to further and Sedona Hotel Mandalay in recorded in 2012. reduce energy consumption. Myanmar, Sedona Suites Hanoi in Vietnam as well as Spring City. Water consumption at the corporate As a result, energy intensity at the Hotel Sedona Manado in Indonesia office is about 3,000 m3 per annum corporate office fell over 10% from was divested in 2013. or 9.1 m3/person per annum, based on 95.9 kWh/m2 or 517,700 kWh the recommendations set by the in 2012 to 84.9 kWh/m2 or In 2013, total energy consumption Singapore Standard SS CP48:2005 456,400 kWh in 2013. at these properties was about for water services. 21.9 million kWh or 100.9 kWh/ Singapore Investment room-night. Energy intensity of In Singapore, water is drawn from Buildings Spring City was about 385 kWh/ public supply sources such as local Singapore investment buildings room-night, over 20% higher than catchment areas, imported water, include Ocean Financial Centre, 311 kWh/room-night in 2012. This was reclaimed water (NEWater) and Keppel Towers & GE Tower, due to the expansion of the resort’s desalinated water. Potable water is Prudential Tower, Equity Plaza facilities in 2013 to include a new consumed at Keppel Land’s investment and Keppel Bay Tower. banquet hall. Energy intensity of properties for drinking, sanitary, the other properties was 77.7 kWh/ irrigation and general washing. Electricity consumption at these room-night in 2013, marginally buildings was about 23.4 million kWh higher than the 77.2 kWh/room-night In 2013, total water consumption or 93.6 kWh/m2 in 2013. The energy in 2012. at the Group’s investment properties intensity was slightly higher than in Singapore was about 233,000 m3 91.8 kWh/m2 recorded in 2012. This Construction Projects or 19.5 m3 per person; about 7% was due mainly to the completion of To account for the variation lower than the 251,000 m3 recorded Ocean Financial Centre Phase 2 in in the type, number and construction the year before. Measures to conserve 2013, which has its own chiller plant stages of projects undertaken water at its buildings include the system. Energy consumption at every year, Keppel Land measures use of water-efficient fittings Prudential Tower and Keppel Bay the energy consumption of approved under the PUB Water Tower are expected to decline when each project over the period of Efficiency Labelling Scheme, the chiller upgrading works are its entire construction. The self-closing taps and flow completed in 2014. information is disclosed upon regulators. All of Keppel Land’s local completion of the project to allow investment buildings have achieved Overseas Investment more meaningful comparisons the PUB Water Efficient Building Buildings between developments. award for outstanding efforts Overseas investment buildings in water conservation. include Saigon Centre and Total direct energy consumed was International Centre in Vietnam, 2,900 GJ or 0.28 GJ/m2 for Madison Overseas, total water usage at International Financial Centre Jakarta Residences; 86,100 GJ or 0.45 GJ/m2 Keppel Land’s investment buildings and BG Junction in Indonesia for Reflections at Keppel Bay was about 219,000 m3 in 2013. as well as 77 King Street; an office and 17,900 GJ or 0.19 GJ/m2 for Water intensity of BG Junction tower owned by Keppel REIT Ocean Financial Centre. Total indirect remained at 2.4 m3/person in Sydney, Australia. energy consumption was 1,300 GJ in 2013. Water intensity of the or 0.13 GJ/m2; 22,600 GJ remaining office buildings was In 2013, total energy consumption or 0.12 GJ/m2; and 8,500 GJ 19.8 m3/person, about 14% lower at these buildings amounted to or 0.09 GJ/m2 respectively. than 23.1 m3/person in 2012. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 61 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Water usage at the hotels was about 306,000 m3 in 2013, 26.7% Total Water Consumptiona,l (‘000 m3) lower than 417,000 m3 recorded in 2012 due partly to the divestment 1,200 of Hotel Sedona Manado. The reduction was also due to frequent 1,000 disruption in government water 800 supply in Myanmar during the year, resulting in the Group’s hotels in 600 Yangon and Mandalay having 400 to tap on alternative sources of water supply such as wells to meet 200 its operational needs. Excluding 0 ground water drawn from the wells, 2010 2011 2012 2013 water intensity was about 1.4 m3/ room-night in 2013, 12% lower Corporate Office 3 3 3 3 than the year before. To better Singapore Commercial b,c 232 239 250 233 manage its water resources in Overseas Commercial e 180 150 149 126 future, the Company plans to Overseas Retail f 120 100 91 94 monitor its usage of well water by Hospitality Properties g 496 545 417 306 installing water sub-meters. Total 1,031 1,037 910 762 Water Discharge Water drawn from public utilities at the construction sites of Water Intensitya,l (m3/person) Keppel Land’s developments in Singapore is generally recycled 90 and reused for vehicular washing. With appropriate earth control 75 measures, discharged water contains a lower amount of total 60 suspended solids than the legal 45 allowable limit of 50 mg/litre. 30 In Singapore, discharged water is 15 conveyed by a network of pipelines nationwide to waterworks or 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 wastewater treatment plants where it is chemically treated, filtered and Corporate Office 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 disinfected. The treatment frees the Singapore Commercial b,c,d 29.5 22.0 18.3 19.5 water of harmful bacteria and makes Overseas Commercial e 38.8 23.6 23.1 19.8 it clear and odourless. The treated Overseas Retail f 3.8 3.2 2.4 2.4 water is then pumped into the Hospitality Properties g 2.5 2.1 1.6 1.4 distribution system and service reservoirs for consumption. Total 83.7 60 54.5 52.4 Similarly, wastewater is recycled for use whenever possible overseas. For instance, at BG Junction, wastewater is recycled for use in cooling towers. WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Recycled Total waste generated at Keppel Land’s completed properties in Singapore and overseas (excluding 62 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH hotels) was more than 3,100 tonnes in 2013. Waste productivity, defined Total Carbon Emission i,l (tonnes CO2) as revenue per waste generated, was about S$460,000/tonne 48,000 (or USD370,000/tonne). 36,000 Of this, about 85,000 kg of waste 24,000 including paper, plastics and cans is recycled at the Group’s investment 12,000 buildings in Singapore. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Tenants at Keppel Land’s investment buildings are also encouraged to Fuel (scope 1) j 1,935 2,225 2200 2,450 recycle. For instance, at Ocean Refrigerants (scope 1) j 915 985 700 750 Financial Centre, a central paper Electricity (scope 2) j 40,050 36,540 37,700 36,500 recycling chute complete with Business Travel (scope 3) j 1,600 2,200 3,200 3,050 a paper shredder for disposing Staff Commuting (scope 3) j 180 190 200 200 confidential documents within Water Consumption (scope 3) j 300 300 their premises, enables tenants Total 44,680 42,140 44,300 43,250 to recycle used papers. In 2013, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s corporate offices Overall Carbon Emission Intensity (kg/m2) recycled about 17,000 kg of waste paper in total. Waste generated 80 at Keppel Land’s corporate office consists mainly of paper. The Company 60 has a systematic paper management 40 and recycling programme. These include setting printers to print 20 double-sided by default, encouraging the use of e-mail and intranet for 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 the publication and storage of documents, utilising smaller 75.0 68.9 71.3 70.3 printouts as well as switching to electronic greeting cards. Employees are encouraged to recycle Embodied Carbon Emission Intensity at Construction Sites k (kg/m2) used paper, with recycling bins placed at convenient locations in all departments. A recycling company 1,000 has been contracted to collect used 750 paper regularly. 500 DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS Emission to Air 250 The Company’s carbon emissions 0 include direct emissions from fuel used Ocean Reflections Madison in power generators and loss of Financial at Keppel Residences Centre Bay refrigerant in air conditioning systems, indirect emissions due to purchased Embodied Carbon electricity consumed at investment Emissions arising properties and hotels as well as other from Energy Use indirect emissions arising from water (Direct & Indirect) 27.7 51.3 40.0 usage at investment properties, Embodied Carbon Emissions arising business travel and employees from Materials Use 510.0 860.0 919.0 commuting to and from the workplace. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 63 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore In 2013, total carbon emission was Materials Used at Construction Sites k (tonnes) about 43,250 tonnes. The largest source of emissions was electricity 4,000 usage in its investment buildings, which accounted for about 85% of 3,000 the Company’s carbon footprint. 2,000 Carbon productivity, defined as 1,000 revenue per greenhouse gas 0 emission, was about S$36,800/tonne Ocean Reflections Madison (or USD29,400/tonne) in 2013. Financial at Keppel Residences This is about 60% higher than Centre Bay in 2012, mainly due to the increase Materials Intensity in revenue. (kg/m2 GFA) 2,200 2,900 3,600 Emission Intensity Keppel Land is on track to meet (kg/m2 GFA) 510 860 920 the emissions intensity reduction target of 16% below 2010 levels by 2020 as set out in its Carbon Management Plan. a Data collection on energy and water consumption for overseas commercial and retail buildings as well as hotels under Keppel Land Hospitality Management (previously know as Sedona Hotels Normalising the carbon emissions International) started only from 2010. by the total floor area of all b Energy data for Singapore commercial buildings includes energy for investment properties, its carbon mechanical and electrical services such as air-conditioning, lifts and lightings in common areas, but excludes tenants’ energy consumption intensity in 2013 was 70.3 kg/m2 as tenants are charged separately for electricity usage within their GFA. This is 6.3% below 2010 tenanted space. c Includes Ocean Financial Centre (from 2011 onwards), Ocean Towers emission levels. (demolished and excluded from 2011 onwards), Keppel Towers & GE Tower, Prudential Tower, Equity Plaza and Keppel Bay Tower. Implementation of energy d Water intensity figures for Singapore commercial buildings are computed based on the number of occupants in each respective year. conservation measures including e Includes Saigon Centre in Ho Chi Minh City and International Centre the upgrade and optimisation in Hanoi, Vietnam as well as International Financial Centre Jakarta of chiller plant system as well as in Indonesia. f Includes BG Junction in Surabaya, Indonesia. replacement of conventional lightings g Includes Hotel Sedona Manado in Indonesia, Sedona Hotel Yangon with LED tubes at some of the and Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar as well as Sedona Suites Hanoi in Vietnam. Energy and water intensity for Sedona hotels is expressed investment properties in Singapore in terms of kWh/room-night and m3/room-night respectively. have improved the Company’s h Data for construction sites are disclosed on project basis instead of by environmental performance. year, to allow for meaningful comparison. Energy data represent the total energy consumed during the entire construction period of the project. i Energy conversion ratio for 2013: 1 kWh electricity = 0.4977 kg CO2 Keppel Land plans to implement (Source: National Environment Agency) j similar energy conservation measures Scope 1 includes direct emissions from fuel used in power generators and loss of refrigerant in air-conditioning systems. progressively in all its properties, Scope 2 includes indirect emissions due to purchased electricity including those overseas. consumed at investment properties and hotels. Scope 3 includes other indirect emissions arising from water usage at investment properties, business travel as well as commuting to About 70% of employees at its and from the workplace of employees from corporate office. head office in Singapore commute k The emission data represents the project’s total embodied carbon from materials used and energy consumed at the construction site. to work by public transport. Embodied carbon index of materials are sourced from The Inventory The Company also advocates of Carbon and Energy 2011, based on cradle-to-grave boundaries. l communication via audio or video Figures for 2010-2012 have been restated to exclude tenants’ energy consumption at Saigon Centre and BG Junction, and include conferencing where possible, Spring City in the scope. so as to minimise overseas travel. Construction Projects While emissions due to construction activities that occur within the boundaries of a development site are a result of the contractor’s direct and indirect emissions, 64 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Environment Protection Expenditure Estimated Description Expenditure ($) Total cost of green building features in all Green Mark-certified projects in Singapore and overseas* 114,000,000 In 2013: Green building features in Green Mark-certified projects awarded in 2013 12,420,000 Training (environmental courses, seminars, conferences) 44,000 External certification (ISO 14000) 24,000 Outreach programmes ^ Environmental education 96,000 Gold sponsor of International Green Building Conference 2013 50,000 Sponsor of Singapore International Energy Week 2013 + 75,000 Community Chest Charity Gala 2013 10,000 Platinum sponsor of International Singapore Compact CSR Summit + 50,000 Sub-total 12,769,000 * Includes cost of projects developed in joint ventures which will be borne by Keppel Land and its joint venture partners. ^ Excludes Keppel Land’s share of contribution at Keppel Group level. + Includes contributions from Keppel Group. Keppel Land recognises the For comparison purposes, total materials with recycled content, significant environmental impact materials used per project is low carbon emissions or of construction activities. reported upon project completion. materials certified by recognised The Company measures as well as environmental organisations monitors energy and emission A total of 10 most commonly such as the Forest Stewardship data from its construction sites. used materials in building Council or the Singapore construction have been identified Green Building Council for Adopting the same principle of and measured. These include its new projects. disclosure on a project basis, cement, sand, concrete, aggregate, the total direct and indirect emissions bricks, steel, aluminium, glass, ENVIRONMENTAL was about 410 tonnes or 40 kg/m2 paints as well as ceramic tiles PROTECTION EXPENDITURE GFA for Madison Residences, and granite. Keppel Land adopts a proactive 10,000 tonnes or 51 kg/m2 GFA and holistic approach in the for Reflections at Keppel Bay; Total materials used was way it designs, constructs and and 2,600 tonnes or 28 kg/m2 36,000 tonnes or 3,600 kg/m2 operates its developments. GFA for Ocean Financial Centre. gross floor area (GFA) for Madison Residences; 564,000 tonnes The total cost incurred for CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS or 2,900 kg/m2 GFA for Reflections incorporating green features Materials Use at Keppel Bay; and 200,000 tonnes for all its Green Mark-certified The construction and real estate or 2,200 kg/m2 GFA for Ocean residential and commercial sector consumes a considerable Financial Centre. In terms of projects in Singapore and amount of materials. However, embodied carbon emissions, about overseas is estimated at about the amount of materials used 9,500 tonnes or 920 kg/m2 GFA, $114 million. This amount includes within a reporting year is not 167,000 tonnes or 860 kg/m2 GFA its partners’ share for jointly comparable over the years as and 47,000 tonnes or 510 kg/m2 GFA developed projects. the number of projects varies were emitted respectively. every year and the construction TARGETS stages of each project differ. Keppel Land aims to reduce Recognising the twin benefits To track such data meaningfully, materials intensity and embodied of environmentally-friendly Keppel Land discloses the usage carbon emissions as well as business practices on the environment of materials based on the entire conserve global resources. and its bottomline, Keppel Land construction lifespan of a project The Company has set the target has set strategic plans for instead of on a yearly basis. of using at least 30% of building continual improvement. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 65 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environmental Design Environmental Operation Plans Carbon Management Plan Guidelines In 2012, Keppel Land developed Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Keppel Land has in place a set of Environmental Operation Plans for Plan outlines the initiatives and Environmental Design Guidelines the management of the respective programmes that the Company will for its new developments. completed commercial buildings in undertake to reduce its emissions. These include stretched targets Singapore and hospitality properties in the areas of environmental overseas. In 2014, the scope was Adopting a holistic approach certification, energy, water, expanded to include completed towards reducing carbon emissions, landscaping and materials used. commercial buildings overseas. the Group has set the target of Since 2013, these guidelines reducing its emissions intensity have been included in the design The individualised plans outline (normalised by GFA) by 16% below brief to consultants for new environmental targets and 2010’s emission levels by 2020. projects undertaken. programmes to yield measurable reductions in waste as well as Carbon reduction measures to be The Group adopts an integrated energy and water usage at each undertaken include developing design approach where teams property. These include adhering high-performance commercial including consultants as well as to the Group’s environmental policy buildings, upgrading chiller plant in-house sustainability team and and green procurement guidelines. systems in existing buildings and project managers work together replacing existing carpark lighting to adopt new strategies, systems Annual reviews will also be conducted with energy-saving LED tubes. and products right from the initial to monitor the progress and design stages to create sustainable implementation of the plans as well as This will result in a reduction of developments. This will enable the corresponding cost savings. These almost 48,000 tonnes of carbon the Group to achieve its goal measures are targeted at helping the dioxide emission, which will yield of obtaining at least the BCA Green Company achieve its goal of at least potential savings of over $25 million Mark GoldPlus and Gold standards the BCA Green Mark GoldPlus rating for up to 2020. Beyond 2020, annual for all new properties in Singapore all its completed commercial buildings savings of about $5.5 million and overseas respectively. in Singapore by 2015. are expected. Environmental Targets 2020 • To reduce carbon emissions 2015 intensity by 16% below 2010’s 2008 2010 2012 • To achieve • Set minimum • Attained BCA Green • Committed to emission levels. minimum BCA BCA Green Mark Mark Gold Award achieve minimum Green Mark Gold Award or for all completed BCA Green Mark GoldPlus Award equivalent for new commercial GoldPlus Award for for completed developments in properties in new developments in commercial Singapore and Singapore. Singapore. buildings in overseas. • Implemented • Embarked on Singapore. • Achieved ISO 14001 energy optimisation development of a certification for measures for Sustainability Data property development all completed Management System. operations in commercial • Became Corporate Singapore, China and properties in Advisory Board Vietnam and property Singapore. Member of the management • Committed to train World Green in Singapore. project managers Building Council. • Achieved Ecoas BCA Green Mark Office certification Managers within two by Singapore years of joining the Environment Council Company. for corporate office. 66 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Environmental • Started the Go Green with Keppel Land • Published inaugural GRI-accredited Level C and Sustainability outreach programme. Sustainability Report. Milestones 2008 • Became founding member of the • Conferred four BCA Green Mark Singapore Green Building Council. 1997 Gold Awards for projects in • Started a dedicated section in Singapore and Vietnam. • Eco-City International Keppel Land’s Annual Report The Estella was the first in Country Club (previously to detail the Company’s Vietnam to receive BCA’s known as Tianjin Pearl Beach environmental efforts. Green Mark Award. International Country Club) in China became the world’s first 2005 • Ocean Financial Centre Audubon International-certified • Attained the Best in Class became the first office Classic Sanctuary. status by Scandinavian financial development in Singapore’s institution, Storebrand, for CBD to obtain the highest BCA • Jakarta Garden City was leading in environmental and Green Mark Platinum Award. named Best Middle Class social performance. Residential Development at • Achieved IS0 14001 EMS the FIABCI Indonesia BNI Prix • Became founding member certification for property d’Excellence Awards. of Singapore Compact. development in Singapore. • Saigon Centre in was named 2006 • Attained Eco-Office the Most Energy-Efficient • Awarded the BCA Green certification for its corporate Building (1st runner-up) Mark Gold Award for headquarters by the Singapore by Vietnam’s Ministry of condominium development, Environment Council. Trade and Industry. The Tresor, in Singapore. • Released first CSR report online. 2010 • Obtained Gold • Selected as a component of the (Implementation/Residential) • One Raffles Quay emerged Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Silver (Maintenance) Winner in the Office (DJSI) Asia Pacific. Awards for Caribbean at category at the FIABCI Prix Keppel Bay at the Landscape d’Excellence Awards. • Only Singaporean company Industry Association (Singapore) to be included in the Sustainable Awards of Excellence. 2009 Asset Management (SAM) • Ocean Financial Centre Sustainability Yearbook 2011. • Caribbean at Keppel Bay became the first office emerged Winner in the development in Southeast • Named the Most Admired Residential category at the Asia to achieve LEED ASEAN Enterprise for CSR international FIABCI Prix Platinum (core and shell) at the ASEAN Business Awards. d’Excellence Awards. pre-certification. • Conferred another four 2007 • Conferred 11 BCA Green BCA Green Mark Gold Awards • Formed the Environment Mark Awards for projects for commercial projects Management Committee. in Singapore, China and in Singapore. Vietnam. These include the • Became a developer and Group’s first BCA Green Mark • Expanded the ISO 14001 EMS project manager for Gold Award in China for certification scope to include Keppel Group’s 36.6-ha projects in Tianjin, Shanghai property development eco-development in the and Kunming. operations in Tianjin, Kunming Start-Up Area in the and Jiangyin in China. Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City • Expanded the ISO 14001 (Tianjin Eco-City) in China. EMS certification scope • Panel speaker at the Impetus to include property for Growing Global seminar • Awarded BCA Green Mark management in Singapore organised by the Singapore Gold Award for Marina Bay and property development Management University Residences. in China and Vietnam. and BCA. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 67 Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 1 • Showcased Ocean Financial • Selected as a component of the • Expanded the ISO 14001 EMS Centre and Tianjin Eco-City DJSI World Index and retained its certification scope to Zhongshan at Building Eco Xpo Asia, position in the DJSI Asia Pacific and attained independent where it was the Gold sponsor. for the second year. certification for property development in China. • Attained the Audubon Classic • Included in the SAM Sanctuary status for another Sustainability Yearbook 2012 • Panel speaker at the Responsible two golf courses in Kunming, and named Sector Mover Research’s forum on Improving China, and Bintan, Indonesia. for the real estate sector. Business Case for Green Buildings in Asia. • Attained the Solar Pioneer Award • Named Best Performer in for Ocean Financial Centre. Asia in the Global Real Estate • Marina at Keppel Bay was named Sustainability Benchmark Green Maritime Company of the • Won the Central Singapore (GRESB) 2011. Year at the 7th Asia Boating Awards. Project E.A.R.T.H. Challenge for corporate organisations. • Conferred the Best In Class • Marina Bay Residences and (Financials) status by Storebrand. Marina Bay Financial Centre • Published GRI-accredited (Phase 1) received the FIABCI Prix Level B+ Sustainability Report, • Won the Best Sustainability d’Excellence Singapore Property with external assurance. Award at ACCA Singapore Awards 2011 in the residential Awards for Sustainability (High-rise) and office categories. • Merit Award winner in the Reporting 2011 with its services category at the GRI-accredited Level B+ • Ocean Financial Centre bagged Singapore Environmental Sustainability Report with the Green Development Award Achievement Awards. AA1000 Assurance Standard. at the Southeast Asia Property Awards 2011. 2011 • Ocean Financial Centre bagged • Joined the United Nations the Gold Award in the Product 2012 Global Compact. Excellence category at the Global • Became founding member of the CSR Awards 2011. World Green Building Council • Embarked on journey to Corporate Advisory Board. align the Group’s business • Conferred another four BCA operations with the Green Mark Gold Awards for • Placed in the DJSI Asia Pacific and ISO 26000 standard. projects in Singapore, China World for the third and second and Indonesia. year respectively. 68 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH • Jakarta Garden City (Phase 1) • Embarked on the Integrated in Indonesia bagged the Management System to 2 Highly Commended Green combine ISO 14001, ISO 9001 Development Award at the and OHSAS 18001 standards Southeast Asia Property into a single framework. Awards 2012. • Achieved six BCA Green • Conferred the Best Property Mark Awards in Singapore Development Organisation and China in 2013 as well as for Mature Markets at the four Awards for residential, Asia Pacific Real Estate commercial and a datacentre Association Best Practices in Singapore in 2014. Awards 2012. • Emerged Winner in the Services • Garnered a Special category at the Singapore Mention under the Green Environmental Achievement Champion category at Awards 2013. the Singapore Compact CSR Awards 2012. • Won the Sustainable Business Award in the Large Enterprise 2013-2014 Category at the Singapore • Ranked 17th in Corporate Sustainability Awards 2013. • Included in the SAM Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainability Yearbook Sustainable Corporations • Garnered the Green for the third consecutive year. in the World 2014. Champion Award at the Singapore Compact CSR • Named the Regional Sector • Conferred the Most Admired Summit in 2013. Leader for the Office Sector ASEAN Enterprise Award in the in GRESB 2012. CSR category at the ASEAN • Garnered the Skyrise Greenery Business Awards 2013. Excellence Award 2013 for • Participated in the Carbon Ocean Financial Centre. Disclosure Project. • Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific and World for the fourth • Achieved the Green Globe • Achieved nine BCA Green Mark and third year respectively. certification for Sedona Awards for projects in Singapore, Suites Hanoi and Sedona China, Vietnam, Indonesia and • Included in RobecoSAM’s Suites Ho Chi Minh City. India. International Financial Sustainability Yearbook for Centre Jakarta Tower 2 became the third consecutive year. • Marina at Keppel Bay named the first development in winner of Best Environmental Indonesia to receive the BCA • Became a constituent of the Initiative and International Green Mark Platinum Award. MSCI Global Sustainability and Marina of the Year 2013-14 Socially Responsible Indices. by the Marina Industries • Expanded the scope of Association (Australia). Keppel Land China’s • Named the Regional Sector independent ISO 14001 EMS Leader for Asia (Office Category) certification to include Chengdu, in GRESB 2013. Nantong and Beijing. • Awarded the BCA Green Mark • Commenced ISO 14001 EMS Champion Award in 2014. implementation in Indonesia. 1. Keppel Land expanded its environmental management • Achieved ISO 14001 system to include property • Developed Environmental certification for property developments overseas, such as Riviera Point (pictured) Operation Plans for managing development operations in in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. environmental performance at Indonesia and independent completed commercial buildings ISO 14001 certification 2. Keppel Land emerged top in the Services category at in Singapore and overseas for property development the Singapore Environmental hospitality properties. operations in Vietnam. Achievement Awards 2013. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore 69 Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas 1 Overseas measures at its properties include preserved during and after the installation of timer switches construction to ensure that the Keppel Land’s commitment towards and energy-saving fluorescent bulbs eco-system remained balanced and the management and protection of as well as a recycling programme for intact. Many species of trees were the environment goes beyond paper, plastic, glass and linen. also planted at Spring City to help Singapore to wherever it operates. in the habitation of wildlife such as PRESERVING BIODIVERSITY songbirds, squirrels, butterflies, HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT Conscious efforts are made to insects and rabbits. Keppel Land Hospitality Management, preserve the biodiversity in which operates and manages a Keppel Land’s properties. Spring City also features a 1.7-km portfolio of properties including hotels, nature trail with over 300 plant serviced residences as well as golf Its golf courses such as Spring City species, most of which are native courses, resorts and marinas across and Ria Bintan Golf Club (Ria Bintan) to the Yunnan province. Information Asia, is equally committed to good in Indonesia were sculpted along boards have also been placed environmental stewardship at all the natural contours of the along the trail to spread the its properties. undulating landscape. message on the importance of preserving biodiversity. All its hotels and serviced residences Originally an arid and mountainous adhere to an environmental policy site afflicted by poor surface drainage The architecture of the Forest and a set of guidelines on energy and severe soil erosion, Spring City Course at Ria Bintan is constructed and water conservation, green is today home to two world-class around existing natural contours procurement as well as the use of and sustainable golf courses. so as to preserve wildlife corridors. biodegradable cleaning products, The integrated design allows a energy-efficient office appliances and Indigenous flora like the eucalyptus one-with-nature theme throughout equipment. Energy conservation trees and wildflowers were carefully the resort. 70 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Ria Bintan has also embarked on a ECICC was the first in the world to Yangon and Sedona Hotel Mandalay programme to reduce water usage and achieve the prestigious Audubon had attained the certification fertilisers in maintaining its golf courses. Classic Sanctuary status in 2009, in 2009. Plans are underway to plant local followed by Spring City and species of shrubs and groundcovers Ria Bintan in 2010. Developed by the World Travel to minimise maintenance work. and Tourism Council and an affiliate The Audubon Classic Programme to the United Nations World Tourism At Eco-City International Country is targeted at existing golf courses Organisation, the Green Globe is Club (ECICC) in Tianjin Eco-City, the that are being redeveloped or recognised internationally as a resort has introduced new initiatives going through refurbishments, mark of quality, sustainability and such as enhancing water quality with while maintaining its use. climate action. It assesses the additional re-circulating streams so as sustainability performance of to increase plant density along the To achieve the status, certified travel and tourism businesses water edge, conserving water through courses must meet the stringent and their supply chain partners. better controls as well as increasing programme requirements as well the natural habitat areas and as any additional site-specific migration corridors. requirements identified by Audubon. These include environmental planning, AUDUBON CERTIFICATION wildlife and habitat management, The Company operates three outreach and education, reduction Audubon International-certified of chemical-use and safety, water golf courses in China and Indonesia. conservation as well as water quality management. Audubon is a global environmental 1. Featuring two championship golf courses, Spring City is an Audubon organisation which champions GREEN GLOBE CERTIFICATION Classic Sanctuary-certified course. wildlife protection as well as provides In 2013, Sedona Suites Hanoi education and conservation assistance and Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City 2. Sedona Hotel Yangon, which broke ground for its new wing for responsible management of in Vietnam achieved the Green in October 2013, adopts natural resources. Globe certification. Sedona Hotel environmentally-friendly practices. 2 Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas 71 Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE Development Co., Ltd (SSTEC), DEVELOPMENT a 50/50 joint venture between TIANJIN ECO-CITY, CHINA the Singapore consortium, led by The Tianjin Eco-City is a flagship the Keppel Group, and a Chinese bilateral project between the consortium, led by Tianjin TEDA governments of Singapore and Investment Holding Co., Ltd. China to jointly create a practical, scalable and replicable model of Keppel Land China is an investor, sustainable urban development developer and project manager for other cities in China and the of the Keppel Group’s 36.6-ha site rest of the world. within the SUA. Keppel Corporation and Keppel Land China hold 45% Located on non-arable, water-scarce and 55% interests respectively land with limited natural resources in this site. in the Tianjin Binhai New Area, the 30-sq km Tianjin Eco-City is The development of Keppel Group’s envisioned to be an economically 36.6-ha site in the SUA is carried thriving city that is socially harmonious, out in phases. It is expected to yield environmentally-friendly and about 4,350 homes as well as resource-efficient, where 350,000 commercial developments residents can live, work and play. including office and retail space when completed. With a development period spanning 10 to 15 years, it will showcase how Into its fifth year, Tianjin Eco-City ecological challenges can be tackled has been steadily transformed into with the integration of eco-solutions a modern eco-township with through careful master planning. offices, commercial hubs, schools It has a Start-Up Area (SUA) of and other amenities. four-sq km, which will be home to about 26,500 households Green Building when completed. Evaluation Standard All developers in Tianjin Eco-City The master developer for have to comply with the Green Tianjin Eco-City is Sino-Singapore Building Evaluation Standard Tianjin Eco-City Investment and (GBES). The GBES is a combination 1 1. Singapore’s Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean (second from right) and China’s Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli (third from left) toured a pictorial exhibition commemorating the fifth anniversary of the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City (Photo: Ministry of National Development). 2. Tianjin Eco-City has set the standard for green integrated townships worldwide. Phase 1 of Seasons Park (pictured) obtained the BCA Green Mark Gold Award in 2012. 72 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 2 of China and Singapore’s green in 2011. It comprises a total of Green building building standards. 1,672 homes. About 84% of the evaluation standard 1,105 launched units have been Under the standard, a building is sold as at end-February 2014. • Achieve at least 70% evaluated in six areas, namely land reduction in building energy savings and outdoor environment, Some of the innovative green consumption compared energy efficiency, materials savings, technologies at Seasons Park with buildings designed water savings, indoor environment include a building envelope to local design standard; quality as well as operations thermal system which can • Meet 5% of total building and maintenance. achieve energy savings of energy demand from up to 70% compared to normal renewable energy sources; Developers may choose to standards, a solar hot water • At least one room in all exceed the mandatory standards system that supplies 60% of apartment units will receive to qualify for the Silver, Gold all units’ hot water consumption a minimum of two hours of or Platinum Awards. and a pneumatic waste sunlight during winter; collection system. • Green ratio of at least 40%; Seasons Park • Reduce construction Phase 1 of Keppel Land’s residential Other green features include materials wastage through component, Seasons Park, obtained an energy-efficient air-conditioning optimal design; and the BCA Green Mark Gold Award system and high-energy conservation • Source more than 70% in 2012 and the ISO 14001 insulated walls. Building positions of construction materials certification for its environment have been designed to avoid (by weight) from within management system standards the wind tunnel effect. a 500-km radius. Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas 73 Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas 1 Seasons Garden Construction has commenced Its overseas offices held various Phase 2 of the residential component, and is targeted for completion activities in support of World Seasons Garden, will comprise about in 2017. Environment Day in 2013. 1,190 midand low-rise apartments. Over 40 employees at Keppel Land’s Currently under development, it was Leveraging its extensive experience office in Thailand planted over launched for sale in November 2013. as a developer of prime office 50 teak saplings at the Sai Yok National buildings, Keppel Land strives Park at Kanchanaburi Province in In 2013, Keppel Land acquired to create vibrant, integrated and Bangkok to replace trees lost through another 10.4-ha prime residential quality live-work-play environments rampant deforestation. site in the SUA to develop 346 to meet the demand for premium low-rise homes. office space from multinational To inculcate the culture that corporations looking to participate environmentally-friendly habits begin Seasons City in the rapid growth of Tianjin and with individuals, offices in Ho Chi Minh The commercial sub-centre, northern China. City as well as in Shenyang, Shanghai, Season City, will comprise three Tianjin, Wuxi and Jiangyin in China, office towers and retail premises OVERSEAS OUTREACH have implemented eco measures at with GFA of about 162,000 sm. Keppel Land extends its Go Green the workplaces. Phase 1 will feature an office tower with Keppel Land outreach programme and retail complex, with GFA of to its overseas offices to engage staff, Green practices including turning off 20,000 sm each. tenants and customers. non-essential lights and computer 74 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH monitors during the lunch hour At Central Park City in Wuxi, 1. Seasons City in Tianjin Eco-City exemplifies and using recycling bins are China, homeowners were Keppel Land’s strongly encouraged. given a Green Guide with details commitment to create of the eco-friendly features and sustainable and vibrant properties which offer Engaging Communities facilities within the development. quality live-work-play Committed to creating a sustainable, The provision of recycling bins environments. healthy living environment for and a green corner further 2. Residents and its residents and employees, encourages residents to adopt Keppel Land China Taman Sutera organised the a green lifestyle. staff participated in a tree-planting campaign “Recycle-for-Change” campaign. at the Central Park City Similar efforts to promote township in Wuxi. Staff were encouraged to observe environmental awareness have the 5Rs of Rethinking, Reducing, been implemented at Stamford City Reusing, Recycling and being in Jiangyin, China. These include Responsible champions of bicycle rental facilities, a Green Earth’s precious resources. Educational Corner to educate residents on energy and water The team also collaborated conservation, as well as practical with the Effective Micro-organism tips on leading a green lifestyle. (EM) Research Organisation and Kiwanis Club to organise a To promote green concepts and forum on green solutions for lifestyles, Sedona Suites Hanoi construction and landscaping organised gardening and recycling as well as a workshop on the activities for children of residents. use of EM mudballs as an environmentally-friendly alternative to chemical cleaning products. In China, various tree-planting campaigns for staff and residents took place at the residential developments in Tianjin, Beijing, Wuxi and Shenyang between May and June 2013. 2 Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas 75 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Keppel Land is committed to creating quality live-work-play environments through the development of sustainable properties of enduring value for its homeowners and tenants. 1 43 awards $443,940 1. Keppel Land contributes to shaping Singapore’s city skyline with landmark A total of 43 Keppel Land In 2013, the Company spent a total developments such as Marina Bay Financial developments has been conferred of $443,940 on innovation-related Centre and Ocean the Green Mark Award by the matters, a significant increase from Financial Centre. Building and Construction $23,067 in 2012. Authority of Singapore to-date. 76 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH SUSTAINABLE BENCHMARKS Keppel Land aligns and benchmarks its business practices against global standards including the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) by the United States Green Building Council; the Green Mark scheme by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) of Singapore; the Audubon International certification; the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18000 and ISO 26000 standards; the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and the AA1000 Assurance Standard. In doing so, the Company continually strives towards excellence in product quality, environmental protection, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and sustainability reporting. ISO 9001 Keppel Land is adopting the ISO 9001:2008 quality management system standard for all its projects. The internationally-recognised standard provides organisations guidance and tools to ensure quality products and services that meet customers’ requirements. Companies are also encouraged to constantly improve on their product and service offerings. The standard focuses on the eight principles of customer focus, leadership, involvement of people, process approach, system approach to management, continual improvement, A new Quality, Environmental, Regular “hack-a-thon” sessions offer factual approach to decision-making and Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy staff a platform to contribute ideas mutually beneficial supplier relations. endorsed by the CEO was adopted on pertinent topics and work towards in early-2014. generating creative solutions. The Company targets to obtain the ISO 9001 certification for its Singapore INNOVATION In October 2013, employees across projects by the second half of 2014. As part of the Company’s ongoing different business units took part in The certification will be expanded to efforts to stay ahead of market one such session aimed at improving cover its overseas operations thereafter. trends, two committees, the the Company’s work environment. Innovation Culture Taskforce and The ideas raised included creating INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the Product/Service Innovation Team, break-out spaces within the office The Group is also implementing an were set up in 2013. premises. Following feedback, Integrated Management System to a new lounge where employees combine the ISO 9001 with existing The Innovation Culture Taskforce can interact, re-charge and exchange standards that Keppel Land has adopted aims to improve the Company’s ideas was constructed and opened into a single framework. This includes innovative culture. A series of in May 2014. the ISO 14001 environmental in-house focus group discussions management system and the OHSAS was conducted during the 18001 occupational health and safety year to facilitate sharing of best management system standards. practices and ideas among staff. G4-26, G4-27 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence 77 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Sustainability Number of Type of Certification and Ratings Developments Development Location LEED Platinum 1 Commercial Singapore Total 1 BCA Green Mark – Platinum rating 3 Commercial Singapore 1 Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia 1 Data centre Singapore – GoldPlus rating 2 Commercial Singapore 3 Residential Singapore – Gold rating 9 Residential Singapore 5 Commercial Singapore 1 Data centre Singapore 10 Residential Shanghai, Chengdu, Wuxi, Tianjin and Kunming, China 3 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 2 Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 1 Residential Jakarta, Indonesia a – Certified 1 Residential Shanghai, China 1 Residential Kolkata, India a Total 43 Audubon Classic Sanctuary 3 Golf course Tianjin and Kunming, China, as well as Bintan, Indonesia 3 a Keppel Land divested its stakes in the residential developments in Jakarta and Kolkata in November 2013 and June 2014 respectively. Sustainability Management Standards Development b Location ISO 14001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Shenyang, Wuxi, Tianjin, Kunming, Jiangyin, Zhongshan, Chengdu and Nantong, China Commercial Beijing, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia OHSAS 18001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Shenyang, Wuxi, Kunming, Jiangyin, Tianjin, Zhongshan and Chengdu, China Commercial Beijing, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam b With the exception of commercial developments in Singapore, which have been completed, all other developments are currently under development. 78 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1 The Product/Service Innovation Team participants with Design Thinking tools High-potential staff are involved in seeks to address product deficiencies and methodologies in an interactive, Group-level projects and programmes or omissions within the Company’s project-based format. to encourage cross-fertilisation of ideas existing developments. In addition, across different business units within through identifying future lifestyle The Product/Service Innovation Team the Keppel Group. trends resulting from changing further collaborated with Singapore environmental factors such as Polytechnic’s Student Agency on a To further instil an innovative culture demographics, socio-economics, research project on the residential within the organisation, a quarterly government plans and policies, market. Working with faculty staff Lecture Series, K’onversations, will be the Company aims to leverage the and students, the team conducted rolled out in 2014. Guest speakers, latest in design and technology to in-depth interviews with existing from within the Company and industry introduce new and innovative homeowners and potential customers experts will share their experiences on features in its properties. to identify future needs. innovation and championing change. In September 2013, staff from Staff of all levels are also encouraged In 2013, Keppel Land spent a total both innovation teams attended to attend innovation-related courses of $443,940 on innovation-related a workshop on Design Thinking and workshops. In 2013, Keppel Land’s matters, a significant increase from to facilitate their role as change senior management attended the $23,067 in 2012. agents. Conducted by DesignWorks Innovation Learning Machine Singapore, a Business Design centre Workshop by ESSEC Business School set up by Singapore Polytechnic to equip them with skills to drive and the University of Toronto’s innovation in the Company. Relevant 1. Featuring sustainable and Rotman School of Management materials are also shared with all innovative features, residents of the future Waterfront Residence with the support of SPRING Singapore, employees through the Company’s in Nantong, China, can look this customised workshop equipped monthly Learning Bulletin. forward to a tranquil lifestyle. Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence 79 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence It also aims to raise greater awareness of user-friendly buildings. 1 For outstanding overall management of the project, technical capability and innovation as well as product quality, Keppel Land was also awarded the BCA Construction Excellence (Merit) Award 2013 for Reflections at Keppel Bay. Commercial Showcase Keppel Land’s iconic green building, Ocean Financial Centre, is a US LEED Platinum-rated and BCA Green Mark Platinum award-winning development. The building is a showcase of eco-breakthroughs, with features including one of Singapore’s largest assembly of solar panels, Innovation is also part of employees’ schemes in Singapore dedicated an energy-efficient hybrid chilled competency assessment appraisal. to the provision and management water system and an integrated paper It is assessed as part of a group of six of greenery. This certification recycling facility. Together, these to eight other key competency areas reaffirms Keppel Land’s commitment contribute to about 35% in overall which carry a 30% weightage in their to develop properties that support energy savings per annum. Other individual performance appraisal. healthy eco-systems. efforts including the harvesting of rainwater for irrigation of rooftop OUTSTANDING DEVELOPMENTS A world-class icon, Reflections at gardens, recycling of condensate Keppel Land’s commitment and Keppel Bay was conferred the highest water for the cooling tower and efforts have gained recognition Gold Award at the 64th FIABCI World use of water-efficient tap fittings, regionally and internationally. Congress held in Taiwan in May contribute towards water savings of 2013. The prestigious FIABCI Prix 42 million litres annually, which can The Company clinched a total of six d’Excellence Award recognises fill 21 Olympic-sized swimming pools. awards at the prestigious Euromoney distinctive international real estate Real Estate Awards 2013 which projects in areas such as concept, Ocean Financial Centre also stands recognises the best in the global real architecture and design, development out with its green wall, which holds estate industry. It was named the Best and construction, financial cost and the Guinness World Record for the Office Developer in Singapore for the marketing, environmental impact Largest Vertical Garden. Measuring sixth consecutive year; the Best and community benefit. approximately 19-m high and 110-m Developer, Best Residential Developer, wide, the 2,125-sm green wall at the Best Office/Business Developer Designed by renowned architect façade of the building’s public plaza and Best Mixed-Use Developer in Daniel Libeskind, Reflections at reduces the surface temperature of Vietnam as well as Best Residential Keppel Bay features six glass towers the building’s carpark, which is located Developer in Indonesia. that rise elegantly from the water’s behind the wall. It also serves as a edge. The development also green lung to filter out vehicular Quality Homes clinched the highest Platinum Award emissions and provides visual relief With environmental issues dominating in the residential category at the from the dense concrete landscape global agendas, homebuyers are BCA Universal Design Mark Awards of the city centre. increasingly more eco-conscious. 2013, up from the Silver Award it Corals at Keppel Bay was awarded the received the year before. Launched The green wall is formed with Landscape Excellence Assessment in 2012, the voluntary Universal close to 57,000 pots of plants to Framework (LEAF) certification in Design Mark certification scheme make up the maps of Singapore, August 2013. Launched by the National recognises developments that Southeast Asia and the world. Parks Board (NParks), LEAF recognises adopt a user-centric philosophy The wall, which took about developments that feature outstanding in its design as well as operational three months to complete, landscaping. It is the first of such and maintenance processes. has a three-dimensional effect, 80 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH resulting from the layering of the One of the largest integrated 158 Cecil Street in August 2013. pots which feature 25 plant species. mixed-use developments in The office development houses a It also won the Excellence Award Singapore’s New Downtown, seven-storey indoor green wall made at the NParks’ Skyrise Greenery Marina Bay Financial Centre was up of 13,000 potted plants. In May Awards 2013. named the Best Commercial 2013, Minister of Health and Member Development in South East Asia (SEA) of Parliament for Chua Chu Kang GRC, The green wall has attracted the at the third annual SEA Property Awards Mr Gan Kim Yong visited the property attention of many, including held in October 2013. The SEA Property to gain insights from leading industry Mr Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s Awards recognise the region’s best in practitioners in green developments. Minister for National Development, construction, architecture, interior and Mr Lee Yi Shyan, Senior Minister design and property management. LEADING HOSPITALITY of State for Ministry of Trade and Keppel Land Hospitality Management Industry and Ministry of National Keppel Land’s fund management arm, continues to be recognised Development, who visited Ocean Alpha Investment Partners, also internationally for hospitality excellence. Financial Centre in November 2013. attained the LEAF certification for Sedona Hotel Yangon was named Myanmar’s Leading Hotel for the sixth consecutive year at the World Travel Awards 2013. Sedona Hotel Mandalay, Sedona Suites 2 Ho Chi Minh City and Spring City Golf & Lake Resort (Spring City) in Kunming, China, were also named Myanmar’s Leading Resort, Vietnam’s Leading Serviced Apartments and Asia’s Leading Golf Resort respectively. The World Travel Awards recognise excellence in the global travel and tourism industry and is hailed by The Wall Street Journal as the industry’s Oscars-equivalent. At The Guide Awards, Sedona Suites in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City were bestowed both the Green Lotus Award and Certificate of Excellence. Presented by The Guide, a leading travel and lifestyle magazine by the Vietnam Economic Times, the Certificate of Excellence recognises top service standards and contributions to Vietnam’s tourism industry, while the Green Lotus Award recognises its sustainability efforts. 1. Marina Bay Financial Centre was officially opened by Singapore’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong (far left) at a grand ceremony in May 2013. 2. Alpha Investment Partners’ 158 Cecil Street attained the LEAF certification for outstanding green landscaping. Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence 81 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Keppel Land’s golf courses in Indonesia In 2013, there were no incidents Keppel Land abides by the and China received accolades at the of non-compliance with regulations regulations to safeguard its customers’ 14th Asian Golf Monthly Annual Awards and voluntary codes concerning personal data. In preparation for held in Jakarta in November 2013. marketing communication efforts, the enforcement of the law, the Spring City was named Best Course including advertising, promotion Company engaged consultants to in China (Third Runner-Up) as well as and sponsorship. educate staff on the regulations. Best Maintained Course in Asia Pacific (First Runner-Up). Ria Bintan Golf Club There were no instances of CUSTOMER FOCUS clinched awards for Best Value non-compliance with regulations Keppel Land is a forerunner among for Money Experience (Top 10), and voluntary codes concerning developers in establishing a dedicated Best Course in Indonesia product and service information Customer Focus Unit (CFU) to meet (First Runner-Up) and Best Course as well as labelling during the year. the needs and expectations of in Asia Pacific (Third Runner-Up). There were also no complaints homebuyers. Set up in 1997, regarding breach of customer privacy the CFU plays a vital role in the COMPLIANCE and loss of customer data. delivery of quality residences. Keppel Land is committed to best practices and complies with the The Personal Data Protection Act Through the CFU, the Company relevant legislations and requirements. (PDPA) was enacted in Singapore continually engages its customers to There were no instances of nonin 2013 to safeguard consumers’ ensure a high level of satisfaction for compliance with laws, regulations personal data against misuse by its products and services. Feedback and voluntary codes concerning the regulating the proper management is obtained and reviewed, with provision and use as well as health and and processing of personal data. relevant improvements incorporated safety of its products and services. into new projects. The PDPA is being enforced in The Company abides by the Singapore phases. The provisions relating to a Regular events such as golf Code of Advertising Practice (SCAP) national Do Not Call (DNC) Registry, tournaments, Mid-Autumn Festival set out by the Advertising Standards which allows individuals to register and resident get-togethers serve as Authority of Singapore, which seeks their Singapore telephone numbers platforms to build strong rapport with to promote high standards of ethics to opt out of receiving marketing homeowners and tenants. in advertising through industry phone calls, mobile text messages self-regulation. Its basic premise is and faxes from organisations, came Keppel Land also engages stakeholders that all advertisements should be into effect on 2 January 2014. The on environmental issues through legal, decent, honest and truthful. provisions relating to the main data outreach activities conducted in The SCAP was formulated against the protection will come into force on conjunction with Earth Hour and background of the national law as well 2 July 2014. This allows time for World Environment Day. These include as international law and practices, organisations to review and adopt eco-exhibitions and recycling initiatives including the International Code of internal personal data protection where items such as used books and Advertising Practice published by the policies and practices to ensure International Chamber of Commerce. compliance with the PDPA. G4-26, G4-27 1 82 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 2 spectacles were collected for charity. and 8 Park Avenue in Shanghai, Equity Plaza and Prudential Tower More than 70,000 kg of items were The Arcadia, Serenity Cove and in Singapore. collected from Keppel Land’s Seasons Park in Tianjin, Central Park commercial buildings and recycled City in Wuxi, Stamford City in Through these surveys, the Company in 2013. Jiangyin and The Seasons in garnered feedback on matters in areas Shenyang, China as well as of cleanliness, security, car parking, Service Quality Surveys The Estella in Ho Chi Minh City, building maintenance and management Annual service quality surveys are Vietnam. Residents can also log in personnel as well as green features and conducted at the Group’s residential to provide feedback and requests facilities provided. More than 93% of the and commercial buildings. These were on their unit through the Central respondents were satisfied with the conducted at 19 completed residential Defects Management System. services rendered. developments in 2013. They include Reflections at Keppel Bay, Caribbean Commercial projects surveyed were In 2013, the CFU handed over more at Keppel Bay and Madison Ocean Financial Centre, Bugis Junction than 3,200 homes in Singapore, China, Residences in Singapore; Springdale Towers, Keppel Towers & GE Tower, India and Vietnam. 1. Sedona Hotel Number of homes handed over by Customer Focus Unit Mandalay was named Myanmar’s Leading Country 2012 2013 Resort at the World Singapore 823 220 Travel Awards 2013. China 1,949 2,346 2. The Audubon-certified Vietnam 308 312 Ria Bintan continues to be one of Indonesia’s India 253 350 best golf courses. Indonesia 250 – Total 3,583 3,228 G4-26, G4-27 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence 83 Empowering Lives Health and Safety Keppel Land advocates a strong safety culture and strives for a zero-harm workplace by encouraging all stakeholders to embrace safety as a personal and collective responsibility. 1 Zero 48,200 1. Keppelites reaffirm their commitment to safety during fatalities hours the seventh annual Keppel Group Safety Convention 2013. Keppel Land had no fatalities in 2013. Employees committed over It also recorded a lower accident 48,200 hours of safety training severity rate at 6.56 and fewer in Singapore, China, Vietnam, man-days lost at 214 days. Myanmar and Malaysia. 84 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH STRONG SAFETY CULTURE Safety is top priority and forms an integral part of Keppel Land’s Safety First business operations. The Company is committed to creating a safe workplace and Vision encourages all its stakeholders, including its employees and To be an organisation with contractors, to embrace safety a strong safety culture that inspires as a personal and collective and motivates employees to care responsibility. Regular exchange for self and others to achieve of experiences and knowledge a zero-harm workplace. is encouraged so as to foster positive behavioural changes to achieve a zero-harm workplace. Strategy Safety is one of Keppel Group’s Proactive Actions core values and a key focus of senior Implement an effective management management. The Company has put system and arrangement. in place systems and programmes to constantly educate and remind Communication all stakeholders on the importance Communicate healthand safety-related of safety at the workplace. matters regularly. Driving Keppel Land’s safety efforts Training is the Workplace Safety and Health Equip managers and employees (WSH) unit, which formulates and with health and safety knowledge. oversees the implementation of the Health and Safety (H&S) programmes. Rewards and Recognition The division is helmed by the Director Honour employees and contractors of Safety and Health, who is also for safety excellence. Keppel Group’s Safety Coordinator and Chairman of the Inter-Strategic Business Unit Safety Committee. Strategic Outcomes Keppel Land adopts a top-down Reduction in occupational approach towards H&S with its injury rates. policy being endorsed by the CEO (see page 77). Recognised for best-in-class health and safety practices. Keppel Land is committed to the Keppel Group WSH 2018 strategy. Health and safety as an integral Launched in line with the National part of business. WSH 2018 strategy, the initiative aims to implement uniform safeguards, increase accountability and promote ownership through four key thrusts. These are: • Establish an integrated WSH framework across businesses worldwide; • Implement an effective safety management system; • Enhance safety ownership; and • Strengthen safety partnerships. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 85 Empowering Lives Health and Safety Keppel Land Board Safety Committee Management Safety Committee Singapore Project sites Project sites Keppel Land China Secretariat Project sites Regional Investments Commercial buildings Property Management Hospitality units Hospitality Management Safety issues rank first on the agenda and effectiveness of its H&S This includes site visits where at the Company’s quarterly Board of policies and safety management business units take turns to host Directors meetings, a testament of system to ensure that they are safety personnel from across the senior management’s commitment effective and aligned with industry Keppel Group and share their towards workplace safety. best practices. Safety reports on respective safety systems. the Company’s operations in All new employees are required Singapore and overseas are In 2013, the BSC and MSC to undergo a safety initiation submitted to the BSC monthly. visited the worksite of Keppel Land’s course as part of the Company’s integrated marina lifestyle orientation programme. Staff are The Committee convenes development in Zhongshan, China. also regularly updated on matters quarterly to discuss safety standards, The BSC also visited The Luxurie such as the Company’s key safety practices and any related matters in Singapore as well as Leighton principles, action plans, accident that may have strategic, operational Asia’s safety training centre in and/or incident reporting procedures and reputational implications on Hong Kong, where best practices and relevant training as well as the Group. in safety management were related articles via the intranet exchanged. Leighton Asia is an and newsletter. The BSC is supported by the Australian builder and contractor Management Safety Committee renowned for its excellent safety BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE (BSC) (MSC), which was formed in 2006. performance and practices. Keppel Land’s BSC was formed in Comprising representatives from key 2007. It reviews and develops safety business units, the 12-member MSC The MSC visited Park Avenue Heights policies and management systems. spearheads all safety initiatives. and Hill Crest Villa in Chengdu, It currently comprises six members China, as well as The Lakefront including four independent Directors. As part of the Keppel Group Residences in Singapore. These Mr Tan Yam Pin, a member of Inter-Strategic Business Unit Safety visits provided the Committees Keppel Land’s Board of Directors, Committee, Keppel Land participates with a better understanding of chairs the BSC. in regular dialogue sessions with the operating environment as well as other business units to promote the effectiveness of the safety initiatives The BSC regularly monitors and the exchange of safety knowledge and also reinforced the importance of evaluates the Group’s compliance and experiences. safety at the worksites. 86 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In Singapore, workers are A set of stringent criteria is applied Safety management is incorporated represented in the Committee and adhered to when selecting at the earliest development stage by one of their supervisors. contractors for each of the Company’s of all of Keppel Land’s projects projects. In 2013, a total of 208 and continues through the design, The Committee monitors and contractors comprising 17 main construction and management submits monthly safety reports. contractors and 191 subcontractors stages. This inculcates a strong Members meet at least once in China were evaluated based safety mindset in all employees a month to discuss safety on Keppel Land’s Contractors’ and stakeholders including its inspection findings, incidents Pre-Qualification Evaluation. consultants, suppliers and contractors and injuries, work activities Of these, about 81% met the for all its development projects in and coordination as well as Company’s evaluation criteria. Singapore and overseas. organise onsite health and safety events. Compliance A comprehensive Design Checklist In keeping with the Company’s is also implemented in every All accidents and near misses commitment to ensure that its project. Rigorous assessments are investigated and findings operations and significant suppliers are incorporated to identify and are discussed at the BSC are not involved in unethical labour analyse potential hazards and meetings. Any incident of practices such as child or forced risks for each project. Controls non-compliance with safety labour, a human rights clause on the are also put in place to eradicate standards and accidents involving prohibition of child labour has been or minimise exposure to hazards. employees and/or subcontractors incorporated in all H&S specifications are also reported to management to contractors since 2012. All construction worksites in on a timely basis. Lessons learnt Singapore and overseas have a from incidents and near misses Site Safety and Health Committee are shared with other business which is helmed by the main units to prevent recurrence. contractor’s project manager and supported by Keppel Land’s Keppel Land also believes in project team, who serve as partnering contractors and suppliers advisors and observers. who share its commitment to 1. In walking the safety talk, quality as well as high standards Keppel Land’s BSC conducts regular visits In China, some 22% of workers are in environmental, health and to project sites such as represented on the Committee. safety issues. Chengdu, China (pictured). 1 Empowering Lives Health and Safety 87 Empowering Lives Health and Safety 1 The H&S specification is a performance measurement indicators comprehensive document for are also incorporated. contractors which includes a safety policy and its objectives To ensure that all its contractors as well as information about the remain vigilant and comply with organisation and its responsibilities. the specifications as well as relevant Planning and implementation regulatory requirements and safe guidelines including hazard work practices, Keppel Land’s identification and risk assessment; WSH unit conducts weekly safety information, training and supervision; walkabouts at its Singapore safe work systems; hazard controls; worksites. The team also visits permits to work; equipment and inspects overseas worksites inspection, testing and maintenance; at least once every quarter. personal protection equipment; first-aid facilities and emergency PROACTIVE ACTIONS plans are also included in Over the years, Keppel Land the guide. has implemented numerous initiatives to inculcate a strong 1. Keppel Land’s Director In addition, it details the safety culture. of Safety and Health, Mr John Birchall, who is monitoring and measuring also the Keppel Group mechanisms such as workplace Safety Roadmap Safety Coordinator and inspections, accident recording The Company has in place a Safety Chairman of the InterStrategic Business Unit and reporting, accident investigation, Roadmap with set targets and Safety Committee, leads internal and external audits benchmark indicators that address the Company’s efforts in shaping a safe future for as well as safety improvements. the areas of safety leadership, all its stakeholders. Legislations and standards as well as structure and work processes. 88 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH The roadmap aims to inculcate a total of 11 safety characteristics among its employees and Safety in Action contractors. These include leadership by example, common shared values, strong teamwork and pride in the organisation. This ensures sufficient and capable resources, employee involvement, active lines of communication and timely documentation. Safety processes are enhanced through ensuring consistency in procedures, eliminating shortcuts and maintaining good housekeeping at the worksites. The inner red core of the logo represents The roadmap is reviewed and Keppel’s five key safety principles while updated periodically to ensure the outer strokes demonstrate the its relevance and effectiveness. Company’s action plans. Safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Remuneration of management is linked to sustainability-related KPIs, which includes safety. Safety 5 Key Safety Principles is also a KPI in the performance appraisal of the relevant managers. 1. If safety is expensive, Any fatality at the end of the supply disasters cost more chain can affect the bonuses of key executives and staff. 2. Value everyone’s safety At the same time, all employees 3. Zero tolerance for incidents have 2% of their KPI tagged to an online safety quiz to ensure that they 4. Recognise safe behaviour keep abreast of the Company’s H&S practices. Project managers have an 5. Passion for Health, Safety and additional 10-20% of their individual Environment excellence performance appraisal linked to a safety KPI. Of this, safety performance, including accident frequency and 5 Key Actions severity rates as well as fatal accident occurrences, account for 50%. 1. Board/management leadership Participation in safety-related 2. Safety as a line function activities such as site safety inspections, meetings and 3. Stakeholder involvement innovation make up another 30% of the project manager’s safety 4. Leading safety indicators KPI. The remaining 20% relates to training, including compulsory 5. Positive reinforcement attendance and certification for courses such as the Construction Safety Course for Project Managers and Risk Management and Assessment Training conducted by Ministry of Manpower (MOM)– approved training providers. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 89 Empowering Lives Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 Company’s China projects from ConSASS Keppel Land received the Occupational April to August 2013 to ensure that Keppel Land has conducted the Health and Safety Management System the various parameters pertaining Construction Safety Audit Scoring (OHSAS) 18001 certification for the to OHSAS 18001 were met. The System (ConSASS) audit at all its successful implementation of the OHSAS 18001 system has also development projects in Singapore, system at all its development projects been integrated with the ISO 14001 China and Myanmar. and properties under management in standard for all of the Company’s Singapore, China and Vietnam in 2012. projects in China projects. Similarly, ConSASS is an audit tool that An international standard, OHSAS 18001 works are in progress to align the provides an independent enables organisations to manage, OHSAS 18001 with the ISO 9001 assessment on the effectiveness control and improve its occupational and the ISO 14001 standards for and development status of a H&S performance. its Singapore projects. worksite’s WSH Management system. It is administered by Projects in Singapore, China and The Company is currently the WSH Council and supported Vietnam currently account for 70% implementing the OHSAS 18001 by MOM for the construction of Keppel Land’s total ongoing for its projects in Indonesia, India, industry in Singapore. Since developments and all of its workforce Myanmar and Malaysia. Keppel Land August 2011, all construction in these countries are in compliance will continue to comply with the sites with a contract sum of with the OHSAS 18001. standards and certification of OHSAS $30 million and above are 18001 through annual independent required to have its WSH In 2013, independent third party audits third-party audits and a re-certification Management System audited were carried out at project sites in audit every three years. Plans are every six months. Singapore, China and Vietnam to underway to implement the OHSAS ensure compliance with OHSAS 18001. 18001 standard to its Myanmar Conducted by MOM-approved An internal audit was conducted for the projects in 2014. WSH auditors, the audit involves Managing the Safety Life Cycle Building Design Planning Construction Management Design for Safety Specification Safety Monitoring Safety Management in Buildings and for Contractors of New Projects System (SMS) for Structure Guidelines Completed Buildings Incorporation of safety Keppel Land has in place Keppel Land has in place All completed buildings management at the a H&S specification the following measures managed under design stage of a project stipulating the minimum in monitoring safety at Keppel Land’s Property by identifying potential requirements of a sound its new project sites: Management team have hazards and risks early management system • Weekly site safety integrated and aligned so as to eliminate or which its contractors walk-throughs by its operations with the minimise them. need to comply with. project managers OHSAS18001 standards. This specification has and contractors Internal and external been incorporated into • Monthly collection audit will be conducted the tender documents and monitoring of at least once a year to for all new development safety indicators ensure compliance. projects in Singapore • Monthly independent and overseas. site safety surveillance • Bi-monthly worksite visits by Management Safety Committee • BMOS • OHSAS 18001 • ConSASS • SHARe programme • Year-end safety performance review 90 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1 document reviews, site inspections for sites in Myanmar, with plans and interviews with key personnel. to roll out the audit to its A total of 17 elements are assessed, Vietnam projects in 2014. with each being graded on a scale of four bands with scores The ConSASS assessment tool of between 1 and 100. MOM allows cross-comparison of requires sites to meet a minimum worksites’ effectiveness in score of 75% at Band III. managing WSH risks. This helps Management better allocate In 2013, Keppel Land went beyond resources in order to elevate statutory requirements to conduct safety standards and improve quarterly audits for its Singapore its effectiveness in managing worksites. Projects including the safety and health risks The Lakefront Residences, at worksites. The Luxurie, Marina Bay Suites, Ocean Financial Centre and Completed Buildings Audit Corals at Keppel Bay attained Keppel Land also conducted an average score of 90% audits for all of its completed at Band III each. buildings for the third consecutive year. A total of 25 commercial The Group also implemented and hospitality establishments the ConSASS audit for its China in Singapore, China, Vietnam, 1. Keppel Land works projects during the year, three of Indonesia and Myanmar were closely with contractors to ensure the highest which have since been completed. audited by Keppel Land’s standards of safety Audits have also been conducted WSH unit in 2013. on the ground. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 91 Empowering Lives Health and Safety bizSAFE Mentor of risk management plans including Keppel Land is one of only nine the WSH management system to companies in Singapore to be eliminate or reduce injuries and named bizSAFE Mentor for its illnesses at worksites. exemplary WSH management and performance in 2013. This is the COMMUNICATION second consecutive year that the SHARe Programme Company is awarded the highest In 2013, Keppel Land extended its recognition under WSH Council’s Safety and Health Active Review bizSAFE programme. (SHARe) programme beyond Singapore to its projects in Tianjin, China. These As a bizSAFE Mentor, Keppel Land included Serenity Villa, Seasons Park leads and guides contractors in (Plot 6), Seasons Garden (Plot 11) and developing and implementing safety Seasons Garden (Plot 12). initiatives at workplaces as well as provides stewardship and support Under the SHARe programme, with regards to meeting the safety three-men teams are formed standards set by the WSH Council. for each project, including a Keppel Land representative 1. Over 10,000 workers Since 2010, as part of Keppel Land’s as well as the contractor’s have benefited from the tender requirement, main contractors management and safety personnel. Safety Awareness Centres have to be certified as bizSAFE The team monitors WSH in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam (pictured) and Partners. This in turn requires implementation in the Company’s Johor Bahru, Malaysia. that their subcontractors have projects and organises exchange at least bizSAFE Level 3 certification, visits to worksites to share and G4-26, G4-27 which entails the implementation learn best practices. 92 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1 Behavioural Management Safety Talks and implementing the BMOS of Safety (BMOS) Keppel Land actively engages its programme for upcoming projects Keppel Land has in place the BMOS consultants and contractors through in Singapore, Vietnam and Myanmar. programme to integrate behavioural various communication modes A BMOS workshop was also held strategies and processes into its H&S to instil the importance of safety for the CEO and senior management. management system. at the workplace. The Company plans to implement BMOS stems from the belief that All workers undergo safety orientation the BMOS programme across its the personal adoption of safe courses. Weekly talks on different topics operations in China, Sri Lanka and working practices, through the including the control of mosquito Malaysia in 2014. inculcation of a set of defined breeding and working at heights are behaviours, will reduce the risk of also conducted by the main contractors Safety Awareness Centre (SAC) work-related accidents and strengthen for their workers. In China, articles on In 2013, Keppel Land set up its a company’s safety culture. This is worksite safety are distributed quarterly second SAC in Johor Bahru, Malaysia. achieved through data collection to workers. A design competition for This follows its first SAC in Ho Chi Minh on the frequency of safety critical safety posters was also held to reinforce City (HCMC), Vietnam, in 2011. Some behaviours as well as providing workers’ commitment towards safety. 5,813 and 791 workers were trained in feedback and counselling to HCMC and Malaysia respectively in reinforce safe behaviour. TRAINING 2013, bringing the total number of BMOS Train-the-Trainer workers trained at the two SACs to In 2013, the programme was programme more than 10,000 to-date. implemented at all of the Group’s The third BMOS Train-the-Trainer worksites in Singapore. BMOS training programme took place in October The SACs seek to increase safety was also conducted for workers at 2013. A total of 17 project managers awareness among contractors’ Keppel Land’s hotel development and WSH personnel were equipped employees on pertinent topics such as project in Yangon. with the knowledge of championing working at height, lifting procedures, Empowering Lives Health and Safety 93 Empowering Lives Health and Safety working within confined space, proper well as specialised subjects such as A quarterly publication, HSE Matters, use of equipment, risk assessment and safe use of electrical equipment which focuses on H&S-related managing scaffolds. All workers have to and working at height. news across the Keppel Group, attend the mandatory safety training is also disseminated to all staff, before they are allowed to work onsite. In Singapore, Keppel Land engaged contractors and workers. DuPont, a leader in safety products Secondment of and solutions, to conduct a three-year In addition, a Cross-Pollination Safety Personnel safety self-assessment programme Programme allows Keppel Land’s To assist ground teams in building across the Group. The survey was sent safety personnel from Singapore their safety management, to 2,315 Keppel Land staff, contractors and overseas as well as across communication and risk assessment and workers, of which about 57% Keppel’s other business units to share capabilities, six safety personnel responded to the survey. The results experiences with one another. As a from Keppel Land’s headquarters were validated by site assessments result, safety efforts can be better in Singapore were seconded to by safety coordinators from Keppel’s coordinated and synergised. the Company’s worksites in China, other business units. This led to a Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, refinement of the safety roadmap. REWARDS AND RECOGNITION Sri Lanka, the Philippines Keppel Land collaborates with and Myanmar. Being a member of the Board of its main contractors to ensure Shanghai Administration of Work that all stakeholders and workers Training and Education Safety, Keppel Land China also are committed to maintaining high Employees undergo training participated in seminars and site safety standards at all project sites. courses and seminars to enhance visits organised by the Urban-Rural Safety programmes that reward their knowledge and skills in Development Bureau. and encourage safe work practices managing H&S risks. Staff at are organised to promote safer Keppel Land’s corporate headquarters Sharing Best Practices work environments. in Singapore underwent a total of The Company provides various 789.5 hours of safety training in 2013. platforms to facilitate the sharing Safety Performance Employees in China, Vietnam, of best safety practices and In 2013, Keppel Land’s accident Myanmar and Malaysia committed a experiences across the Keppel Group. frequency rate was 0.31 total of 6,560.5 hours, 37,369.5 hours Among these, an e-safety portal has reportable cases for every million 2,345 hours and 1,205 hours of been set up for the Group’s safety man-hours worked, compared safety training respectively. champions, key management and with 0.14 in 2012. There were operations personnel to access, no fatalities in 2013. Consequently, Training topics included first aid, contribute and share information accident severity rate was 6.56 safety induction, construction safety, efficiently through forums and links in 2013, compared to 173.34 risk management implementation as to other web resources. in 2012 and total man-days lost Keppel Land’s Cumulative Accident Frequency Rate Per million man-hours 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 94 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1. The Company received the WSH Developers Award 1 for the second consecutive year at the annual WSH Awards 2013. was 214 in 2013, compared to Keppel Group Safety Convention crane, the sensors also help in the 6,121 man-days lost in 2012. At the seventh annual Keppel Group event of a communication lapse Safety Convention held in October 2013, between the crane operator and Annual Consultants and the Safety Innovation Team for the signalman. contractors H&S Meeting Keppel Land won the Bronze Award The annual Consultants and for its Riviera Point project at HCMC. Safe Worksite Award Contractors H&S Meeting reinforces The project achieved a total of In China, 12 out of 15 project sites the importance of safety training and over 2.8 million accident-free received the Safe Worksite Award from practices amongst projects teams, man-hours in 2013. the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural contractors and workers. The event Development Bureau, a testament to also recognises and rewards project ‘Shaping a Safe Future’ was the key Keppel Land China’s continual efforts teams and contractors with excellent message for more than 600 participants to ensure safe environments. safety performance. including employees, contractors and WSH Council officials. The Convention WSH Awards In 2013, more than 140 consultants, provided a platform for business units For the second consecutive year, contractors and staff attended the across the Keppel Group to share best Keppel Land received the WSH meeting. The Gold Award was practices as well as recognise teams Developers Award, the only developer conferred to the Marina Bay Suites who constantly innovate to raise the in Singapore to be conferred this project team and their main contractor bar in safety at the workplace. honour. Presented at the annual WSH Woh Hup, who also won another Awards organised by the WSH Council Gold Award for its work at The Innovation in safety and MOM in July 2013, this Award Lakefront Residences. Tiong Seng, Keppel Land’s Tower Crane Proximity recognises developers who play an the main contractor for The Luxurie, Sensors was among the safety active role in ensuring good WSH attained the Silver Award, along with innovation projects that garnered the practices among its contractors and Obayashi/Woh Hup joint venture, Gold Award. The sensors on the tower for leading in safety excellence. the main contractor for Phase Two cranes will alert the operator when the of Ocean Financial Centre. boom comes within two metres of International Safety Award a structure. A screen at the crane’s Keppel Land was also conferred the In China, a similar convention was control panel also displays the exact prestigious International Safety Award held in March 2013 to share best distance between the boom and the (Merit) by the British Safety Council practices as well as recognise nearest object or structure, so that the in 2014. The Award recognises the contractors with good safety records. operator can take the necessary safety Company for its commitment A total of four Gold, five Silver and precautions. Apart from eliminating to the health, safety and well-being four Merit Awards was conferred. blind spots while operating the tower of its workforce. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 95 Empowering Lives People Matter With people as the cornerstone of its business, Keppel Land is committed to develop a motivated and united workforce to drive further growth. 1 56.3 hours 62% 1. As an employer of choice, Keppel Land continues to develop and nurture a talent Executive-level employees in In 2013, locals accounted for pool that will shape the future of Singapore clocked an average 62% of all department head the Company. of 56.3 training hours in 2013, positions at Keppel Land’s overseas up from 44.6 hours in 2012. offices, up from 55% in 2012. 96 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Recognising that people are its for periods between six months tertiary qualifications and above. greatest asset and that every staff and three years. About 11% are Of these, 53.7% hold a Bachelor’s represents the Keppel Land brand, from the minority ethnic groups. degree, professional certification or the Group is committed to nurturing graduate diploma, and 15.4% have a diverse, competent and dedicated A total of 3,476 staff are based a Master’s or post-graduate degree. talent pool that will drive further overseas, of which about 3,276 About 44% of staff based overseas growth and create value for or 94% are full-time staff. Of these, hold a Bachelor’s degree, professional the Company. 72% are located in China, 12% certification or graduate diploma, in Indonesia, 9% in Vietnam and and 3.5% have a Master’s or Talent management and succession 7% in India, the Philippines, Thailand post-graduate degree. planning rank high on the Company’s and Sri Lanka. The remaining 934 priority list. Keppel Land continues overseas staff include expatriates The overall turnover rate for to improve its bench strength in employed under joint venture Keppel Land was about 11.5% or the key markets of Singapore, China, companies. They are attached 474 employees in 2013, down from Vietnam and Indonesia through staff to the hotels and resorts, which are 13.2% or 544 staff in 2012. The rate promotion, redeployment and managed by Keppel Land Hospitality for the Company’s headquarters in selective new hires. Management in Indonesia, Vietnam Singapore was at 16.6% or 83 staff, and Myanmar. below the national average of Keppel Land also actively engages 24% for 2013. Of the 474 employees, staff through various initiatives such as The proportion of female to male 49% or 233 staff were below post-results communication sessions, employees in Singapore is almost 30 years old, while another 46% lunches and tea with the CEO and equal at 56%:44%. Overseas, 45% of or 219 staff were aged 30–50 years senior management as well as employees are female and 55% are and the remaining 5% or 22 staff employee perception surveys. male. The senior management team were over 50 years old. comprises a total of 16 members, PROFILE OF EMPLOYEES of which 14 are male. Turnover by gender was 207 males Keppel Land employs over (44%) and 267 females (56%). 3,900 staff across 12 countries. In Singapore, 62% of its workforce are aged between 31 and 50 years, PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company has 493 employees with 36% and 26% in the 31–40 and The Company has a total of 12 based at its corporate office in 41–50 years age groups respectively. Directors on its Board, of whom Singapore, of which 373 or 76% Overseas, 75% of employees are three are female. Mrs Lee Ai Ming are executives and 120 or 24% aged 40 years and below. has been a Director since November are non-executives. About 461 2002. Mrs Koh-Lim Wen Gin or 94% are full-time employees, In terms of educational profile, 69.1% was appointed as an Independent while 32 or 6% are hired on contract of the employees in Singapore have Director on 20 January 2010. Evolution of Employment Regional Distribution* % 5,000 Singapore 12.4 4,000 China 46.0 Vietnam 10.6 3,000 Indonesia 7.9 2,000 India 1.5 Philippines 0.5 1,000 Thailand 1.8 0 Myanmar 18.5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Others 0.8 Singapore 491 527 540 565 493 Total 100.0 International* 2,896 3,045 3,555 3,557 3,476 Total 3,387 3,572 4,095 4,122 3,969 * Includes Keppel Land and Keppel Land Hospitality Management’s overseas operations. Empowering Lives People Matter 97 Empowering Lives People Matter Gender Profile Age Profile (Singapore) (Singapore) % % Male 44.0 Below 31 years 20.0 Female 56.0 31 to 40 years 36.0 Total 100.0 41 to 50 years 26.0 51 to 62 years 16.0 Above 62 years 2.0 Total 100.0 Educational Profile Professional Profile (Singapore) (Singapore) % % Master’s Degree/ Executive 76.0 Post-Graduate 15.4 Non-Executive 24.0 Bachelor’s Degree/ Total 100.0 Professional Certification/ Graduate Diploma 53.7 Diploma/ GCE ‘A’ Levels 15.6 GCE ‘O’ Levels/ Industrial Certification 10.5 Others 4.8 Total 100.0 Mrs Oon Kum Loon was appointed The Company is a signatory of c. Provide employees with equal as a non-Independent Director on the Employers’ Pledge of Fair opportunity to be considered 1 September 2010. The three female Employment Practices with the for training and development Directors provide gender diversity Tripartite Guidelines on Fair based on their strengths and to the Board. Employment Practices. The Group needs to help them achieve adheres to the principles of their full potential; The Directors provide relevant non-discriminatory and merit-based d. Reward employees fairly based core competencies in areas such as employment practices. It is also on their ability, performance, industry knowledge, legal, finance committed to the five guiding contribution and experience; and and risk management. principles of fair employment, e. Abide by labour laws and adopt namely: Tripartite Guidelines which promote All Directors are above 50 years of fair employment practices. age. There is no minority ethnic group a. Recruit and select employees representation on the Board. on the basis of merit (such as There were no reported incidences skills, experience or ability to of discrimination by employees POLICY OF NON-DISCRIMINATION perform the job), regardless of in 2013. In support of human rights principles, age, race, gender, religion, Keppel Land adheres to fair family status or disability; REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS employment practices and provides b. Treat employees fairly and Staff at the corporate office enjoy equal opportunities with regards with respect and implement the benefits stipulated in Singapore’s to recruitment and the career progressive human resource Employment Act, which is the key development of its employees. management systems; legislature governing employment 98 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Gender Profile Age Profile (Overseas) (Overseas) % % Male 55.0 Below 31 years 38.8 Female 45.0 31 to 40 years 36.3 Total 100.0 41 to 50 years 19.3 51 to 62 years 5.4 Above 62 years 0.2 Total 100.0 Educational Profile Professional Profile (Overseas) (Overseas) % % Master’s Degree/ Executive 30.4 Post-Graduate 3.5 Non-Executive 69.6 Bachelor’s Degree/ Total 100.0 Professional Certification/ Graduate Diploma 44.0 Diploma/ GCE ‘A’ Levels 10.4 GCE ‘O’ Levels/ Industrial Certification 9.2 Others 32.9 Total 100.0 contracts. It includes the basic terms medical and insurance expenses. which includes health and welfare and conditions of employment that Special account savings are for allowances, maternity and paternity organisations must abide by. old age, contingency purposes and leave entitlements as well as coverage investment in retirement-related under the Company’s group health Central Provident Fund financial products. insurance plan. Information on these (CPF) Scheme entitlements is disseminated to all The CPF is a comprehensive Together with employees’ contribution staff via the Welfare and Benefits national social security savings plan of 20% of monthly wages into CPF, portal on the Company’s intranet. that ensures working Singaporeans the total contribution by both The portal serves as a one-stop have a secure retirement fund. employers and employees is 36%. virtual centre for information on Keppel Land and its employees Contributions are lower for employees employee benefits and entitlements contribute to the employees’ aged above 50 years as well as those in healthcare, insurance, leave, CPF on a monthly basis. earning monthly wages of below welfare, telecommunications, loan $1,500. The CPF monthly salary facility, transport and recreation. CPF contributions go into the Ordinary, ceiling remains at $5,000. Special and Medisave accounts. Valuing the knowledge, experience Savings in the Ordinary account can Staff Benefits and expertise of exemplary staff beyond be allocated for housing, approved Besides the mandatory CPF the retirement age of 62, Keppel Land investments, CPF insurance and contributions by both employer retains and extends their employment education purposes, while those in and employees, Keppel Land on contract basis annually, taking the Medisave account can be used offers all full-time employees a into account the employee’s health, for hospitalisation as well as approved comprehensive benefits package productivity and performance. Empowering Lives People Matter 99 Empowering Lives People Matter These employees enjoy the same employees and their supervisors vested at the end of the three-year benefits as full-time employees. In 2013, or managers jointly set measurable performance period. a total of nine employees in Singapore targets and develop an individual were above retirement age. action plan that details work plans, Both the 2012 RSP and 2010 PSP training activities, responsibilities grants have met the vesting criteria, Remuneration as well as career development plans. with a total of 318,900 RSP shares In Singapore, the ratio of basic salary and 312,100 PSP shares distributed to of male to female in the executive Enhancements have been made 88 and four recipients respectively category is 1.30, while the ratio for to the staff performance appraisal in March 2013. The vesting of the the non-executive category is 0.77. system where recommendations two incentives plans strengthens for promotions can now be made the linkage between reward and The ratio of entry level salary of male online. This is part of the Company’s long-term performance. to female in the executive category in ongoing efforts to automate work China and Vietnam are 1.03, and 0.97 processes and improve productivity. Leadership Development respectively. For non-executives, the Overseas employees can also (LEAD) Programme ratio in China is 1.09. There are no access the system via the intranet. The LEAD programme comprising male non-executives in Vietnam who An alert feature is in place to LEAD 1 for Emerging Leaders and are drawing an entry level salary. ensure timely completion of LEAD 2 for Operational Leaders, performance appraisals. aims to accelerate the development CAREER PLANNING of strong performing employees, AND RECOGNITION An integral part of the performance regardless of nationality. Performance appraisal is the employee’s Management System exemplification of the Group’s core LEAD 1 seeks to develop high potential Keppel Land has in place a values, which are passion, integrity, executives to become effective people structured staff appraisal and customer focus, people-centredness, managers, while LEAD 2 aims to groom performance management system safety, agility and innovativeness, promising people managers to which allows all staff to receive regular collective strength and accountability. become effective functional and performance feedback and career operational leaders. development reviews. Alignment with the core values is assessed based on observed A stringent selection process, which Following the launch of the behaviours in daily interactions includes psychometric testing, revised Keppel competency model with supervisor, peers, subordinates has been instituted to ensure rigour in 2012 to allow for greater as well as other stakeholders and objectivity in identifying suitable consistency across the business to achieve work goals. staff for the programme. units in areas such as succession planning and talent management, Keppel Land also has in place There are currently 38 employees a new Keppel Leadership Potential two share-based incentive plans who are groomed under LEAD 1, model was introduced in 2013. – the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) and another 47 under LEAD 2. They The new model complements and Performance Share Plan (PSP) include employees from the Group’s an existing assessment tool used – to strengthen the link between offices in Singapore, China, Vietnam, since 2011 and ensures that a reward and long-term performances. Indonesia, India and Thailand. consistent leadership potential assessment model is applied for The RSP, which is distributed equally Employees on the programme will all executives across the various over three years, is awarded to progress through a structured business units. employees who have achieved learning roadmap, including taking pre-determined targets at the end on stretched assignments, overseas Keppel Land fosters a performanceof a one-year performance period. postings and job rotations to help based reward culture. Compensation them develop core competencies includes a basic salary that The PSP is awarded to a selected that are aligned with the Company’s commensurates with skills and group of key senior management strategic thrusts. experience, along with an incentive staff. It encompasses greater bonus programme based on the stretched targets with emphasis In 2013, new components were performances of the individual on strategic goals that have introduced to the LEAD programme and the Company. direct impact on the Company’s to enhance the training and long-term growth. If the development of staff. These include Performance management is pre-determined targets are a five-day programme by NUS Business a participative process where achieved, the grants will be School to understand the alignment 100 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH 1 between human resource and General Managers and above was overall business strategy as well as introduced in 2013. The roadmap a customised workshop to equip staff includes a coaching component with people management skills. as well as structured courses and programmes. A total of six A leadership lunch talk series was Singapore and overseas-based also introduced to heighten awareness staff has been selected to on leadership-related issues. participate in the programme. A series of four talks to promote creative thinking, learning agility and Management Associate networking skills was held. Sharing Programme (MAP) sessions were also organised where The two-year MAP comprises job senior staff were invited to share their rotation opportunities, core training overseas posting experiences. and mentoring for fresh graduates. Successful candidates benefit from the The performance of each LEAD exposure, knowledge and networks participant is regularly reviewed by the necessary to embark on a fulfilling and Talent Review Committee. They are rewarding career with Keppel Land. also guided by a trained mentor who will coach, share experiences as well as Keppel Land received more than provide insights and perspectives 230 applications for the programme throughout the programme. in 2013. Two out of the 24 shortlisted candidates were admitted into the 1. The Company ensures that all employees have A leadership development programme after rigorous rounds equal opportunities in roadmap targeted at all Assistant of interviews. career development. Empowering Lives People Matter 101 Empowering Lives People Matter Localisation Strategy China (Shanghai and Beijing) was also included to foster greater Localisation is an important pillar are 25.1 and 15.9 respectively. staff interaction. in Keppel Land’s human resources The ratios of percentage increase strategy. The Company advocates compared to 2012 are 3.7a and Recognising the importance of meritocracy via its localisation -1.6b respectively. continuous training and development, strategy to fill positions in its overseas various training roadmaps and courses offices. This helps to attract, retain TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT are made available to employees. and develop local talent with technical To help staff realise their full Every staff is encouraged to attend at knowledge, keen business sense potential and contribute effectively least three learning programmes each as well as a good grasp of local to the organisation, new training year. The Human Resources (HR) socio-political and cultural and development initiatives were department works closely with sensitivities for key positions. introduced and existing programmes unit heads to recommend relevant enhanced in 2013. courses for their staff. Efforts are also In 2013, locals accounted for 62% of made to identify learning programmes all department head positions at its A Career Review Committee (CRC) for non-executive staff, including both overseas offices, an increase from 55% was formed to identify and groom soft and functional skills. in 2012. To facilitate staff deployment promising employees for future across cities, a uniform global grading leadership positions. Headed by the Course materials are also available structure has been established for CEO, the CRC focuses on specific on the learning resources centre employees based overseas. developmental interventions for on the intranet. high-potential employees based on The progress of localisation is the Company’s shortand long-term In Singapore, the average training reviewed by top management business need. places per employee rose to 7.9 bi-annually. The MAP has been in 2013 from 5.4 in 2012. Average established at Keppel Land China The Training Bond Policy was also training investment per employee to attract young talents from reputable refined in 2013 to better align the was $1,727. universities. An Employee Value Company’s practices with market Preposition branding exercise was norms and to strengthen the learning Employees at the executive level also launched to attract local talent culture within the organisation. clocked an average of 56.3 training in China. In addition, the Company hours in 2013, up from 44.6 hours reaches out to Vietnamese and At the same time, the New Hires the year before. Non-executive staff Indonesian students in Singapore Milestone Programme helps new attended an average of 30.9 training who are keen to work in their employees assimilate into the hours in 2013 compared to home countries upon completing organisation. It includes various 40.4 hours in 2012. their studies. workshops to familiarise them with the Group’s businesses, core values, In 2013, Keppel Land received about The ratio of the annual total functions of different departments, $2,600 from the Skills Development compensation for the highest the real estate industry as well as Fund (SDF). The SDF encourages paid individual to the median the Company’s performance companies to send its employees annual total compensation of management framework. A two-hour for training by providing financial all employees in Singapore and sail experience at Marina at Keppel Bay assistance on a cost-sharing basis. Training Expenditure Distribution (Singapore) % a Conference 9.7 There was a change in the CEO, who is the highest paid individual Industry-related and job based in Singapore in 2013. The specific external courses 35.5 increase is largely attributed Skills Training 39.3 to higher bonus in 2013 as the Company performed better in 2013 Leadership Courses 15.2 compared with 2012. The previous Language Courses 0.3 highest paid individual also did not receive RSP and PSP grants in 2012 Total 100.0 as he had resigned. b There was a change in the highest paid individual in China in 2013. 102 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Through KLink, an online bi-monthly staff newsletter, employees are kept 1 informed of the latest developments within the Company. It also features segments on the Company’s history as well as interviews with management and staff. Organisational Climate Survey Keppel Land conducted its fifth annual Organisational Climate Survey (OCS) for overseas employees (excluding China) in October 2013. Conducted in six languages across seven countries and 12 cities, more than 1,400 employees responded to the online survey. Participation rate rose to 95.2% in 2013, from 92.8% in 2012. The Group-wide survey enabled employees to provide feedback and suggestions on 14 key areas including safety, job recognition and feedback, total rewards, staff Overseas, the average training places Complementing these efforts, well-being, personal development per employee was 4.4 in 2013. the HR department, the opportunities as well as overall work Executive and non-executive staff Corporate Social Responsibility environment. These findings help attended an average of 29.0 and Committee and the Welfare the Company identify strengths and 14.3 training hours respectively. Committee work closely to foster opportunities for improvement an open and collaborative culture as well as review and refine policies EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT among employees. and programmes to reinforce its Staff Engagement Platforms position as an employer of choice. The CEO takes the lead in Various engagement platforms encouraging staff to adopt an are used throughout the year as The overall rating has improved over entrepreneurial mindset, to be part of Keppel Land’s continuous the past two years, with safety and open and agile in adapting to efforts to improve management-staff environment, attitude, motivation change as well as to innovate for communication and interaction. and morale as well as internal growth. At the half-yearly staff These include breakfast and communications ranking high among communication sessions held in afternoon tea sessions with all the categories. This is encouraging conjunction with Keppel Land’s the CEO. A total of nine breakfast as it reflects that employees are interim and full-year financial and 15 tea sessions was held responding positively towards the results, the CEO updates employees respectively in 2013. One of initiatives implemented over the years. on the Company’s performance the tea sessions were held at The survey results were shared and strategic direction. Invitation Marina Keppel Bay where staff with all employees through the to the session was extended had an opportunity to mingle department heads. beyond senior management to with other senior management. all executives in 2014. A webcast of the event is made available Other informal platforms include to all staff including overseas the quarterly Company-wide staff employees, via the intranet get-togethers during the Chinese after the event. New Year Lo-Hei and Mid-Autumn Festival celebrations, as well as 1. Keppel Land is committed to The CEO also shares his thoughts on the Mid-Week Chill-Out sessions nurturing a diverse pertinent topics such as collaboration to foster greater interaction and talent pool. and innovation in regular email rapport among staff from the broadcasts to employees. different business units. G4-26, G4-27 Empowering Lives People Matter 103 Empowering Lives People Matter Employee Engagement Survey The Keppel Core Values Keppel Land staff in Singapore and China also participated in the Keppel Group-wide Employee Engagement Survey (EES). This is the first year that staff from China migrated from the OCS to EES. Administered by a consultant, the EES benchmarks Keppel Land against industry norms. A total Passion Integrity Customer Focus People-Centredness of 430 Singapore-based staff “Can Do” Attitude Ethics, Honesty Value-added Solutions, Value and and 1,655 China-based staff and Excellence and Responsibility On-time and Nurture People Within Budget were invited to take part in the EES in October 2013. Of these, 412 and 1,606 staff in Singapore and China responded to the survey respectively, achieving an average participation rate of 96.8%. The Keppel Group-wide survey enabled employees to provide Safety Agility & Collective Accountability feedback and suggestions on Uphold High Innovativeness Strength Optimise Resources 18 areas including sustainable Safety Standards Adapt to Change and Global Mindset and and Being Responsible Innovate for Growth Achieve Shared Goals to Stakeholders engagement, working relationships and teamwork, safety, career development and training, innovation and communication. • Enhanced health • Learning roadmap and calendar screening benefits Training roadmap and calendar In Singapore, the Company’s overall Health screening packages were are aligned to employees’ scores are comparable to, and in enhanced for staff across all levels, competency models. This helps some areas, better than those of resulting in a more inclusive supervisors identify gaps in global property companies and other benefits package. skill sets and identify learning high-performing organisations. • Nursing room interventions for staff. There were improvements in A fully-equipped room was areas such as communication, built to meet the needs of Inculcating Core Values safety and innovation compared working mothers. To align employees with the Group’s to 2012’s results. • Increased clarity on pay eight core values, creative activities and rewards that expound these values were Responding to feedback Six briefing sessions were organised every quarter. Following the EES held in 2012, organised in September and five focus groups were conducted October to help staff better A Values-In-Action programme to gain a better understanding of understand the linkage between has also been included as one the survey results. The findings were job performance and rewards of the orientation events for new hires shared with the Innovation Culture as well as how bonuses and since 2012. The programme, which Taskforce and the Knowledge promotions are determined. aims to help staff understand Management team. A total of 48 staff Over 150 staff attended the values through experiential across different units participated the sessions. activities, has had a total of in the focus group discussions, • Learning resource centre 18 runs involving more than resulting in the introduction of Articles and videos relating 340 staff as at end-2013. the following initiatives: to key competency areas such as drive for results At the same time, the core values • Smart casual Fridays as well as championing portal sustains awareness and Staff can now dress down on innovation and change promotes the actualisation of Fridays, creating a more open are made available on the values in a fun and interactive and informal culture. the intranet. manner. It features behavioural 104 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH attributes, pledges by staff in A highlight of the ASC is the Work identifying employees’ areas of interest support of the values as well as of a Winner (WOW!) Awards, which so that the programmes organised are the Hall of Fame Awards to recognise encourages sharing of best work tailored to their needs. About 130 staff employees who exhibit exemplary practices and approaches that responded to the survey. behaviour in line with the core values. could be replicated for improved A total of 13 staff and four teams efficiency and effectiveness. A family talk was conducted during the received the Hall of Fame Award Teams vie for top awards by presenting ASC and saw a strong turnout of over at the annual Dinner and Dance case studies on innovative work 200 staff from Singapore and overseas. in 2013. practices, problem solving methods Six other events were also conducted in and people management skills. 2013 with a total participation of about Keppel Group also launched the Conducted in a fun and informal 260 staff and family members. Outstanding Keppelite Awards in manner, the annual WOW! Awards April 2013 to recognise exemplary have been well-received by staff. The Company is also been a keen work performances as well as the supporter of the annual Eat with exemplification of the core values PROMOTING WORK-LIFE BALANCE Your Family Day national campaign amongst staff. Seven Keppel Land Recognising that work-life balance held in May. Employees are staff received awards. promotes a motivated and dedicated encouraged to leave work earlier workforce, Keppel Land continues to dine with their families. Dialogue sessions were also held to drive initiatives that promote where management engaged family cohesiveness. At the same time, Keppel Land employees in small groups of constantly enhances its benefit about 10 staff each on the Group’s FamilyMatters @ Work provisions to meet the changing core values. Management shared Keppel Land supports FamilyMatters, needs of staff. In 2013, Keppel Land how the core values have served a national movement led by the signed on as a member of the as a moral compass, guiding the Ministry of Social and Family River Safari, extending the list of Company as it overcame challenges Development (MSF) in Singapore. recreational places that staff and capitalised on opportunities The initiative replaces the Family Life can enjoy with their families. during past decades. A total of Ambassador programme and seeks five sessions were conducted to bring Family Life Education (FLE) Embracing Pro-Family Policies for about 50 staff in 2013. to families, schools, the community The Singapore Government has and workplaces. enhanced the Marriage and Annual Staff Parenthood Package in support Conference (ASC) FamilyMatters @ Work equips of a pro-family environment. The The ASC was conducted over and empowers employees with enhancements, which came into a week in May 2013 and attended the skills and knowledge on effect in May 2013, include: by over 400 Singapore-based enhancing the quality of family life. staff and key executives from its The MSF also provides partial funding a. Extension of the maternity overseas operations. The plenary and helps organise talks and activities protection to cover the full sessions included non-executives that cater to different life stages as pregnancy period; in Singapore. a single, married couple and parent. b. Introduction of shared parental It also offers organisations counsel leave to allow fathers to The ASC facilitates strategic and support to sustain family-related utilise up to one week of the collaboration and exchange activities and programmes mother’s maternity leave; of best practices and new ideas throughout the year. c. Introduction of a one-week as well as cross-learning Government-paid paternity leave; opportunities and networking Keppel Land is committed to d. Extension of two days of childcare among staff. It also serves as fulfil 16 hours of FLE programmes leave for each parent of Singapore a key platform for management annually. In 2013, the Company citizenship for children between the to share the Group’s strategic secured a grant of $5,000 to cover ages of seven and 12 years; and direction and provide employees the cost of engaging a service e. Provision of four weeks of corporate updates on the various provider to conduct an assessment Government-paid adoption leave. business units. of employees’ needs as well as plan and implement programmes. In line with the Government’s Overseas staff also attended pro-family legislations and the customised training sessions for All Singapore-based staff were Child Development Co-Savings Act, programmes that are not readily invited to participate in the inaugural employees who have been with available in their home countries. FamilyMatters @ Work survey aimed at the Company for more than three Empowering Lives People Matter 105 Empowering Lives People Matter 1. Activities such as the ‘Bring Your Kid to Work Day’ in December 2013 encourage 1 parent-child bonding while allowing children to gain first-hand experience of their parents’ work environment. 2. The Welfare Committee organises regular activities to promote employee well-being, including yoga sessions. months are eligible for parental and the Company and the Government. To promote workplace health, regular childcare leave benefits. In 2013, Keppel Land was granted events are organised by the Staff a total amount of $35,091 for Welfare Committee, which comprises Female employees with Singapore 35 eligible employees under a total of 19 staff from various citizen births are entitled to 16 weeks the Government-paid childcare departments. To ensure that new ideas of government-paid maternity leave. leave scheme. are continuously generated, the In 2013, Keppel Land was granted chairmanship and membership of the a total amount of $74,052 for Employees with children who are Committee is rotated every year. six eligible female employees citizens aged between seven and In 2013, activities including hawker under the scheme. 12 years are entitled to two days of centre and supermarket tours as well as extended childcare leave annually. health-related talks and workshops Male employees with Singapore In 2013, Keppel Land was granted were organised. To help create a citizen births are entitled to a total amount of $4,121 for five supportive and positive environment, one week of government-paid eligible employees under the a three-week long “Feel G.R.E.A.T” paternity leave. In 2013, extended childcare leave scheme. Campaign was held with interesting Keppel Land was granted $1,906 activities such as “Give me a SMiLE” for one eligible male employee Employee Wellness contest as well as a bulletin board under the scheme. To ensure the well-being of its featuring articles, tips and a tree with employees, the Company constantly motivational quotes. Prior to the announcement reviews its medical benefits scheme. of the one-week paid paternity In addition, the Company renewed leave, Keppel Land had granted In 2013, the following enhancements its corporate membership at the one day of paternity leave to were made: Clark Hatch Fitness Centre for the its male employees. The Company 15th consecutive year. Well-utilised continues to extend the one-day a. Extension of health screening by staff, the gym is conveniently paternity leave benefit to its male packages to include a wider located at the InterContinental Hotel employees with non-Singapore citizen range of medical tests for Singapore, which is within the births. In 2013, two male employees non-executives; Bugis Junction development where enjoyed this benefit. b. Greater flexibility in terms of a Keppel Land’s headquarters is located. choice to do the health screening In addition, employees with children at either of the two major private Employees also participated who are Singapore citizens and clinic/hospital providers; and actively in the annual Keppel Games aged below seven years are entitled c. Additional tests were in sporting events such as badminton, to six days of paid childcare leave included to provide a more dragon boating, golf, track and field, per year, which is borne jointly by comprehensive coverage. table tennis and bowling. 106 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Such continuous efforts and interest All non-executive staff at the Singapore Group Critical Illness insurances in employee wellness have earned headquarters are covered under the for corporate office employees. Keppel Land the biennial Singapore collective agreement signed between H.E.A.L.T.H. Gold Award for two SISEU and the Company. To-date, The Company and the Union consecutive years in 2012 and 2010. a total of 19 employees are members completed the collective As an award recipient, the Company of the SISEU. agreement negotiation, with the receives grants from the Health collective agreement renewed from Promotion Board to organise Under the collective bargaining 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015. health-related programmes for agreement signed with the SISEU, its staff. This amounted to about the notice period for consultation Main revisions to the collective $11,650 in 2013. and negotiation between the agreement included enhanced Company and the Union shall be health screening packages with Awards for Best Practices no later than six months prior effect from 1 July 2013 as well as In February 2014, Keppel Land was to the expiry of the agreement. rationalisation of the annual leave a finalist for both the Best Reward & scheme for non-executive staff. Recognition Strategies and the SIM The Union will be advised before (Singapore Institute of Management) changes in the general conditions Besides forging closer relations Professional Development Award of employment such as rates of pay, with the Union, this agreement for Best Talent Management hours of work and other general terms reinforces the Company’s Practices at the Human Resource and conditions of employment, commitment to fair remuneration Management Awards. are put into effect. and employee retention. There were no grievances reported LABOUR RELATIONS In addition, the agreement also by employees in 2013. Keppel Land engages the Singapore covers medical benefits including Industrial and Services Employees’ annual coverage limit, extension Union (SISEU) in frequent dialogues of coverage to dependants and communications. as well as Group Term Life and 2 Empowering Lives People Matter 107 Nurturing Communities Community and Society Keppel Land is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen and seeks to contribute to as well as engage and nurture communities wherever it operates. 1 9,000 7,000 1. The three-year Water for Life (Yangon) project also aims to hours villagers educate villagers on basic hygiene habits such as brushing their teeth the proper way Keppel Land, together with Over 7,000 villagers will benefit with and to use clean water the Keppel Group, clocked better access to clean drinking water for rinsing. over 9,000 hours of community through the Keppel Land-supported service in Singapore in 2013. Water for Life (Yangon) project in Myanmar. 108 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Keppel Land strives to be a responsible overseas also engaged in various corporate citizen through contributing community projects. to and enriching lives of communities wherever it operates. Currently, about 40% of Keppel Land’s operations have implemented local The Company adopts a multi-faceted community engagement programmes. approach towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). It has stepped up WATER FOR LIFE its efforts in the key focus areas of In Myanmar, where Keppel Land owns environment and education, while and operates two hotels – Sedona continuing to support various Hotel Yangon and Sedona Hotel community programmes including Mandalay, an estimated 70% of the the arts, healthcare initiatives and population reside in rural areas with other charitable causes. limited access to clean water sources and basic health facilities. The CSR Committee assesses strategic partnerships and supports outreach In April 2013, Keppel Land partnered programmes based on a detailed set Singapore International Foundation (SIF), of criteria. These include alignment with non-profit organisation Mingalar the Company’s CSR focus, continuity Myanmar and Singapore Red Cross and scalability of the initiative, extent to launch the Water for Life (WFL) of stakeholder engagement as well as project in Yangon. the track record of the organisation. Other key guiding principles include The project aims to provide more reaching out to the local communities than 7,000 villagers in the cyclone-hit in countries where the Company townships of Kaw Hmu and operates, opportunities to involve and Kungyangon better access to leverage the skill-sets of its employees clean drinking water. as well as ensuring that the activities undertaken have long-term positive Keppel Land ‘s support over the impact on the communities. three years will see the installation of 24 tube wells and water storage Believing that charity goes beyond shelters in the two townships. monetary contributions, employees Community education programmes are given two days of volunteerism on basic hygiene and healthcare leave annually to participate in will also be conducted for villagers. community-related activities. This In addition, five rural health centres encourages them to take on social will be refurbished. Medical staff responsibilities that are aligned with at these facilities will also undergo the Group’s core values of passion, training on basic healthcare skills. people-centredness and collective strength, while playing an active As at end-2013, a total of eight tube role in the development of wells has been successfully installed the beneficiaries. and three hygiene workshops conducted, benefitting more than As part of Keppel Corporation’s 3,200 villagers in the Kaw Hmu 45 th Anniversary celebrations in and Kungyangon townships. Three 2013, the month of August was volunteer trips involving a total of designated as Keppel Community 14 Keppel staff, of whom four are Month. Keppel Group also pledged from Keppel Land, have been 5,000 hours of community service organised to-date. in Singapore in 2013. Keppel Land, together with the rest of the WFL Yangon marks the Company’s Keppel Group, surpassed this target second tie-up with SIF, following and achieved over 9,000 hours of the successful rollout of the community service for the year. Words on Wheels (WoW) mobile library Business units in Singapore and project in Hanoi, Vietnam, in 2011. Nurturing Communities Community and Society 109 Nurturing Communities Community and Society CHAMPIONING LITERACY Keppel Land is a supporter of the Following the positive response from Embracing the belief that kidsREAD programme, a nation-wide employees, Keppel Land held a knowledge is fundamental in collaboration by NLB, the People’s recruitment drive in February 2013, equipping communities with Association and five self-help groups. successfully rallying a new team of skills for a sustainable livelihood, The initiative aims to cultivate good volunteers to join in this meaningful Keppel Land reaches out to reading habits through volunteers outreach activity. underprivileged children in who read regularly to children Singapore and overseas through from low-income families. Keppel Land also sponsored NLB’s collaborations with strategic Book Exchange 2013 for the third partners on various reading Once a week, about 25 volunteers consecutive year. An annual event to initiatives and programmes. head to the PAP Community promote a reading culture in Singapore, Foundation (PCF) kindergarten the event encourages lifelong learning kidsREAD at Tanjong Pagar on a rotational while fostering a green mindset of In Singapore, the National Library basis to read and engage the children Reducing, Reusing and Recycling Board (NLB) oversees the library through educational games. To among the public. Under this initiative, and information service of a network enhance their mentoring skills, individuals will receive a coupon for of Public Libraries as well as libraries volunteers were coached in the every book they donate, and these in government agencies, schools basic techniques of storytelling by coupons can be exchanged for and institutions. a qualified NLB trainer. another book. 1 110 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH In April and May 2013, Keppel Land out to children across 10 villages, took the Book Exchange programme promoting literacy among those beyond the public libraries to 12 living in rural communities. of its residential and commercial developments to encourage Riding on two successful outreach stakeholder participation. Designated efforts in 2011 and 2012, Keppel Land collection points were set up within embarked on its third WoW volunteer the developments for the public, trip in November 2013. employees, tenants, customers and business associates to deposit their A group of 25 employees from used books. A total of about 4,000 Keppel Land’s headquarters in books were collected. Singapore together with local staff from its Vietnam office travelled to Employees also volunteered time Van Kim Elementary School in My Duc and effort to collect and organise District where they organised outdoor the books. Unused coupons were games, performances as well as art and also donated to the Metropolitan craft activities for about 400 students. YMCA Singapore, The Straits Times Employees also donated clothes and Pocket Money Fund and the PCF toys to the villagers and stationery gift kindergarten at Tanjong Pagar. sets to the school. My Library Through such efforts, volunteers In Malaysia, Tanah Sutera help to improve literacy and open Development collaborated windows to the world for young with NLB to build a library at minds by stoking their enthusiasm Sutera Mall, the retail component for life-long learning. of Keppel Land’s Taman Sutera integrated township in Johor Bahru. About 60% of Hanoi’s 6.5 million Spanning 35,000 sf, the library residents live in rural areas and have opened to public in November 2013. limited or no access to public libraries Named My Library, it is the first and the internet. Through WoW, about full-fledged community library 4,000 village children now have access to be housed within a shopping mall. to books, computers with internet It serves as a vibrant info-hub facilities as well as educational equipped with seminar rooms, games and toys. discussion and reading areas as well as a designated zone for In May 2014, Keppel Land together programmes and activities. with Tien Phuoc and Tan Truong, its joint venture partners for My Library houses a collection The Estella and Riviera Point of 55,000 books and 1,000 copies developments respectively, extended of audio and visual materials. the WoW project to Ho Chi Minh City It aims to cultivate good reading (HCMC). A four-year collaboration habits among residents in between Keppel Land, SIF and the Taman Sutera and surrounding General Sciences Library, WoW HCMC communities. is expected to reach out to about 3,000 children aged between 6 to 15 Words on Wheels years old in the suburban district Keppel Land, with the support of its of Binh Chanh. joint venture partners for International Centre and Sedona Suites Hanoi Scholarships and Internships developments, is the main sponsor The Company also provides of WoW in Hanoi. educational opportunities through scholarships. The Keppel Group 1. Keppel Land volunteers An initiative by SIF in partnership with Scholarship offers students with engage children living in rural communities during the Hanoi Public Library, WoW is a outstanding academic and co-curricular the WoW outreach mobile library project that reaches track records the opportunity to further programmes in Hanoi. Nurturing Communities Community and Society 111 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 1 their studies and embark on a career In 2013, the Company also charity, the Association for Persons with the Group thereafter. provided 15 internship positions with Special Needs (APSN). APSN runs to undergraduates from local five learning institutes in Singapore – Keppel Land is also an industry and overseas universities and two primary schools (Chaoyang sponsor of the Building and polytechnics, providing them with and Katong Special Schools), Construction Authority (BCA) invaluable experiences which can one intermediate school (Tanglin Built Environment Undergraduate be applied to their course work. Special School) for students aged Scholarship, which offers promising 13 to 16 years, one senior school young individuals a rewarding career KEPPEL VOLUNTEERS (APSN Delta Senior School) for in the real estate sector. There are Keppel Land also reaches out to those aged 16 to 18 years as well as currently four students in this the less privileged through Keppel the APSN Centre for Adults. programme, of which two were Volunteers, a Keppel Group-wide awarded the scholarship in 2013. volunteer movement. Since 2000, Throughout the year, staff participated Keppel volunteers has harnessed the in activities tailored to develop the The scholars are attached to different Group’s diverse resources, strengths social skills of APSN students to units during their school vacation to and talents in spearheading regular help them assimilate into society. give them a better understanding of the activities that positively impact local Other efforts include an excursion Company’s businesses and operations communities, social institutions and to the Singapore Zoo and home prior to joining the organisation. non-profit organisations. maintenance at the Moral Senior Activity Centre. Keppel Land To-date, 16 scholars have graduated Keppel Volunteers works closely with also raised funds for the APSN from this BCA programme and are beneficiaries in the areas of elderly care, beneficiaries through a bake sale currently working with Keppel Land. environment and Keppel’s adopted during the festive season. 112 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH At the same time, Keppel Volunteers first-aid skills and befriending the 1. Through Keppel Volunteers, Keppelites participate in runs regular activities to provide elderly were also organised. meaningful activities such care for various communities. The as engaging the elderly. Befriender programme caters to Volunteers also helped spread the 2. The Keppel Land-SCO the elderly and complements the festive joy to the underprivileged Outdoor Rhapsody series Home Maintenance programme through a range of activities including brings melodies played by which also benefits senior citizens. an arts fiesta, a walkathon, Christmas traditional Chinese musical instruments to the masses. celebrations and a donation drive in In June 2013, an outing to the support of the Singapore Health Jurong Bird Park was organised Sciences Authority’s national blood for residents of Thye Hua Kwan donation programme. Seniors Activity Centre in Ang Mo Kio. Volunteers also delivered food With its wide range of programmes, hampers to low income households Keppel Volunteers caters to the in Buangkok, Marsiling, Tampines varied interests of employees. and Yung Kuang during the month of Ramadan. PROMOTING THE ARTS As part of the Company’s efforts to To better equip staff, a series of bring cultural music to a broader workshops were held over August audience, Keppel Land donated and September 2013 to address $50,000 to the Singapore Chinese challenges faced by volunteers Orchestra (SCO) in support of the such as language barriers and how Keppel Land-SCO Outdoor Rhapsody to engage the elderly. Participants series. Four performances by the also learnt how to carry out chair-toSCO were held at the Singapore chair transfers and operation of Botanic Gardens from August 2013 wheelchairs. Participants who passed to April 2014. the competency assessment received certificates from Singapore’s President To promote Chinese performance Tony Tan Keng Yam. Other workshops arts and provide a platform for artistes on conversational Cantonese, standard to showcase their works to the 2 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 113 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 1 2 community, Keppel Land has been In Vietnam, Keppel Land sponsored supporting the River Hongbao and US$5,000 to the Saigon Philharmonic The Esplanade’s Huayi Chinese Orchestra in support of the local Festival of the Arts since 2005 classical music scene. and 2006 respectively. SUPPORTING COMMUNITY CAUSES The Company also supported the In March 2013, Keppel REIT, the listed Mid-Autumn Festival 2013 at Gardens fund management arm of Keppel Land, by the Bay. The 10-day event attracted also brought students from the over 600,000 visitors who enjoyed the MINDSville@Napiri home for the unique and colourful displays depicting intellectually disabled to the S.E.A mythical creatures and legendary Aquarium at Resorts World Sentosa. Chinese characters. The team also organised a carnival for the students in June. As part of the Keppel Group, Keppel Land supports the arts Alpha Investment Partners, through Keppel Nights. Through Keppel Land’s other fund management a new partnership with the Esplanade arm, has pledged its support – Theatres on the Bay, Keppel provides towards the Asian Women’s students from heartland schools in Welfare Association’s School as its Singapore with fully subsidised tickets adopted charity for 2013 and 2014. to shows presented by the Esplanade. The beneficiaries are low-income Launched in 2008, Keppel Nights was families with children aged 7 to a first-of-its-kind sustained ticket 18 years and with multiple disabilities subsidy programme to nurture an and autism. On Racial Harmony Day audience for the arts. in July 2013, staff volunteers engaged 114 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH the students through activities In addition, Marina at Keppel Bay such as baking pineapple tarts, continued to sponsor berthing fees of which encouraged the students to the 120-year old sailing vessel Vega interact and hone their social skills. during its stopovers in Singapore. The volunteer crew onboard Vega To mark Giving Tuesday on collects and delivers donations of 3 December, Keppel Land staff medical, educational and farming raised funds for the less fortunate supplies to some of Southeast Asia’s through the Community Chest’s poorest communities. In April 2013, SHARE programme. Giving Tuesday employees across the Keppel Group, is a global movement by the United residents of Caribbean and Reflections Nations Foundation to celebrate at Keppel Bay as well as boaters from and encourage charitable activities. Marina at Keppel Bay collaborated Singapore is the first country in Asia to support Vega’s charitable cause to support this international cause. through donation of items such as computers, books, stationary and Staff brought their children along musical instruments. for a sharing session by Keppel Land’s Director of Corporate Services, to Staff also put their best foot forward inculcate the spirit of giving in the in an inter-corporation bowling young ones. The Company also fundraising event organised by the matched dollar for dollar the total Singapore Disability Sports Council amount raised by its employees. held in March 2013. A total of Re-introduced in 2012 to $40,000 was raised, which went Keppel Land employees, the towards the provision of equipment, SHARE programme is a monthly therapy, nutrition, sports classes workplace donation programme as well as training for competitions that provides funding for over such as the Paralympics. 300,000 beneficiaries through 82 charities across Singapore. REACHING OUT TO OVERSEAS COMMUNITIES In December 2013, employees As its operations take it to the heart rallied to collect pre-loved items of communities in the region, from family and friends in a donation Keppel Land recognises the need to drive for the Salvation Army. Clothes, engage, understand and respond to toys and electronic items collected the needs of these local communities. went towards humanitarian aid efforts in disaster-stricken communities. Beyond philanthropic efforts, the Company seeks to empower As part of the annual Grant-A-Wish lives for sustainable change and initiative, Keppel Land’s property improvement, creating positive, management team invited staff and meaningful impacts on the overseas tenants at Bugis Junction Towers, communities in which it operates. Equity Plaza, Keppel Tower & GE Tower, Ocean Financial Centre Grooming Talents as well as Prudential Tower to In Myanmar, Sedona Hotel Mandalay help fulfil the Christmas wishes of organised a year-long hospitality beneficiaries from APSN and the training programme which benefitted Singapore Cancer Society. some 14 local youths in 2013. 1, 2. Marina at Keppel Bay rallied Keppelites, Keppel Partnering Metropolitan YMCA At Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Bay residents and boaters Singapore, Keppel Land employees (Spring City) in Kunming, China, to donate items such sponsored and distributed festive the Junior Academy Programme as computers, books and musical instruments to items such as roast chicken, provides middle-school students support Vega’s cause. love letters and mandarin oranges from neighbouring villages the The Vega crew collects and delivers donations to to 85 needy families during the opportunity to pick up golfing as some of Southeast Asia’s Lunar New Year. a career. Promising students are poorest communities Nurturing Communities Community and Society 115 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 1 2 selected and trained from young items and helped pack food items to provide them a chance as a for typhoon-hit areas at the potential professional golfer. PRC Relief Centre in Manila. Engaging Business In another drive held in Communities collaboration with the Red Cross As one of the first foreign developers in December 2013, Keppel Land in Vietnam, Keppel Land continues employees in Singapore to support initiatives that promote raised funds in aid of victims diplomacy as well as strengthen of Typhoon Haiyan. ties between Singapore and Vietnam. Community Engagement Keppel Land sponsored the To mark Children’s Day in Singapore Philatelic Museum’s June 2013, the team from travelling exhibition, housed at the Keppel Land China spent Vietnamese Women’s Museum in a day out with 22 children from Hanoi. Themed “Explore Singapore! the Xiangyu Autism Mutual Aid Colours of Heritage”, the six-month Association at Taifeng Park in exhibition offered a glimpse into Tianjin Binhai New Area. Singapore’s rich culture and heritage. Accompanied by their principal, It was supported by Singapore’s teachers and parents, the children Ministry of Culture, Community enjoyed kite-flying and a picnic and Youth as well as the Embassy in the park. Staff volunteers in Hanoi. also visited the Association during Christmas. Through such activities, Humanitarian Efforts Keppel Land China hopes to raise In support of survivors of the awareness and understanding of Typhoon Haiyan disaster, children with autism as well as Keppel Philippines Properties (KPP), provide additional platform for through the Keppel Group, donated their learning and development. close to three million pesos (about S$80,000) to the Philippine Spring City continued to support Red Cross (PRC) for the purchase voluntary doctors and nurses and distribution of relief goods. who provide free cataract Staff of KPP also donated relief operations to needy villagers 116 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH through Bless China International, In October 2013, Keppel Thai 1.. Mr Linson Lim, President (Vietnam) of a non-government organisation. Properties (KTP) initiated the Keppel Land, presented KTP Volunteers programme to books and stationery In Vietnam, volunteers from encourage employees to work to students of Vinh Son Primary School, Keppel Land engaged residents with non-profit organisations that which is located near of its adopted charities, Mother support the underprivileged. About its project, Riviera Point, La Vang Home and Phan Sinh 70 employees travelled to Baan in Ho Chi Minh City. Home, in the Dong Nai province. Sangsan Dek (Foundation of the 2. Staff from Keppel Land Since 2008, the local staff have Better Life of Children), a boys’ China’s Tianjin office brought smiles to supported these homes, which home located in Pathum Thani the children from the provide shelter for underprivileged Province, north of Bangkok, to bring Xiangyu Autism Mutual children, orphans and elderly with cheer to the 65 young residents. Aid Association. special needs. The foundation provides shelter 3. Staff of Keppel Thai and education for the neglected Properties bring cheer In Vietnam, employees collaborated and underprivileged children to the children at Baan Sangsan Dek with the main contractor for its aged between six and 18 years. boy’s home. They also residential project, Riviera Point, tended to the in-house vegetable plot for in HCMC to spruce up the Staff engaged the boys in games, the home. Vinh Son Primary School, which tended to the home’s vegetable plot, is located just two kilometers helped to build a shelter in the from the project in June 2013. premises as well as contributed This included repainting the walls, groceries, toys, stationery, installing lights, fans and electricity gardening equipment and clothes. fixtures as well as a general KTP also donated over Baht 17,000 clean-up of the place. Staff also and refurbished playground donated desktop computers and equipment for the home in fire extinguishers to the school. December 2013. 3 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 117 GRI G4 Content Index for ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Reference General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 3-5 127-130 decision-maker of the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 45 127-130 and opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization – 6 127-130 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services – 6 127-130 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6.2 6 127-130 G4-6 Number and names of countries where – Annual Report (AR) at 127-130 the organization operates www.keppelland.com pages 67-69 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form – AR (264) 127-130 G4-8 Markets served – AR (67-69) 127-130 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization – AR (2) 127-130 G4-10 Employees Profile – 97, 98-99 127-130 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered 6.3.10 107 127-130 by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain 6.4.1, 6.4.2 50, 87 127-130 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period – AR (24) 127-130 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or – 43-44 127-130 principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally-developed economic, environmental 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 13-15 127-130 and social charters, principles, or other 6.4.5, 6.8.5, initiatives to which the organization subscribes 7.8 or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations 6.4.5 13-14, 59 127-130 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included or not included in 7.3.2 1, AR (220-225) 127-130 organization’s financial statements G4-18 Process for defining report content 5.2, 7.3.2 1, 10 127-130 How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the 5.2, 7.3.2 11,12 127-130 process for defining report content G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the 7.3.3, 7.3.4 12 127-130 Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside 7.3.3, 7.3.4 12 127-130 the organization G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements – 60 127-130 of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting – 12, 60 periods in the scope and Aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged 5.3 8 127-130 by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 5.3 8 127-130 stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, 5.3 40, 56, 82-83, 92, 103 127-130 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through 5.3 40, 56, 82-83, 92, 103 127-130 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded 118 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Level of Reporting, External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Reference Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided – 1 127-130 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report – 1 127-130 G4-30 Reporting cycle – 1 127-130 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding 7.5.3 1 127-130 the report or its contents G4-32 Report on ‘In accordance’ option, GRI Content 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1, 118-124 127-130 Index, reference to External Assurance G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1 127-130 to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 6.2 33, AR (91, 95) 127-130 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, 6.2, 7.4.3 10, 33 127-130 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an 6.2, 7.4.3 10, 33-34, AR (95) 127-130 executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders 6.2, 7.4.3 40-41, AR (20-23) 127-130 and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 34, AR (91, 95) 127-130 body and its committees G4-39 Whether Chair of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 36, AR (93) 127-130 body is also an Executive Officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the highest 6.2, 7.4.3 36-37, AR (94-95) 127-130 governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 38, AR (104-105) 127-130 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executive’s 6.2, 7.4.3 34-36, AR (90, 95) 127-130 roles in the development, approval and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the 6.2, 7.4.3 9, 33, 86, 127-130 highest governance body’s collective knowledge AR (90, 96-97) of economic, environmental and social impacts G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 13, 34-36, 127-130 governance body’s own performance, AR (96, 98-101) particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the 6.2, 7.4.3 12, 34-36, 86, 127-130 identification and management of AR (93-106) economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks and opportunities. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities GRI G4 Content Index 119 GRI G4 Content Index for ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Reference G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (104-105) 127-130 the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (91-92) 127-130 body’s review of economic, environmental and social topics G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally 6.2, 7.4.3 59 127-130 reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (21-33, 91, 105) 127-130 to the highest governance body G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 38, AR (105-106) 127-130 that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (97-101) 127-130 body and senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (97-101) 127-130 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (99) 127-130 taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the 6.2, 7.4.3 102 127-130 organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid) individual in the same country G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total 6.2, 7.4.3 102 127-130 compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards 4.4, 6.6.3 38, AR (104) 127-130 and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking 4.4, 6.6.3 38, AR (104-105) 127-130 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting 4.4, 6.6.3 38, AR (104-105) 127-130 concerns about ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 120 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Page reference External ISO 26000 and/or Explanation Assurance Clauses for Omissions Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES – Material Aspects Category: Economic Economic Performance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 6.2, 6.8 27, 29-31 127-130 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 27 127-130 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 6.5.5 50-52, 65 127-130 opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change and other sustainability issues G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined 6.8.7 99-100 127-130 benefit plan obligations G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance – 102, 105, 106 127-130 received from government Market Presence G4-DMA DMA 6.2, 6.8 97 127-130 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 100 127-130 by gender compared to local minimum 6.8.1, 6.8.2 wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 102 127-130 from the local community at significant 6.8.5, 6.8.7 locations of operation Category: Environmental Materials G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 65 127-130 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight, value or volume 6.5.4 64-65 127-130 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that 6.5.4 64-65 127-130 are recycled input materials Energy G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 60-61 127-130 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 60-61 127-130 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation 6.5.4 60-61 127-130 CRE1 Building energy intensity 6.5.4 60-61 127-130 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 6.5.4 60-61 127-130 G4-EN6 Reduction of Energy Consumption 6.5.4, 6.5.5 50-52, 54, 73, 80 127-130 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements 6.5.4, 6.5.5 50-52, 54, 73, 80 127-130 of products and services Water G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 61-62 127-130 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 61-62 127-130 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected 6.5.4 61-62 127-130 by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of 6.5.4 Amount of water 127-130 water recycled and reused recycled mainly for irrigation use is insignificant. CRE2 Building water intensity – 62 127-130 GRI G4 Content Index 121 GRI G4 Content Index for ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive Page reference External ISO 26000 and/or Explanation Assurance Clauses for Omissions Reference Emissions G4-DMA DMA 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 (Scope 3) CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 new construction and redevelopment activity G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Intensity 6.5.5 63-64 127-130 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 50-52, 63 127-130 and reductions achieved G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 6.5.5 – Disclosure is not 127-130 substances by weight applicable as the Company does not have ozone-depleting substances. G4-EN21 NO, SO, and other significant emissions 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not 127-130 by type and weight applicable as the Company is not regulated by national laws, regulations or environmental permits to report significant air emissions for its operations. Effluents and Waste G4-DMA DMA 6.5.3 62 127-130 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3 62 127-130 – Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type 6.5.4 62-63 127-130 and disposal method – Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not 127-130 applicable as Keppel Land does not have significant spills. G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not 127-130 or treated waste deemed hazardous under applicable as the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, waste on-site are and VIII, and percentage of transported waste managed by the shipped internationally. main contractors and the Company does not transport, import, export or treat hazardous waste. 122 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Page reference External ISO 26000 and/or Explanation Assurance Clauses for Omissions Reference G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity 6.5.3, 6.5.4, – Disclosure is not 127-130 value of water bodies and related habitats 6.5.6 applicable as waste significantly affected by the reporting water is discharged organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. Products and services 127-130 G4-DMA DMA 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 50-52 127-130 6.7.5 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 50-52 127-130 impacts of products and services 6.5.5, 6.7.5 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 6.5.3, 6.5.4, – Disclosure is not 127-130 materials that are reclaimed by category. 6.7.5 applicable as input building materials including packaging are purchased directly by the main contractors. Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines 4.6 50 127-130 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA DMA 6.4, 6.3.10 97 127-130 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee 6.4.3 97 127-130 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 6.4.4, 6.8.7 99-100 127-130 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 6.4.4 106 127-130 parental leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA DMA 6.4 107 127-130 G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant 6.4.3, 6.4.5 107 127-130 operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA DMA 6.4 85 127-130 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in 6.4.6 87 127-130 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs GRI G4 Content Index 123 GRI G4 Content Index for ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive Page reference External ISO 26000 and/or Explanation Assurance Clauses for Omissions Reference G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 6.4.6, 6.8.8 94 127-130 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating 6.4, 6.4.6 90 127-130 in verified compliance with an internationally recognized health and safety management system G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk 6.8.8, 6.8.8 93 127-130 of diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal 6.4.6 107 127-130 agreements with trade unions Training and Education G4-DMA DMA 6.4 56, 93-94, 102 127-130 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 102 127-130 by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and 6.4.7, 6.8.5 56, 93-94, 102 127-130 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving 6.4.7 100 127-130 regular performance and career development reviews Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-DMA DMA 6.3 98 127-130 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 98 127-130 and corrective actions taken 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child Labour G4-DMA DMA 6.3 87 127-130 G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 87 127-130 having significant risk for incidents of child labour, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, and measures taken to contribute to the effective 6.3.10, abolition of child labour. 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Society Local Communities G4-DMA DMA 6.3 109 127-130 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 6.3.9, 6.5.1, 109 127-130 community engagement, impact assessments, 6.5.2, 6..3, 6.8 and development programmes. G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 109-111, 115-117 127-130 or actual negative and positive impacts 6.8 on local communities. CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily – – Disclosure is not 127-130 displaced and/or resettled by development, applicable as impacts broken down by project. on local communities in the countries that Keppel Land operates in are guided by the respective authorities’ land planning regulations. 124 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Page reference External ISO 26000 and/or Explanation Assurance Clauses for Omissions Reference Anti-Corruption G4-DMA DMA 6.6 38 127-130 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of business 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 38, AR (102-105) 127-130 units analyzed for risks related to corruption 6.6.3 and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 38 127-130 policies and procedures 6.6.3, 6.6.6 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 38 127-130 and actions taken 6.6.3 Compliance G4-DMA DMA 4.6 82 127-130 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total 4.6 50 127-130 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA DMA 6.7 85 127-130 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 90 127-130 categories for which health and safety impacts 6.7.4, 6.7.5, are assessed for improvement 6.8.8 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 4.6, 6.7.1, 50 127-130 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 6.7.2, 6.7.4, health and safety impacts of products and services 6.7.5, 6.8.8 during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Marketing and Communications G4-DMA DMA 6.7 77, 82 127-130 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products – – Disclosure is not 127-130 applicable as the Company does not sell banned or disputed products. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2 82 127-130 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Compliance G4-DMA DMA 6.7 82 127-130 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for 4.6, 6.7.1, 82 127-130 non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.7.2, 6.7.6 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report GRI G4 Content Index 125 United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Principles Report Page HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 13, 16, 87, 98 of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 13, 16, 87, 98 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 13, 87, 107 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 13, 16, 87 Principle 5 Effective abolition of child labour 13, 16, 87 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 13, 98 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 50-52, 70-71 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 54-55, 65-66 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 50-52, 72-73, 80-81 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 38 including extortion and bribery 126 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Independent Assurance Statement To the Management and Stakeholders related to sustainability or already 2. Carry out interviews with key of Keppel Land Limited supported by existing verified functional managers and data documents, such as Keppel Land’s owners (30 in this engagement) Ere-S Pte Ltd (Ere-S) has been previous sustainability reports or at Keppel Land’s corporate office commissioned by Keppel Land Limited third-party audits and certifications. in Singapore. Data verification (Keppel Land) to carry out an included the following: independent assurance engagement Ere-S did not verify the information on Keppel Land’s Sustainability from Keppel Land Annual Report • Enquiring about the quantitative Report 2013 (the Report), which referenced in the GRI Content Index and qualitative aspects of covers the reporting period but cross-checked that the referenced the Report disclosures, January 2013 to December 2013. pages of the Annual Report contain including performance the appropriate information. information, policies, Scope and type of assurance procedures and underlying The assurance encompassed Responsibility and management systems. the entire Report and focussed independence on all figures, statements and This statement represents Ere-S’ • Requesting evidence of claims related to sustainability. independent opinion. The the data sources and The assurance engagement was management of Keppel Land explanation of relevant executed in accordance with has been responsible for the collection and calculation a Type 2 assurance of the preparation of the Report and methods to substantiate AA1000 Assurance Standard all statements and figures contained the figures and claims. (AA1000AS 2008), which within it. Ere-S’ responsibility has been consists of: to execute the assurance engagement, • Sampling quantitative express conclusions in relation to data originating from • Evaluating the company’s the agreed scope and prepare the multiple sources. sustainability framework and assurance report and this assurance processes using the inclusivity, statement for the management of • Challenging the claims made materiality and responsiveness Keppel Land alone and for no other in the Report and, where criteria of the AA1000 purpose. Ere-S has not been involved possible, confirming the AccountAbility Principles in the development of the Report presented evidence, including (AA1000APS 2008). or the disclosed management calculation methods, criteria processes; neither has Ere-S been and assumptions, with multiple • Evaluating the quality of engaged by Keppel Land for data owners and other the reported sustainability other projects. Ere-S’ activities documentation from internal performance information. are independent of Keppel Land and external sources. and contain no financial interest For assessing the quality of the in Keppel Land’s business operation. • Crosschecking data with disclosures, Ere-S used the GRI G4 Ere-S is not responsible for any previous Keppel Land Reporting Principles: reliability, actions taken by other parties sustainability reports and accuracy, balance, comparability, as a result of the findings presented Keppel Land’s latest timeliness, clarity, sustainability in this assurance statement. published financial results. context and completeness. Assurance methodology 3. Assess the collected information Level of assurance Ere-S assurance procedures and and provide recommendations and limitations principles are drawn from the for immediate correction where A moderate level of assurance International Standard on Assurance required or for future improvement under AA1000AS was provided Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and Ere-S’s of the Report content. for this engagement. A moderate own methodology, which consists assurance is limited to desktop review of the following steps: and management-level evidence gathering and data verification. 1. Identify statements and data sets (over 300 in this engagement), The scope of work did not include which are classified according to financial data, technical descriptions the relevant data owners and the of equipment, buildings and production type of evidence required for the processes or other information not verification process. Independent Assurance Statement 127 Independent Assurance Statement Findings and observations Evaluation of the adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Inclusivity – How the organisation engages with stakeholders and enables their participation in identifying issues and finding solutions. Engagement platforms, such as surveys, group meetings, conferences and other varied feedback channels, are observed for all key stakeholder groups of Keppel Land, especially employees, customers and shareholders. The materiality questionnaire sent to key stakeholder representatives and the new Tenant Committee represent significant examples of how Keppel Land has actively engaged with internal and external groups in 2013. Other new engagement processes carried out during the year include sessions on innovation and knowledge management involving heads of units and staff. Cases of similar formal engagement with stakeholders from overseas business units have not been widely observed. Materiality – How the organisation recognises issues that are relevant and significant to it and its stakeholders. Evidence of Keppel Land’s effort to acknowledge and prioritise key issues affecting its business and stakeholders has been found, including regular Board level review of corporate governance, safety and environment issues. Other significant initiatives carried out during the year to identify key issues include the materiality assessment and the new global System of Management Control Framework. The assurance observations show that material aspects, KPIs (key performance indicators) and targets defined by the corporate office cover all reported boundaries of Keppel Land. However, materiality assessment and reporting is less defined for overseas business units than it is for Singapore. Responsiveness – How the organisation responds to stakeholder issues and feedback through decisions, actions, performance and communication. Evidence of Keppel Land’s responses to the concerns of stakeholder groups has been found. Examples include actions taken to mitigate noise from construction sites, gap analysis offered to tenants on green office accreditations and new training to better prepare staff for community engagement programmes. The implementation of policies in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act also represents a major step in responding to issues that are particularly critical to stakeholders. It is recommended that similar policies be be adopted overseas. Overall, significant cases of action being taken as a result of direct collaboration with stakeholders have not been observed. 128 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH Keppel Land’s on-going and solid programmes to inform and educate all employees and contractors on environmental and safety issues are to be commended. In 2013, improvements in communication channels included the new safety-training centre in Malaysia, additional talks by experts on the topic of human rights in the supply chain, and the integration of Keppel Land’s Environmental Design Guidelines into briefs for consultants. Improvement in the overall quality of Keppel Land’s communication and response processes related to sustainability through the adoption of the new QEHS policy based on ISO 9001 is also expected in the near future. Evaluation of the performance information and adherence to the GRI G4 Reporting Principles A good overall level of accuracy and reliability of Report content has been observed. Data compilation from sources and calculation methods appeared to be solid and traceable, despite some isolated and minor inaccuracies that were immediately corrected by the relevant data owners. The level of precision and completeness of the Report has increased with the adoption of GRI G4 to an ‘In accordance’ – comprehensive level, the inclusion of new non-GRI indicators (e.g. energy, carbon, water and waste productivity), additional performance data from overseas units and more detailed charts and data sets. The Report content is found to be reasonably clear, and inclusion of historical data for multiple quantitative indicators allows for comparison with past performance and other sustainability reports in the industry. Key aspects that are material to the sustainability context of Keppel Land in Singapore and in other major markets are covered by the performance data and management approaches disclosed in the Report. Although improvements have been made since the publication of previous reports, distinction of the policies and initiatives that are only applicable to employees of the corporate office could still be made clearer in the People Review section of the Report. Content would also be improved with more disclosure of sustainability initiatives and performance from the subsidiaries in Keppel Land’s key markets. Conclusion On the basis of a moderate assurance engagement according to the above-listed criteria, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that, in all material respects, Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2013 − provides a credible and fair representation of the organisation’s sustainability profile and a reasonable application of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. − includes statements and figures that achieve an adequate level of reliability and accuracy. The assurance findings also provide confidence that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Reporting Principles. Independent Assurance Statement 129 Independent Assurance Statement Moving forward • Ere-S recommends that Keppel Land continues to gradually increase the focus of the Report to the sustainability data from overseas operations, particularly in China. This will reflect the significant increase of activity in Keppel Land’s key overseas markets. Global performance measurement and control by the corporate office is already strong for environmental, health and safety matters and we would expect to see further progress towards similar and inclusive measurement and reporting structure in the social and economic aspects. For this, additional reporting requirements specific to each location and market may need to be defined. • While we commend the integration of a human rights clause in all specification documents for contractors, as well as the talks and training programmes held during the last two years for staff and contractors, Keppel Land could strengthen its efforts to inculcate human rights values within its global supply chain beyond safety, child labour and forced labour. To define the relevant material issues pertaining to each market, engagement with specific local stakeholder groups such as unions, worker associations and governments may be necessary. • Future Reports will also benefit from more cases studies to illustrate the formal participation of stakeholder representatives in decision-making processes and, ideally, in the implementation of the corresponding solutions. In this respect, the recent materiality assessment carried out at the corporate office could be replicated at key subsidiaries with the participation of stakeholders. This will provide stronger assessment of global and local sustainability priorities and, in turn, facilitate the development of country-specific reporting frameworks where necessary. The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been presented to the management of Keppel Land in a more detailed assurance report. Singapore, 27 May 2014 Jean-Pierre Dalla Palma Director and Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner Ere-S Pte Ltd is a consulting company specialising in business sustainability and provides services in the domains of sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, stakeholder engagement and CSR training. Our assurance team is composed of assurance practitioners with expertise in CSR and each member is required to follow Ere-S’ assurance code of conduct, which can be found at http://www.ere-s.com/assurance-code-of-conduct/. 130 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONFIGURED FOR GROWTH International Network SINGAPORE Nantong Zhongshan Keppel Lakefront (Nantong) Sunsea Yacht Club Keppel Land Limited Property Development Co. Ltd. (Zhongshan) Co. Ltd. 230 Victoria Street 10 Shanghai Road 1203 12th Floor Tower 2, The Summit #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers NETDA 88 Zhongshan Fourth Road Singapore 188024 Jiangsu Province, China 226010 East District, Zhongshan Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Tel: (86) 513 8919 9798 Guangdong Province, China 528403 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 Fax: (86) 513 8919 0788 Tel: (86) 760 8892 6108 Fax: (86) 760 8892 6178 Shanghai Keppel Land China Limited CHINA (Head Office) 39th Floor Wheelock Square INDIA Beijing 1717 Nanjing West Road Beijing Kingsley Property Bangalore Shanghai, China 200040 Development Co. Ltd. Keppel Puravankara Tel: (86) 21 6171 2121 Unit 706 Development Pvt Ltd Fax: (86) 21 6171 2122 China World Office 2 No. 39, 8th Main, 1’A’ Cross No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Vasanthnagar Keppel Land (Shanghai) Chaoyang District Bangalore 560052, India Management Co. Ltd. Beijing, China 100004 Tel: (91) 08 4150 5000 No. 1601 Nanjing West Road Tel: (86) 10 6505 0866 Fax: (91) 08 4150 5008 Room 3601 Park Place Fax: (86) 10 6505 0865 Shanghai, China 200040 Kolkata Tel: (86) 21 6288 3066 Beijing Aether Property Keppel Magus Fax: (86) 21 6288 2799 Development Co. Ltd. Development Pvt Ltd Block A, Room 701, Hanwei Plaza C-304 City Centre, Salt Lake Alpha Investment Partners No. 7 Guanghua Road Kolkata 700064, India China Limited Chaoyang District Tel: (91) 33 4006 3330 Room 1907 Shui On Plaza Beijing, China 100004 Fax: (91) 33 4006 3292 333 Middle Huai Hai Road Tel: (86) 10 6561 8822 Shanghai 200021 P.R.C. Fax: (86) 10 6561 3322 Tel: (86) 21 6333 9696 Fax: (86) 21 6333 7338 INDONESIA Chengdu Chengdu Hillwest Shenyang Batam Development Co. Ltd. Keppel Township Development PT Nongsa Point Marina Unit 903 New Hope Tower (Shenyang) Co. Ltd. Jl. Hang Lekiu 45 Ren Min Nan Lu Section 4 No. 26 Puxin Road Nongsa, Batam 29432 Chengdu Shenbei New District Batam, Indonesia Sichuan Province, China 610041 Shenyang Tel: (62) 778 761 333 Tel: (86) 28 8702 6688 Liaoning Province, China 110135 Fax: (62) 778 761 330 Fax: (86) 28 8701 5599 Tel: (86) 24 8972 7567 Fax: (86) 24 8972 7466 Bintan Jiangyin PT Ria Bintan Jiangyin Evergro Property Tianjin Jl. Perigi Raja A-11 Co. Ltd. Keppel Hong Da (Tianjin Eco-City) Lagoi North Bintan No. 7 Clubhouse, Stamford City Property Development Co Ltd Kepulauan Riau Bintan Resorts Wenhua Lu (Opposite Jiangyin Keppel Seasons Park Sales Gallery Indonesia 29152 Tianhua Cultural Centre) He Chang Road Tel: (62) 770 692 868 Jiangyin Tianjin Eco-City Fax: (62) 770 692 837 Jiangsu Province, China 214431 Tianjin, China 300480 Tel: (86) 510 8683 9999 Tel: (86) 22 6633 1088 Jakarta Fax: (86) 510 8641 0780 PT Keppel Land Wuxi PT Kepland Investama Jiangyin Yangtze International CityOne Development PT Harapan Global Niaga Country Club (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. International Financial Centre No. 1 Longtao Road South of Gaolang Road & 17th Floor Jiangyin East of Nanhu Avenue Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 22-23 Jiangsu Province, China 214431 Central Park City Sales Gallery Jakarta 12920, Indonesia Tel: (86) 510 8685 5333 Wuxi Tel: (62) 21 571 2238 Fax: (86) 510 8685 8060 Jiangsu Province, China 214131 Fax: (62) 21 571 1813 Tel: (86) 510 8283 2208 Kunming Fax: (86) 510 8283 2213 Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Tangchi, Yiliang, Kunming Yunnan Province, China 652103 Tel: (86) 871 6767 1188 Fax: (86) 871 6767 1186 International Network 131 International Network Surabaya THE PHILIPPINES VIETNAM PT Sentral Tunjungan Perkasa Jl. Kenari 3A Ortigas, Manila Hanoi Surabaya 60275, Indonesia Keppel Philippines Keppel Land Vietnam Tel: (62) 31 532 7262 Properties, Inc. Company Ltd Fax: (62) 31 531 4957 Units 2203-2204 (Hanoi Branch Office) Raffles Corporate Center Building Unit 04-05, 5th Floor PT Sentral Supel Perkasa F Ortigas Jr. Avenue International Centre Jl. Bubutan 1-7, P8 Floor Ortigas Center 17 Ngo Quyen Street, Surabaya 60174, Indonesia Pasig City 1605 Hoan Kiem District Tel: (62) 31 547 2333 Tel: (63) 2 584 6170/71 Hanoi, Vietnam Fax: (62) 31 545 0001 Fax: (63) 2 584 3915 Tel: (84) 4 3936 7745 Fax: (84) 4 3936 7680 JAPAN SOUTH KOREA Quang Ba Royal Park JV Co. 96 To Ngoc Van Street Tokyo Tay Ho District Seoul Alpha Investment Partners Hanoi, Vietnam Alpha Investment Partners Japan Limited Tel: (84) 4 3823 8995/8993 Korea Private Limited Fukoku Seimei Building 21F Fax: (84) 4 3823 9046 Unit 3608 Trade Tower 2-2-2 Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku 159-1, Samsung-Dong, Gangnam-Gu Tokyo 100-0011, Japan International Centre Seoul 135-729, Korea Tel: (81) 3 5510 7551 Unit 04, 7th Floor, International Centre Tel: (82) 2 551 3387 Fax: (81) 3 5510 7552 17 Ngo Quyen, Hoan Kiem District Fax: (82) 2 551 3380 Hanoi, Vietnam Tel: (84) 4 3824 1125/6/7 Fax: (84) 4 3824 1124 MALAYSIA SRI LANKA Sedona Suites Hanoi Johor Bahru Colombo 96 To Ngoc Van Street, Quang Ba Tanah Sutera Development Keppel CT Developments PVT Ltd Tay Ho District Sdn Bhd Level 34, East Tower Hanoi, Vietnam No. 2 Jalan Sutera Merah 2 World Trade Centre, Echelon Square Tel: (84) 4 3718 0888 Taman Sutera Colombo 1, Sri Lanka Fax: (84) 4 3718 0666 Johor Bahru 81200, Malaysia Tel: (94) 11 7468 500 Tel: (60) 7 289 9009 Fax: (94) 11 7468 502 Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) Fax: (60) 7 289 9119 Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd TAIWAN (Head Office) MYANMAR Unit 2, 8th Floor, Saigon Centre Taipei 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 Mandalay Alpha Investment Partners HCMC, Vietnam Sedona Hotel Mandalay Taiwan Limited Tel: (84) 8 3821 8000 No. 1 Junction of 26th & 66th Street Room G 10 Floor Fax: (84) 8 3821 3540 Chan Aye Tharzan Township No. 1, Songzhi Road, Xinyi District Mandalay, Myanmar Taipei 11047, Taiwan Keppel Land Watco Co. Ltd Tel: (95) 2 36 488 Tel: (886) 2 7737 8558 4th Floor, Saigon Centre Fax: (95) 2 36 499 Fax: (886) 2 7737 8559 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 HCMC, Vietnam Yangon Tel: (84) 8 3823 2500 Sedona Hotel Yangon Fax: (84) 8 3822 9822 No. 1 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road THAILAND Yankin Township Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City Yangon, Myanmar Bangkok 7th Floor, Saigon Centre Tel: (95) 1 666 900 Keppel Thai Properties Public 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 Fax: (95) 1 666 911 Co. Limited HCMC, Vietnam 30th Floor Jewellery Centre Building Tel: (84) 8 3822 9666 138/108 Nares Road, Sipraya, Bangrak Fax: (84) 8 3822 9229 Bangkok 10500, Thailand Tel: (66) 2 237 1999 Fax: (66) 2 237 2666 132 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2013 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 230 Victoria Street #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers Singapore 188024 Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 www.keppelland.com Co Reg No: 189000001G
