United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund 2013 Gothenburg 3 June 2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Dear stakeholder, I am pleased to confirm that Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Karl Swartling Chief Executive Officer Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund www.apfond6.se P.O. Box 11395 I Ostra Hamngatan 18 I SE-404 28 Gothenburg, Sweden I Telephone +46 31 741 10 00 I orgnr 855104-0721 I info@apfond6.se General information Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP6) is a pension fund with the mission to invest in unlisted companies i.e. companies that are not quoted on the stock market. Investments are made directly in companies and indirectly through funds and the total asset under management amounted to SEK 22.1 billion on 31 December 2013. The number of employees were 33. AP6 has a major focus on responsible investments in its operation. AP6 is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). AP6 also issued a Sustainability report for 2013 for its operation that complies with the framework for the Global Reporting Initiative. Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Respect and protection of human rights is a self-evident part for AP6 in its operation, being a signatory of PRI and Global Compact where the guidelines are aligned with and based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Combined with AP6’s Code of Conduct, which deals with human rights, these three documents build the basis for the requirements within AP6 and what AP6 imposes on its business partners and investments. Implementation AP6 respects and protects human rights in the daily operation. During 2013 AP6 implemented a Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct states that AP6 supports the protection of internationally recognized human rights and proactively ensure that the companies and funds in which AP6 invest in do not participate in breaches of human rights. Measurements of outcome All the employees within AP6 have signed the Code of Conduct. AP6 has not received any complaint from employees, business partners or any other external parties in relation to potential human right violations. AP6 has not been involved in any human right incidences during the reporting period. Furthermore the fund is also active in promoting human rights indirectly within the business of the companies and funds AP6 have invested in and encourage them to support Global Compact and PRI. Labour Standard Assessment, Policy and Goals AP6’s Code of Conduct covers all required labour rights, including non discrimination and equal opportunities. Areas such as work environment and fair working conditions, forces and child labor, salary, benefits, working hours and freedom of association are as well included. Implementation The Code of Conduct is in line with the Global Compact principles. As an example, specific attention is put on the issue of a balanced gender equality in its organization, on the boards and among the senior executives of companies in which AP6 invests. It is also very important for AP6 that similar terms and conditions apply to men and women with the same competence, experience and the same job description. There are several goals in this area that will be implemented during 2014, such as follow-up diversity, equality on the boards and also the number of training hours per employee. AP6 has been involved Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund www.apfond6.se P.O. Box 11395 I Ostra Hamngatan 18 I SE-404 28 Gothenburg, Sweden I Telephone +46 31 741 10 00 I orgnr 855104-0721 I info@apfond6.se in the organization “Mitt Liv” (My Life) which works in assisting academically trained non Swedes to enter the Swedish labour market (www.mittliv.com). Measurements of outcome AP6 has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to potential labour rights violation, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences during the reporting period. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Being mostly office based, the nature of the operations makes AP6 direct environmental impact relatively small. Travel is the environmental impact that AP6’s employees have the most potential to affect. Implementation AP6 has set up a goal to reduce the number of flights in relation to travel by train. AP6 has invested in a video conferencing system in order to reduce the total number of journeys. Measurements of outcome Year 2013 will comprise the basis for measurements and comparison in the period ahead. The goal for AP6 is to increase the number of train journeys in relation to flights by 10 %. We have already noted an increase during 2013 compared to 2012. Regarding the video conferencing system the goal is to raise the use by 10 % annually where 2013 is the starting year. The outcome as a whole for 2013 was that the system was used approximately 1.5 hours per working day. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals AP6 is stately owned and accountable by the Ministry of Finance which has issued guidelines indicating the limits for bribes and conflict of interests. The provisions have been presented to and explained for all employees. AP6 has taken the approach even further meaning that an employee or representative should not even be suspected of being influenced by inappropriate actions or considerations in their work. AP6 emphasizes the importance of personal responsibility and the ability to make ethical choices. Implementation AP6 has adopted its own guidelines which entail zero tolerance for gifts. Regarding invitations to individual employees, the invitation must have a clear and relevant professional connection. Measurements of outcome AP6 has an internal ethical committee and also a whistle blowing system where any potential corruption cases are reported or captured. An external audit is also performed annually. No such incidents have been reported in the period neither in the internal bodies nor by the external audit. Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund www.apfond6.se P.O. Box 11395 I Ostra Hamngatan 18 I SE-404 28 Gothenburg, Sweden I Telephone +46 31 741 10 00 I orgnr 855104-0721 I info@apfond6.se
