Win the Future Grupa LOTOS S.A. Integrated Annual Report 2012 PDF version Win the Future Grupa LOTOS S.A. Integrated Annual Report 2012 PDF version Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future The Organization and the Report -2Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Letter from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dear All, Grupa LOTOS deserves high marks for its performance in 2013. Despite the precarious economic climate and challenging market conditions, the Company was able to generate operating profit and effectively deleverage its business. Even more importantly, it was successful in the consistent pursuit of its strategy to build Grupa LOTOS' value and improve Poland's energy security. Together with Grupa Azoty, the Company also made the first step towards embarking on a major petrochemical project. Particularly worthy of note is the consistency with which Grupa LOTOS delivered on its strategic objectives – it was steadily increasing its own crude oil production, maintained robust competitiveness of its refining business by steadily improving the refinery's efficiency, enhanced its market position − on the market of both motor fuel (an 8.5% share in retail sales) and aviation fuel − and was gradually reducing its debt (now at 62% of equity). Grupa LOTOS boasts the sixth highest sales revenue in Central Europe, and fifth highest in Poland. The growing value of the LOTOS brand, driven both by business efforts and the long-term corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy, is also to be appreciated. This responsible and transparent approach of Grupa LOTOS towards various stakeholder groups is cited as a paragon of modern business practices. The 2013– 2015 Effective and Rising Programme, which opens new growth prospects for Grupa LOTOS in the medium and long term, is yet another example of the Board's ability to explore and successfully implement original and innovative solutions, improving the overall operating efficiency of both the Company and the LOTOS Group. The programme focuses on key investment projects and on restructuring the LOTOS Group in those areas where this would make business sense. By successfully delivering on both these objectives, Grupa LOTOS has been able to improve its efficiency and competitiveness. Essential to securing the Company's future growth is stable employment and a high level of professional competence and experience of its Board Members andthe 3management staff of its subsidiaries. This creates 2015 Effective and Rising Programme, which opens new growth prospects for Grupa LOTOS in the medium and long term, is yet another example of the Board's ability to explore and successfully implement original and innovative solutions, improving the overall operating efficiency of both the Company and the LOTOS Integrated Annual Group. The programme Report focuses Grupa LOTOS projects key -investment on2013 S.A. Win in the and on restructuring the LOTOS Group Future those areas where this would make business sense. By successfully delivering on both these objectives, Grupa LOTOS has been able to improve its efficiency and competitiveness. Essential to securing the Company's future growth is stable employment and a high level of professional competence and experience of its Board Members and the management staff of its subsidiaries. This creates a positive work atmosphere across all levels – from managers to lower-tier staff. Grupa LOTOS employees are visibly proud to work for the Company and deeply committed to its further growth. This combination of the rational and the emotional in corporate management is a rare and extremely valuable asset. Given the consistently implemented strategy, highly professional management staff and dedication of employees, I am convinced that the future of Grupa LOTOS will bring further dynamic growth of its value and market shares. Grupa LOTOS will remain a robust and reliable presence in Poland's economy, a driver of its modern and sustainable growth. Yours faithfully, Wiesław Skwarko Chairman of the Supervisory Board Grupa LOTOS -4Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Letter from the President of the Board Dear All, It is with great pleasure and immense satisfaction that I hereby present to you the financial statements of Grupa LOTOS for 2013. This document clearly shows that Grupa LOTOS is a modern, vertically integrated corporation with a sound financial standing and firm market position, which by consistently pursuing its strategy can grow strongly even under the most adverse conditions while respecting the principles of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility.. Last year's macroeconomic landscape, both in Poland and globally, was unusually complex. While taking its toll on the economy at large, the long-running crisis affected customer and consumer purchasing decisions, including those related to liquid fuels. It was a difficult period for the market, with strong downward pressures on prices on the one hand, and dwindling margins on the other. In such an environment, only the best managed companies have a chance for growth. I am happy to say that Grupa LOTOS has proved to be one of them. In 2013, it delivered a robust performance, providing a very good foundation for 2014. Our motto is ‘Open to the future’, to which I can also add ‘We can build that future’. Grupa LOTOS stands on a solid financial footing and manages its liquidity in an efficient manner. In 2013, we repaid another portion of the debt incurred to finance the 10+ Programme and meet other needs, bringing down our net debt position by PLN 580m year on year. At the same time, we generated just under PLN 28.6bn in revenue, with operating profit coming in at PLN 146m and net profit at approximately PLN 40m. Last year 5 was a tough one for the global oil industry, with motto is ‘Open to the future’, to which I can also add ‘We can build that future’. stands on Grupa LOTOSIntegrated a solid Annual financial Report footing 2013 Grupa andS.A. LOTOS In 2013, manages its liquidity in an efficient manner.Win we the Future repaid another portion of the debt incurred to finance the 10+ Programme and meet other needs, bringing down our net debt position by PLN 580m year on year. At the same time, we generated just under PLN 28.6bn in revenue, with operating profit coming in at PLN 146m and net profit at approximately PLN 40m. Last year was a tough one for the global oil industry, with fierce competition on liquid fuel markets, and crude prices flat, but still high, ranging between USD 100 and USD 110 per barrel. The availability of cheaper commodities in the US had an adverse effect on exports, especially exports of gasoline to North America, which weighed on the performance of many European refineries. Other factors behind the performance of Grupa LOTOS included record low refining margins and oil product prices. As for the Polish market, it suffered an overall downturn and weaker demand for liquid fuels, reflecting a slower rate of GDP growth and the grey market's activity. A powerful response to these hardships was the 2013−2015 Effective and Rising Programme, announced in the spring of last year, which places a strong focus on key projects driving the Company's value and on the LOTOS Group's restructuring effort. The implementation of the Programme is inextricably tied to the process of building Poland's energy security. A vital element of this process is access to oil from own deposits. Last year our upstream segment operations gained a significant growth momentum. Due to the closure of Heimdal package transaction on the Norwegian Continental Shelf we doubled our hydrocarbon production volumes. We also stepped up exploration and production activities in the Baltic Sea, which we think may hold 30 million tonnes of hydrocarbons. In the retail area, we are particularly proud of the continued brisk growth of our LOTOS service station chain and the expanding market share of our retail franchise. As at the end of 2013, the LOTOS chain comprised 439 service stations, an impressive rise on the 324 stations operated in 2010. The LOTOS Optima chain is growing even faster − it began market expansion in 2011 with 50 retail outlets and closed 2013 with 151 stations. These figures have earned our service station chain the status of the fastest-growing retail chain in Poland for another year in a row. A great source of satisfaction is the increased presence of Grupa LOTOS in the aviation fuels market. LOTOSAir BP Polska, a recently established joint venture, launched operations at Pyrzowice airport in Katowice in January of this year, and also provides wing-tip supplies of Jet A1 fuel at airports in Warsaw, Kraków and Gdańsk. Its recently added accounts include Wizz Air, one of the top three carriers operating in Poland. Our accomplishments in the upstream, marketing and production areas do not relieve us from our social responsibilities, which we see as particularly important. We take great pride in our various CSR projects and initiatives, which deliver outstanding results and are widely appreciated. The best and most relevant example is the 'In Search for the Champion’s Successors' programme, organized jointly by Grupa LOTOS and the Polish Ski Association, which gave the nation Kamil Stoch, two-time gold medalist at the recent Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. I can safely say that it is Grupa LOTOS and its partners that may take the credit for creating an innovative model of sports sponsorship, held as an example of transparency, legal compliance and effectiveness. With the state-of-the-art technologies deployed as part of the 10+ Programme, our refinery in Gdańsk ranks among the most advanced facilities of its kind in the world, as confirmed by Solomon Associates, an international opinion leader in refinery benchmarking. Dear All, Well advanced implementation of the Effective and Rising Programme makes us feel positive and enthusiastic about the coming years. When majority thinks how to survive the present time, we know how to win the future. We are well prepared for change and know how to build a strong position of LOTOS. -6effectiveness. With the state-of-the-art Integrated Annual Report 2013 deployed technologies Grupa LOTOS part of the 10+ Programme, our refinery in Gdańsk as S.A. Win theranks Future among the most advanced facilities of its kind in the world, as confirmed by Solomon Associates, an international opinion leader in refinery benchmarking. Dear All, Well advanced implementation of the Effective and Rising Programme makes us feel positive and enthusiastic about the coming years. When majority thinks how to survive the present time, we know how to win the future. We are well prepared for change and know how to build a strong position of LOTOS. In 2014, we are bound to undergo significant organizational, management and capital transformation, and we will carry on multiple tasks and investment programs aiming to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the organization. This will definitely strengthen Grupa LOTOS market position, and deliver value to the shareholders and the joy of participating in a very interesting economical process to our employees. We believe that we implement a very serious development programme of the Polish economy substantial part for the benefit of us all Gdańsk, Pomerania, Poland. Inspiring and challenging future is ahead. We will do our best to ensure full satisfaction of our shareholders with our business value growth. With kindest regards, Paweł Olechnowicz President of the Board Chief Executive Officer Grupa LOTOS -7PLN 28,597 m Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future PLN 28,597 revenue m revenue Organization PLN 146m 4,983 PLN 146m operating profit employees operating profit 33.4% PLN 33.4% 28,597 m share in Polish fuel market share in Polish revenue fuel market This 2013 Integrated Annual Report provides an overview of the activities of the LOTOS Group (“the LOTOS PLN with a particular focus on the LOTOS Group’s parent entity – Grupa LOTOS S.A. (“Grupa LOTOS”, “the Group”), This 2013 Integrated Annual Report provides an overview of the activities of the LOTOS Group (“the LOTOS 146m Company” or “we”). Group”), with a particular focus on the LOTOS Group’s parent entity – Grupa LOTOS S.A. (“Grupa LOTOS”, “the Company” or “we”). Grupa LOTOS profit operating is one of Europe’s largest and most productive oil companies. In terms of revenue generated in 2012, it is second of the 500 largest companies in Poland, and sixth among Grupa LOTOS is one of Europe’s largest and most productive oil companies. the 500 largest companies in Central and Eastern Europe. In terms of revenue generated in 2012, it is second of the 500 largest companies in Poland, and sixth among 33.4% the 500 largest companies in Central and Eastern Europe. Grupa LOTOS shares have been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange since June 2005. Since November 2009, Grupa LOTOS shares have also been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange's RESPECT Index of socially Grupa share LOTOSin shares Polishhave been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange since June 2005. Since November 2009, responsible companies. Grupa fuel market LOTOS shares have also been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange's RESPECT Index of socially responsible companies. The LOTOS Group employs almost five thousand people in Poland and abroad, and the high quality of our HR policy was confirmed last year with the 'Best Employer 2013' and the 'Human Resources Management The LOTOS Group employs almost five thousand people in Poland and abroad, and the high quality of our HR Leader' This 2013awards. Integrated Annual Report policy was confirmed last year with theprovides an overview 'Best Employer 2013'ofand activities thethe 'Human ofResources Group (“the LOTOS the LOTOSManagement Group”), with Leader' awards. a particular focus on the LOTOS Group’s parent entity – Grupa LOTOS S.A. (“Grupa LOTOS”, “the Company” or “we”). Grupa LOTOS is one of Europe’s largest and most productive oil companies. In terms of revenue generated in 2012, it is second of the 500 largest companies in Poland, and sixth among the 500 largest companies in Central and Eastern Europe. Grupa LOTOS shares have been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange since June 2005. Since November 2009, Grupa LOTOS shares have also been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange's RESPECT Index of socially responsible companies. The LOTOS Group employs almost five thousand people in Poland and abroad, and the high quality of our HR policy was confirmed last year with the 'Best Employer 2013' and the 'Human Resources Management Leader' awards. LOTOS Group workforce structure by key companies. As at December 31st 2013 -8Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future LOTOS Group workforce structure by key companies. As at December 31st 2013 LOTOS Group LOTOS Group workforce structure by workforce structure by key key companies. companies. As at December 31st 2013 As at December 31st 2013 Apart from Grupa LOTOS (the parent entity and operator of the refinery in Gdańsk), the LOTOS Group comprises 15 other companies operating under the LOTOS name. Two of them are based outside Poland, in Apart Apart from from Grupa LOTOS (the Grupa LOTOS (the parent parent entity entity and operator of and operator the refinery of the refinery in Gdańsk), the in Gdańsk), the LOTOS LOTOS Group Group Lithuania and Norway. comprises 15 other companies operating under the LOTOS name. comprises 15 other companies operating under the LOTOS name. Two of them are based outside Poland, Two of them are based outside Poland, in in Lithuania and Norway. Lithuania and Norway. Territory covered by the LOTOS Group's operations. Territory covered Territory covered by the LOTOS by the LOTOS Group's Group's operations. operations. Our activities contribute not only to the development of communities in the regions where we are present, but also to the growth of public revenue. In 2013, we paid a total of PLN 12,571,938 thousand in taxes to the Our activities Our activities contribute not only contribute not only to to the the development development of of communities communities in in the the regions we are where we regions where are present, present, Polish state budget. but also to the growth of public revenue. In 2013, we but also to the growth of public revenue. In 2013, we paid a total of PLN 12,571,938 thousand in taxes to paid a total of PLN 12,571,938 thousand in taxes to the the Polish Polish state state budget. budget. -9Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Mieczysław Struk Marshal of the Pomorskie Voivodeship Business activity brings measurable benefits to our region in form of jobs created by companies and financial contribution made by them through taxes. The impact of LOTOS, however, goes far beyond that, the best example of that impact being the 10+ Programme, the largest CAPEX project in this part of Europe. Business activity brings The Pomorskie Voivodeship* Development Strategy 2020 is the effect of m easurable benefits to our analyzing the strong and weak points of our region, with the aim of aiding region in form of jobs created overcoming barriers and undertaking appropriate initiatives to suit the changing by com panies and financial reality. However, in order to meet the objectives defined in it, it is necessary for us contribution m ade by them to initiate social dialogue and cooperation, which given the low level of social through taxes. The im pact of trust in Poland poses a major challenge to us. That is why the activity of Polish LOTOS, however, goes far businesses is so important here, and Grupa LOTOS serves as a perfect example of beyond that, the best a company, which, on the one hand, contributes significantly to the development exam ple of that im pact being of the national economy while being a responsible neighbour and a committed the 10+ Program m e, the representative of our region, on the other hand. largest CAPEX project in this part of Europe. We are well aware that the cooperation of the local government with business is the key to successful development of the Pomerania region. Therefore, all the more so we appreciate the fact that LOTOS becomes engaged in and strategically Mieczysław Struk implements initiatives in areas which are challenging for us. At the same time, I Marshal of the Pomorskie Voivodeship feel additional satisfaction knowing that the Company substantively supports Pomeranian higher education institutions, leveraging the potential of the cooperation between the academic community and business. Equally important is the Company’s contribution to environmental investments and initiatives aimed at preserving the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea. * Pomorskie Voivodeship is the official name; herein: the Province of Gdańsk. 10 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Business model The LOTOS Group's strategy is designed to strengthen its position as a strong, innovative and efficient business that plays a major role in ensuring national energy security. Our operations consist in crude oil production and processing, as well as wholesale and retail sale of petroleum products. We strive to achieve our business objectives with due care and respect for social responsibility and sustained development values. The LOTOS Group value chain The top priority objective of the LOTOS Group's strategy for 2011-2015 is dynamic development of the hydrocarbon exploration and production segment. The LOTOS Group produces crude oil in the Baltic Sea and the Norwegian Continental Shelf. We also have access to onshore oil deposits in Lithuania. In Poland, we manage the refinery in Gdańsk. Our product range includes unleaded gasoline, diesel oil, aviation fuel and heavy fuel oil. We also specialise in the production and sale of lubricating oils and bitumens. Main product brands 11 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In Poland, we manage the refinery in Gdańsk. Our product range includes unleaded gasoline, diesel oil, aviation fuel and heavy fuel oil. We also specialise in the production and sale of lubricating oils and bitumens. Main product brands Fuel products LOTOS DYNAMIC 98 ga soline LOTOS DYNAMIC DIESEL oil LOTOS RED, diesel oil for hea ting purposes IZ-40 diesel oil propa ne-buta ne LPG Non-fuel products Engine oils: LOTOS Qua za r, LOTOS Therm a l Control, LOTOS Turdus, RG Tra ns, Agrol, Ma rinol Industrial oils: Tra nsm il, Hydrom il, Rem iz Plasticisers: Qua ntilus Bitumens: MODBIT Petrochemical Xylene fra ction products The LOTOS Group’s main market is Poland, but our foreign sales are also on a steady rise. In 2013, exports represented 33% of our total sales volume. (More information) LOTOS Group sales by markets in thousand tonnes 2013. (%) Dom estic sa les 6,258 Export sa les 3,082 Total 9,340 Domestic sales Export sales We export our products to 75 countries all over the world. 12 Domestic sales Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Export sales We export our products to 75 countries all over the world. Our chain of LOTOS brand service stations is the fourth largest in Poland. Through this chain, we offer products and services in the premium segment, which also comprises motorway service stations. One third of our stations operate in the economy segment, under the LOTOS Optima brand. Compared with its competitors, LOTOS has the second fastest growing service station chain in Poland. As at the end of 2013, our share in retail sales of fuels in Poland amounted to 8.5%. LOTOS Premium stations LOTOS Optima stations 13 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Shareholder structure Grupa LOTOS share capital Shareholder structure of Grupa Grupa LOTOS shareholder structure by series. LOTOS as at the end of 2012 (%) structure from April 24th 2013 to As at December 31st 2013 and the the date of this Report (%) date of publication of this Report. State Treasury series A series B State Treasury ING OFE series C Other shareholders Other shareholders Geographical structure of minority interests (%) 1 Poland North America Rest of Europe UK and Ireland Asia Australia 1 Based on the identified minority interests. Grupa LOTOS share capital did not change from the value reported in 2012 and is divided into 129,873,362 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of PLN 1 per share. Each share represents one vote at the General Meeting and carries the right to dividend. In 2012-2013 and until the date of this Report, the State Treasury held a total of 69,076,392 ordinary bearer shares in Grupa LOTOS, representing 53.20% of its share capital and the same proportion of voting rights at the Company’s General Meeting. In 2012, no changes occurred in the main shareholder composition, which means that the remaining 46.81% of share capital, that is 60,796,970 shares, was in free float. 14 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future of share capital, that is 60,796,970 shares, was in free float. On April 29th 2013, the Company was notified that as a result of the acquisition of Grupa LOTOS shares in transactions on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, settled on April 24th 2013, the open-end pension fund ING Otwarty Fundusz Emerytalny increased its shareholding in the Company so that it exceeded the threshold of 5% of the total voting rights at the Company's General Meeting. (more information) Share capital and voting rights at the General Meeting, held by Grupa LOTOS shareholders as at December 31st 2013 and the date of publication of this Report Shareholder Number of shares/voting rights Par value of shares Share in share capital/total voting rights at the GM Sta te Trea sury 69,076,392 69,076,392 53.20% ING OFE 6,893,079 6,893,079 5.30% Other sha reholders 53,903,891 53,903,891 41.50% Total 129,873,362 129,873,362 100.00% Share in total voting rights Entity Number of shares at the GM [%]* Share in share capital [%] Sta te Trea sury 69,076,392 78 53.20 * Based on data from the GM summoned for June 28th 2013. In 2013, the Company did not issue any securities which would vest shareholders with any special control powers. As at the date of this Report, we have no information on shareholders' agreements on joint exercise of voting rights. One share in Grupa LOTOS confers the right to one vote at its General Meeting (GM). However, pursuant to the Company's Articles of Association (Statute of Grupa LOTOS), the voting rights of Company shareholders are limited, so that none may exercise more than 10% of the total voting rights at the Company, as at the day on which the General Meeting is held, with the proviso that for the purpose of determining the obligations of buyers of significant shareholdings (provided for in the Act on Public Offering, Conditions Governing the Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organised Trading and Public Companies of July 29th 2005, and the Act on Insurance Activity of May 22nd 2003), such limitation of voting rights is deemed non-existent. 15 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Structure of the organization As at December 31st 2013, the LOTOS Group comprised Grupa LOTOS (the Parent), and 22 production and service companies, including: 13 direct subsidiaries of Grupa LOTOS, 9 indirect subsidiaries of Grupa LOTOS. Composition of the LOTOS Group Grupa LOTOS's shareholding Registered Business Name office profile Dec 31st 2013 Dec 31st 2012 Parent Production a nd processing of refined Grupa LOTOS S.A. Gda ńsk petroleum Not a pplica ble Not a pplica ble products (m a inly fuels) a nd their wholesa le Direct fully-consolidated subsidiaries Acquisition of crude oil a nd LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (parent of another group: LOTOS na tura l ga s Gda ńsk 99.98% (1) 99.96% Petrobaltic Group) deposits a nd hydroca rbon production Wholesa le a nd reta il sa le of fuels a nd light fuel oil, LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk 100.00% 100.00% m a na gem ent of the LOTOS service sta tion cha in Production a nd sa le of lubrica ting oils LOTOS Oil S.A. Gda ńsk a nd 100.00% 100.00% lubrica nts, a nd sa le of ba se oils Production LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk a nd sa le of 100.00% 100.00% bitum ens Ra ilwa y LOTOS Kolej Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk 100.00% 100.00% tra nsport Ma intena nce of m echa nica l a nd electric opera tions LOTOS Serwis Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk a nd 100.00% 100.00% controlling devices, overha ul a nd repa ir services 16 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future La bora tory LOTOS Lab Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk 100.00% 100.00% a na lyses LOTOS Straż Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk Fire services 100.00% 100.00% Security LOTOS Ochrona Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk 100.00% 100.00% services Stora ge a nd LOTOS Terminale S.A. (2) (parent of another group: LOTOS Czechowicedistribution of 100.00% 100.00% Terminale Group) Dziedzice fuels Stora ge a nd distribution of fuels Renting LOTOS Infrastruktura S.A. (3) Ja sło a nd 100.00% 100.00% opera ting of own or lea sed rea l esta te LOTOS Gaz S.A. (in liquidation) Kra ków Dorm a nt 100.00% 100.00% LOTOS Park Technologiczny Sp. z o.o. Ja sło Dorm a nt 100.00% 100.00% Indirect fully-consolidated subsidiaries LO TO S Te rmina le Gro up Production a nd RCEkoenergia Sp. z o.o. Czechowicedistribution of 100.00% 100.00% Dziedzice electricity, hea t a nd ga s Production of Czechowicefa tty a cid LOTOS Biopa liwa Sp. z o.o. 100.00% 100.00% Dziedzice m ethyl esters (FAME) LO TO S Pe tro ba ltic Gro up Oil explora tion a nd production on the Norwegia n Sta va nger, Continenta l LOTOS Explora tion a nd Production Norge AS 99.98% (4) 99.96% Norwa y Shelf, provision of services rela ted to oil explora tion a nd production Cura ça o, Sea tra nsport Aphrodite Offshore Services N.V. (4) Netherla nds services 99.98% 99.96% Antilles (dorm a nt) Production of electricity, hea t, Energoba ltic Sp. z o.o. (4) Wła dysła wowo LPG a nd 99.98% 99.96% na tura l ga s condensa te Support a ctivities for extra ction B8 Sp. z o.o (4, 5) Gda ńsk a nd 99.98% qua rrying opera tions (dorm a nt) 17 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Explora tion a nd B8 Spółka z ogra niczoną odpowiedzia lnością BALTIC production of Gda ńsk 99.98% (4, 6) S.K.A. crude oil a nd na tura l ga s (dorm a nt) Stora ge a nd tra nsport of Milia na Shipholding Com pa ny Ltd. (pa rent of a nother Nicosia , Cyprus crude oil, other 99.98% (4) 99.96% group: Milia na Shipholding Group) sea tra nsport services Sea tra nsport Technica l Ship Ma na gem ent Sp. z o.o. (pa rent of support a ctivities, ship (4) a nother group: Technica l Ship Ma na gem ent Gda ńsk 1% 99.96% opera tion Group) a dvisory services Provision of sea tra nsport SPV Ba ltic Sp.z o.o. Gda ńsk 1% (4, 7) a nd rela ted services Provision of Milia na Shipm a na gem ent Ltd. sea tra nsport (4) Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% 99.96% a nd rela ted services Milia na Shipping Group Ltd. (spółka posia da swoją Ma na gem ent (4) grupę ka pita łową : GK Milia na Shipping Group Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% 99.96% of own a ssets Ltd.) Ba za lt Na viga tion Com pa ny Ltd. Ship (4) Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% 99.96% cha rtering Ship Gra nit Na viga tion Com pa ny Ltd. Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% (4) 99.96% cha rtering Ship Ka m br Na viga tion Com pa ny Ltd. Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% (4) 99.96% cha rtering Ship St. Ba rba ra Na viga tion Com pa ny Ltd. Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% (4) 99.96% cha rtering Ship Petro Ica rus Com pa ny Ltd. Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% (4) 99.96% cha rtering Ship Petro Aphrodite Com pa ny Ltd. Nicosia , Cyprus 99.98% (4) 99.96% cha rtering Crude oil explora tion a nd AB LOTOS Geona fta (spółka posia da swoją grupę Ga rgžda i, production, 99.98% (4) 99.96% ka pita łową : GK AB LOTOS Geona fta ) Lithua nia drilling services, a nd purcha se a nd sa le of crude oil Crude oil Ga rgžda i, explora tion UAB Genciu Na fta 99.98% (4) 99.96% Lithua nia a nd production Crude oil Ga rgžda i, explora tion UAB Ma nifolda s 99.98% (4) 99.96% Lithua nia a nd production Equity-accounted entities Sa le of a via tion fuel LOTOS-Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. (8) Gda ńsk18 50.00% (8) 100.00% a nd logistics services Ga rgžda i, explora tion UAB Genciu Na fta 99.98% (4) 99.96% Lithua nia a nd production Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Crude oil Ga rgžda i, explora tion UAB Ma nifolda s 99.98% (4) 99.96% Lithua nia a nd production Equity-accounted entities Sa le of a via tion fuel LOTOS-Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. (8) Gda ńsk 50.00% (8) 100.00% a nd logistics services LO TO S Pe tro ba ltic Gro up Oil a nd ga s production (support Ba ltic Ga s Sp. z o.o. Gda ńsk 49.99% (4, 9) 99.96% a ctivities for oil a nd ga s production) Crude oil a nd Ba ltic Ga s spółka z ogra niczoną odpowiedzia lnością i Gda ńsk ga s 81.68% (4, 10) 99.96% wspólnicy sp.k. production Jednostki konsolidowane metodą proporcjonalną GK AB LO TO S Ge o na fta Crude oil Ga rgžda i, explora tion UAB Minijos Na fta 49.99% (4) 49.98% Lithua nia a nd production (1) In 2013, Grupa LOTOS continued the squeeze-out of shares in LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. Following the acquisition of shares in LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. as part of a squeeze-out, as at December 31st 2013 Grupa LOTOS held a 99.98% interest in the share capital of LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (2) On July 30th 2013, the change of the company’s name from LOTOS Czechowice S.A. to LOTOS Terminale S.A. was registered. (3) On April 18th 2013, the change of the company’s name from LOTOS Jasło S.A. to LOTOS Infrastruktura S.A. was registered. (4) The shareholding changes described in item (1) above had an effect on the indirect equity interests held by Grupa LOTOS in the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group entities. (5) On December 30th 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. acquired 100% of the shares in B8 Sp. z o.o. One of the objectives of the acquisition was to create a vehicle for financing development of the B8 field. (6) On December 30th 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. acquired a 99.5% interest in B8 Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością BALTIC spółka komandytowo-akcyjna, and became a limited partner in the company. B8 Sp. z o.o., holding 0.5% of the company shares, is a minority shareholder and the general partner in the company. One of the objectives of the acquisition was to create a vehicle for the financing of development of the B8 field. (7) On December 20th 2013, Technical Ship Management Sp. z o.o. acquired a 100% interest in SPV Baltic Sp. z o.o. (8) On November 25th 2013, Grupa LOTOS sold to BP Europe SE 1,000 shares in LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o., representing 50% of LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o.'s share capital. The sale was connected with a joint venture agreement executed between Grupa LOTOS and BP Europa SE German Branch on June 25th 2013, providing for the establishment of a new entity on the basis of LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o. (a Grupa LOTOS subsidiary), through which the two partners could pursue joint operations in the aviation fuel market. On December 17th 2013, the change of the company’s name from LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o. to LOTOS-Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. was registered. (9) The sale by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. of a 50% interest in Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. to CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. was registered on April 9th 2013. (10) The presented ownership interest was determined based on the value of contributions made by individual partners relative to the sum of all contributions as at December 31st 2013: Ba ltic Ga s Sp. z o.o. (genera l pa rtner) (0.002% ) , LOTOS Petroba ltic S.A. (lim ited pa rtner) (81.693% ) , Ca lEnergy Resources Pola nd Sp. z o.o. (“Ca lEnergy”) (lim ited pa rtner) (18.305% ) . Grupa LOTOS’s indirect ownership interest in Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy sp. k. (a jointly-controlled entity) is 81.68%. Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy spółka komandytowa (“Baltic Gas”) is a partnership. The partnership agreement defines the profit and loss sharing ratio, whereby Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. holds 0.001% share in profits and 100% share in losses, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. holds 50.9995% share in profits, and CalEnergy holds 48.9995% share in profits. The respective percentage shares in the total vote are not given, as any matters subject to the partners’ decision, as set forth in the partnership agreement, require unanimous approval, or the partners are required to unanimously pass a resolution determining the procedure for deciding on other matters not specified in the partnership agreement. For the purposes of the IFRS, Baltic Gas is an entity jointly-controlled by Grupa LOTOS. Structure of the LOTOS Group. As at December 31st 2013 19 Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy spółka komandytowa (“Baltic Gas”) is a partnership. The partnership agreement defines the profit and loss sharing ratio, whereby Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. holds 0.001% share in profits and 100% share in losses, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. holds 50.9995% share in profits, and CalEnergy holds 48.9995% share in profits. The respective percentage shares in the total vote are not given, as any matters subject to the partners’ decision, as set forth in the partnership agreement, require unanimous Integrated approval, or the partners Annual Report are required 2013 Grupa to unanimously pass a LOTOS S.A.determining the procedure for deciding on other mattersWin resolution the Future not specified in the partnership agreement. For the purposes of the IFRS, Baltic Gas is an entity jointly-controlled by Grupa LOTOS. Structure of the LOTOS Group. As at December 31st 2013 (1) State Treasury – 0.01%, employee shares – 0.01% (2) Limited partner (3) General partner (4) CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. – 50% (5) CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. – limited partner (6) 99% (own shares acquired for redemption) – Technical Ship Management Sp. z o.o. (7) BP Europa SE – 50% Grupa LOTOS also holds 8.97% of shares in P.P.P.P. Naftoport Sp. z o.o. (a PERN Przyjaźń Group company). Within the LOTOS Group, the role of Grupa LOTOS as the parent entity is to integrate the key management and support functions. As such, Grupa LOTOS has implemented a segmental management model. A segment is a separate area of operations managed within the LOTOS Group by a designated member of the Board of Grupa LOTOS. This model enhances management efficiency, delivering LOTOS Group-wide cost and revenue synergies. Segmental management provides for consistent implementation of the strategy, coordinated planning, integrated operational management and maintenance of uniform corporate standards. 20 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Management segment Head: President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, Chief Executive Officer Tasks: increasing the LOTOS Group’s value through overall management of its operations, including coordination of strategy development, definition of development directions for individual business areas, and coordination of process support functions. Exploration and production segment Head: Vice-President of the Management Board of Grupa LOTOS, Exploration&Production. Tasks: formulation of development strategies for the LOTOS Group in oil and gas exploration and production, as well as management and supervision of these activities. Companies: LOTOS Petrobaltic with subsidiaries and affiliates. Operational segment Head: Vice-President of the Management Board of Grupa LOTOS, Chief Operation Officer. Tasks: formulation of strategies for maintaining and expanding production facilities, as well as supervision and coordination of all matters regarding the processing of crude oil, refinery production and associated technologies, definition of refinery production policy objectives, supervision of production-related R&D work, coordination of technical and technological development projects, ensuring the required technical performance of assets, supervision of environmental protection processes, safety processes and physical protection. Companies: LOTOS Infrastruktura, LOTOS Lab, LOTOS Ochrona, LOTOS Serwis, and LOTOS Straż. Changes in 2013: following business profile changes, LOTOS Czechowice was renamed LOTOS Terminale and assigned to the marketing segment, while LOTOS Jasło changed its name to LOTOS Infrastruktura. Marketing segment Head: Vice-President of the Management Board of Grupa LOTOS, Chief Commercial Officer. Tasks: formulation of marketing strategies as well as effective management of sales, supplies and distribution of crude oil and petroleum products, responsibility for the development of trading and optimisation activities. Companies: LOTOS-Air BP Polska, LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Paliwa and LOTOS Terminale with subsidiaries. Changes in 2013: Grupa LOTOS sold 50% of its interest 21in LOTOS Tank, which was then renamed LOTOS-Air Marketing segment Head: Vice-President of the Management Board of Grupa LOTOS, Chief Commercial Officer. Tasks: formulation of marketing Integrated strategies Annual Report as LOTOS 2013 Grupa effective management of sales, supplies andWin well asS.A. distribution the Future of crude oil and petroleum products, responsibility for the development of trading and optimisation activities. Companies: LOTOS-Air BP Polska, LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Paliwa and LOTOS Terminale with subsidiaries. Changes in 2013: Grupa LOTOS sold 50% of its interest in LOTOS Tank, which was then renamed LOTOS-Air BP Polska. Also in 2013, the marketing segment was expanded to include LOTOS Terminale (formerly (in 2012) LOTOS Czechowice), which was transferred from the operational segment. Financial segment Head: Vice-President of the Board, Chief Financial Officer. Tasks: monitoring of the implementation of the LOTOS Group’s strategies and overall management of financial and accounting processes, including formulation of financial, legal and insurance strategies and monitoring of their implementation, management of budgeting and controlling, development and implementation of financial risk management strategies, and overall management of assets and restructuring processes. Companies: LOTOS Park Technologiczny and LOTOS Gaz w likwidacji (in liquidation) and its subsidiary. For purposes of the economic efficiency analysis and clear presentation of the financial statements, the following two main reporting operations segments can be identified in the operational activities of the LOTOS Group: Upstream operations segm ent – com prising activities concerning exploration for and exploitation of crude oil and natural gas deposits; Downstream and m arketing operations segm ent – com prising activities of com panies concerned with production and processing of refined petroleum products as well as their retail and wholesale, and support, transport and servicing activities. Key objectives of the organizational changes implemented in 2013: raise the stature, decision-m aking powers and accountability of the corporate departm ents, enhance the m anagem ent m odel, m inim ise m anagem ent costs, im prove segm ental reporting, enhance the com m unication process, optim ise accounting, finance, trading and legal functions. At the end of 2013, Grupa LOTOS's organization and management structure, which reflects the division of competences and the relationships between various functions and tasks performed at the Company, and illustrates the reporting hierarchy of organizational units and management, comprised the following units: 16 divisions, including 5 divisions reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer, 36 offices, 16 departm ents, 8 plants. Operational segments. As at December 31st 2013 22 illustrates the reporting hierarchy of organizational units and management, comprised the following units: 16 divisions, including 5 divisions reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer, Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. 36 offices, Win the Future 16 departm ents, 8 plants. Operational segments. As at December 31st 2013 23 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Integrated reporting The Annual Report of the LOTOS Group for 2013 is an integrated report covering the organization’s operations in the financial year 2013, which coincides with the calendar year. The previous integrated annual report was published in April 2013. In 2007-2009, we published separate reports on the financial and non-financial aspects of our activity. In 2010, the Board of Grupa LOTOS decided to integrate the reports for stakeholders presenting the organization’s management approach and performance across all areas of its activity. This publication is our fifth integrated report. The Board’s intent is to enable our stakeholders to make a comprehensive, measurable and objective assessment of our overall involvement in sustainable development through an integrated and reader-friendly presentation of our financial statements and non-financial reports for a given year. We follow the best communication practices applicable to public companies: For financial reporting, we adhere to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union, published and in effect as at December 31st 2012, For non-financial reporting, we adhere to the Sustainability Reporting Framework and Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (G3.1 GRI, with the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement) and the United Nations Global Compact’s Principles. We declare that we are at Application Level A+*(1) in the three-level GRI reporting system. Additionally, we made efforts to comply with the International Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) in December 2013. The IIRC believes that integrating financial analysis with analysis of the social, environmental and economic context of a company’s operations is a valuable source of information, allowing its stakeholders to assess its long-term profitability. (1) The individual Application Levels were assigned letters from C (the lowest), to C+ (where a “+” is given if a report has been verified by an independent assurance body), B, B+, A, through to A+. The reporting criteria used for each level measure the extent to which the Guidelines and the GRI Reporting Framework have been applied. In our work on this Report we embraced the key principles of accuracy, materiality, completeness, comparability, balance and reliability. All data contained in this Report was collected in a reliable and responsible manner, and verified as being consistent with the facts. The consolidated financial statements of the LOTOS Group included in this Report were audited by qualified auditors at Ernst & Young, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Polish Accountancy Act of September 29th 1994 (Dz.U. of 2009, No. 152, item 1223, as amended), and the Polish financial auditing standards issued by the National Council of Statutory Auditors (Krajowa Rada Biegłych Rewidentów). To ensure an appropriate level of transparency and credibility, the Board of Grupa LOTOS decided that third party assurance of non-financial data included in the Annual Report should be provided by an independent body. Limited assurance provided in 2014 by PwC complied with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (3000 ISAE, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information). ISAE 3000 was issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The standard is based on IFAC’s Code of Conduct and the International Standard of Quality Control (ISQC-1), and is used to provide assurance with respect to CSR reports. The Standard defines the key principles and procedures for assurance engagements, including “limited assurance” engagements. The 2013 Annual Report is our third report in which the data reported for the CSR area were subject to independent assurance. 24 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Apart from the procedure described above, we have made every effort to ensure the quality of the data collection process. This process is supported by the organization’s management systems. Driven by environmental concerns, we are publishing this Report in electronic form only. This also serves the intention of providing readers with the most convenient range of solutions to making this publication a friendly tool, with which to perform their own analyses. Readers can display selected numerical data by periods, GRI indicators, operating segments, etc. Information included in the Report is integrated with the contents of the Company’s website, which includes reports from previous years. An option has been provided for readers to leave feedback. Also, accessibility options such as narration, a high-contrast mode and text zoom, have been added for people with disabilities, the elderly and the vision impaired. Environmental friendliness is ensured by an economical printout option. The Board of Grupa LOTOS has resolved to adopt the annual reporting cycle for our reports. Previous reports are available from www.lotos.pl/en (link). For contact details, refer to the “Useful information” ( link) section of this Report. Engaging stakeholders in the process of improving our reporting The functional solutions embedded in the Report’s electronic format as well as ways of selecting and presenting information in it are updated regularly based on stakeholder opinion polls, the appraisal of traffic to the webpage featuring the Report, etc. For purposes of this Report, we conducted special opinion polls among members of the LOTOS Group’s management staff and among capital market analysts, who make use of the reported information. Altogether, around 50 persons participated in these consultations. Integrating financial and non-financial data According to the majority of the respondents, integrating financial and non-financial information is the right approach (88%) and raises awareness of sustainability issues (likewise, 88%). What is more, 8 out of 10 of the polled persons stated that it also responds to the stakeholders’ contemporary needs, provides them with a wider picture of the company’s operations and enables adequate communication of factors which are material to its value creation. Most respondents confirmed that integrating data helps present the overall impacts of the organization’s activities on its environment and that it allows investors to make informed decisions on effectively allocating their funds; also, the same number of respondents believed that annual reporting enables them to compare data from different periods. As many as 98% participants agreed with the statement that the structure of the Report as well as the information contained in it correspond with the 2012-2015 CSR Strategy of the LOTOS Group, taking into account its objectives and baselines as well as future commitments. Also, the majority of the respondents expressed an opinion that integrated reporting facilitates early risk identification (63%), responds to the need of transparency in the organization’s activities and is a key element contributing to trust building (60% each). Also, most participants stressed that it is the right approach as long as the report is subject to external assurance (63%) and that not all stakeholders are interested in every aspect presented in the integrated report (58%). Benefits of integrated reporting at Grupa LOTOS (%) 25 Also, the majority of the respondents expressed an opinion that integrated reporting facilitates early risk identification (63%), responds to the need of transparency in the organization’s activities and is a key element contributing to trust Integrated Annual building Report 2013 -(60% Grupaeach). Also, most participants stressed that it is the right LOTOS S.A. Win the Future approach as long as the report is subject to external assurance (63%) and that not all stakeholders are interested in every aspect presented in the integrated report (58%). Benefits of integrated reporting at Grupa LOTOS (%) Raising the aw areness of sustainability issues Providing adequate communication of factors w hich are material to the company’s value creation in the short-, mediumand long-term Enabling better understanding of how the organization w ill create value in future Presenting a w ider picture of the company’s operations Providing a w ider picture of the company’s overall impacts on its environment Helping investors take informed decisions on effective allocation of their funds Facilitating early risk identification Helping to learn about the progress in implementing the business strategy and corporate social strategy by the company as w ell as to gather better quality data 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Assessment of the LOTOS Group’s reports Our online reports were rated by the respondents at 4.3 points on a scale from 1 being the lowest (‘does not meet my expectations’) to 5 – the highest (‘very attractive’). The most frequently given answers were 5 or 4 (39% each), which means that 78% of the participants found this version of the report attractive. How attractive do you find the online version of the report (on a scale from 1 – least to 5 – most attractive)? In their comments, the respondents most often expressed 26 an opinion that this form of presenting the LOTOS Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In their comments, the respondents most often expressed an opinion that this form of presenting the LOTOS Group’s annual reports makes them very clear and visually attractive, and that the reported information is presented in a very accessible way. It is worth noting here that the 2012 Annual Report won the first prize in ‘The Best Annual Report 2012’ competition organized by the Accounting and Taxation Institute in ‘The Best Internet Annual Report’ category. Furthermore, in October 2013 the results of the second edition of the ‘ESG Analysis of Companies in Poland’, organized by the Polish Association of Listed Companies in cooperation with GES and Crido Business Consulting, were announced. The goal of the project is to increase the transparency of non-financial data reporting in the Polish capital market by educating listed companies on how to communicate effectively ESG data (E – environment; S social; G – governance) and how to build a CSR strategy. The ‘ESG Analysis of Companies in Poland’ is a unique project across Europe, the only one which analyzes the non-financial reporting practices of all listed companies. Based on the results of the analysis, the ‘2013 Ranking of listed companies best reporting their ESG data’ was compiled, in which 3 top companies were selected in two classifications: sector and index. Grupa LOTOS was classified as a leader of ESG data reporting in both classifications. Key sources of information for compiling the ranking are the companies’ annual reports, their websites and official documents. In the same analysis, Grupa LOTOS – as one of four companies representing the Oil, Gas & Consumable Fuels sector – was also listed among 30 public companies of highest transparency with regard to ESG risks reporting based on the ratings acquired. The analysis of the ESG data reporting covered all companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange as on June 30th 2013, including on the New Connect market; these were altogether 865 entities. 27 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Remit and extent In determining the content of the non-financial sections of the Annual Report, we were guided by the GRI Reporting Framework and the International Integrated Reporting Framework issued by the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC). The information contained in the Report was selected based on the materiality criterion, which we define as having the potential to affect our enterprise's compliance with sustainable development principles, as well as our external stakeholders when looking for reliable, comparable and accurate information with which to inform their decisions. To determine the content of the Report, we held a workshop with these stakeholders who are key for improving our reporting. In the course of this workshop, a number of issues of particular materiality to the organization and to its market environment were identified. Determining materiality (1) The Company’s role in the national and regional energy security system (2) High reliability of production units and installations (3) Acquisition and development of new production licences (4) Final product quality (5) New investment projects (6) Environmental monitoring close to the organization’s operations (7) Investment activities employing Best Available Techniques B( AT) (8) Promotion of best practices in the supply chain (9) Further development of the Ethical Conduct Programme (10) Further development of the public consultations system (11) Creating the value of the LOTOS brand (12) Use of state-of-the-art technical solutions (13) Providing our employees with professional development opportunities (14) Building proper relations with our employees (15) Contributing to the social and economic development of our region The non-financial information included in this Report was prepared using the majority of core and additional indicators provided for in the GRI Guidelines, to present our economic, environmental and social performance. Like a year ago, additional industry-specific indicators from the Sector Supplement ( GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS)) were added to enrich this Report. The methods used to calculate the figures presented in this Report were the same as those used in preparation of the LOTOS Group’s consolidated financial statements for 2013. These methods are in accordance with the IFRS effective as at December 31st 2013. 28 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future For a vast majority of topic areas, the facts and non-financial data presented in the Report pertain to Grupa LOTOS, the parent entity. However, all due care and consideration has been given on our part to account for the LOTOS Group’s consolidated data where possible. Regarding areas of key importance to social and environmental responsibility, we have also presented data on the largest commercial companies of the group and, as a natural consequence of using the Sector Supplement, on the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group. In each case, we make a clear distinction by specifically indicating the LOTOS Group entity currently being discussed in the Report. Whenever we refer to the largest commercial companies of the LOTOS Group (both in terms of revenue and head count), this applies to LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil and LOTOS Paliwa. The largest companies of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group which are active in the exploration and production business include, after the parent – LOTOS Petrobaltic (operating in Poland), – LOTOS Geonafta in Lithuania and LOTOS Norge in Norway. The Report also considers another vital company of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group, Energobaltic, which is a CHP operator in Władysławowo. Since the reporting for the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group is still in its initial stage, it has not been possible to present all results of the companies covered by the Report in a uniform and consistent manner. However, given the challenges of sustainable development that lie ahead for the production business, we decided to present the collected data anyway. In the previous reporting period, no material changes or other circumstances occurred with respect to the LOTOS Group’s entities which would affect the overall assessment of the organization, either in terms of its individual activities or in comparison with its domestic peers. GRI indicators as reported by the LOTOS Group companies: LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Paliwa, and the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group (2) (LOTOS Petrobaltic, LOTOS Geonafta, LOTOS Norge, Energobaltic) GRI indicators reported GRI aspects in 2013 Subsidiaries LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS EN26 Products a nd Petroba ltic, LOTOS Geona fta , LOTOS Norge services EN27 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Tra nsport EN29 Petroba ltic (group) Custom er hea lth PR1 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa a nd sa fety LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Process sa fety OG13 Petroba ltic Product a nd PR3, PR5 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa service la beling PR6 LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa Ma rketing com m unica tions PR7 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa Custom er priva cy PR8 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa Com plia nce PR2, PR4, PR9 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Kolej Biodiversity EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, OG4 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Petroba ltic Emissions, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, effluents, LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) EN22, EN23, OG5, OG7 and waste Indirect LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS econom ic EC9 Petroba ltic, LOTOS Geona fta im pa cts 29 Com plia nce PR2, PR4, PR9 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Kolej Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Biodiversity EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, OG4 LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Petroba ltic Emissions, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, effluents, LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) EN22, EN23, OG5, OG7 and waste Indirect LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS econom ic EC9 Petroba ltic, LOTOS Geona fta im pa cts Loca l OG11 LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) com m unity Reserves OG1 LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) Ma teria ls EN1 LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) Energy EN3, EN4 LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) Wa ter EN8, EN9 LOTOS Petroba ltic (group) LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Ma rket presence EC5, EC6, EC7 Petroba ltic (group) LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS LA1, LA2, LA8, LA13, LA14 Petroba ltic (group) , LOTOS-Air BP Polska Em ploym ent LA1, LA2, LA8 LOTOS Pa liwa LOTOS Asfa lt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Pa liwa , LOTOS Hum a n rights HR1, HR2 Petroba ltic (group) (2) Whenever results are reported for all companies, ‘LOTOS Petrobaltic (group)’ is listed. However, when not all companies of this group report the given indicator, the names of individual entities reporting the indicator are listed. The Annual Report for 2013 accounts for a total of 87 GRI indicators. We decided to discontinue reporting of 9 indicators: HR5, HR9, HR10, HR11, EN2, OG2, OG3, OG9 core indicators, and the HR9 additional indicator, as the issues they cover were deemed immaterial to our organization. An index for looking up specific performance indicators and descriptive parts relating to specific issues discussed in this Report is included in the GRI and UN Global Compact Content Index ( link), in the “Useful information” section of this Report. 30 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Auditing and reviews Independent auditors' opinion of Ernst & Young Audit Sp. z o.o. regarding the Financial statements of Grupa LOTOS for 2012. 31 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 32 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Independent auditors' opinion of Ernst & Young Audit Sp. z o.o. regarding the Consolidated financial statements of the LOTOS Group for 2012. 33 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 34 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 35 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Independent Assurance Report of PwC 36 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 37 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Awards and distinctions In 2013, LOTOS Group companies received numerous awards and distinctions in key areas such as corporate management, CSR and product and service quality. Management quality 1. Paweł Olechnowicz, President and CEO of Grupa LOTOS, was given a prestigious Manager Award, a distinction awarded by Business Magazine to m anagers that are seen to be setting the tone for the Polish econom y. The Manager Award jury is presided over by the President of the Polish Cham ber of Com m erce and is given in recognition of outstanding achievem ents m ade by com pany m anagers. 2. Paweł Olechnowicz, President and CEO of Grupa LOTOS, was also awarded the Man of Energy title by the Nowy Przem ysł m onthly and the wnp.pl website. Mr. Olechnowicz was am ong 12 people whose work, ideas and beliefs have had a considerable im pact on the Polish energy and fuel sector over the last 10 years and have stood the test of tim e. 3. Grupa LOTOS took the top position in the 2012 Pillars of Polish Economy ranking, in the Province of Gdańsk. The ranking was com piled by Puls Biznesu daily’s editorial team , under the honorary patronage of the Ministry of the State Treasury, Polish Investm ents Program m e, and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Developm ent. The winner was selected by the representatives of local governm ents. 4. Grupa LOTOS was ranked first by the Accounting and Taxation Institute, the organizer of The Best Annual Report com petition, in two categories: The 2012 Best Annual Report and The Internet Annual Report. 5. Grupa LOTOS ranked second am ong the 500 largest Polish companies of the 500 List, a periodic ranking of the com panies from the industrial, trading and services sectors, com piled by the Polityka weekly. The Com pany’s position in the m ain ranking was based on the criterion of revenue, which in 2012 cam e in at PLN 33.1bn. Grupa LOTOS has been ranked fifth am ong the 100 largest exporters. In 2012, the LOTOS Group posted export revenue in excess of PLN 8.9bn. The Com pany was also sixth am ong the 500 largest com panies of Central and Eastern Europe in a ranking published by COFACE. The position in the region was also based on the criterion of revenue. 6. Four Forbes' Diamonds were awarded to LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Term inale, LOTOS Serwis, and LOTOS Lab. Forbes m agazine, together with the business intelligence agency Bisnode Polska, com piled their seventh list of com panies with the fastest value growth. 7. Grupa LOTOS received the ‘Outstanding Contribution to the Downstream Industry Award’ of the World Refining Association for the best refinery in Central and Eastern Europe. Corporate Social Responsibility 1. Grupa LOTOS received the CSR Golden Leaf in the second ranking of com panies whose CSR policies adhere to the ISO 26000 standard, com piled by the Polityka weekly and PwC. 2. Grupa LOTOS was distinguished as ‘The Best Employer 2013’ in the XXL Com panies category. The ‘Best Em ployer’ survey was conducted by Aon Hewitt, based on a com plex m ethodology, encom passing questionnaires m easuring em ployee satisfaction and engagem ent, as well as an assessm ent of the HR practices in place at a given com pany. 3. Grupa LOTOS received the title of the '2013 Human Resources Management Leader' and a Golden 38 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statuette for outstanding achievem ents in all HR m anagem ent areas, awarded by the Institute of Labour and Social Studies. 4. Grupa LOTOS took eighth place overall in the 7th Responsible Companies Ranking, and second in the Industry category (Fuel, Energy, Mining). The Responsible Com panies Ranking draws on a com prehensive list of the largest com panies in Poland, assessing them for the quality of their Corporate Social Responsibility m anagem ent. The authors of the ranking are representatives of the Business Ethics Centre of Akadem ia Leona Koźm inskiego (Kozm inski University) and the Dziennik Gazety Prawnej daily, while PwC is responsible for checking and verification. Patronage of the ranking is held by the Responsible Business Forum . 5. In the 11th edition of the Responsible Business in Poland ranking. Good Practices Report, published by the Responsible Business Forum , three practices adopted by Grupa LOTOS were cited. These were: public consultations on the Code of Ethics; stakeholders’ involvem ent in form ulating a revised CSR strategy, and the use of natural gas as a heating and process fuel in Grupa LOTOS. The Com pany was also presented with a statuette to m ark the five years of its cooperation with the Responsible Business Forum . 6. Grupa LOTOS was declared 'A Well-Perceived Company' in the 4th edition of a com petition organised by the Business Centre Club. The Com pany was awarded in two categories – strategy and com m unication. The purpose of the com petition is to honour com panies which conduct their business in a socially-responsible m anner and prom ote knowledge of CSR and effective m ethods of its com m unication. The com petition was organised under the honorary patronage of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. 7. Grupa LOTOS has been included in the 6th and 7th edition of the RESPECT Index of the m ost socially responsible WSE-listed com panies. The Com pany has been part of the Index since its creation in 2009. 8. ‘The White and Green Future with LOTOS’ CSR Program m e, run by Grupa LOTOS and the Lechia Gdańsk Football Academ y, won the Septem ber’s edition of the Responsible Initiative of the Month com petition, organised by the CSR.pl website. 9. Grupa LOTOS received a statuette of the 2013 Patron of Culture, awarded by the Mayor of Jasło to com panies that provide considerable support for cultural events organised in Jasło. 10. Grupa LOTOS was awarded the ‘Leader of Safety in the Industry’ title by the insurance com pany PZU at the Risk Engineering Days conference. Quality of products and services 1. The LOTOS brand received a prestigious Business Superbrand 2013 award in the 7th edition of the Superbrand contest for the strongest brands in Poland. The award was granted in the corporate brand category. The Superbrands title, awarded for 17 years in over 87 countries, is granted by Superbrands Ltd., an independent international organization. The purpose of the initiative is to prom ote and award brands that achieved success on the m arket thanks to their unique qualities. 2. During the Ninth Autostrada-Polska Trade Fair in Kielce, LOTOS Asfalt won a medal in the Technology category for its rubber m odified bitum en, a product only recently introduced to the Polish m arket. The product was recognised for its innovativeness and excellent properties in practical applications. Grupa LOTOS’s refinery in Gdańsk is the first in Poland to m anufacture bitum en m odified with rubber from recycled tyres. The technology em ployed by Grupa LOTOS allows for a broad range of applications for the product, in construction of hard-wearing and environm entally friendly road surfaces. The Autostrada-Polska trade fair is one of the m ost prestigious events in the road construction industry and a m eeting point for industry leaders and top industry brands. 3. LOTOS Asfalt received the 2013 Transport Innovation Award and the title of the Innovation 39 Ambassador at the Second Transport Innovation Forum . The com petition, held under the auspices Polish m arket. Technology The product category for itswas rubberrecognised m odified forbitum its innovativeness en, a productand introducedinto the recentlyproperties onlyexcellent practical applications. Polish m arket. The productGrupa was LOTOS’s refinery recognised for in itsGdańsk is the first innovativeness and Poland toproperties in excellent m anufacturein bitum en m odified with rubber from recycled tyres. The technology practical applications. Grupa LOTOS’s refinery in Gdańsk is the first in Poland to m anufacture em ployed by Grupa LOTOS Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future allows bitum en formaodified broad withrange of applications rubber from recycled for the tyres.product, in construction The technology em ployedof hard-wearing by Grupa LOTOS and environm allows forentally a broad friendly rangeroad surfaces. The of applications forAutostrada-Polska the product, in construction trade fair isofone of the m ostand hard-wearing environm entally friendly road surfaces. The Autostrada-Polska trade fair is one of theleaders prestigious events in the road construction industry and a m eeting point for industry m ost and top industryevents prestigious brands. in the road construction industry and a m eeting point for industry leaders and 3. LOTOS top industry brands. the 2013 Transport Innovation Award and the title of the Innovation Asfalt received of the Representation of the European Com m ission in Poland, Polish Cham ber of Com m erce, Ambassador at the Second Transport Innovation Forum . The com petition, held under the auspices Akadem ia Leona Koźm of the Representation ofinskiego the European(KozmCom inski m University), ission in Poland, and the Transport ChamInnovation Polish ber of ComCentre,m erce, is Akadem ia by organised the Center Leona for Analyses Koźm inskiego (Kozm Transport in inski and Infrastructure University), and the Transport to provide Centre, (CATI)Innovation recognition is to innovative enterprises. organised by the Center for Analyses in Transport and Infrastructure (CATI) to provide recognition 4. TRANSMIL to innovative XSPenterprises. oil won the Quality International 2013 Golden Badge in the QI Product category for 4. top quality goods. TRANSMIL XSP oil won This the award confirm Quality s the status International 2013of the brandBadge Golden and its the QI as in owner industry Product leaders,for category and attests to top quality its highest goods. quality This award − quality confirm s thethat is both status of thehighly brand trusted and itsand widely owner asrenowned. The industry leaders, awards and attests organised are to its highestbyquality the Ministry of Regional − quality that is both highlyent, Developm trustedKluband Polskie Forum widely ISO 9000 renowned. The awards are organised by the Ministry of Regional Developm ent, Klub Polskie Forum ISO 9000XSP is (Polish ISO 9000 Forum Club), and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Developm ent. TRANSMIL the firstISO (Polish m ineral 9000 oil available Forum Club),on and thethe global Polish arket to for mAgency m eet the stringent Enterprise Developm ent. TRANSMILRev.13 SIEMENS/FLENDER XSP is criteria. the first m ineral oil available on the global m arket to m eet the stringent SIEMENS/FLENDER Rev.13 5. Turdus criteria.Powertec 3000 10W/40 oil was awarded the Good Brand 2013 – Quality, Confidence, 5. Reputation Turdus Powertec title. The 3000 title is givenoil 10W/40 the Forum bywas awarded Biznesu the Good editorial Brand team2013 to–the best, m Quality, ost dynam ic, Confidence, and m ost recognised brands in Poland, under the auspices of Reputation title. The title is given by the Forum Biznesu editorial team to the best, m ost dynamthe Institute of Philosophy and ic, and m ost of Sociology the Polishbrands recognised Academ of Sciences. in yPoland, underTurdusthe auspicesPowertec of theis an advanced Institute and oil for sem i-synthetic of Philosophy high-power diesel engines. Sociology of the Polish Academ y of Sciences. Turdus Powertec is an advanced sem i-synthetic oil for 6. The LOTOS brand high-power dieselwas recognised as the TOP BRAND 2013 in the Engine oil category of the engines. 6. Consum The LOTOS brand 2013 er Laurel com petition. was recognised TheTOP as the was awarded title BRAND 2013 in based on a popularity the Engine oil category of theof analysis brands present on the Polish m arket, as well as their growth Consum er Laurel 2013 com petition. The title was awarded based on a popularity analysis dynam ics over the last five years. of The fact brandsthat the LOTOS present on the Polishreceived brand m arket,this high as as well distinction their growth in the engine dynam icsoils category the lastconfirm over s The five years. awareness and popularity of the brand am ong Polish custom fact that the LOTOS brand received this high distinction in the engine oils category confirm s ers. 7. The LOTOS Dynam awareness ic brandof and popularity wastheawarded brand am theong Good Polish Fuel Symbol. custom ers.The Sym bol 2013 prom otional 7. initiative The LOTOS was Dynamorganised ic brandby Monitor was awarded Rynkowy, the Gooda supplem Fuel ent to the Symbol. The Sym bolGazeta Dziennik 2013 prom Prawna daily. otional The Sym bols are awarded in recognition of achievem ents and initiative was organised by Monitor Rynkowy, a supplem ent to the Dziennik Gazeta Prawna daily. activities which stand out in the context The Symof the bols are Polish m arket. awarded The distinction in recognition is grantedents of achievem to large, reputed which and activities com panies out inboast standwhich the strong brands and m arket positions. context of the Polish m arket. The distinction is granted to large, reputed com panies which boast 8. strong Optim LOTOS brandsaand service stations m arket received a distinction in the Best Service Station of 2013 positions. 8. com LOTOS Optim in petition, the Econom a service stationsy service received station and the in a distinction Service the BeststationService categories. shopStation of 2013 Distinctions were granted to the LOTOS Optim a station in Nadarzyn and the com petition, in the Econom y service station and the Service station shop categories. Distinctions LOTOS Prem ium station located by werethegranted Opera Houseto the in Gdańsk LOTOS Optimduring the 13th a station PetroTrend in Nadarzyn Fuel and the LOTOSForum Market Prem ium. station located 9. According to research conducted by Daym aker of by the Opera House in Gdańsk during the 13th PetroTrend Fuel Market Forum . Sweden, LOTOS brand service stations offer the 9. best customer According to research quality am by service conducted ongDaymits Polish akerpeers.of Sweden,The research LOTOS was brand carried service by m ystery outstations offer the shoppers, and covered Polish shops from 125 chains, representing best customer service quality am ong its Polish peers. The research was carried out by m ystery 19 different sectors, including service shoppers, stations. The shoppers and covered evaluated Polish shops fromtheir125 surroundings, chains, representing first im19 pressions, different the knowledge staff’s including sectors, and ability service to identify stations. The shoppers er’s needs, their customevaluated as well as the overall surroundings, sales first im process pressions, andthesend-off. staff’s knowledge and ability to identify custom er’s needs, as well as the overall sales process and send-off. 40 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risks and opportunities 41 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risks and opportunities Given the extent of its business and its dynamic growth, the LOTOS Group is exposed to a variety of risks, ranging from exploration and production risks, to process risks, technical risks, market risks and financial risks. Material risks incurred by the LOTOS Group, by business segments (%) Marketing segment Management segment Operational segment Exploration and Production segment Financial segment We analyse every risk and develop appropriate mitigation strategies. Throughout 2013, we continued to implement appropriate measures in response to individual threats. Key risks in the LOTOS Group 42 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Approach to management The LOTOS Group has an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system in place, which provides the framework for our internal procedures and regulations. By implementing the ERM system, we can ensure that the impact of potential threats to achieving our business and operational objectives is being minimized and that we can effectively take advantage of newly emerging opportunities and business possibilities identified in our environment. ERM document hierarchy at the LOTOS Group The Enterprise Risk Management system is applicable to all LOTOS Group employees. Every employee can report new risks and every individual risk is managed by a risk owner. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee formulates recommendations on risk management and monitors the execution of mitigation measures. The Board of Grupa LOTOS takes key decisions regarding the ERM system and approves Risk Maps. Risk management is coordinated at all stages, from identification and assessment to response planning and execution, and finally, monitoring and reporting. Hierarchy of responsibility for enterprise risk management at the LOTOS Group 43 report new risks and every individual risk is managed by a risk owner. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee formulates recommendations on risk management and monitors the execution of mitigation measures. The Board of Grupa LOTOS takes key decisions regarding the ERM system and approves Risk Maps. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk management is coordinated at all stages, from identification and assessment to response planning and execution, and finally, monitoring and reporting. Hierarchy of responsibility for enterprise risk management at the LOTOS Group We evaluate our ERM system’s effectiveness every year, as part of our organizational maturity assessment, the conclusions and recommendations of which are used to further improve the system. A final assessment score, expressed as a percentage, reflects: the degree to which the system im plem ented in the Com pany com plies with best practices, the degree of its im plem entation. ERM score as part of the annual organizational maturity assessment Yea r Pla nned score [% ] Com plia nce with pla nned score [% ] Tota l score [% ] * 2011 97 93 90 2012 96 97 93 2013 96 97 93 * The total is the product of the planned score and the compliance score. Information on the operation of the Enterprise Risk Management System is regularly provided to the Board of Grupa LOTOS and the Audit Committee of the Company's Supervisory Board. 44 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Key instruments The methods used by the LOTOS Group to identify and assess risk remained unchanged in 2013. Risks are identified by their bearing on the organization’s strategic and operational objectives. They are then assessed in two different time frames – until the following year, and until the end of the period covered by the current strategy. The probability of a risk actually materialising is estimated using a Risk Matrix, following which an assessment is made of its possible impact on the LOTOS Group’s financial standing and reputation. This takes into consideration the predicted impact on human safety and the environment, as well as how key stakeholders may perceive the risk. Based on these criteria, risks are classified as Material, Moderate or Low. Risk Maps are developed from the risk assessment and are submitted to the Enterprise Risk Management Committee for an opinion and to the Board of Grupa LOTOS for approval. Each risk is assigned to an owner, who is responsible for its management, including its oversight and monitoring and the implementation of the recommended mitigation strategy. In addition, we prepare detailed analyses of Material risks and selected Moderate risks, which we use to develop mitigation plans and response procedures in case of their occurrence. We also define Key Risk Indicators (KRIs), which are subject to periodic monitoring and reporting. Actions mitigating key risks Enterprise Risk Management initiatives at the LOTOS Group are supported by the ERM Portal, an IT tool. Apart from recording information about risks and risk-related actions, the ERM Portal can also be used to monitor current risk indicators and the automatic flow of information on actions in progress. To better serve the needs of its users, in 2013 we updated the ERM Portal with numerous improvements and new functionalities, including a database of risks audit results, as well as a risk management chart generator. All of these initiatives were designed to improve the Enterprise Risk Management system. 45 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Implementation costs of hedging strategies The costs of hedging strategies depend on the materiality of the risk and the potential benefits derived from hedging. Whenever possible, we use the ALARP (As Low As Reasonably Practicable) principle to reduce risk to a level considered economically acceptable. Furthermore, when preparing risk analyses or action plans, potential costs are among the factors considered in making the final decision on actions necessary to be taken. This approach enables the LOTOS Group to deploy the financial resources required for risk management in the most efficient manner possible. 46 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Management Segment  Political and legal  Reputation and social risks risks  Project Risk 47 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Political and legal risks Political and legal risks are considered to be among the greatest challenges faced by companies in the oil industry. The passing and functioning of enforceable and effective laws, particularly where new business legislation is drafted not only at the national but also at the EU level, is of great importance to the entire sector. The year 2013 was a busy one for Polish lawmakers working on regulations with direct or indirect implications for the oil sector. Their work was driven by the need to implement the enacted EU directives into the national law, recognise plans for new EU regulations, and align the Polish legal framework with the new operating conditions of the Polish oil industry (including in the upstream segment). Although a lot has already been done, risks stemming from laws and government policies for the oil sector remain real. These include: Insufficient number of comprehensive regulatory frameworks and inconsistent law − the Polish oil sector is regulated under m ultiple legal acts, com pliance with which is overseen by different m inistries, and this ham pers the industry's sm ooth functioning. Delays in the implementation of EU directives and protracted law-making processes − despite the im m ense effort of the Polish adm inistration, a num ber of EU directives still rem ain to be incorporated into national law. Moreover, m any areas are under-regulated and the legislative process is lengthy. Since the regulator is not inclined to share clear outlines of planned laws, the regulatory fram ework is a source of considerable uncertainty or significant consequences, often forcing Polish oil industry players to incur excessive costs. The Polish voice remains largely unheard in the EU arena − even though m em bers of the governm ent adm inistration m eet with representatives of the oil industry to discuss draft EU legislation, in m any cases the Polish voice has gone unheard. This stem s from , am ong other things, insufficient dialogue m aintained with other countries to work out a com m on position and prom ote certain views and initiatives. The Polish adm inistration should find ways to support not only local, but also international groups whose business goals converge with Poland's national interests. As the interests of individual EU m em ber states vary, the adopted legislation does not always correspond with the needs and expectations of the Polish refiners. Risks and opportunities related to national and EU regulations, which were the focus of attention in 2013 and which will have a bearing on the oil industry's operations in 2014. Regulations on mandatory stocks The drafting of amendments to the Act on Stocks of Crude Oil, Petroleum Products and Natural Gas, and on the Rules to be Followed in the Event of Threat to National Fuel Security or Disruptions on the Petroleum Market of February 16th 2007, was completed in 2013. The primary purpose of the amendments is to implement Council Directive 2009/119/EC imposing an obligation on Member States to maintain minimum stocks of crude oil and/or petroleum products. The draft amendment to the Act prepared by the Polish government puts in place measures beneficial to producers and importers of fuels such as a mechanism enabling companies to gradually reduce their mandatory stocks (by a total of approximately 30% by the end of 2017) in exchange for a stock charge, to be paid by the companies on a monthly basis. By reducing the volume of mandatory stocks: 48 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future an im m ense am ount of funds tied up in the stocks will be released, the com panies' balance sheets will im prove, valuations of the com panies' assets will be less affected by m arket price fluctuations, and the logistics costs and adm inistrative expenses of holding m andatory stocks will decrease. All these factors combined should have the effect of enhancing the competitiveness of Polish oil companies in global markets. The amendments also introduce long-awaited non-discriminatory rules for building and maintaining mandatory stocks, applicable to all producers and importers of crude oil and petroleum products operating in the Polish market. Regulations on hydrocarbon exploration and production Regulations on hydrocarbon exploration and production provided an important focus for Grupa LOTOS in 2013. Work on regulations governing upstream operations in Poland was accelerated by the required implementation of Directive 2009/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 23rd 2009 on the geological storage of carbon dioxide, as well as the Polish government's increased interest in developing the unconventional gas industry. The drafting of amendments to the Geological and Mining Law consisted of two parallel processes to enable faster implementation of the Directive mentioned above and to adjust the law to cover unconventional hydrocarbon exploration. Directive on carbon dioxide storage demonstration projects was implemented into Polish law by an act of September 27th 2013, which came into force on November 24th 2013. In contrast, work on new regulations regarding hydrocarbon exploration and production was at the drafting and consultation stage in 2013 and has not been completed yet. On April 23rd 2014, Polish Prime Minister passed to the Parliament the Draft Act Amending the Act Geological and Mining Law, and Certain Other Acts together with Draft Secondary Legislation, which is a huge advancement on previous proposals of hydrocarbon exploration and production regulations in Poland. However, many of its provisions could be changed to help create an even more transparent and investor-friendly regulatory framework which would be secure for our country and still conducive to effective development of the upstream sector. Issues requiring further clarification and provisions needing to be formulated more precisely or to be changed are as follows: performing geophysical surveys for hydrocarbon exploration without the need to secure a licence – the proposed provisions allow for conducting geophysical surveys also in areas covered by a hydrogen licence awarded to another entity, which denies the licence holding company its exclusive right resulting from the mining usufruct contract signed to use the given area for mining purposes; conducting exploration operations without the need to secure a licence gives rise to uncertainty as to whether the licence will be awarded after substantial expenditure has been made to complete the exploration programme. This will increase risk for the operators, and inhibit exploration activity in Poland; determining the legal status of mining usufruct in a comprehensive manner; sharing the right to geological information acquired when conducting operations in cooperation with other entities and determining who will have the right to it after the consortium has been dissolved; possibility of receiving a decision on licence award upon a request of the company without a tender; 49 determining the legal status of mining usufruct in a comprehensive manner; Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future sharing the right to geological information acquired when conducting operations in cooperation with other entities and determining who will have the right to it after the consortium has been dissolved; possibility of receiving a decision on licence award upon a request of the company without a tender; a considerably higher mineral production royalty, which will increase the costs of exploration and production operations; Key to development of the hydrogen exploration and production segment are transparent and investorfriendly regulations. The final draft passed to the Parliament takes into account the proposals and recommendations put forward to previous draft amendments to the Geological and Mining Law. In particular, the following provisions are welcome: introducing the possibility to acquire a uniform licence covering all stages of the hydrogen exploration and production programme; dropping the plans of establishing a National Energy Minerals Operator (Narodowy Operator Kopalin Energetycznych, NOKE) and its obligatory participation in all consortiums intending to conduct hydrogen exploration, appraisal and production activities; introducing the possibility of having a licence awarded to a consortium of entities interested in developing the given licence area together; the proposed amendments to the Act on the Provision of Information on the Environment and its Protection, Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Environmental Impact Assessments, as aiming for streamlining hydrogen field development programmes. EU regulations for biofuels In 2013, the European Commission and the European Parliament continued the work on amendments to Directive 2009/28/EC, proposed in 2012 by the European Commission. However, no final decisions were made. The individual Commissions, the European Parliament, the member states, as well as international industry organizations all had differing views on matters of key importance to the future of renewable energy sources in transport, which prevented a consensus. Work on the proposed amendments will continue. The European Commission's proposal to amend Directive 2009/28/EC with respect to biofuels stems from a discussion, ongoing for several years now, about the indirect impact of biofuels on changes of land use, and biofuels competing for land suitable for cultivating food crops and animal feed (Indirect Land Use Change, ILUC). Also, the Council of Ministers issued the Regulation on National Indicative Targets (NIT) for 2013-2018. It should be noted that all National Indicative Targets for 2013-2016 have been set at 7.10%. In addition, the Council of Ministers issued the Regulation on the level of the reduction rates for 2014 and 2015. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS availed itself of the right to reduce the National Indicative Targets, which helped to decrease the costs of their achievement. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) emission allowances In 2013, the EU Council approved the European Commission's proposal, earlier adopted by the European Parliament, to suspend the auction of 900m CO2 allowances in 2013-2015 (backloading). The number of allowances until 2020 is to be increased annually by the 50same amount. The purpose of these steps is to raise Also, the Council of Ministers issued the Regulation on National Indicative Targets (NIT) for 2013-2018. It should be noted that all National Indicative Targets for 2013-2016 have been set at 7.10%. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In addition, the Council of Ministers issued the Regulation on the level of the reduction rates for 2014 and 2015. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS availed itself of the right to reduce the National Indicative Targets, which helped to decrease the costs of their achievement. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) emission allowances In 2013, the EU Council approved the European Commission's proposal, earlier adopted by the European Parliament, to suspend the auction of 900m CO2 allowances in 2013-2015 (backloading). The number of allowances until 2020 is to be increased annually by the same amount. The purpose of these steps is to raise the price of emission allowances. There is a risk that the Commission will next propose a permanent removal of suspended allowances from the market. In 2013, the government continued work on the amendments to the Act on Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality, which are designed to introduce into the Polish legal system the National Reduction Target following from Article 7a of Directive 2009/28/EC. However, no transparent regulations on the methodology for calculating emission reductions have been developed so far, on either EU or national levels. This will therefore require the greater involvement of industry representatives in providing support to the state administration in the process of developing the EU and Polish laws in this area. 51 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Reputation and social risks Reputation risk stems from events that may affect the perception of the LOTOS Group and the value of the LOTOS brand. As most of the risks in each business segment may affect this perception and value of the LOTOS brand, they are evaluated in the context of both finance and reputation. As both evaluation criteria are equally important, risks with a potentially significant effect on reputation are subject to detailed analyses, and mitigation plans are developed in accordance with relevant risk management rules. Social risk relates to the environment of the LOTOS Group and its employees. In 2013, we commenced implementation of the 2013-2015 Effective and Rising Programme to increase efficiency and support the continued dynamic development of all LOTOS Group companies. However, we realize that the planned changes, in particular those involving restructuring, may give rise to concerns and the disapproval of employees and our immediate social environment. For this reason a series of meetings was held between LOTOS Group employees and the Board of Grupa LOTOS as well as the Management Boards of its subsidiaries to discuss the Programme's objectives and address any doubts and concerns. The majority of the employees who participated in these voluntary meetings expressed a good understanding of the changes being implemented at the Company. I understand the key objectives of the 2013-2015 Effective and Rising Programme (%) As the process moves forward, we continue to engage in open communication about the Programme and its individual projects. Misconduct risk is construed at the LOTOS Group to mean an intentional act or omission which constitutes a violation of the applicable laws, committed to secure unlawful gains or resulting in a loss for the Company, including any forms of corruption. To minimise this risk, we take a systematic approach to misconduct prevention, consisting in comprehensive and organized efforts to identify and assess the risk. Under the Misconduct prevention system implemented at the LOTOS Group, solutions for preventing and identifying misconduct and minimising its consequences have been put in place. The system is subject to an annual survey as part of the Company's organizational maturity assessment, the results of which testify to the effectiveness of the 52 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future As the process moves forward, we continue to engage in open communication about the Programme and its individual projects. Misconduct risk is construed at the LOTOS Group to mean an intentional act or omission which constitutes a violation of the applicable laws, committed to secure unlawful gains or resulting in a loss for the Company, including any forms of corruption. To minimise this risk, we take a systematic approach to misconduct prevention, consisting in comprehensive and organized efforts to identify and assess the risk. Under the Misconduct prevention system implemented at the LOTOS Group, solutions for preventing and identifying misconduct and minimising its consequences have been put in place. The system is subject to an annual survey as part of the Company's organizational maturity assessment, the results of which testify to the effectiveness of the solutions applied. 53 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Project Risk Project risk is related to the possibility that a given project may fail, may be delayed, or may suffer budget overruns. As we implement various significant projects, any materialisation of project risks may adversely affect our operations and financial performance as a result of budget overruns or a project's failure to bring the expected profits or to bring such profits at the expected time. In the case of key projects, materialisation of such risks may also prevent the achievement of strategic objectives. In order to minimise these risks, we have implemented uniform project management policies across the LOTOS Group. These policies require that a risk management plan is in place for each project. Individual risks related to the given project are analysed and assessed in detail, risk mitigation measures are identified, and responsibility for their implementation is assigned to specific individuals. Implementation of each project is duly monitored and reported. 54 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Exploration and Production Segment  Exploration risks  Technical and production risks  Risks related to exploration and production projects  Financial risks 55 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Technical and production risks Risk of failure of production equipment and facilities due to their limited durability or improper operation – should this risk materialise, it may result in financial losses due to production stoppages. To effectively manage this risk, we employ a number of measures, including regular overhauls and repairs, and vibration and wear measurements of bearings. We also have certification bodies to perform periodic inspections of the equipment. Risks from infrastructure operation, such as the risk of oil spill, sea collision, fire or blowout – which may cause environmental contamination, death of personnel, downsizing or stoppage of production, and entail significant costs remedying the resulting damage or paying fines. This production-related risk is a function of how well E&P infrastructure is operated, the use of appropriate technical solutions, as well as staff awareness and skills. We therefore take steps to prevent such accidents. Should they nevertheless occur, action plans have been prepared to mitigate their consequences. As a result of our approach, no such process safety events as which would meet the criteria specified in the definitions provided by API RP 754 regarding upstream activities were reported in the E&P segment in 2013. 56 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risks related to exploration and production projects Risk of limited control of joint ventures – since at least two partners are involved in such projects, there is a risk that they will not be executed in accordance with the LOTOS Group's expectations. We mitigate this risk by properly defining the acceptable conditions on which we can become involved in a project, and by vetting the other interest holders, their goals, motivation, financial standing, ownership structure and perception. For this, we rely on our in-house resources and/or business intelligence agencies. Another important thing is to properly define the common interests, analyse the legal, tax and business regulations in a due diligence process, and study the provisions of partnership agreements to ensure our interests are secured. The risk is also minimised by devising an appropriate negotiation strategy at the time of entering into a new partnership and while it continues, as well as by ongoing monitoring of contractual provisions, evaluating and approving budgets and schedules, appointing committees, and recommending decisions to be made by the relevant governing bodies. All of these steps were taken in 2013 for our licences held jointly with partners in both Norway and Poland. In Poland, one example is the operation of the B4/B6 gas fields in partnership with CalEnergy Resources. Risk of involving capital in projects which yield unsatisfactory returns – this risk is related to partnership agreements which may result in financial losses. To counteract this risk materializing, we make sure to properly define the goals and conditions on which we can participate in a project. Proper tools for assessing each such project are identified and multidisciplinary teams are set up to perform its economic, legal, tax or technical analyses. Risk of failure to fully recover funds invested in the Yme project – given the significance of the Yme project, we have brought it under special supervision. We are implementing a number of measures mitigating the attendant risks. Currently, efforts are being made to sell the interests in the Yme field. We have defined two sub-projects – removal of the MOPU (Mobile Offshore Production Unit) from the field and submission of a new Yme field development plan to Norway's Ministry of Petroleum and Energy to raise the value of the interests we intend to sell. To mitigate the associated risk, an agreement was signed with SBM, the MOPU's manufacturer, in which SBM agreed to cover the costs of the unit's removal from the field, and paid compensation to the consortium members. In 2013, we also held a process to select a contractor for the MOPU's removal. We evaluated the quality of work performed by the operator, helped to build an agreement between those partners that were not consortium operators to strengthen our position, engaged international advisers and, to ensure we have greater control, seconded one of our employees to the operator. We also held talks with the Norwegian authorities to clearly confirm the intention of continuing our activities on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, outlining the planned steps. Risk of bad weather conditions – this is a crucial risk factor in a marine environment, which may delay projects and, in extreme cases, force us to suspend production. To minimise the adverse effect of this risk, systems are deployed to monitor weather conditions and trigger appropriate safety procedures when necessary. 57 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Financial risks The segment's most significant risks in 2013 included risks associated with macroeconomic conditions, limited availability of funding for investments, and changes in legal regulations, including tax legislation. These are described in detail in the section on risks of the financial segment. (more information) 58 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Operating segment  Technical risk  Risk of unavailability or limited availability of natural gas  Work safety risk  Risks related to carbon dioxide (CO2)  Environmental risks emission allowance limits  Risk related to legislative changes with respect to REACH  Risk of introduction of stricter quality requirements for petroleum products 59 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Technical risk Technical risk is related to the possibility of occurrence of serious industrial failures or irreparable damage to infrastructure. Any materialisation of this risk may seriously affect our operations and financial performance by necessitating additional expenditure on repair or replacement of installations or equipment, or by causing disruptions to the production process. A number of measures are implemented within the LOTOS Group to mitigate the risk. We prioritise installations and equipment based on their criticality. The technologies and equipment which we use are in line with the Best Available Techniques (BAT). We have emergency shutdown systems in place to prevent uncontrollable escalation of incidents, and our process units are also fitted with their own safety and protection systems. In addition, in order to raise standards for assessment of the technical condition of high-pressure installations and equipment, we commenced implementation of the Risk-Based Inspection method, which utilises risk assessment principles. We are also working on implementing the Risk-Based Work Selection method, which involves plant engineering planning based on previous risk analyses for individual units. Having implemented these methodologies, we will be able to manage the Grupa LOTOS infrastructure in a better and more efficient way. In 2013, we carried out the Spring 2013 Overhaul Shutdown, during which thousands of different tasks were performed, and a total of over five thousand pieces of equipment were examined, repaired or replaced. The overhaul shutdown also provided an opportunity to carry out all the necessary inspections and tests of installations and equipment subject to certification by the Office of Technical Inspection. All the apparatus and piping required to meet the Office of Technical Inspection's standards successfully did so and obtained relevant validation extensions, which improved the refinery's process safety (more information). It should be noted that no such process safety events as which would meet the criteria specified in the definitions provided by API RP 754 were reported at Grupa LOTOS's refinery in Gdańsk in 2013. 60 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk of unavailability or limited availability of natural gas Risk of unavailability or limited availability of natural gas – Currently, natural gas is the refinery's main energy carrier; through the refinery's fuel gas network it is fed to process furnaces and, separately, to the CHP plant. Natural gas is also a feedstock processed at two hydrogen production plants. If the risk materialises, it could temporarily affect sales of selected products and result in higher operating costs. To reduce the potential impact of this risk, we continue to maintain infrastructure allowing us to revert to the fuels which we used before natural gas was introduced at the refinery. 61 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Work safety risk Work safety risk relates to potential occurrence of accidents and other threats involving exposure of employees to dangerous and onerous factors. We continuously improve and implement new technical and organizational measures in order to ensure safe working conditions for anyone visiting the premises or working there for the Company. Grupa LOTOS's internal requirements in this respect are communicated to its trading partners via a dedicated website. Relevant rules of conduct are regularly monitored for compliance and post-inspection requirements are enforced. Education programmes are also operated to raise the employees' awareness of safety standards and to encourage them to observe these standards at work (more information). 62 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risks related to carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowance limits Risks related to carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowance limits involve insufficient allocation of CO2 emission allowances, which would force the Company to incur certain costs in order to purchase a sufficient number of allowances. 2013 was the first year of operation of the National Allocation Plan 2013-2020 (phase three NAP), and was in many respects an unusual year. Thus far, oil refineries had been allocated allowances on the basis of their throughput capacity utilization. Starting from 2013, for the first time refineries were to be assigned allowances calculated using the CWT (Complexity Weighted Tonnage) benchmarking. Another unusual development was that the European Commission not only declined to approve free allocation of allowances to installations covered by the Emission Trading Scheme, but also, from time to time, changed the general rules of such allocation. Therefore, Grupa LOTOS, just like other EU ETS participants, faced the risk of having to make decisions without knowing the precise rules. According to information from the Ministry of Environment, Grupa LOTOS is going to be assigned 1,521,342 CO2 emission allowances to cover its emissions for 2013, and will be granted 11,303,332 allowances for the entire 2013-2020 trading period. This, as we are already aware, will result in a shortage of allowances and the Company will have to purchase them from other participants of the scheme. With a view to minimising the volume of additional emission allowance purchases, in recent years we have embarked on a number of projects, such as switchover to natural gas as the fuel used for power generation and as the key feedstock in hydrogen production; recovery of flare gases; upgrades of process furnaces, and implementation of a continuous energy efficiency improvement programme for the refinery's production units. 63 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Environmental risks Environmental risks relate to the potential adverse environmental impact of Grupa LOTOS. The environmental risks are interrelated with a number of other risks, in particular the technical and process risks, whose materialization may cause a threat to the environment (through increased emission of flue gases, ground leakage of hydrocarbons, etc.). For these reasons, each risk we identify is assessed also in terms of potential damage to the environment, and appropriate preventive measures are put in place. In addition, to ensure compliance with all environmental regulations and standards, we monitor the national and community laws on a daily basis, and where possible actively participate in the legislative process. Applications for any requisite permits and decisions are made well in advance, in consideration of the risk that administrative proceedings may last longer than expected. 64 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk related to legislative changes with respect to REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) Risk related to legislative changes with respect to REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) – at present, this risk is particularly related to the possibility of placing the EDC (1,2– dichloroethane) solvent, used by Grupa LOTOS, on the list of priority substances to be included in Annex XIV to the REACH Regulation. If this solvent is finally listed in Annex XIV, a permit for its use will have to be sought. Therefore, we have taken a number of measures to minimise the risk in this respect. In 2013, we joined the EDC DU Consortium, an association of EDC users. The association will develop the documentation necessary to apply for the permit. An in-house project to coordinate the actions described above was also launched. In parallel, relevant installations are being upgraded with a special focus on the impact of regulatory changes on the use of the EDC solvent. 65 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk of introduction of stricter quality requirements for petroleum products Risk of introduction of stricter quality requirements for petroleum products – this risk involves potential difficulties in ensuring timely compliance with future quality standards. To mitigate this risk, we are monitoring proposed new standards and regulations which have a bearing on our production and trading operations; we closely follow the relevant plans of various authorities, institutions and international organizations such as the European Commission or the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Our work on Technical Committee 222 at the Polish Committee for Standardisation, responsible for petroleum products and process liquids, has provided us with an opportunity to voice our opinions on the proposed European standards during their drafting. We also have a say on quality requirements, in particular requirements applicable to engine fuels, through our participation in the work of the Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Trade (POPiHN). 66 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Financial segment Grupa LOTOS operates a Financial Risk Management Office responsible for coordinating and supervising steps taken to ensure that decisions made by LOTOS Group companies are optimised in terms of financial risks. The aim of these efforts is to ensure that the financial risk management policy is up-to-date, coherent and consistent with Grupa LOTOS’s strategic objectives, and to provide for the efficiency, effectiveness and operational security of the financial risk management process. The Company has also established a Price Risk and Trading Committee, whose tasks include supervision and coordination of price risk management at Grupa LOTOS in relation to prices of crude oil, petroleum products (including biofuels and biocomponents), natural gas and other raw materials, as well as prices of carbon emission allowances and electricity. In order to ensure that financial risks are effectively managed and to minimise the risk of error, all data used to support the assessment process are thoroughly verified, and the decisions made are based on in-depth analyses in accordance with risk management policy, limit structure and operating procedures. Financial risk management policies, instruments and the impact of key risk factors on individual items of our financial results are presented in the consolidated financial statements. (see Notes to the consolidated financial statements)  Feedstock and petroleum products price  Risk related to prices of carbon (CO2) risk allowances  Liquidity risk  Currency risk  Interest rate risk  Risk of limited access to external financing or changes in lending terms  Counterparty credit risk in financial  Credit risk in trade transactions transactions  Risk of adverse changes in tax regulations, interpretations or court rulings 67 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Feedstock and petroleum products price risk Feedstock and petroleum products price risk – to manage the risk, we continue work to develop a new risk management policy. Our efforts in this respect depend on implementation of the Energy Trading and Risk Management (ETRM) system. In 2012, work on implementation of the Allegro 8.0 system began; the project is to be completed in 2014. 68 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk related to prices of carbon (CO2) allowances Risk related to prices of carbon (CO 2) allowances – in 2013, Grupa LOTOS managed phase III of the EU CO2 Emissions Trading Scheme covering the 2013-2020 trading period. Given the lack of liquidity on the futures market and the instability of the underlying position in the period until 2020, the end of the risk management period for the risk related to the prices of CO 2 emission allowances in phase III was set for the end of 2019. However, with the passage of time, the risk management period will be extended until 2020. For detailed information on exposure and derivative transactions open as at December 31st 2013, see the consolidated financial statements. (more information) 69 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Liquidity risk Liquidity risk – this is one of the key risks to the security of the Company’s operations, and involves its ability to discharge all liabilities in a timely manner. Liquidity is managed for the entire LOTOS Group based on current liquidity forecasts. The process consists in using an appropriate selection of financial instruments (including cash pooling and diversified sources of financing), optimising the working capital position (including payment terms at LOTOS Group companies and under trading contracts) and applying IT solutions to improve the security and effectiveness of the process. 70 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Currency risk Currency risk – this risk is managed based on the Strategy of Currency Risk Management at Grupa LOTOS. The US dollar (USD) is the currency of the market on which we operate. Thus we have a structurally long position in US dollars. The US dollar was chosen as the most adequate currency for contracting and repaying long-term facilities, including those used to finance the 10+ Programme. The LOTOS Group operates a group bank, which allows the LOTOS Group companies to enter into FX transactions with Grupa LOTOS, improving the effectiveness of currency risk management. 71 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Interest rate risk Interest rate risk − this risk is related to the expected schedule of payments under the loans taken out to finance inventories and the 10+ Programme, with the resulting interest accruing at the USD LIBOR floating rate. 72 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk of limited access to external financing or changes in lending terms Risk of limited access to external financing or changes in lending terms − this risk is minimised by maintaining relationships with a diversified group of creditworthy partners, use of a wide range of financial instruments, fulfilment of disclosure obligations, as well as monitoring of and compliance with financial ratios, covenants and any other obligations towards the banks. The financial position and overall standing of the banks providing financing for the LOTOS Group are also monitored, as are any factors driven by developments on the global financial markets that may threaten the LOTOS Group's ability to raise financing. The risk of limiting financing for our investment projects is particularly significant in the case of our exploration and production segment. As the risk depends on the quality of particular projects, each project is prepared with due care, in accordance with pre-defined rules. As part of ongoing risk management, a project's readiness for financing is determined by assessing its technical, organizational, legal, administrative and financial maturity. Next, the banking market is surveyed to determine availability and terms of financing. The most recent large exploration and production project for which financing was raised was the development of the B8 field. The financing for the project was arranged from both commercial banks and other financing institutions (Polskie Inwestycje Rozwojowe Polish Investments for Development). 73 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Counterparty credit risk in financial transactions Counterparty credit risk in financial transactions – we limit this risk by entering into transactions only with financial institutions or companies holding the minimum acceptable credit rating assigned by rating agencies, or holding appropriate guarantees (if they do not hold their own credit ratings at the required levels) issued by a financial institution or company holding the minimum acceptable credit rating assigned by credit agencies and meeting the requirements adopted by Grupa LOTOS and resulting from contractual obligations. Credit limits in financial transactions are determined by reference to the Company's equity and a ratio calculated based on agency credit ratings updated on an ongoing basis. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. 74 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Credit risk in trade transactions Credit risk in trade transactions − The LOTOS Group operates an internal procedure for verifying the creditworthiness of trading partners seeking an open credit limit. Grupa LOTOS grants such limits based on assessment of partners’ creditworthiness, taking into account the available data and information. The final decision on the amount of trade credit limit is made by persons responsible for credit decisions in line with their assigned responsibilities. The utilisation of credit limits is monitored on an ongoing basis. 75 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk of adverse changes in tax regulations, interpretations or court rulings Risk of adverse changes in tax regulations, interpretations or court rulings – this risk may result in higher tax burden (excise duty, property tax, CIT), and give rise to tax risk in transactions where such risk was previously non-existent. Differing legal interpretations of the tax regulations lead to uncertainty, and in international trading may affect our credibility and force us to withdraw from valuable projects. The level of tax risk faced by businesses in Poland is high, and continues to grow. One of the risk factors is non-observance by the legislator of the principle of vacatio legis when enacting amendments to tax laws. This prevents businesses from adjusting to the new requirements in time and may expose them to the risk of additional costs or sanctions. Where a tax risk arises from possible disparate interpretations of a law, we request the Minister of Finance to present a binding interpretation of such law. As a member of respectable organizations of employers and entrepreneurs, we also voice our opinions on proposed bills and are thus able to respond appropriately to the changing legal environment. In light of the numerous changes in interpretation of the tax laws and the introduction of new regulations, we regularly update our internal procedures to ensure compliance with legal requirements and to identify and mitigate any tax risks, particularly their effect on the LOTOS Group's financial statements. The risk related to changes in legislation, including in tax laws, is particularly important in our exploration and production business as it may hurt our profits and delay project implementation. We monitor the legal environment in Poland, in other EU countries, and in Norway (we operate in countries with stable tax regimes and high standards, hence the risk of sudden changes is limited). We take part in public and industry consultations on drafts of legal acts, we consult legal and tax advisers when assessing the effects of proposed changes and drafting commentaries and remarks regarding legal acts, and we are also engaged in lobbying activities. In 2013, we undertook a range of activities which resulted in the development of more favourable solutions compared with the originally proposed provisions of the law on new hydrocarbon tax, and in the proposal of numerous amendments to the mining and geological law. 76 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Marketing segment  Risks related to diversification of supply  Competition risk sources  Risk of decline in domestic demand  Risk from grey market  Risk related to sea freight expansion safety 77 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risks related to diversification of supply sources Risks related to diversification of supply sources − at Grupa LOTOS, feedstock is supplied mainly via a system of pipelines and by sea, which means that the key risks in this area lie in the political situation of the countries exporting crude oil and the condition of the infrastructure. We are consistently pursuing our policy to diversify the directions and sources of our crude oil supplies by focusing on the following aspects: supply security − through progressive expansion of our presence on the international oil m arkets, regular contracting of various crudes transported by sea, creating conditions to radically increase the share of such crudes in total supplies to the refinery in case of any disruption of supplies from the m ain im port m arket, and expanding the share of our own production in total feedstock volum es. im provem ent of com petitive position − by fully capitalising on the coastal location of the refinery in Gdańsk and the possibility of sourcing crude supplies through two independent channels: Russian oil through the Druzhba Pipeline and various types of oil through Naftoport (an offshore oil term inal). The appropriate selection of crude types and supply directions is a result of continuous efforts to maximise the integrated margin. 78 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Competition risk Competition risk – as market conditions need to be factored into the pricing policy, this type of risk may lead to erosion of margins and profits. Risk factors here include the unrelenting price competition on the fuel market, and also the strong volatility of global macroeconomic conditions. We are continuously refining our tools for monitoring variables affecting prices and margins. In retail sales, we are pursuing market diversification, including diversification into segments less prone to competition-induced margin erosion, as well as other initiatives aimed at winning and retaining customers. 79 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk of decline in domestic demand Risk of decline in domestic demand − due, among other things, to macro factors, such as economic slowdown, decline in investments, and shrinking industrial output. Various factors, such as growing unemployment, could adversely affect consumption of our products and services. Therefore we use a variety of distribution channels to sell our products while pursuing a pricing policy designed to ensure they remain competitive, and seek to optimise our operating expenses. Gasoline and diesel oil consumption in Poland in 2011-2013 [’000 tonnes] 2011 2012 2013 Source: In-house analysis on the basis of Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Trade (POPiHN) data. 80 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk from grey market expansion Risk from grey market expansion − in recent years, Poland has seen an increase in illegal trade, especially of diesel oil and gasoline, which significantly affects the LOTOS Group’s sales. According to the Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Trade (POPiHN), the resulting losses to legitimate businesses may continue to grow. Whether the situation improves will depend chiefly on new legal regulations, which are now being developed by the government. The legislative work is being supported by POPiHN, in which we are working with the other member companies to support and fund initiatives aimed at supplying market data and analyses that could later be used to assess the size of the grey market and the associated risks. 81 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Risk related to sea freight safety Risk related to sea freight safety − we put in place measures designed to mitigate the risk of an environmental disaster in the event of hydrocarbon spills from ship tankers. We have established relationships with providers of maritime transport services which operate fleets meeting high technical standards and which observe maritime conventions. The shipping companies we work with meet very strict requirements regarding safety and prevention of accidents at sea. Moreover, in 2013 we evaluated the possibility of implementing much more stringent safety standards in the area of sea freight at our organization. 82 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Beata Ossowska-Lango Internal Audit Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, President of the Ethics Committee, CSR Strategy Leader for ethics and corporate misconduct prevention Increasing our organization’s resistance to misconduct by 2015 is part of the key objective of the LOTOS Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy. This objective is to improve management by ensuring ethical conduct and the transparency of business processes, as well as protecting the organization against the risk of irregularities that may threaten its operations. We plan to achieve this through our Ethical Conduct Increasing our organization’s Programme and Misconduct Risk Management Programme. resistance to m isconduct by 2015 is part of the key As of the beginning of 2013, the key document of the Ethical Conduct objective of the LOTOS Programme, the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics, became effective. The Board of Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy. This Grupa LOTOS also decided on relevant institutional solutions to ensure efficient objective is to im prove implementation and operations of the Programme, in the form of the Ethics m anagem ent by ensuring Committee and the Ethics Officer. Among the earliest steps taken by the newly ethical conduct and the appointed Ethics Committee was inviting the employees to take part in public transparency of business consultations on the current status of ethical culture within our organization and processes, as well as the type of Ethics Officer selection process preferred by them. Over five hundred protecting the organization LOTOS Group employees participated in the consultations. against the risk of irregularities that m ay The vast majority declared that the Company’s efforts to develop the desired threaten its operations. We ethical corporate culture were suitable, and that ethical culture itself was plan to achieve this through essential in their everyday work. Last year’s comprehensive communication and our Ethical Conduct Program m e and Misconduct education programmes for all LOTOS Group employees certainly helped to bring Risk Managem ent about these positive results. We also began promoting our values and principles Program m e. of ethical business conduct among our key trading partners. In 2012, before the enactment of the Code of Ethics, we developed and published another important document, the Misconduct Prevention Policy. We Beata Ossowska-Lango appointed persons coordinating and responsible for misconduct prevention Internal Audit Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, President of the Ethics Committee, CSR activities, and established channels for reporting suspected misconduct, as well as Strategy Leader for ethics and corporate appropriate organizational arrangements and processes. Furthermore, education misconduct prevention and awareness initiatives were undertaken amongst staff, focusing on misconduct prevention and the relevance of the system. In 2013, we conducted a periodic assessment of the risk of misconduct in individual processes, the aim of which was to find out where the risk was the highest from the perspective of the Company as a whole. Based on the assessment, processes to be thoroughly inspected in the near future were selected. In line with the adopted Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy until 2015, we intend to introduce the comprehensive misconduct risk management process throughout the LOTOS Group. What distinguishes our efforts within the misconduct prevention system is transparency in communication related to both programmes. Key documents and 83 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future channels for reporting suspected misconduct have been published and we also openly communicate ethical issues throughout our supply chain. This approach complies with LOTOS ethical values, originating in the Company’s culture and the concept of corporate social responsibility. Our efforts were reflected in the relatively high score achieved in the organizational maturity assessment of Grupa LOTOS. This was largely the result of steps taken in the last few years, designed to secure the company’s value and operations, demonstrated through the effectively working internal control system and corporate governance solutions intended to ensure compliance. 84 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Misconduct prevention system Ethical issues and misconduct prevention form an area covered by the LOTOS Group Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy for 2012-2015, approved by the Board of Grupa LOTOS in 2012. For this area, the following key objective was defined: to improve management by ensuring ethical conduct and the transparency of business processes, as well as protecting of the organization against the risk of irregularities that may threaten its operations. With a view to achieving this objective, in 2012 the LOTOS Group implemented a misconduct prevention system, which undergoes constant development. The system is rooted in, and further refined, based on Managing the Business Risk of Fraud: A Practical Guide – a manual prepared by the Institute of Internal Auditors, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners. The prevention system in place at the LOTOS Group is geared towards ensuring an optimum degree of resistance to misconduct. Resistance to misconduct is achieved by companies which utilise their awareness of real and perceived misconduct threats arising in the course of their operations to implement and apply the solutions that are best adapted to the scale and nature of the risk, and that are geared towards preventing, detecting and responding to such threats. The purpose of these efforts is to secure the organization's ability to: m itigate the risk of m isconduct, reduce the harm ful effects of m isconduct, gather resources which will accelerate the organization's return to its pre-m isconduct state. The implementation of a comprehensive misconduct risk management system has been confirmed as a valid course of action by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners in its 2012 Report to the Nations, which presented the results of research into the nature and scale of misconduct in individual industries. Oil and gas companies rank fourth in terms of losses incurred as a result of individual cases of misconduct and second in terms of the number of corruption incidents. The latter accounted for some 50% of all misconduct cases. 85 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future The LOTOS Group’s misconduct prevention system has been developed based on solutions taking into account the importance and effectiveness of internal auditing procedures and independent reviews carried out by management staff. This is in compliance with the approach presented by the results of the ACFE report and in line with the best market practice. With this in mind, we decided to incorporate misconduct prevention into our enterprise risk management procedure. We construe misconduct as an intentional act or omission which constitutes a violation of the applicable laws, committed to secure unlawful gains or resulting in a loss for the Company, including any forms of corruption. The Ethical Conduct Programme and the Misconduct Risk Management Policy in place at the LOTOS Group serve to mitigate the risk of misconduct. By comprehensively pursuing these programmes, we intend to safeguard the Company's reputation and assets, as well as to ensure that our decisions are effective and enhance the value of the Company. The Ethical Conduct Programme is pursued with the use of the Code of Ethics, the Ethics Officer and the Ethics Hotline, and by promoting awareness of and communication of ethical issues. The purpose of these efforts is to encourage the LOTOS Group's employees to behave in accordance with an appropriate ethical culture. Elements of the Ethical Conduct Programme The centrepiece of the Ethical Conduct Programme is the LOTOS Group's Code of Ethics, which has been in force since January 2013. The Ethical Conduct Programme is overseen by the President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, the Ethics Committee, and the Ethics Officer. 86 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future The centrepiece of the Ethical Conduct Programme is the LOTOS Group's Code of Ethics, which has been in force since January 2013. The Ethical Conduct Programme is overseen by the President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, the Ethics Committee, and the Ethics Officer. The Ethics Committee is a body assigned to support the work of the Ethical Conduct Programme to develop a corporate culture based on ethical values. The Committee is composed of widely respected representatives of each of the LOTOS Group's operating segments. The responsibilities of the Ethical Officer include promoting knowledge of the Code of Ethics, providing support in discussing ethical dilemmas voiced by employees, and organizing the process of reporting and investigating violations of the Code. Ethics education plays a key role in developing desirable attitudes, by familiarising the recipients of the Code of Ethics with its provisions and educating them on proper ethical conduct in specific business situations. In 2013, we pursued a number of initiatives aimed at increasing the awareness and knowledge of business ethics at the LOTOS Group, which included: Discussing ethical issues as part of the training for newly hired em ployees; Organizing voluntary 'The LOTOS Group Ethical Principles in Practice' workshops for em ployees and m anagem ent personnel; Organizing m eetings with the LOTOS Group's m anagem ent staff to discuss the im plem entation of the Code of Ethics; Incorporating the issue of business ethics into regular com m unication both at the LOTOS Group and with the LOTOS service station operators. Ethics education at the LOTOS Group in 2013 Num ber of newly hired em ployees tra ined 56 Num ber of pa rticipa nts of the 'The LOTOS Group Ethica l Principles in Pra ctice' workshops 69 Num ber of m a na gem ent sta ff pa rticipa ting in m eetings im plem enting the Code of Ethics 282 Num ber of LOTOS service sta tion opera tors to whom the knowledge of ethica l issues wa s directly com m unica ted 261 The Misconduct Risk Management Policy consists in the coordination of misconduct prevention and detection measures (identification and 87 evaluation) implemented in individual business processes, misconduct prevention education, as well as Num ber of pa rticipa nts of the 'The LOTOS Group Ethica l Principles in Pra ctice' workshops 69 Num ber of m a na gem ent sta ff pa rticipa ting in m eetings im plem enting the Code of Ethics 282 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Num ber of LOTOS service sta tion opera tors to whom the knowledge of ethica l issues wa s directly com m unica ted 261 The Misconduct Risk Management Policy consists in the coordination of misconduct prevention and detection measures (identification and evaluation) implemented in individual business processes, misconduct prevention education, as well as overall assessment of the organization's resistance to misconduct. Elements of the Misconduct Risk Management Policy As in the case of the Ethical Conduct Programme, under the Misconduct Risk Management Programme we also aim to educate senior executives and managers in corporate misconduct issues. The purpose is to raise their awareness of corporate misconduct, making them realize the potential losses and risks to the organization, how it is committed, as well as how it is identified and prevented. In 2013, the operation of the LOTOS Group’s misconduct prevention system was discussed, with a particular emphasis on compliance with the Misconduct Prevention Policy adopted by the Board of Grupa LOTOS to define the employees’ responsibilities and methods of communicating any identified instances of misconduct, including corruption. Percentage of Grupa LOTOS employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Position type 2011 2012 2013 Ma na gem ent positions 8.9 62.5 32 Other positions 7.4 5.7 7 Channels dedicated to reporting suspected misconduct are available to all employees, as well as external stakeholders. According to the Misconduct Prevention Policy, every employee is obliged to immediately report any such suspicion. 88 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future As part of the misconduct prevention system, we conduct periodic assessments of the organization’s resistance to misconduct. The first results of this exercise were available in 2013, confirming that the measures taken are both thorough and systematic. As part of the assessment of the organization’s resistance to misconduct, we also examined the risk of corruption. In line with the adopted methodology, the heads of the Company’s organizational units were asked to comment on all processes in place at Grupa LOTOS in a questionnaire-based survey. Business units of the LOTOS Group assessed for corruption risk in 2012-2013 Tota l num ber of units 15 Percenta ge of units subject to a ssessm ent 7% One noteworthy fact is that in 2013 there was no single event resulting in dismissal or disciplinary action against an employee at the LOTOS Group on charges of corruption, nor were there any instances of a business contract not being renewed because of a breach of the rules for counteracting corruption. 89 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Value growth strategy 90 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Value growth strategy The LOTOS Group’s overarching strategic objective is to create value for shareholders by optimising its utilisation of human and material resources and by continually developing its oil exploration and production, processing and trading activities. We decided to develop these areas in accordance with the principles of sustainable growth, which we define as the continuous effort to reduce our environmental footprint, and by paying due regard to the intellectual capital and experience of our personnel. Creating LOTOS value 91 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Global macroeconomic situation GDP growth in 2012-2014 GDP growth in 2012-2013 (y-o-y change) Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 UE USA Japan China Russia w orldw ide 2012 2013E forecast 2014 EU Eurozone USA Japan OECD Source: In-house analysis based on IMF data (October 2013 and Source: In-house analysis based on Eurostat, OECD, and International January 2014). Monetary Fund data. The global economic situation in 2013 was below market expectations. The key economies of the world continued growing, often at rates lower than in previous years. Developed economies were supported by loose monetary policies and efforts to maintain market liquidity. While in 2013 the global economy continued to grow, the estimated growth rate (+3.0%) was lower than expected in the forecasts published in April and July 2013, though it did come in slightly above the October 2013 estimates. Similarly, the forecast for the 2014 global GDP growth rate has been revised upward by 0.1pp, and now stands at 3.7%. Despite a number of remedial steps and reforms undertaken in the eurozone countries, they still suffered an estimated 0.4% decline in GDP in 2013. However, the GDP growth rate in the eurozone is expected to return to the positive territory in 2014. (1) Developed countries may be expected to further stimulate economic growth with continued support from monetary policy (without further loosening), balanced fiscal policy and further structural reforms, to address key economic concerns, including unemployment. (1) World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2013 and January 2014. 92 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Macroeconomic situation in Poland 2013 proved to be another year of economic slowdown in Poland. According to preliminary estimates, in real terms Polish GDP grew by 1.6% over 2012, which is the lowest growth rate since 2009. This was chiefly attributable to weaker domestic demand, a fractional increase in sold industrial output and lower construction output. At the same time, inflation was visibly down to 0.9%. The economic slowdown in Poland in 2013 is expected to be accompanied by higher unemployment. According to market estimates, the unemployment rate as at the end of 2013 was 13.4% and remained unchanged relative to the end of 2012. In 2013, salaries and wages in manufacturing were up nearly 3% compared with 2012. 93 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Global refining market In 2013, crude oil production and processing increased worldwide. Global fuel consumption was driven chiefly by developing countries such as China and India, as well as Brazil and Russia, while fuel consumption in OECD countries fell off. Although the bulk of global demand for crude oil is satisfied by non-OECD producers, at the same time crude production has increased in OECD countries in recent years, mostly on the back of higher shale oil production in the US. Crude oil production in the European Union continues to fall, which has a negative effect on the energy security of the entire Community. Crude output (million tonnes/year) 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Global, including: OECD countries Non-OECD countries Former Soviet Union Former Soviet Union Source: In-house analysis based on BP data. Crude processing volumes ('000 bbl/day) 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Global, including: OECD countries Non-OECD countries EU countries Former Soviet Union Źródło: Opracowanie własne na podstawie danych BP. 94 Fuel consumption (million Integrated Annualtonnes/year) Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Global, including: OECD countries Non-OECD countries EU countries Former Soviet Union Source: In-house analysis based on BP data. Processing capacity utilisation (%) 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Global, including: OECD countries Non-OECD countries EU countries Former Soviet Union Source: In-house analysis based on BP data. 2013 saw a further increase in global demand for crude oil, with differences in growth rates between individual continents continuing. Global demand grew by an estimated 0.9m bbl/d, while in Europe the demand fell by 0.22m bbl/d, on the back of the lingering economic crisis in several European countries. In 2013, crude oil supplies increased globally by an estimated 1.2m bbl/d, including approximately 1m bbl/d contributed by increased production in the US and Canada. At the same time, production in the EU declined. The key drivers of the situation in the refining sector include the skyrocketing supply in North America and the increased demand seen in non-OECD countries. The rising supply accompanied by a decline in domestic consumption has transformed the United States from the largest global importer of refining products into the largest net exporter. Additionally, the shale revolution and low natural gas prices have further enhanced the competitiveness of US refineries. 95 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future European refining market In Europe, the refining sector changed significantly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis. The 2009 drop in demand for petroleum products forced European refineries to reduce their output. This coincided with the construction of several conversion projects, which meant that the gap between lowand highmargin products also began to narrow. Furthermore, the United States, the largest buyer of gasoline from Europe, reduced its imports on the back of substantial increases in its own shale oil production. All of these developments have had a negative impact on the financial situation of European manufacturers, and consequently the European downstream sector is experiencing a major crisis. Since 2009, several refineries, with a combined processing capacity of 3.7m bbl/d, have been closed down in Europe. However, this scaling back still seems insufficient, as many European refineries continue to generate low returns, with their processing capacities still relatively underutilised. A number of burdens resulting from EU legislation have been imposed on European refineries, which renders them less competitive as compared to those located outside the EU. In effect, the dip in production observed is bigger than that in demand. The shutting down of European refineries poses a risk to Europe’s energy security, rendering EU countries more dependent on imported refining products, which, in turn, may increase their susceptibility to supply disruptions and their dependence on import terminals and refining product storage facilities. Refinery shutdowns in Europe in 2011-2013 * Refinery Owner Country Capacity (’000 bbl/d) Date Ha rburg Shell Germ a ny 110 2013 Gela Eni Ita ly 105 2013 Fa lcona ra API Ita ly 83 2013 Porto Ma rghera Eni Ita ly 80 2013 Coryton Petroplus United Kingdom 220 2012 Petit Couronne Petroplus Fra nce 162 2012 Lisicha nsk Rosneft Ukra ine 160 2012 Arpechim Petrom Rom a nia 70 2012 Pa ra m o Unipetrol Czech Republic 20 2012 Rom e Tota l Ita ly 86 2012 Crem ona Ta m oil Ita ly 90 2011 * Source: www.platts.com, Insight, December 2013 The average refining capacity utilisation in Europe was 71% in October 2013, with daily output falling below 9m bbl, one of the lowest levels in recent years. This change was a result of the decrease in refining margins in H2 2013, despite a large number of overhaul shutdowns at West European refineries (especially in Belgium and Sweden). By the end of 2013, European margins had become so low that even the most efficient 96 Crem ona Ta m oil Ita ly 90 2011 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future * Source: www.platts.com, Insight, December 2013 The average refining capacity utilisation in Europe was 71% in October 2013, with daily output falling below 9m bbl, one of the lowest levels in recent years. This change was a result of the decrease in refining margins in H2 2013, despite a large number of overhaul shutdowns at West European refineries (especially in Belgium and Sweden). By the end of 2013, European margins had become so low that even the most efficient refineries were recording them in the negative. The average refining capacity utilisation in the US was 88.4% in November 2013, with several refineries brought back online following completion of their overhaul shutdowns. Erosion of the crack margin was not equally spread between all product groups. Gasoline crack proved the weakest, which was a consequence of poor macroeconomic data from the US (including depressed fuel consumption). The lowest gasoline crack margin of USD 88.84 per tonne was recorded on October 10th 2013, while the highest crack of USD 245.73 per tonne was seen on February 19th 2013; the crack change for the year was -8.4% or USD -12.9 per tonne. 2013 crack margins for other products: Diesel oil – low: USD 96.18/t (February 28th 2013), high: USD 141.86/t (January 14th 2013) – annual change: +26.9% or USD +29.3/t Jet fuel – low: USD 120.75/t (May 3rd 2013), high: USD 213.16/t (February 11th 2013) – annual change: +9.8% or USD +16.3/t Light fuel oil – low: USD 69.25/t (May 3rd 2013), high: USD 133.49/t (February 15th 2013) – annual change: +30.2% or USD +26.3/t Heavy fuel oil – low USD -293.11/t (Septem ber 6th 2013), high: USD -170.37/t (April 17th 2013) – annual change: +4.3% or USD +11.6/t. 2013 crack margins (USD/t) jan-13 feb-13 mar-13 apr-13 may-13 jun-13 jul-13 aug-13 sep-13 oct-13 nov-13 dec-13 Gasoline Diesel oil Heavy fuel oil Light fuel oil Jet fuel Source: In-house analysis based on Thomson Reuters data. As its main feedstock, Grupa LOTOS uses Russian REBCO crude (Russian Export Blend Crude Oil). Compared with the global Brent benchmark, REBCO is a heavier crude, has greater density and a higher sulfur content, and yields more middle distillates (diesel oil, aviation fuel). On the other hand, REBCO processing produces more residual fractions for use in the production of cheap heavy fuel oil. The economic viability of the Gdańsk refinery’s processing work depends heavily on the Brent/REBCO differential. Given its slightly lower quality parameters, REBCO crude is usually marginally cheaper97 than Brent. However, the differential varies from time Source: In-house analysis based on Thomson Reuters data. As its main feedstock, Integrated Annual LOTOS GrupaReport uses 2013 Russian Grupa LOTOS S.A. crude (Russian Export Blend Crude Oil). Compared REBCO Win the Future As itsthe with global main Brent benchmark, feedstock, Grupa LOTOS uses is REBCO a heavier Russian crude, REBCO greater density has (Russian crude Export Blend higherOil). and a Crude sulfur content, Compared withyields and the global middle more Brent distillates (diesel benchmark, is aaviation REBCOoil, heavierfuel). crude,On the has other density hand, REBCO greater and a processing produces higher sulfur content, more residual and yields more middlefor fractions use in the distillates production (diesel oil, aviation fuel).heavy of cheap On thefuel oil. The other economic hand, viability ofproduces the Gdańsk REBCO processing refinery’s processing more residual fractions fordepends work heavily use in the on theofBrent/REBCO production fuel oil. TheGiven cheap heavydifferential. its slightly economic lower viability quality of the Gdańsk parameters, REBCO crude refinery’s processing workisdepends heavily oncheaper usually marginally than Brent. the Brent/REBCO differential. the differential However, Given its slightlyvaries lowerfrom time quality to time and isREBCO parameters, subject to seasonality. crude With a high is usually marginally negative cheaper differential, than thewhich refineries Brent. However, differential REBCO rely onvaries crude from time record to timehigher and ismargins. subject to seasonality. With a high negative differential, refineries which rely on REBCO crude record higher margins. Urals/Brent differential in 2010-2013 130 2 120 1 110 0 Urals/Brent differential Brent Dated 100 -1 90 -2 80 -3 70 -4 60 -5 Jul '10 Jan '11 Jul '11 Jan '12 Jul '12 Jan '13 Jul '13 Dyferencjał Ural/Brent Brent Dated Source: In-house analysis based on Thomson Reuters data. Industry analysts’ predictions for the future of the European refining sector are not optimistic, as fuel consumption is expected to decline even further. This downward trend creates additional pressure on refineries, forcing them to reduce their processing costs. In this context, improvements in the refinery’s efficiency by adjusting its configuration (depth of crude processing) and optimising its units become crucial. 98 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future International fuel market (1) Global fuel consumption ('000 Forecast global fuel consumption Forecast fuel consumption in BBL/day) ('000 BBL/day) Europe ('000 BBL/day) 2011 2012 2013E 2013E 2014P 2018P 2013 2014P 2018P Gasolines Diesel oil Gasolines Diesel oil Gasolines Diesel oil Jet fuel LPG Jet fuel LPG Jet fuel LPG Light fuel oil Light fuel oil Light fuel oil Source: In-house analysis based on JBC data, Source: In-house analysis based on JBC data, Source: In-house analysis based on JBC data, November 2013. November 2013. November 2013. Demand for oil refinery products in 2013 is estimated to have risen by 1.1% globally. Stronger demand was seen in the gasolines (1.0%) and diesel oil (2.5%) segments. The estimated consumption of LPG and jet fuel also increased (by 3.3% and 1.2%, respectively). However, the demand for light fuel oil slightly fell (by -1.5%). According to forecasts, the overall global consumption of refinery products is expected to grow by over 5% until 2018. It is estimated that demand for diesel oil, LPG and JET fuel will grow significantly over 2013 consumption (up 12%, 11% and 8%, respectively). The global consumption of gasolines should remain relatively unchanged. Light fuel oil consumption is expected to fall by 13%. According to estimates, consumption of petroleum products in Europe may have declined in 2013 by nearly 1.5%. However, LPG, diesel oil, and light fuel oil saw an increase of 2.8%, 0.2%, and 0.1%, respectively. Consumption of gasolines and JET fuel fell by 4.0% and 0.7%. The restrained growth of fuels consumption in Europe reflects the as-yet unresolved economic issues in certain EU Member States and in the eurozone. The demand for oil refining products is forecast to fall in Europe by 3.7% until 2018. According to estimates, one of the reasons behind the decline will be a significant drop in consumption of gasolines, exceeding 13%. Lower consumption is also expected to affect the light fuel oil market (-16%). Concurrently, a strong increase is expected in consumption of JET fuel by 3.0%, and LPG by 4.8%. In the European car market, new passenger car registrations fell by nearly 2% in 2013, to 12.3m new cars. However, in the utility vehicles segment new registrations increased by 1%, up to 1.8m vehicles. In terms of registered new passenger cars, there is continued growing interest in diesel-fuelled cars. Their share in total new car registrations in Western Europe was nearly 55% (compared with 46% in 2009). (2) (1) Mid-Term Oil Market Outlook 2013-2018, JBC Energy, November 2013 (2) European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, www.acea.be 99 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Polish fuel market Domestic demand for fuels is shaped by the general economic situation Fuel consumption in Poland (‘000 in Poland and the region. In the last two years, the Polish fuel market tonnes) has been challenged by a growing grey market, driven by high fuel prices and the economic slowdown. Illegally imported diesel oil, which fails to be captured by official statistics, is the main commodity on the grey market. Officially, the consumption of diesel oil in 2013 was 11.3m tonnes, 6% down on 2012. POPiHN estimates that in 2013 fuels sold on the grey market may have accounted for as much as 12% of total volumes. Despite the unfavourable domestic trends, diesel oil remained the primary transport fuel in Poland, with an estimated 65.5% share in domestic consumption in 2013. 2011 2012 2013 Gasoline sales on the Polish market in 2013 followed prevalent trends in Diesel oil Gasolines other parts of Europe and continued to fall. As in previous years, Light fuel oil demand for gasolines in 2013 fell on the back of high retail prices, by LPG over 2% (84 thousand tonnes), down to 3.7m tonnes. Other adverse Aviation fuel economic trends helped depressed demand, such as high Source: In-house analysis of Polish unemployment and the resulting limited use of motor vehicles, as well Organization of Oil Industry and Trade as improved fuel efficiency caused by wide-spread fleet upgrades. (POPiHN) data. Given the high prices of gasoline in 2013, the less expensive alternative fuel, LPG, also gained in popularity. In 2013, estimated fuel consumption was 2.3m tonnes (up 4% year on year), with stronger demand seen in the LPG segment and other segments of the gas market (including for heating purposes). Demand for light fuel oil in 2013 continued to decline, contracting by a further 10% to 843 thousand tonnes. This market segment was affected by increased interest in alternative heating fuels. 2013 also saw a growth in demand for aviation fuel. Its over 10% increase was caused by stronger competition on the domestic aviation fuel market with the toppling of Petrolot’s dominance, which opened the door to aviation fuel from alternative markets. Data 2013 suggest that consumption declined by 4% year on year for all engine fuels combined (gasoline, diesel oil and LPG). 100 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Polish retail fuel market In 2013, there were 6.7 thousand service stations operating on the Polish fuel market. As in previous years, one-third of the stations belonged to domestic operators, 21% were owned by foreign corporations, while almost 44% were operated independently. Expansion of the service station chains owned by foreign corporations was centred around Company-Owned Dealer-Operated stations (own stations) – with Shell recording the largest increase in the number of stations following purchase of the Neste chain of 88 stations – as well as Dealer-Owned Franchise-Operated stations (partner stations). Relative to its competitors, LOTOS has the second fastest growing chain of service stations in Poland, surpassed only by Shell. Service stations in Poland in 2013 Source: Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Trade (POPiHN). The number of service stations in corporate chains continues to rise, while the network of independentlyoperated stations is gradually consolidating and shrinking. These tendencies will be particularly apparent in the following year, as the Ministry of Economy’s regulation mandating service stations to modernise their storage tanks comes into effect early in 2014. Expansion of Poland’s motorway network has been accompanied by a growing number of motorway service areas. At the end of 2013, there were 55 (1) Motorway Service Areas (MSAs) in Poland, including 14 under the LOTOS brand. In recent years, Grupa LOTOS has adopted a brand One-third of our service stations operate in development strategy based on two segments − the economy segment. premium and economy, which has led to 50 new stations added to the LOTOS Optima chain. (1) Based on data from the Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Trade (POPiHN). 101 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Strategic goals The LOTOS Group’s operational priorities are set forth in its Strategy for 2011-2015, its Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy for 2012-2015, and its development directions until 2020. Strategic business objectives until 2015 Exploration and Expansion of the resource base to take advantage of high margins projected production for this sector in the long term. Strategic objectives: achieve production volum e of 24,000 boe/d (barrel of oil equivalent/day) in 2015 – equivalent to 1.2m tonnes a year, increase production of hydrocarbons, in line with the priorities of Poland’s Energy Policy until 2030. Processing operations Utilisation of expanded capacities, increasing the conversion ratio, use of synergies between refining and power generation. Strategic objectives: achieve world-class production standards and m aintain a strong com petitive position am ong European refineries, m ake optim um use of assets held and acquired as part of the growth strategy, ensure safe and stable operation of production and ancillary facilities, with a target of 98% m inim um annual availability, further increase the conversion ratio and intensify feedstock processing. Marketing operations Development of the retail chain and marketing structures, based on an extended distribution network and efficient product logistics. Strategic objectives: m aintain a 30% share in the dom estic fuel m arket, achieve fuel sales 15% above the refinery’s fuel production capacity, secure a 10% share in the dom estic retail m arket, develop service station chain and enhance the existing stations’ sales, m aintain the leading position on the Polish m arket for lubricating oils. Key objectives of the Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy until 2015. Investment in human resources Ethics and prevention of misconduct Ensuring the availability of highly qualified staff Improvement of our management by ensuring required to successfully implement the business ethical conduct and the transparency of business 102 secure a 10% share in the dom estic retail m arket, develop service station chain and enhance the existing stations’ sales, m aintain the leading position on the Polish m arket for lubricating Integrated Annual Report 2013 oils. Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Key objectives of the Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy until 2015. Investment in human resources Ethics and prevention of misconduct Ensuring the availability of highly qualified staff Improvement of our management by ensuring required to successfully implement the business ethical conduct and the transparency of business strategy; enhancing corporate culture based on processes, and by protecting the organization from embraced values. misconduct. Energy sector security Support for initiatives designed to enhance energy sector security in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. Improvement of health and safety Management of natural resources in the production process Raising awareness and involvement in work safety Reducing environmental risk and continually improvement among management staff, employees minimising the environmental impact of the LOTOS and contractors. Group’s operations. Partnership relations with the market environment Building lasting customer relationships through a focus on understanding customers’ needs and delivering expected product quality and safety. Integration with local communities Communication Undertaking initiatives to help ensure lasting Ensuring that communication with employees is solutions to social and environmental issues vital to timely and appropriate to their various needs and to our local communities. building organizational culture based on multidirectional, open communication, including through the development of a system of staff consultations within the LOTOS Group. 103 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In our efforts to fully implement our CSR strategy, in 2013 we launched the Effective and Rising Programme, which comprises a number of economically viable development initiatives, chiefly in the area of our core business. The initiatives offer substantial benefits to the LOTOS Group, its shareholders and potential investment partners, and also contribute to the development of the regions in which they are to be implemented. Expected benefits 1. Innovative investment 2. Job creation 3. Investment in human programme capital and know-how 4. Improved vertical 5. Higher revenues 6. Higher dividends integration 7. Return on capital and increase in value Higher tax revenues Business diversification As with the +10 Programme, the newly planned Investments in the upstream and petrochemical investment programme will generate a substantial segments will improve the Group’s vertical increase in revenue. integration. Consequently, the state’s revenues from income, Diversification entails lower business risk, more property and mineral taxes will go up by ca. PLN stable margins and a stronger competitive position 550m annually after 2016. on domestic and foreign markets. Higher volumes of sales will also boost revenues from excise duty. Energy security Job creation in the region 52% of the investment programme’s funds will be Implementation of the programme will increase allocated to exploration for oil deposits, the majority employment at Grupa LOTOS and its DOFO operators 104 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future of which (73%) are located in the Baltic Sea. by approximately 1,700 persons. These investments will help diversify Polish crude oil 70% of the planned CAPEX will be spent regionally sources, improving domestic energy security. and in the Baltic Sea. Technologically advanced projects will enhance the region’s know-how and human capital. Development activities and implementation of efficiency enhancement projects in identified areas are focused on increasing the LOTOS Group’s value through innovative and sustainable development, with due regard for its stakeholders’ principles and values. In line with our own principles, as a socially responsible business we seek to: Always consider the social and environmental aspects of our decisions, Take responsibility for the impact of our decisions and actions on society and the environment, Build business models contributing additional value to the organization and its stakeholders, Integrate our business goals with important social and environmental issues. Key areas of focus and development until 2020: Further optimisation of the management Access to proven recoverable reserves of model to achieve the highest available hydrocarbons of approximately 330m boe efficiency. in 2020. Production growth to approximately 100 Maintaining at least a 30% share in the thousand boe/day (equivalent to 5m domestic fuel market. tonnes of crude a year), Maintaining fuel sales 15% above the Maintaining at least a 10% share in the refinery’s fuel production capacity. domestic retail market. Further improvement of the economic Steps to optimise the power management efficiency of crude processing, ensuring full processes at Grupa LOTOS’s refinery, by utilisation of our assets. expanding its connections with other power systems. 105 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Effective and Rising. Interview with the President of the Board Socially responsible business is… Our approach to corporate social responsibility goes back to the very beginnings of Grupa LOTOS when it took its shape, and is of fundamental character; whenever we speak of CSR, we mean doing business. We reckon that the biggest responsibility of business is simply to conduct its activities properly. Years ago, Milton Friedman, Nobel Prize winner in Economic Sciences, famously said that “there is one and only social responsibility of business – (…) to increase its profits”. Today, however, one can say that its biggest responsibility is to be effective and efficient as, in fact, there is nothing worse for stakeholders than having to deal with an unprofitable company which does not pay its dues on time and cannot provide decent work environment for its employees due to its poor standing. As for my personal approach to CSR, I think that key are answers to the following questions: “how do we make a profit?”, “how do we meet our obligations?” and “how do we manage the impact of our activities to ensure long-term growth for our company that is beneficial to both the company and its environment?”. In other words, “how do we do our business to make sure that it is good business?”, so that we can say – similarly as we would say of an individual – that it is solid and reliable; the business which, on the one hand, is economically efficient and at the same time is conducting its activities properly and meeting its duties, on the other. When defining CSR, one can speak a lot of responsibility, integrity and other qualities attributable to both people and companies; at LOTOS, however, at the heart of our approach to CSR is being solid and reliable as a properly managed and profitable business. LOTOS places particular importance on the idea of sustainable development – what does it mean in practice? What we mean by saying that our company is being managed in line with the principles of sustainable development is that we take into account the needs and interests of the natural environment and of the community in which we operate. For our activities, one106 of-the most important premises in both our everyday operations and running our production processes as well as in our investment and development plans are LOTOS places particular Integrated importance Annual Report 2013 on theLOTOS Grupa of sustainable development – what does itWin idea S.A. mean in the Future practice? What we mean by saying that our company is being managed in line with the principles of sustainable development is that we take into account the needs and interests of the natural environment and of the community in which we operate. For our activities, one of the most important premises in both our everyday operations and running our production processes as well as in our investment and development plans are environmental issues. Therefore, we deploy such solutions as to allow us to minimize our environmental impact and to utilize natural resources as best we can; to make sure we achieve that, we employ Best Available Techniques adopted by the international community, especially across the EU. Adhering to the principles of sustainable development also means making a commitment to manufacture products whose environmental impact – when they are used by our customers – is mitigated as far as it is possible. Corporate social responsibility is also about striving to achieve sustainable development while simultaneously respecting human rights, and building good relations with our neighbours, the local community, and – most importantly – with our employees. By engaging in a range of activities, we improve our employees’ quality of life; by creating jobs, we improve the quality of life of the entire society. We treat responsibly all our stakeholders, both internal and external. Being an oil company, the responsibility we feel is crucial as our decisions affect the future of people and the natural environment; our customers get better products, the community has a neighbour who supports the local prosperity and the development of the young generation, and the national economy is provided with a solid foundation to function upon. Grupa LOTOS is a signatory to the ‘Declaration of Polish Businesses for Sustainable Development’. In 2013, the Company got engaged in work on honing the ‘Vision 2050’, the document accompanying the Declaration, in the area of energy. However, it is not the only platform for cooperation aimed at meeting challenges this sector is facing, is it? We have repeatedly proven our engagement in dialogue with key sector stakeholders not only on the national but also on the international level; most recently, in April 2014 at the Energy Summit '29+1' in Bucharest, one of the periodical meetings of representatives of Central European energy sector companies with Guenther Oettinger, EU Commissioner for Energy. These meetings are organized by Central European Energy Partners, an association of which we are a founding member. This time, main subjects for discussion included included issues issues such as energy such as energy prices prices and and EU climate objectives EU climate objectives which which hold hold back competitiveness of the competitiveness back the of the the EU economy as well as the energy sector security in view of the current events in Ukraine. As CEO of Grupa LOTOS, I expressed my strong conviction that we should considerably reduce Central Europe’s dependence on gas supplies from one source and take action to protect and further develop our industry which shall be conducive to creating jobs. In the Bucharest Memorandum adopted at the end of the meeting, its participants called upon the EU not to strive to eliminate the use of fossil fuels but to support investment projects aimed at developing more effective technological solutions to reduce CO2 emissions. For the climate policy to produce discernible results on a large scale, pro-environmental actions need to cover the entire world; therefore, when determining the objectives for our climate policy, we should closely observe which direction rival world economies are taking. While fully standing by the EU 20-20-20 objective, we intend to promote optimal approach to pursuing its objectives on climate protection, sustainable development and the security of the energy sector. It means that we will support a common and comprehensive EU policy which takes into account the vital interests of Central European countries, including initiatives such as creation of an internal energy market or construction of the Central European Energy Corridor and the North-South Transport Corridor. At the same time, we consider it to be equally important to determine new climate and energy objectives until 2030 and to establish new guidelines on exploration for and production of shale gas. Central European countries need to develop their industries in an effective and consistent manner with a view to creating jobs. The prerequisite for that is cheap energy, the production of which will be mostly based on easily available domestic energy resources. As CEEP, we consistently advocate striking the right balance between the EU’s economic development and its climate policy. The pace at which the objectives of the 107 latter are to be met should not disregard economic realities of either the EU Member States or the global Corridor and the North-South Transport Corridor. At the same time, we consider it to be equally important to determine new climate and energy objectives until 2030 and to establish new guidelines on exploration for and production of shale gas. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Central European countries need to develop their industries in an effective and consistent manner with a view to creating jobs. The prerequisite for that is cheap energy, the production of which will be mostly based on easily available domestic energy resources. As CEEP, we consistently advocate striking the right balance between the EU’s economic development and its climate policy. The pace at which the objectives of the latter are to be met should not disregard economic realities of either the EU Member States or the global conditions. We strongly believe that the energy sector policy which does not take into account the differences in economic development between individual Member States will have a detrimental effect on Central European countries. The implementation of the climate policy targets, especially with regard to reducing CO2 emissions, needs to be modified if we are concerned about keeping the European Union competitive as a whole. Is the ‘Effective and Rising’ Programme announced by LOTOS in mid-2013 the Company’s response to the challenges of the modern economy? When explaining to our stakeholders the baselines of our new strategic project, I declared: ‘While everyone else is struggling to stay afloat, we know how to win the future’. Today, I stand by what I said then entirely. Nowadays, most successful are these companies that possess the ability to react quickly and adapt to changes and that are experts in their respective fields. Such a business model allows them to focus more effectively on the tasks to be completed and to pool skills which help them stand out from the rest. It was this observation that guided our work on the 2013-2015 Effective and Rising Programme, the purpose of which is to restructure the LOTOS Group and to aid its further business expansion. It sets out the next stage of our development and serves as a guarantee for increased efficiency and effectiveness of our actions. While focusing on the key areas of our competence, we put main emphasis on our core business, simplify the structure of the LOTOS Group and free up funds for achieving our objectives. And when doing that, we take into account the interests of our key stakeholders groups as we are well aware of the impact we have on our environment in the economic, social and environmental aspects. Does Grupa LOTOS see the chance to accomplish its objectives in its openness in communication with the market? This Integrated Annual Report is already our fifth report of that kind. In 2010, we decided to integrate our reports to present the management approach and performance in all aspects of our activities to all our stakeholders. These reports illustrate the scope and nature of our impacts on the environment but also answer the question how, by mitigating associated risks, we maximize the chances for our business to thrive in the long term. By responsibly managing the productive, financial, natural and human capital entrusted with us, we consistently implement our value growth strategy. By communicating to the market in an open and transparent manner the conditions for our operations, as well as our performance and future plans, we prove that we are a reliable and trustworthy partner. This fact found its confirmation in the high rating we achieved in the opinion survey conducted in 2013 on the quality of LOTOS communication with the capital market, which analyzed the Company’s approach to presenting social and environmental aspects of its operations along with the corporate governance. Without a doubt, it is a significant factor that affects the value of our business. 108 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Key data Grupa LOTOS selected information * For the year For the year ended Dec ended Dec 31 Change FINANCIALS Unit 31 2013 2012 [%] (resta ted) Revenue EUR ’000 6,339,867 7,444,867 -14% Opera ting profit/(loss) EUR ’000 (83,780) 133,850 -163% Pre-ta x profit/(loss) EUR ’000 (18,410) 232,128 -108% Net profit/(loss) EUR ’000 (3,508) 200,410 -102% Tota l com prehensive incom e EUR ’000 19,768 292,053 -93% Net ca sh from opera ting a ctivities EUR ’000 174,215 112,208 55% Net ca sh from investing a ctivities EUR ’000 12,117 16,373 -26% Net ca sh from fina ncing a ctivities EUR ’000 (141,989) (179,186) Tota l net ca sh flow EUR ’000 44,343 (50,605) Ba sic ea rnings/(loss) per sha re EUR (0.03) 1.54 -102% Cha rita ble dona tions EUR ’000 430 333 29% Pro-environm enta l investm ents EUR ’000 14,964 16,198 -8% As at As at December December Change FINANCIALS Unit 31st 2013 31st 2012 [%] (com pa ra tive da ta ) Tota l a ssets EUR ’000 3,751,787 3,908,472 -4% Equity EUR ’000 1,720,581 1,725,051 -0.26% Year Year ended ended Dec 31 Dec 31 NON-FINANCIAL DATA Unit 2013 2012 Change (resta ted) Workforce (1) num ber of em ployees 1,334 1,323 0,80% Em ployee turnover % 11.8 9.2 2.6 pp Lost Tim e Injury Frequency LTIF index (per 1 m illion hours worked) (2) 4.5 4.3 Tota l wa ter consum ption m3 3,737,302 3,721,330 0,40% CO 2 em issions thousa nd tonnes per yea r 1,689 1,979 14,60% The LOTOS Group – Selected consolidated data ** 109 Lost Tim e Injury Frequency LTIF index (per 1 m illion hours worked) 4.5 4.3 Tota l wa ter consum ption m3 3,737,302 3,721,330 0,40% CO 2 em issions Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. thousa nd tonnes per yea r 1,689 1,979Win the Future 14,60% The LOTOS Group – Selected consolidated data ** For the year ended Dec For the year ended Dec Change FINANCIALS Unit 31 2013 31 2012 [%] (resta ted) EUR Revenue 6,791,105 7,933,439 -14% ’000 EUR Opera ting profit 34,788 74,937 -53% ’000 EUR Pre-ta x profit/(loss) (14,718) 87,776 -117% ’000 EUR Net profit 9,363 222,320 -96% ’000 EUR Net profit a ttributa ble to owners of the Pa rent 9,360 222,314 -96% ’000 EUR Net profit a ttributa ble to non-controlling interests 3 6 -52% ’000 EUR Tota l com prehensive incom e 29,316 307,702 -90% ’000 Tota l com prehensive incom e a ttributa ble to owners of EUR 29,313 307,699 -90% the Pa rent ’000 Tota l com prehensive incom e a ttributa ble to nonEUR 3 3 -15% controlling interests ’000 EUR Net ca sh from opera ting a ctivities 341,129 322,762 7% ’000 EUR Net ca sh from investing a ctivities (222,848) (200,798) ’000 EUR Net ca sh from fina ncing a ctivities (59,630) (211,635) ’000 EUR Tota l net ca sh flow 58,651 (89,671) ’000 Ba sic ea rnings per sha re EUR 0.07 1.71 -96% EUR Cha rita ble dona tions 506 372 36% ’000 EUR Pro-environm enta l investm ents 15,897 18,094 -12% ’000 As at December 31st As at December 31st Change FINANCIALS Unit 2013 2012 (%) (resta ted) EUR Tota l a ssets 4,894,776 4,898,871 -0.08% ’000 EUR Equity a ttributa ble to owners of the Pa rent 2,215,786 2,217,535 -0.08% ’000 EUR Non-controlling interests 70 171 -59% ’000 EUR Tota l equity 2,215,856 2,217,706 -0.08% ’000 110 Year ’000 EUR Tota l equity 2,215,856 2,217,706 -0.08% ’000 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Year ended Dec 31 Year ended NON-FINANCIAL DATA Unit 2012 Dec 31 2011 Change (com pa ra tive da ta ) (1) Workforce num ber of em ployees 4,773 4,748 0,50% (2) Lost Tim e Injury Frequency LTIF index (per 1 m illion hours worked) 4.4 3.3 Sha re in the fuel m a rket % 33.4 34 -0,6 pp Crude oil production thousa nd tonnes 219.1 262.3 -16% Na tura l ga s production m illion Nm 3 16.0 20.9 23,50% * For information on Grupa LOTOS’ financial performance, please see our financial statements.( more information) ** For information on the LOTOS Group’s financial performance, please see the LOTOS Group’s financial statements.(more information) (1) Average annual headcount. (2) 6 LTIF – number of accidents resulting in an inability to work x10/number of working hours, calculated for the average annual headcount. 111 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Letter from the Vice-President of the Board Dear Stakeholders, 2013 was a time of major challenges for the implementation of the LOTOS Group’s business strategy. While intensifying and speeding up the completion of activities in the exploration and production segment, we were observing a significant deterioration in external conditions for the manufacture and sales of fuels. The European refining sector has been under a growing pressure of cheaper refining products flooding the market from different parts of the world and have been facing increasing challenges with regard to the competitiveness of its products on export markets. Our response to this unfavourable situation was a number of initiatives we undertook in 2013, confirming our readiness to react to the dynamically changing external environment. Our refinery in Gdańsk ranked amongst the world’s most state-of-the-art refineries in the prestigious study conducted by Solomon Associates, which testified to the effectiveness of the 10+ Programme. To enhance its efficiency even further, we commenced work on a preliminary feasibility study into the construction of a delayed coker unit (DCU); it will help us transform the refinery into a full conversion plant so that it will be able to produce only highmargin products and will be better prepared to face the growing pressure on refining margins. These harder conditions in the operating segment coincided with the accelerated implementation of our strategy in the exploration and production segment. Acquisition of production assets on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, speeding up the development of the B8 field as well as carrying out preparatory work on the development of the B4 and B6 gas fields – these were our major achievements in this segment, all of which have brought us closer to fully implement our strategy and to improve the balancing of the LOTOS Group’s business model. In 2013, our situation was further hindered by the overhaul shutdown performed at our refinery, connected with stopping the operation of its refining units, which in turn resulted in decreasing its annual output by around 8%. Consequently, the LOTOS Group’s revenues were lower than in 2012 – in the twelve months of 2013 we generated consolidated sales of just under PLN 29bn, 14% less on 2012. The operating profit stood at PLN 146m and, with the one-off events distorting itbeing 112 eliminated as well as the amortization and the LIFO effect accounted for, it amounted to PLN 1.3bn, as compared to PLN 2.0bn in 2012. This proves our ability the B4 and B6 gas fields – these were our major achievements in this segment, all of which have brought us closer to fully implement our strategy and to improve the balancing of the LOTOS Group’s business model. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In 2013, our situation was further hindered by the overhaul shutdown performed at our refinery, connected with stopping the operation of its refining units, which in turn resulted in decreasing its annual output by around 8%. Consequently, the LOTOS Group’s revenues were lower than in 2012 – in the twelve months of 2013 we generated consolidated sales of just under PLN 29bn, 14% less on 2012. The operating profit stood at PLN 146m and, with the one-off events distorting it being eliminated as well as the amortization and the LIFO effect accounted for, it amounted to PLN 1.3bn, as compared to PLN 2.0bn in 2012. This proves our ability to generate high cash flows even despite unfavourable conditions for our operations and eroding margins on the world fuel market. Furthermore, to support the implementation of its business strategy, the LOTOS Group launched the 20132015 Effective and Rising Programme, which is mainly designed to improve financial indicators, to facilitate further development by carrying out investment projects in areas of the organization’s core business and to restructure the LOTOS Group. In a nutshell, our main focus is to go to our core activities, limiting the engagement of our management in auxiliary activities and simplifying the structure of the LOTOS Group, which for subsidiaries conducting operations unrelated to our core business means that they will need to look for an investor who will allow them to unleash their potential for development and facilitate their access to new financing sources. In the exploration and production segment, the LOTOS Group consistently pursued its investment and development plan, which was confirmed by the agreement we concluded with Centrica Norge for the purchase of interests in 14 licences on the Norwegian Continental Shelf (Heimdal portfolio). In the perspective of 2016, this transaction will help us recover two-thirds of our deferred tax assets. Following the acquisition of interests in the Norwegian licences, our annual production in Norway (relative to the shares acquired by LOTOS) amounts to around 240,000 toe (5,000 boe/d), with 70% of that amount being natural gas and 30% condensate (light crude oil). What is more, LOTOS recoverable resources have increased by 9 million boe for proved and probable resources and by 31 million boe for contingent resources. In 2013, preparatory work continued on launching commercial production from the B8 field on the Baltic Sea – with a production potential of 3.5 million tones of crude oil which is planned for 2015. It is worth mentioning here that in October 2013 we signed an agreement with Polskie Inwestycje Rozwojowe on the co-financing for this project. Also in October 2013, the repair of the PG-1 rig was completed which will enable us to increase production from the B3 field by 15,000 tonnes annually (Rozewie crude). We also carried on preparatory work on the B4/B6 gas fields (with a combined production potential of 4 billion m3) in partnership with CalEnergy Resources Poland. Further evidence for our intensified activity in the exploration and production segment was the purchase of the GSF Monitor jack-up drilling rig in December 2013, which will be conducting drilling operations under our exploration licences in the Baltic Sea. The most important event in the operating and marketing segment was the overhaul shutdown performed in the spring of 2013, which was the first overhaul shutdown since the refinery’s expansion under the 10+ Programme. In effect, the refinery processed 8.7m tonnes of crude, meaning that the average annual utilisation rate of its installed capacities was 82% in 2013. Also in 2013, preparatory work continued on the construction of a delayed coking unit (DCU) which should directly increase the efficiency of crude processing at the refinery by eliminating from our production and sale the unprofitable heavy fuel oil. Once this project has been completed, the production of high-margin motor fuels will increase by 900,000 tonnes annually and a new product – petroleum coke (petcoke) – will be added to our product mix, with the production volume of around 350,000 tonnes annually. The unit is planned to be launched in 2017. Another new development project launched in 2012, on which we continued to work in 2013, is the diversification of our activities towards a potential development of a petrochemical segment (in partnership with Grupa Azoty). Based on the results of a preliminary feasibility study into the construction of a petrochemical production complex, the construction of a steam cracker unit was proposed as a recommended course of action. A full feasibility study will mark the next stage in the project, the results of which are expected at the end of 2014. 113 motor fuels will increase by 900,000 tonnes annually and a new product – petroleum coke (petcoke) – will be added to our product mix, with the production volume of around 350,000 tonnes annually. The unit is planned to beIntegrated launched in 2017. Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Another new development project launched in 2012, on which we continued to work in 2013, is the diversification of our activities towards a potential development of a petrochemical segment (in partnership with Grupa Azoty). Based on the results of a preliminary feasibility study into the construction of a petrochemical production complex, the construction of a steam cracker unit was proposed as a recommended course of action. A full feasibility study will mark the next stage in the project, the results of which are expected at the end of 2014. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS continued to expand dynamically its service station chain, especially in the economy segment, which puts us well on track to secure a 10% market share, the target set in our strategy. Throughout the entire year, the LOTOS Group responded to the increasingly difficult conditions posed by our market environment. Thanks to the diversification of our activities and the acceleration of development in the exploration and production segment, we have shown that we try and react to these increasingly difficult market conditions. In 2014 and the coming years, we will keep intensifying our actions to increase the importance of the exploration and production segment, and to achieve operational excellence in the refining segment. Our efforts to date have proved that under the conditions of increasingly fierce competition LOTOS is a company oriented on further development. We strongly believe that our work on reinforcing the foundations for it will contribute to enhancing the value for our shareholders and will secure the proper development of the LOTOS Group in the years to come. Yours faithfully, Mariusz Machajewski Vice-President of the Board Chief Financial Officer Grupa LOTOS 114 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Capital market Grupa LOTOS share price (PLN) and trading volume (number of shares) since their first listing on the WSE Zoom 7 days 1 M 3 M All From Jun 1, 2005 To Dec 30, 2013 Max :59.9 PLN 2013-12-30 2005-06-01 Share price (PLN) 40 20 Min :7.25 PLN 0 Volume 10M 0M 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Grupa LOTOS shares have been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange since June 9th 2005. At present, the total number of Company shares is 129,873,362. Grupa LOTOS share price performance vs. market indices 2013 was a good year for investors in shares, with equities emerging as the best-performing asset class, particularly in the developed markets. Stock exchange indices in the US, the world’s largest economy, soared by more than 30% (NASDAQ up 35% and S&P500 up approximately 30%). In Europe, the top performer was Germany’s DAX, up 26%. The year saw only slight movements in the main WSE indices. The WIG index of all Main Market listings gained 8%, with the annual change in the WIG20 being negative at -7%. In September 2013, the WSE launched its new WIG30 index of the thirty largest and most liquid companies. As at the end of the year, the index had fallen by almost 2%. Its two SME indices, the mWIG40 and sWIG80, rose 31% and 37% respectively, delivering the top rates of return. Looking at stock performance by sector, the winning WIG-BUDOWNICTWO construction sector index gained 33%, with the WIG-PALIWA fuels sector index (down 10%) arriving at the other end of the spectrum. The RESPECT corporate social responsibility index lost over 4% during 2013. The price of Grupa LOTOS shares followed the general market trends in 2013, remaining within the PLN 33.15-PLN 44.95 range, closing for the year at PLN 35.45. In the period under review, the number of Grupa LOTOS shares changing hands in an average trading session was 229,877, down 18% relative to the previous year. The total value of trading in its stock was in excess of PLN 2.2bn, representing 1% of total WSE trading, with an average of 877 trades per session. The Company’s market capitalisation as at the end of 2013 stood at just over PLN 4.6bn. 115 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Grupa LOTOS shares in 2011-2013 * 2011 2012 2013 Free float shares (million shares) 129.87 129.87 129.87 Price of Grupa LOTOS shares (PLN) Low 22.26 21.3 32.97 High 49.5 43.78 45.45 Closing price 23.3 41.2 35.45 Ra te of return a t end of period (% ) -35.9 76.82 -13.96 Trade in Grupa LOTOS shares Tra ding va lue (PLN m ) 3,299.07 2,013.15 2,211.43 Sha re in tra de (% ) 1.31 1.07 1.00 Avera ge tra ding volum e per session 377,048 282,163 229,877 Avera ge num ber of tra des per session 967 810 877 Company valuation Ma rket ca pita lisa tion a t end of period (PLN m ) 3,026.00 5,351.00 4,603.89 Book va lue (PLN m ) 7,782.40 9,066.40 9,189.60 EV** (PLN m ) 10,032.87 11,472.60 10,311.89 Valuation ratios Ea rnings per sha re (PLN) 5.03 7.14 0.30 P/E*** (x) 4.66 5.80 118.00 P/BV**** (x) 0.38 0.59 0.50 EV/EBITDA***** (x) 6.04 11.89 12.85 * In-house analysis based on WSE and Company data. ** EV (Enterprise Value) − market capitalisation plus debt, non-controlling interests, and preferred shares, minus cash and cash equivalents. *** P/E – Price/Earnings **** P/BV – Price/Book Value ***** EV/EBITDA − Enterprise Value/EBITDA Grupa LOTOS share price in 2013 (PLN) 116 EV/EBITDA***** (x) 6.04 11.89 12.85 * In-house analysis based on WSE Integrated andReport Annual Company data. 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future ** EV (Enterprise Value) − market capitalisation plus debt, non-controlling interests, and preferred shares, minus cash and cash equivalents. *** P/E – Price/Earnings **** P/BV – Price/Book Value ***** EV/EBITDA − Enterprise Value/EBITDA Grupa LOTOS share price in 2013 (PLN) Zoom 7 days 1 M 3 M All From Jan 2, 2013 To Dec 30, 2013 2013-12-30 2013-01-02 Max :44.95 PLN 45 Share price (PLN) 40 Close :35.45 PLN Min :33.15 PLN 35 30 Volume 1M 0M Feb '13 Apr '13 Jun '13 Aug '13 Oct '13 Dec '13 Effect of important events at the Company on the market price of Grupa LOTOS shares in 2013 40 11 Share price (PLN) 20 10 9 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 0 Feb '13 Apr '13 Jun '13 Aug '13 Oct '13 Dec '13 Grupa LOTOS share price performance vs. market indices in 2013 * 117 0 Feb '13 Apr '13 Jun '13 Aug '13 Oct '13 Dec '13 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Grupa LOTOS share price performance vs. market indices in 2013 * Zoom 7 days 1 M 3 M All From Jan 2, 2013 To Dec 30, 2013 2013-01-02 2013-12-30 LOTOS WIG 75 WIG 20 WIG-Paliwa 50 Respect Index 25 0 -25 Feb '13 Apr '13 Jun '13 Aug '13 Oct '13 Dec '13 Mar '13 May '13 Jul '13 Sep '13 Nov '13 * Rebased (100 = closing price at December 28th 2012) Dividend policy Dividend distributions for 2011-2015 are subject to the LOTOS Group’s Strategy for 2011-2015, which provides for optimisation of the LOTOS Group financing. Grupa LOTOS’ financial strategy provides for distribution of up to 30% of net profit as dividend. However, the Board of Grupa LOTOS recommended that no part of the 2012 net profit be distributed to the Company’s shareholders. On June 28th 2013, acting upon the Board’s recommendation, the General Meeting resolved to allocate the 2012 profit as follows: PLN 834,931,320.89 was allocated to statutory reserve funds, PLN 1,500,000.00 was allocated to the Special Account designated for financing corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects. Dividend and dividend yield * Share price at the year end Financial year Dividend (PLN) Dividend per share (PLN) (PLN) Dividend yield (%)** 2005 0.00 0.00 44.20 2006 40,932,000.00 0.36 49.30 0.73 2007 0.00 0.00 44.50 2008 0.00 0.00 11.95 2009 0.00 0.00 31.80 2010 0.00 0.00 36.35 2011 0.00 0.00 23.30 2012 0.00 118 0.00 35.45 2007 0.00 0.00 44.50 2008 0.00 0.00 11.95 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 2009 0.00 0.00 31.80 2010 0.00 0.00 36.35 2011 0.00 0.00 23.30 2012 0.00 0.00 35.45 * In-house analysis based on Company data. ** Dividend yield – dividend per share to price per share. Historical dividend per share * Financial year Dividend per share (PLN) % of net profit Dividend record date** Dividend payment date*** 2005 0.00 0.00 2006 0.36 10.06 June 11 2007 not la ter tha n Jul 31 2007 2007 0.00 0.00 2008 0.00 0.00 2009 0.00 0.00 2010 0.00 0.00 2011 0.00 0.00 2012 0.00 0.00 * In-house analysis based on Company data. ** Dividend record date – date on which the list of shareholders entitled to receive dividend for a given financial year is determined. *** Dividend payment date – date on which dividend is paid to the Company’s shareholders. Recommendations Recommendations on Grupa LOTOS shares are issued by 13 investment houses (including brokerage houses and investment banks): Investment houses Investment houses Based in Poland Based abroad DM m Ba nku Societe Genera le DM BZ WBK Erste Ba nk DM IDM Wood & Co. DM PKO BP Deutsche Ba nk DM BDM Ra iffeisen Centroba nk DI Investors ING Securities Espirito Sa nto Investm ent Ba nk To the best of the Company’s knowledge, in 2013 brokers issued 25 recommendations on Company shares: 4 BUY recom m endations * 9 HOLD recom m endations ** 119 3 REDUCE recom m endations *** DI Investors ING Securities Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Espirito Sa nto Investm ent Ba nk To the best of the Company’s knowledge, in 2013 brokers issued 25 recommendations on Company shares: 4 BUY recom m endations * 9 HOLD recom m endations ** 3 REDUCE recom m endations *** 9 SELL recom m endations **** of which: 6 recom m endations were upgraded 10 recom m endations were m aintained 5 recom m endations were downgraded. Furthermore, there was: 1 coverage initiation; and 3 coverage re-initiations * BUY – total expected rate of return will exceed 15% in 12 months ** HOLD – total expected rate of return will be between -5% and +5% in 12 months *** REDUCE − total expected rate of return will be between -5% and -15% in 12 months **** SELL − total expected rate of return will be over -15% in 12 months. Structure of broker recommendations on Grupa LOTOS shares in 2013 (%) BUY SELL HOLD REDUCE In brokers’ research reports, the target price of Grupa LOTOS shares fluctuated from PLN 29.50 to PLN 56.30, compared with PLN 19.40 to PLN 38.90 in 2012. The average target price of its shares in 2013 was PLN 37.70 (2012: PLN 26.80). Grupa LOTOS shares traded within a range from PLN 33.15 to PLN 44.95. At the end of 2013, the price of Grupa LOTOS shares was PLN 35.45. Brokers’ recommendations and average target price against the market price of Grupa LOTOS shares Zoom 7 days 1 M 3 M All From Jan 2, 2013 To Dec 30, 2013 2013-01-02 2013-12-30 120 In brokers’ research reports, the target price of Grupa LOTOS shares fluctuated from PLN 29.50 to PLN 56.30, compared with PLN 19.40 to PLN 38.90 in 2012. The average target price of its shares in 2013 was PLN 37.70 (2012: PLN 26.80).IntegratedGrupa Annual Reportshares LOTOS 2013 traded within Grupa LOTOS S.A.a range from PLN 33.15 to PLN 44.95. At the Winendtheof Future 2013, the price of Grupa LOTOS shares was PLN 35.45. Brokers’ recommendations and average target price against the market price of Grupa LOTOS shares Zoom 7 days 1 M 3 M All From Jan 2, 2013 To Dec 30, 2013 2013-12-30 2013-01-02 40 30 20 Feb '13 Apr '13 Jun '13 Aug '13 Oct '13 Dec '13 Quoted prices Moving average of target prices SELL REDUCE HOLD BUY of Grupa LOTOS shares in brokers’ recommendations* * * Simple moving average – arithmetic mean of target prices in broker recommendations for 12 months (excluding recommendation updates older than six months). Grupa LOTOS in the RESPECT Index Since November 19th 2009, Grupa LOTOS has been continuously included in the index of WSE-listed socially responsible companies, the RESPECT Index (Responsibility, Ecology, Sustainability, Participation, Environment, Community, Transparency). The index includes those Polish and international companies listed on the WSE Main Market that uphold the best management standards in corporate and information governance, as well as investor relations, and that act responsibly in the social, governance and environmental areas. In 2013, the Company underwent external review for compliance with the index’s criteria twice. Since December 23rd 2013, we have been included in the index which comprises a record-breaking 23 companies. In the 7th edition of the RESPECT project, new criteria were applied to find the leaders of responsible business in Poland. The most important changes were in the survey’s questions, which had been divided into three groups, each representing a different set of factors related to performance in the categories of Environmental, Social and Governance. Furthermore, the index’s entry requirements were changed to accommodate specific characteristics of various industries. Starting from 2014, the organizational maturity assessment will be undertaken on a yearly basis. 121 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Natural and productive capital Natural capital of Grupa LOTOS Energy sources: crude oil (fuel gas and fuel oil from its processing), natural gas, electricity generated and bought from third parties; Feedstock: crude oil, natural gas; Components of the environment/media with process applications: water (steam production and cooling), air (as a control m edium ); Components of the environment under direct and indirect impact from the LOTOS Group’s operations: air; water; soil; ecosystem s and biodiversity; local com m unities and em ployees; landscape. Our objectives in natural capital management: Ensuring com pliance with environm ental law; Ensuring that the organization is perceived as being aware of local and global benefits of responsible use of natural resources and environm ental protection; Striving to operate in conform ity with best environm ental practices, while ensuring responsible use of natural resources. Key activities: Monitoring the state of the natural environm ent and how it is affected, beyond the scope required by legal regulations; Consistently reducing the negative im pact on the natural environm ent; Incorporating and im plem enting the best available techniques and best environm ental practice for designing new process units, as well as operating and upgrading the existing ones; Mitigating the risk of sudden environm ental contam ination (preventing industrial failures); Supporting pro-environm ental efforts of third-party institutions – environm ental protection beyond the organization’s direct sphere of influence; Pro-environm ental education – raising the awareness of best environm ental practices and responsible use of natural resources am ong em ployees and local com m unities. Results: Increased share of natural Less fugitive emissions to Gradual modernisation of gas in the organization’s the atmosphere service station facilities energy mix 122 for designing new process units, as well as operating and upgrading the existing ones; Mitigating the risk of sudden environm ental contam ination (preventing industrial failures); Supporting pro-environm ental efforts of third-party institutions – environm ental protection Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future beyond the organization’s direct sphere of influence; Pro-environm ental education – raising the awareness of best environm ental practices and responsible use of natural resources am ong em ployees and local com m unities. Results: Increased share of natural Less fugitive emissions to Gradual modernisation of gas in the organization’s the atmosphere service station facilities energy mix Reduced water Significant reduction of atmospheric emissions from the consumption – using refinery in Gdańsk: SO2 , NOx and dust emissions have been closed-cycle systems and reduced ten, two and nearly four times, respectively, in maintaining highest comparison with 2011 possible recirculation levels Average annual Monitoring of bottom Placing more emphasis on wastewater emissions sediment and sea water biodiversity in below 50% of admissible quality within oil and gas environmental impact levels production areas assessment End of preparations to a Consistent reduction of gas Achieving carbon intensity large-area inventory of flared at production sites levels on a par with the elements comprising the leading European refineries environment within and surrounding our refinery in Gdańsk Construction and launch of a flare gas recovery unit – a 6,000 Running an educational Mg reduction in CO2 emissions and additional gas in the campaign on waste energy system segregation within the LOTOS Group 123 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Productive capital of Grupa LOTOS Exploration: licence areas, exploration infrastructure (drilling rigs); Production: production infrastructure (production platform s, transm ission lines); Downstream: downstream infrastructure (refinery, production plants, port-refinery oil pipelines, gas pipelines, CHP plants); Primary logistics: product depots, road and rail loading stations, rail infrastructure, geographical location; Secondary sales and distribution: distribution networks, road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, geographical location, service station chain. Our objective in productive capital management: Achieving production and technology standards on a par with global petrochem ical trends, while ensuring com pliance with environm ental regulations. Key activities: Increasing our own resource base based on fields in lowor m edium -risk areas; Expanding operations on the Baltic Sea, the Norwegian Continental Shelf and onshore areas in Poland and Lithuania, in particular by: Poland: increasing production from the existing fields, fully appraising the hydrocarbon potential of the Baltic Sea, developing operations on onshore licence areas; Norway: exploring, developing and producing from the existing offshore licence areas, acquiring producing fields; Lithuania: fully developing the existing onshore licence areas. Modernisation of exploration and production infrastructure; Optim um use of assets held and acquired as part of the growth strategy: Further increasing the conversion ratio and intensifying feedstock processing; Expanding the refinery’s process lines (coking unit); Efficient use of the refinery’s processing capacities expanded through the 10+ Program m e; Maintaining high reliability of refinery installations – ensuring safe and stable operation of production and ancillary facilities, with a target of 98% m inim um annual availability; Expanding the fuel, oil and bitum en sales networks. Results: Higher crude oil production New licences Higher processing volumes and efficiency Technical availability of the Increased share in the retail refinery’s installations of market 99.7% achieved the highest in the refinery’s history, which is also one of the best results in the world 124 refinery’s installations Technical availability ofofthe market share in the retail Increased 99.7% achieved the refinery’s installations of market highest achieved 99.7% the refinery’s inIntegrated the Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Annual Win the Future history, highest which in the is also one of refinery’s history, results the bestwhich is in also world theone of the best results in the world The total level of capital expenditure allocated to exploration and production in 2011–2015 is PLN 3.9bn, The total levelrepresents which almost 70% of of capital expenditure the LOTOS allocated Group’s total to exploration andCAPEX budgetinfor production the period. 2011–2015 is PLN 3.9bn, which represents almost 70% of the LOTOS Group’s total CAPEX budget for the period. 125 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Zbigniew Paszkowicz Vice-President of the Management Board, Exploration&Production, Grupa LOTOS 2013 saw strong development of the LOTOS Group’s exploration and production segment at an unprecedented pace. The success is all the more remarkable for the fact that it was achieved despite macroeconomic challenges. In late 2013, the segment’s annual production capacity exceeded 0.5m tonnes, more than 40% of the strategic target to be reached by the end of 2015. 2013 saw strong The success was mainly driven by the high qualifications and strong commitment developm ent of the LOTOS of our crews – employees of the upstream subsidiaries. Their expertise and Group’s exploration and determination in the pursuit of targets are our most valuable asset, which we will production segm ent at an further enhance by investing in professional advancement of our employees. unprecedented pace. The success is all the m ore At the top of the list of key 2013 events we should place the final resolution of rem arkable for the fact that it the Yme project issue, which was addressed on our initiative and by our effort. was achieved despite The agreement signed in March 2013 between the Yme field operator and the m acroeconom ic challenges. In late 2013, the segm ent’s owner of the rig sitting on the field removed a major impediment which had annual production capacity hindered the segment’s growth. It was not long before we saw measurable exceeded 0.5m tonnes, m ore effects. than 40% of the strategic target to be reached by the LOTOS Norge acquired interests in a portfolio of 14 Heimdal licences on the end of 2015. Norwegian Continental Shelf. In accordance with the Norwegian tax law, thanks to the transaction we began to recover funds invested in the Yme project. We expect that by 2016 we will be able to recover two-thirds of our investment. Zbigniew Paszkowicz Vice-President of the Management Board, On the Baltic Sea, our production exceeded the 2013 target. Such strong Exploration&Production, Grupa LOTOS performance was a result of resumed production at the PG-1 rig within the B3 field. The project was well planned and completed safely (with no accidents). The success is all the more significant given the complexity and technical challenges that were involved in the overhaul of the PG-1 rig. The capital market took notice of, and reacted very positively to, these achievements. We enjoy the full confidence of financial institutions, which makes it easier for us to raise funds for further investments. In December 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic purchased the GSF Monitor drilling rig. Once placed in operation under the name ‘LOTOS Petrobaltic’, it will help us discover the remaining hydrocarbon accumulations under the Baltic Sea floor, particularly those which could not be reached earlier due to their location at depths of more than 90m below the seabed. The new drilling rig will take over the role of the existing ‘Petrobaltic’ platform, which will be converted into a production centre for the B8 field. It is worth noting that the field development was so well prepared that Polskie Inwestycje Rozwojowe, the Polish state’s SPV established to provide long-term financing for the most viable infrastructure projects, selected it – from among many others – as the first project to receive its support. This confirms the strong expertise of our crews and the financial institutions’ confidence with our business. We carried out seismic surveys over six offshore licences on the Baltic Sea, covering an area of more than 1,200 km 2. We had not conducted exploration on such a large scale for many years. This is a good investment in the future, as are the two new licences we acquired in 2013. A final decision on the manner of developing the B4 -and 126 -B6 gas fields is soon to be made. This project will combine Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future crews and the financial institutions’ confidence with our business. We carried out seismic surveys over six offshore licences on the Baltic Sea, covering an area of more than 1,200 km 2. We had not conducted exploration on such a large scale for many years. This is a good investment in the future, as are the two new licences we acquired in 2013. A final decision on the manner of developing the B4 and B6 gas fields is soon to be made. This project will combine our knowledge of the Baltic Sea with the competences and potential of CalEnergy, our partner in the project. We are strengthening our presence on the Baltic Sea, while conducting operations under onshore licences in partnership with PGNiG. Our first joint projects were launched in 2013 in Kamień Pomorski and Górowo Iławeckie, and now we are preparing to develop our cooperation. In Lithuania, our production stabilised at a level which nearly meets the target, while the seismic surveys carried out and five production wells drilled in 2013 are expected to further boost production in the future. In 2013, we reorganized and restructured the segment companies under the Effective and Rising Programme. The companies whose core business consists in hydrocarbon exploration and production may now focus more closely on these operations. All assets and services with a support function are being transferred to other companies, mostly of the Miliana Group, part of the LOTOS Group. In 2013, we built a strong foundation for even faster and more efficient development of the upstream segment. In 2014, for the first time ever, the value of the LOTOS Group’s upstream CAPEX in a single year will exceed PLN 1.5bn, with nearly PLN 1bn allocated to Baltic Sea projects. We are consistently striving to achieve our strategic target: a production capacity of 1.2m tonnes by the end of 2015. 127 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Exploration and production Grupa LOTOS is engaged in exploration and production through the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group in the following countries: Poland – LOTOS Petrobaltic and its subsidiaries; Lithuania – AB LOTOS Geonafta and its subsidiaries; Norway – LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS. The LOTOS Petrobaltic Group includes companies conducting support activities: the Miliana Group and Energobaltic Sp z o.o. The Miliana Group renders sea transport services to LOTOS Petrobaltic, while Energobaltic was established to manage associated gas produced from the B3 field and – in the future – from other hydrocarbon accumulations located in the Baltic Sea. At the Władysławowo CHP Plant, the company is involved in the production of electricity, heat, LPG and natural gas condensate, using associated gas from an offshore oil production facility (the B3 field). As at the end of 2013, crude oil reserves and resources held by the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group amounted to 8.08 million tonnes or 62.08 million boe (reserves classified as 2P), and 1.80 million tonnes or 13.63 million boe (resources classified as 2C), whereas its natural gas reserves and resources were 1.09 billion cubic metres (2P) and 6.49 billion cubic metres (2C). Crude oil reserves classified as 2P Crude oil reserves classified as 2C (thousand tonnes) (thousand tonnes) Baltic Sea Baltic Sea Norwegian Continental Shelf Norwegian Continental Shelf Lithuania Lithuania Natural gas reserves classified as Natural gas resources classified as 2P (billion cubic metres) 2C (billion cubic metres) 128 Baltic SeaIntegrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa BalticLOTOS Sea S.A. Win the Future Norwegian Continental Shelf Norwegian Continental Shelf Lithuania Lithuania Natural gas reserves classified as Natural gas resources classified as 2P (billion cubic metres) 2C (billion cubic metres) Baltic Sea Baltic Sea Norwegian Continental Shelf Norwegian Continental Shelf Poland – Baltic Sea LOTOS Petrobaltic is the only Polish enterprise engaged in hydrocarbons production in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic Sea. At the end of 2013, the company held: 129 Baltic Sea Baltic Sea Norwegian Continental Shelf Norwegian Continental Shelf Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Poland – Baltic Sea LOTOS Petrobaltic is the only Polish enterprise engaged in hydrocarbons production in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic Sea. At the end of 2013, the company held: Nine licences for the exploration for and appraisal of crude oil and natural gas deposits, with two of them , Słupsk E and Słupsk W, obtained in 2013. The total area of LOTOS Petrobaltic’s licences is m ore than 8.5 thousand square kilom etres. Four licences for hydrocarbons production: on the B3 field, for the production of crude oil and associated natural gas, located 73 km north of Rozewie; the process of extending the licence until 2026 is currently under way; on the B8 field, for the production of crude oil and associated natural gas, located 70 km north of Jastarnia; the field is currently being developed; on the B4 and B6 fields, for the production of natural gas, located north of Łeba; a developm ent project of the fields is being prepared in partnership with CalEnergy Resources Poland. no application was filed for extending the Gaz Północ licence, which expired in April 2013. In 2013, in the Baltic Sea, LOTOS Petrobaltic was extracting hydrocarbons from the B3 field. Crude oil production from the Baltic Sea totalled 145.6 thousand tonnes (1,128.2 thousand bbl) in 2013. Output of associated natural gas totalled 16m Nm3. As at the end of 2013, crude oil reserves and resources in the Baltic Sea amounted to 5.06 million tonnes or 39.28 million bbl (reserves classified as 2P), and 0.17 million tonnes or 1.44 million bbl (resources classified as 2C), whereas natural gas reserves and resources were 0.37 billion cubic metres (2P) and 3.28 billion cubic metres (2C). 130 1.44 million bbl (resources classified as 2C), whereas natural gas reserves and resources were 0.37 billion cubic metres (2P) and 3.28 billion cubic metres (2C). Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Lithuania In the territory of Lithuania, LOTOS Petrobaltic operates through the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group, whose parent is LOTOS Petrobaltic’s subsidiary. The business of the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group is to explore for, produce and sell crude oil, and to provide drilling services. It produces crude oil from a total of 14 oil fields. Crude oil production from the Lithuanian fields totalled 73.5 thousand tonnes (563.8 thousand bbl) in 2013. As at the end 2013, crude oil reserves in Lithuania classified as 2P amounted to 0.98 million tonnes (7.5 million bbl). Norway – Norwegian Continental Shelf: LOTOS Exploration & Production Norge AS (LOTOS Norge) of Stavanger, Norway, is the subsidiary responsible for our operations on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. At the end of 2013, the company held interests in 24 licences for oil exploration and production: PL 316, PL316B, PL 455, PL 498, PL 497, PL497B, PL 503, PL503B, PL 643, PL 655; and licences acquired as part of the Heimdal portfolio: PL026, PL026B, PL035B, PL036BS, PL036, PL102, PL102D, PL102E, PL102G, PL102F, PL102C, PL249, PL362, and PL442. LOTOS Norge was the operator of six licences: PL035B and PL362 (since January 16th 2014), PL455, PL 498, PL 503 and PL503B. On January 21st 2014, in the APA 2013 round (Awards in Pre-defined Areas) LOTOS Norge was awarded two licences: 503C and 498B, for which LOTOS Norge will act as the operator. Furthermore, the company resigned on January 23rd 2014 from two licences: PL 497 and PL 497B, and on March 1st 2014 from licence PL 455, due to lack of production prospects. 131 As a result of the changes described above, on the date of this Report LOTOS Norge holds 23 licences on As at the end 2013, crude oil reserves in Lithuania classified as 2P amounted to 0.98 million tonnes (7.5 million bbl). Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Norway – Norwegian Continental Shelf: LOTOS Exploration & Production Norge AS (LOTOS Norge) of Stavanger, Norway, is the subsidiary responsible for our operations on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. At the end of 2013, the company held interests in 24 licences for oil exploration and production: PL 316, PL316B, PL 455, PL 498, PL 497, PL497B, PL 503, PL503B, PL 643, PL 655; and licences acquired as part of the Heimdal portfolio: PL026, PL026B, PL035B, PL036BS, PL036, PL102, PL102D, PL102E, PL102G, PL102F, PL102C, PL249, PL362, and PL442. LOTOS Norge was the operator of six licences: PL035B and PL362 (since January 16th 2014), PL455, PL 498, PL 503 and PL503B. On January 21st 2014, in the APA 2013 round (Awards in Pre-defined Areas) LOTOS Norge was awarded two licences: 503C and 498B, for which LOTOS Norge will act as the operator. Furthermore, the company resigned on January 23rd 2014 from two licences: PL 497 and PL 497B, and on March 1st 2014 from licence PL 455, due to lack of production prospects. As a result of the changes described above, on the date of this Report LOTOS Norge holds 23 licences on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, including 7 for which it acts as the operator. LOTOS Norge holds a 20% interest in PL316/316B − Yme licence, developed by a consortium which includes Talisman Energy as the operator. On December 30th 2013, the ownership of the Vale, SkirneByggve and Atla fields on the Norwegian Continental Shelf was acquired. Production corresponding to LOTOS Norge’s interest is estimated at 5 132 thousand boe/d (approximately 240 thousand toe − tonnes of oil equivalent – a year). Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future On December 30th 2013, the ownership of the Vale, SkirneByggve and Atla fields on the Norwegian Continental Shelf was acquired. Production corresponding to LOTOS Norge’s interest is estimated at 5 thousand boe/d (approximately 240 thousand toe − tonnes of oil equivalent – a year). As at the end of 2013, crude oil reserves and resources of the Norwegian fields amounted to 2.04 million tonnes or 15.3 million bbl (reserves classified as 2P), and 1.61 million tonnes or 12.11 million bbl (resources classified as 2C), whereas natural gas reserves and resources were 0.72 billion cubic metres (2P) and 3.21 billion cubic metres (2C). Achievements Major achievements in the hydrocarbon exploration and production business in 2013 included: In Poland Relaunch of production from the PG-1 drilling rig Repair of the PG-1 rig was completed as scheduled and production was resumed from the B3 oil and gas field in the Baltic Sea. Development of the B8 field Plan for development and operation of the B8 field was implemented as scheduled. Drilling work was carried out on the B8-5K well, a contractor was selected for key design, procurement and management of shipyard operations, as well as construction design for the conversion of the ‘Petrobaltic’ rig into a production centre. In October 2013, Polskie Inwestycje Rozwojowe and LOTOS Petrobaltic executed an agreement on the development financing for the B8 oil field in the Baltic Sea. Development of the B4/B6 gas fields Preparatory work on the B4/B6 gas fields was continued in partnership with CalEnergy Resources Poland. Upon the Ministry of Environment’s consent, in March 2013 the Gaz Północ licence and production licences covering the B4 and B6 fields were transferred to the company. In April 2013, CalEnergy became a limited partner in Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i Wspólnicy Spółka Komandytowa, an SPV established by LOTOS Petrobaltic for the purposes of the investment agreement concluded with CalEnergy in 2012. In 2013, a 3D seismic survey was performed over the Gaz Północ licence area. Work was carried out work to select a development concept, including assessment of the possibility of using existing offshore and onshore infrastructure, and negotiations were held with potential customers for natural gas. Seismic surveys in the Baltic Sea Exploratory and appraisal activities were carried out. In 2013, 400 km of 2D seismic and 870 km² of 3D seismic were acquired over the Gaz Południe, Gaz Północ, Łeba, Rozewie, Sambia W and Sambia E licence areas. The Baltic production potential is estimated at 30m toe of hydrocarbons. Prospects are located beneath the seafloor at depths of more than 90 m. New licences in Poland The Ministry of Environment awarded LOTOS Petrobaltic two new, three-year licences for the exploration of crude oil and natural gas in the Polish Economic Zone -of the Baltic Sea: Słupsk W and Słupsk E. The licence 133 areas cover 1,021 km² and 1,139 km², respectively. At present, the total area of the Baltic Sea exploration and Seismic surveys in the Baltic Sea Exploratory and appraisal activities were carried out. In 2013, 400 km of 2D seismic and 870 km² of 3D seismic were Integrated acquiredAnnual Report over the Gaz2013 Grupa LOTOS Południe, S.A. Gaz Północ, Łeba, Rozewie, Sambia W and Sambia EWin the Future licence areas. The Baltic production potential is estimated at 30m toe of hydrocarbons. Prospects are located beneath the seafloor at depths of more than 90 m. New licences in Poland The Ministry of Environment awarded LOTOS Petrobaltic two new, three-year licences for the exploration of crude oil and natural gas in the Polish Economic Zone of the Baltic Sea: Słupsk W and Słupsk E. The licence areas cover 1,021 km² and 1,139 km², respectively. At present, the total area of the Baltic Sea exploration and appraisal licences is over 8.5 thousand km². Acquisition of a drilling rig The company signed an agreement for purchase of the GSF Monitor jack-up drilling rig. In 2014 the platform, named ‘LOTOS Petrobaltic’, will take over the drilling operations after the existing ‘Petrobaltic’ rig is converted into a production centre for the B8 field. The drilling rig is capable of drilling in offshore areas at depths of 105 m, and, if its legs are extended, at depths of up to 120 m. Cooperation with PGNiG With a view to expanding its operations in onshore areas, in August 2013 an agreement was signed with PGNiG on joint operations in the Kamień Pomorski licence area. Located in the Province of Szczecin, the licence is among the most prospective ones in the region and covers an area of 217 square kilometres. The exploratory work contemplated by the agreement will allow the partners to evaluate the reserves volumes and decide whether to launch production. In Norway Yme Project agreement with SBM To recover capital invested in the Yme project, in March 2013 an agreement was reached between Talisman Energy (Yme field operator) and SBM Offshore (rig manufacturer) on removal of the defective rig from the field. SBM Offshore paid the joint venture partners an amount of USD 470m. On behalf of the licence holders, Talisman Energy agreed to make the necessary preparations and remove the platform from the field. SBM Offshore will be responsible for towing and scrapping the platform onshore. Further, ownership of the subsea structure supplied by SBM Offshore will be transferred to the joint venture partners. Purchase of Heimdal assets In October 2013, LOTOS Norge and Centrica entered into an agreement on acquisition of the Heimdal exploration and production assets. The transaction covers 14 licences in the central part of the North Sea, including: Heimdal gas hub (operated by Statoil), three producing fields (Byggve/Skirne, Atla, and Vale), three fields to be developed (Frigg GammaDelta, Fulla and Rind), as well as exploration prospects. As at the effective date of the transaction, i.e. January 1st 2013, proved recoverable volumes of the producing fields were estimated at 9m boe, with contingent resources of the fields to be developed amounting to 31m boe. The value of the transaction was USD 175.8m. In Lithuania Preparations for development of our licence areas To fully develop our onshore licence areas, a production drilling programme was implemented. The drilling of five new wells was completed and the feasibility of increasing production using EOR (Enhanced Oil Recovery) techniques was analysed. Seismic surveys were carried out in Klaipėda, Ablinga, and Lizai/Auksoras areas. Following these steps, in particular the transaction 134 with Centrica and acquisition of the Preparations for development of our licence areas To fully develop our onshore licence areas, a production drilling programme was implemented. The drilling of five new wells was completed and the feasibility of increasing production using EOR (Enhanced Oil Recovery) Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future techniques was analysed. Seismic surveys were carried out in Klaipėda, Ablinga, and Lizai/Auksoras areas. Following these steps, in particular the transaction with Centrica and acquisition of the Heimdal assets, the annual production potential of our exploration and production segment has reached 0.5m tonnes, or 42% of the strategic target set for the end of 2015. Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 The principal strategic goal for the exploration and production segment is to increase the production potential to 24 thousand boe (barrel of oil equivalent) daily (or 1.2m tonnes of crude oil annually) in 2015. In 2014, we plan to undertake the following key initiatives as part of our strategy: Poland Continued production from the B3 field on the Baltic Sea using the PG-1 rig. Developm ent of the B8 field. Exploration and production work to fully appraise the production potential of the Baltic Sea. Continued work aim ed at developing the B4/B6 gas fields together with CalEnergy Resources Poland. Further cooperation with PGNIG to participate in the exploration for and appraisal of conventional and unconventional oil and gas resources under onshore licences. Norway Developm ent of and production from the fields form ing part of the Heim dal portfolio. Further steps to recover capital invested in the Ym e project. Evaluation of further asset purchase opportunities in the Norwegian Continental Shelf. Lithuania To fully develop our onshore licence areas, a production and exploration drilling program m e will be im plem ented. Evaluation of possible licence acquisitions in Lithuania. Com pletion of feasibility analyses regarding a production increase using Enhanced Oil Recovery techniques and im plem entation of their results. Development prospects until 2020 The LOTOS Group’s development directions until 2020 provide for increasing the production potential to approximately 100 thousand boe (barrel of oil equivalent) per day, or 5 million tonnes of oil per year, and securing approximately 330 million boe of proved recoverable reserves. In 2016-2020, we plan to fully appraise the production potential of the Baltic Sea. Concurrently, we intend to intensify our onshore activity. On international markets, we plan to build a sustainable asset portfolio and gradually boost organic growth. We also consider embarking on unconventional oil and gas projects. The development of our exploration and production segment in 2016-2020 in Poland will involve: Continued oil production from the B3 and B8 -fields 135 on the Baltic Sea. Launch of gas production from the B4/B6 fields on the Baltic Sea. To fully develop our onshore licence areas, a production and exploration drilling program m e will be im plem ented. Evaluation of possible Integrated licence Annual Report acquisitions 2013 Grupa LOTOS Lithuania. inS.A. Win the Future Com pletion of feasibility analyses regarding a production increase using Enhanced Oil Recovery techniques and im plem entation of their results. Development prospects until 2020 The LOTOS Group’s development directions until 2020 provide for increasing the production potential to approximately 100 thousand boe (barrel of oil equivalent) per day, or 5 million tonnes of oil per year, and securing approximately 330 million boe of proved recoverable reserves. In 2016-2020, we plan to fully appraise the production potential of the Baltic Sea. Concurrently, we intend to intensify our onshore activity. On international markets, we plan to build a sustainable asset portfolio and gradually boost organic growth. We also consider embarking on unconventional oil and gas projects. The development of our exploration and production segment in 2016-2020 in Poland will involve: Continued oil production from the B3 and B8 fields on the Baltic Sea. Launch of gas production from the B4/B6 fields on the Baltic Sea. Full appraisal of the hydrocarbon potential of the Baltic Sea assets. Preparation and execution of projects to develop the Baltic Sea areas with confirm ed resources. Production from onshore fields, expansion of onshore operations through faster developm ent of oil and gas discoveries. Assessm ent of econom ic viability of potential involvem ent in unconventional projects. Our international expansion plans for 2016−2020 envisage in particular: Projects to develop areas with confirm ed resources. Acquisition of production assets and undeveloped assets with confirm ed resources which can be brought on-stream by 2020. Production increase in Lithuania, e.g. by em ploying enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques and developing new prospects with confirm ed resources. Evaluation of developm ent opportunities in new geographies. 136 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Marek Sokołowski Vice-President of the Management Board, Chief Operation Officer, Grupa LOTOS In the refining business, the key challenge in 2013 was to adjust the output mix to market expectations, while keeping operating expenses in check and utilising the production capacities in the optimal way. In the first place, our efforts were designed to: Maxim ise the use of natural gas as a fuel and feedstock for hydrogen In the refining business, the key challenge in 2013 was to production, especially that gas rem ained the cheapest available fuel adjust the output m ix to throughout 2013; m arket expectations, while Optim ise the use of refinery units. A m ajor success in 2013 was an increase keeping operating expenses in in the conversion ratio of one of the MHC hydrocracking units, built as part check and utilising the of the 10+ Program m e. The 90% conversion ratio achieved in August 2013 production capacities in the was a further im provem ent on the 85% ratio recorded in 2012, and optim al way. m arked an enorm ous progress versus the nam eplate ratio of 60%. It was reflected in the increase of the yearly-average conversion ratio from 83.8% in 2012 to 85.7%; Marek Sokołowski Maxim ise the output of highest-m argin products, especially diesel oils and Vice-President of the Management Board, aviation fuel. Chief Operation Officer, Grupa LOTOS An important aspect of a refinery’s efficiency lies in the reliability of its units and installations. To ensure problem-free operation of refining units over a longer time, it is necessary to carry out periodic overhauls. In spring 2013, a large-scale overhaul shutdown was undertaken in our refinery in Gdańsk, the first one since the refinery was reconfigured under the 10+ Programme. Even though the scope of the overhaul was significantly more extensive than in the past, the refinery benefited from operating two independent crude distillation lines, the overhaul of which was phased. Thus, the overall downtime in feedstock processing was shorter than during past overhaul shutdowns. Another important aspect of the refinery’s operating efficiency is connected with its energy efficiency. Our complex in Gdańsk has for long been ranked among the most energy efficient European refineries. What is more, each improvement in energy efficiency leads to a noticeable reduction in operating expenses. In 2013, three process furnaces were replaced. The worn-out, low-efficiency furnaces were replaced with state-of-the-art units fitted with heat recovery systems, which further enhances their energy efficiency. In 2013, projects were continued to increase the use of gas fuel by the refinery, including conversion of the third boiler of the CHP plant into a gas-fired unit. The last boiler will be upgraded in 2014 and from that time on all boilers of our CHP plant will be adapted to run on natural gas. In 2013, we also commenced the construction of a Hydrogen Recovery Unit. Once the project is completed, we will be able to recover hydrogen, LPG and naphtha from low-pressure refinery gases, currently burned in furnaces as a fuel. The recovery of hydrogen and its use in refining processes will reduce the overall cost of hydrogen production and help intensify the oil refining process. The other recovered streams will be marketed as LPG and pyrolysis gasoline. The project is to be implemented in 2013–2016. To diversify crude oil supply sources and directions, we have launched the Oil Unloading Railway Terminal project, which will enable us to receive and unload oil delivered by rail cars to the refinery in Gdańsk. By developing the necessary infrastructure for unloading 137 oil from rail cars, we will be able to use domestically produced oil in our units. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future intensify the oil refining process. The other recovered streams will be marketed as LPG and pyrolysis gasoline. The project is to be implemented in 2013–2016. To diversify crude oil supply sources and directions, we have launched the Oil Unloading Railway Terminal project, which will enable us to receive and unload oil delivered by rail cars to the refinery in Gdańsk. By developing the necessary infrastructure for unloading oil from rail cars, we will be able to use domestically produced oil in our units. We are also continuing our plan designed to implement the strategic objective of increasing the conversion ratio and intensifying crude processing by building the coking complex to process the heavy residue from crude oil processing into highvalue products. The front-end engineering design stage for the coking complex ended in August 2013. As part of that stage, a coking process licence and technologies for accompanying processes were selected and purchased, and a number of necessary technical analyses were performed. The selection of utility providers and product buyers was commenced. Steps were also taken to ensure adequate financing for the project. The coking unit will be completed in 2017. In 2012, Grupa Azoty and Grupa LOTOS signed an agreement to jointly carry out a preliminary feasibility study into the construction of a petrochemical production complex. Based on the study results, construction of a steam cracker unit was proposed as a recommended course of action. In December 2013, the Boards of both companies entered into an agreement in which they defined the terms of cooperation and financing of further work. A full feasibility study will mark the next stage in our joint petrochemical project, to determine whether the investment is viable and identify its potential economic benefits. In 2013, our refinery was once again included in the refining industry comparative performance analysis prepared by Solomon Associates. 2011-2012 were the compared years. For the purposes on the benchmarking study, the refinery is virtually divided into the fuels segment (fuels refinery) and the lubricant segment (lube refinery). The fuels refinery is subject to the Europe, Africa & The Middle East Fuels Refinery Performance Analysis, so the peer group is formed by refineries from those geographical regions. In 2013, the group numbered 107 refineries. The lube refinery is subject to the Worldwide Paraffinic Lube Refinery Performance Analysis, which in 2013 covered 42 refineries. 2012 was the first benchmarking year when all the refinery processes configured as part of the 10+ Programme were fully operational. The Grupa LOTOS fuels refinery performed very well against the peer group. The construction of modern facilities markedly enhanced the refinery’s energy efficiency. At present, the Grupa LOTOS refinery is among the most energy efficient refineries in Europe, with only 5% or so of the refineries having scored better in this category. Further improvement was also seen in labour productivity, as the 10+ Programme had markedly enhanced the refinery’s capacity, with only a slight increase in workforce. Since 2006, the labour productivity ratio has improved by approximately 30%. Return on capital employed, the most synthetic of all ratios, places the Grupa LOTOS refinery among the 25% best refineries in the analysed region. 138 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Processing business The LOTOS Group’s operating activity is centred on refining operations and supplying the market with high quality products, while utilising the production capacities in the optimal way and minimising the adverse environmental impact. The Group’s operating segment comprises the operations of the refinery in Gdańsk the largest production plant in the LOTOS Group, and those of subsidiaries involved in production or support functions. The subsidiaries include LOTOS Infrastruktura, LOTOS Serwis, LOTOS Lab, LOTOS Straż and LOTOS Ochrona. Achievements The spring 2013 overhaul shutdown was the most important event of the year at the Grupa LOTOS refinery. It was the first major overhaul shutdown since the refinery’s expansion under the 10+ Programme. The purpose of such shutdowns is to ensure safe operation of the refinery equipment by restoring them to full working order. It is only during these stoppages that certain inspections required by the Office of Technical Inspection can be carried out. In addition, they are an opportunity to implement a number of upgrades, which cannot be done while the units are operational. In the Grupa LOTOS refinery, overhaul shutdowns are carried out at four-year intervals. The work slated for the 2013 overhaul shutdown was carried out in full. The overhaul work schedule was prepared in accordance with relevant benchmarks for the refining industry, with the target overhaul duration across key process units within the European average. Additionally, in the refinery’s current configuration, it was possible to divide the work between two independent oil distillation lines, the overhaul of which was phased. As the total downtime in crude oil processing was reduced, the shutdown’s impact on the market availability of the refinery’s products was less significant than in previous years. The overhaul shutdown was used as an occasion to carry out a number of efficiency improving projects, designed to optimise the refining processes and replace old units. The most important of these included: m odernisation of the liquid gas separation facility, which increased the unit’s capacity and raised the quality of liquid gas stream s, m odernisation of the gasoline hydrodesulphurisation and separation colum n, resulting in higher potential output of m ore expensive gasoline from naphtha processing and im proving the process efficiency, launch of a flare gas recovery unit, designed to enable the use of flare gas as a fuel. The im plem entation of the project im proved the Com pany’s energy efficiency, reduced its environm ental im pact (CO2 em issions and noise) and enhanced its im age, replacem ent of old furnaces at the gasoline hydrodesulphurisation and oil refining units. Thanks to their high energy efficiency and enhanced operating profile, the new furnaces will im prove the units’ production perform ance. In 2013, the 30-day downtim e led to a year-on-year decrease in the volum e of crude oil processed. The refinery processed 8.7m tonnes of crude, which m eans that the average annual utilisation rate of its installed capacities was 82.9%. The refinery’s workload was adjusted to m arket conditions, which rem ained challenging throughout the year. In 2013, the 30-day downtime led to a year-on-year decrease in the volume of crude oil processed. The refinery processed 8.7m tonnes of crude, which means that the average annual utilisation rate of its installed capacities was 82.9%. The refinery’s workload was adjusted to market conditions, which remained challenging throughout the year. 139 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future challenging throughout the year. Crude oil processing and production of finished Crude slate (%) products at the Grupa LOTOS refinery (million tonnes) LITHUANIAN crude FORTIES crude ZARZAITINE crude TROLL crude TCOF crude OSEBERG crude NORNE crude IRANIAN LIGHT crude HEIDRUN crude GRANE crude BASRAH LIGHT crude ARAB EXTRA LIGHT crude 2011 2012 2013 AASGARD crude ROZEWIE crude Crude oil processing REBCO crude Production of finished products 2011 2012 2013 Finished products (%) Utilisation of the refinery’s capacities (%) Liquefied gases Motor gasolines Aviation fuels Diesel oils Light fuel oils 2011 2012 2013 Marine and bunker fuels Heavy fuel oils Crude oil distillation Bitumen components Gasoline desulphurisation Other products Diesel oil desulphurisation Hydrocracking 2011 2012 2013 As in previous years, the main type of crude processed was Russian REBCO, whose share in the total volume was close to 90.4% and remained relatively flat on previous years. Crude oil imported by sea, including approximately 140 thousand tonnes of Rozewie crude supplied by LOTOS Petrobaltic, accounted for the balance of the crude feed. Following LOTOS Petrobaltic’s acquisition of AB Geonafta, the refinery in Gdańsk also began processing crude oil supplied from Lithuania. In 2013, the volume of Lithuanian crude processed by our refinery was close to 48 thousand tonnes. Throughout the year, we recorded no supply disruptions which could affect the volumes of crude processed by the refinery. In 2013, the margin levels and demand conditions favoured maximised production of middle distillates such as diesel oil, aviation fuel and light fuel oil, with these products accounting for nearly 56% of the refinery’s total output. The refinery’s utilisation rate fell as a result of the overhaul shutdown. However, the hydrocracking unit’s 2013 workloads were comparable to those recorded in 2012. This was attributable chiefly to a very short 140 which could affect the volumes of crude processed by the refinery. In 2013, the margin levels and demand conditions favoured maximised production of middle distillates Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. such Win the Future as diesel oil, aviation fuel and light fuel oil, with these products accounting for nearly 56% of the refinery’s total output. The refinery’s utilisation rate fell as a result of the overhaul shutdown. However, the hydrocracking unit’s 2013 workloads were comparable to those recorded in 2012. This was attributable chiefly to a very short downtime of the 390 hydrocracking unit, which was built as part of the 10+ Programme and launched in 2011, and so did not require any substantial repairs. Throughout 2013, the focus was on maximising the use of natural gas as a fuel and feedstock in hydrogen production. Natural gas consumption rose by 75% year on year, to reach 372 thousand tonnes. As a result, the output of products previously consumed at the refinery instead of natural gas, such as liquefied gas, gasolines and fuel oil, went up. Research and development The focus of our research and development activities was on further optimisation of technologies for the oils unit’s products manufactured at our refinery in Gdańsk. The most important R&D achievement in 2013 was the development of production technology for bright stock oil with an increased viscosity index of 95 or more, followed by successful production launch and marketing of the product. The viscosity index was increased by using paraffin fraction residue. As regards road bitumen and oil production technologies, in 2013: industrial validation was obtained for MODBIT 45/80-55 CR, a new polym er-m odified bitum en with added rubber recovered from waste rubber, designed for construction of hard-wearing and environm entally friendly roads; laboratory validation was perform ed for MODBIT 25/55-60 CR, a new bitum en m inim ising the effects of road structure stiffening at very low tem peratures; testing was com pleted for L-HV hydraulic oils for com pliance with the Denison HF-0 requirem ents, to obtain the required Approvals; field tests were carried out for oils to be used in stationary gas engines, to obtain form al approval for use by selected engine m anufacturers; new classes of m otor and industrial oils were introduced, to offer a range of products suitable for various clim ate conditions in export countries; 27 Approvals for lubricants were extended, and 16 new Approvals were secured. Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 Actions taken in 2013 were consistent with the objectives of the LOTOS Group’s business and CSR strategies until 2015. In the years to come, our efforts to further increase the efficiency of the refinery in Gdańsk will be continued. The key plans for the coming years include: Increasing the effectiveness of hydrocarbon production in the refinery through the construction of a Hydrogen Recovery Unit; Upgrading the fourth boiler of the refinery’s CHP plant by converting it into a gas-fired unit; Continuing work on the design of the coking com plex; Refining our plans for producing high-quality base oils using paraffin fraction from MHC hydrocracking units; Further work on the construction of a petrochem ical production com plex; Developing the infrastructure for unloading oil from rail cars. Development prospects until 2020 141 Refining our plans for producing high-quality base oils using paraffin fraction from MHC hydrocracking units; FurtherIntegrated the construction work onAnnual Report 2013 Grupa petrochem of a LOTOS S.A. ical production com plex; Win the Future Developing the infrastructure for unloading oil from rail cars. Development prospects until 2020 Development directions until 2020 in the processing business concern mostly projects that have already been commenced and are aimed at improving the economic efficiency of feedstock processing at the refinery in Gdańsk. The most important challenges in this area will be: The project of a coking com plex together with accom panying installations. So far, the technical aspect of the project is quite advanced. However, the real challenge will be to ensure financing for the project as well as the sm ooth im plem entation of all its stages. Our experiences gained during the im plem entation of the 10+ Program m e shall prove useful for sm ooth com pletion of the coking project. The project of a petrochem ical production com plex, which is currently at the stage of conducting feasibility studies. Shall the project prove to be econom ically beneficial and financially viable, then its com pletion will pose a m ajor challenge and will open up a new chapter in the LOTOS Group’s activities. 142 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Marcin Bodio International Relations Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Energy Sector Security area In line with the business strategy of the LOTOS Group for 20112015, we will be seeking to increase our role in enhancing the security of Poland’s energy sector by increasing hydrocarbon production and the oil conversion ratio, improving Poland’s fuel balance and exploiting synergies between the refining and other segments of the energy sector. In line with the business Enhancing the energy sector’s security in a socially and environmentally strategy of the LOTOS Group responsible manner is also one of the key objectives of our CSR Strategy for 2012for 2011-2015, we will be 2015. It is one of the reasons why we signed the declaration accompanying the seeking to increase our role in ‘Vision of Sustainable Development of Polish Businesses until 2050’ initiative. The enhancing the security of importance of the energy sector is underlined by its being one of the six focus Poland’s energy sector by areas indicated in the document as an area where initiatives by business, the increasing hydrocarbon government and other groups are necessary to ensure the country’s successful production and the oil long-term development. conversion ratio, im proving Poland’s fuel balance and exploiting synergies between In line with our strategy and acting in accordance with the principles of the refining and other transparency, we take part as experts in government-initiated activities to segm ents of the energy sector. improve the energy sector’s security. We take an active role in the law-making process regarding key energy issues in Poland and the EU. We also actively work with dedicated organizations in Poland and abroad to build platforms for cooperation between the world of business and public authorities. Marcin Bodio International Relations Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Energy The promotion of corporate social responsibility manifests our need to stand for Sector Security area common values, which is why Grupa LOTOS actively pursues international efforts, to build a strong position for itself not only in business terms but also as a corporate citizen. Especially worth pointing out is our work within two international organizations, Central Europe Energy Partners (CEEP) and the Atlantic Council. Grupa LOTOS is an initiator and founding member of CEEP, a regional non-profit organization whose objective is to support integration of the Central European energy sector under the EU’s common policy for the energy sector and its security. At present, CEEP represents 22 companies from six Central European countries, which employ more than 300,000 staff and whose total annual revenues are in excess of EUR 40 bn. Thanks to CEEP membership, Grupa LOTOS is able to effectively voice its interests in the EU. The Atlantic Council is one of the most internationally recognisable US think-tanks, pursuing programmes in the fields of energy, the environment as well as global business and economics. As a partner of an organization with the transatlantic reach, we have gained extensive networking opportunities to work towards international security and global economic prosperity. 143 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Energy sector security In 2013, the goal of ensuring stable supplies of fuel and energy at prices acceptable to the industry and society at large, with the most efficient use of domestic energy resources, was the most important aspect of our efforts towards the energy sector’s security. Accordingly, these efforts focused on the following two areas: dynam ic developm ent of the upstream segm ent and active participation of Grupa LOTOS in the law-m aking processes to support the exploration and production of hydrocarbons; contribution to the Polish and EU energy policy by trying to m ake the governm ents, parliam ents and the public clearly see that the cost-benefit considerations and social costs should be taken into account when building the energy security. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS and Central Europe Energy Partners (CEEP) were involved in promoting the energy security policy, in particular the issue of affordable energy and support for the development of indigenous energy resources. At the 3rd European Economic Congress in Katowice, Grupa LOTOS and CEEP co-hosted ‘The role of energy in a competitive Europe’ discussion panel, held chiefly to highlight the fact that recovery and development of the industry is the key challenge which needs to be addressed in order to restore economic growth and create new jobs. However, this will not be possible if the energy costs keep growing. A number of politicians and businessmen attended ‘The Internal Energy Market in the EU – A Chance for Central Europe?’ discussion panel organised by CEEP at the 23rd Economic Forum in Krynica. The participants unanimously agreed that a unified internal market would bring up a number of opportunities for Central Europe, in particular in the area of cohesion policy, but also certain challenges, which need to be monitored and taken into account when creating an internal energy market. Representatives of Grupa LOTOS and CEEP also took part in the Global Security Forum conference in Bratislava, which was a major event organised as part of the Polish presidency of the Visegrád Group, featuring, among other things, a presentation of the ‘What Energy, Price, Growth’ report commissioned by CEEP from Roland Berger Consultants. It was noted that the EU’s unified energy sector policy which does not account for differences in economic development or the sector’s specific nature would be damaging to Central European countries. One of the key events to inaugurate the Lithuanian presidency of the EU was the ‘29+1’ debate held in Vilnius. The formula for the ‘29+1’ energy summit was already successfully tested in 2012 in Budapest. Representatives of the 29 leading energy sector companies from Central Europe participating in the summit had an opportunity to present their views and discuss certain issues facing the sector with Günther Oettinger, EU Commissioner for Energy. The idea behind the ‘29+1’ meetings is to ensure that Central European energy companies have a say in developing the EU’s joint position and energy security policy. Grupa LOTOS also took part in the Refining Roundtable organised by the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Energy (DG Energy), placing emphasis on the impact of EU legislation on the refining sector’s competitiveness. As a CEEP member, in 2013 we were involved (as part of the public consultation process) in preparing the EU’s position on the following issues: 144 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 2015 International Clim ate Change Agreem ent: Shaping international clim ate policy beyond 2020; Exploration and production of unconventional hydrocarbons in Europe; Energy prices in Europe. 145 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Wojciech Blew Technology Development and HSE Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Management of Natural Resources in the Production Process area In Grupa LOTOS’ environmental policy, we have been pursuing the commitments embedded in the Global Compact Principles. We reconfirmed this again in 2012 by signing the Declaration of Polish Businesses for Sustainable Development. We put in practice the provisions of the two documents by ensuring that our production installations always operate in strict conformity with the most stringent environmental requirements, and by In Grupa LOTOS’ opting for innovative technological solutions when it comes to environm ental policy, we have been pursuing the development and new projects. We also implement such com m itm ents em bedded in technical solutions that meet the stringent requirements of best the Global Com pact available techniques in terms of environmental impact and Principles. We reconfirm ed rational use of natural resources. this again in 2012 by signing the Declaration of Polish We take care to design and conduct our production processes with a primary Businesses for Sustainable focus on prevention, so that the generation of pollution and other nuisances is Developm ent. We put in practice the provisions of the prevented at source, and if that is not sufficient to minimise the impacts – we two docum ents by ensuring make investments necessary to protect the environment. Such an approach is that our production reflected in the LOTOS Group’s business strategy as part of an operating objective installations always operate to limit the environmental risk and to constantly strive to minimise the negative in strict conform ity with the environmental impact, and in the organization’s CSR supporting its business m ost stringent environm ental objectives. requirem ents, and by opting for innovative technological Our advancement in attaining another objective identified in our business solutions when it com es to strategy, which is to meet the best global production standards and remain highly developm ent and new competitive among European refineries, is well characterised by the results of a projects. We also im plem ent comparative study by Solomon Associates, presented in 2013. In the ‘energy such technical solutions that m eet the stringent efficiency’ category, we ranked at the beginning of the first quartile among global requirem ents of best available refineries, and first in Central and Southern Europe. Thanks to creative solutions techniques in term s of proposed by our Gdańsk-based engineers, Grupa LOTOS’ hydrocracking unit environm ental im pact and (MHC) achieves a conversion ratio of 90%, compared with a 60% licensor-rated rational use of natural conversion ratio for the same type of feedstock. resources. We have seen good progress in the pursuit of a key objective of our CSR strategy – to reduce the environmental risk and make constant efforts to minimise the Wojciech Blew negative environmental impact of the LOTOS Group’s operations. Technology Development and HSE Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Throughout 2013, we were successfully expanding the use of natural gas in the Management of Natural Resources in the refinery’s fuel gas network. A substantial increase in the use of gas in the refinery’s Production Process area energy system and as feedstock for production of hydrogen, replacement of old inefficient furnaces at two production units, and redirecting of flare gas to the heating network have all allowed us to achieve better-than-expected results in the implementation of our strategic CSR objective for carbon dioxide emissions. The average emissions volume in 2013 was 30.4kg CO2/CWT versus the 33.8kg CO2/CWT targeted at the end of the year. 146 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future We promote the awareness of best environmental practices and standards among our employees as well as the local communities. Our activities in this area include meetings, reunions, debates and conferences, publications in our internal media, as well as reaching our employees directly with information to raise their environmental awareness and popularise good environmental practices and standards. A notable event among those organised in 2013 consisted in a comprehensive survey carried out among the LOTOS Group’s employees, which on the one hand allowed us to evaluate the degree of their environmental awareness in the workplace and at home, and on the other hand had an educational value. Another important event was an integrating meeting for environmental protection specialists from all major industrial plants in Pomerania, the first of its kind. The meeting was devoted to environmental management, including industrial failures and mitigation of the risk of such failures, implementation of the IED directive into the Polish law and monitoring of how industrial operations affect the natural environment. We also continued to host trips to our refinery with a view to popularizing information on how the environmental impact of our facilities is being reduced, and we carried out other educational campaigns. We invariably monitor the environmental footprint of the LOTOS Group’s infrastructure beyond our mandatory obligations. In order to limit the risk of uncontrolled environmental impact, we continued the review of our service stations’ documentation, an exercise commenced in 2012. In 2013, the review covered 70% of the service stations (compared with 30% a year earlier). We also identified the stations (with a particular focus on stations located in Natura 2000 sites) for which we will procure environmental impact assessments. In 2013, we selected the contractor to perform the large-area environmental inventory of the refinery grounds in Gdańsk and its surrounding areas. The results of this analysis, due to be completed in early 2015, will provide information on the condition of the environment within the refinery grounds and in adjacent areas. We also seek to maintain the content of pollutants in treated wastewater and discharged water at the lowest possible levels. Just like in previous years, in 2013 the average annual ratio of pollutant charge introduced to the Rozwójka and Martwa Wisła rivers did not exceed the admissible level for all of the monitored indicators except one. The one exception was the boron content, an indicator added to our permit in view of the fact that we began to receive wastewater from the Eko Dolina landfill site. The recorded level of this indicator, which exceeded the permitted level by 50%, is attributable to the composition of the received wastewater. 147 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Environmental impact  data has been verified See full text of the Independent Assurance Report  When considering our environmental impacts, at the LOTOS Group we are especially concerned with gas emissions, which are the most critical source of environmental nuisance, both for the immediate environment of our plants and other areas located further away. The approach to emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFCs), perfluorinated hydrocarbons (PFC s) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6), is becoming an increasingly more important element of the assessment whether a company operates in accordance with the principles of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. Recently, we have also seen a wave of increased stakeholder interest in these issues, especially after the 19th edition of the Conference of Parties (COP19) organized by Poland, during which representatives of many countries from around the world were discussing the risks entailed by climate change, as well as ways of preparing for and possibly counteracting such change. At Grupa LOTOS, given that we participate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and have a sense of our material contribution to the country’s climate policy, we attach great importance to all issues related to the emissions of greenhouse gases as a result of the processes taking place in our installations. In all our projects we consistently stick to the policy of taking into consideration and implementing the Best Available Technologies for our processes. CO2 is the only greenhouse gas discharged from Grupa LOTOS’ installations . As in the previous year, we did not take continuous measurements of carbon dioxide emission volumes, but instead used a methodology based on calculating those volumes. 2013 was the first year when the manner of monitoring emission volumes of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases was centrally regulated – by the EU. This centrally imposed methodology compelled us to introduce some modifications in our approach to the assessment of measurement uncertainty and risk involved in the monitoring process. The consumption of input fuels and materials classified as main streams, namely fuel gas, natural gas and fuel oils, is measured using the most advanced and accurate Coriolis mass flowmeters, which guarantee that the highest accuracy standards are met. In turn, analyses of the parameters (calculation coefficients) of those fuels and materials are performed by an accredited LOTOS Lab laboratory. There was a slight change in the reference calculation coefficients we use for certain smaller streams of fuels and materials. We consult these, as well as any other, changes in the method of monitoring carbon dioxide emissions with a reputable, accredited EU ETS verifier. The Diesel-powered internal combustion engines of the energy generation system, the steam boilers and crane engines are all sources of greenhouse gas emissions. On the Baltic Beta platform, gases are emitted by the turbines running on gas separated from crude oil. An additional source of greenhouse gas emissions comes from the gas flared on the platform. On the Baltic Beta platform, most excess gas is compressed and returned to shore where it is used for powering other turbines, hence flaring is reduced to a minimum. All the gas produced on the ‘Petrobaltic’ platform is burned in flare stacks, which are designed to minimise the emission of harmful substances. All of its CO 2 emissions come from the combustion of natural gas and fuel oil in the generation of electricity and heat. Natural gas extracted from under the Baltic Sea bed does not contain any chemical compounds or substances which could produce emissions of any greenhouse gases other than CO2 during combustion. The methane which is a component of fuel gas is burnt up and is not emitted into the atmosphere. Other products of gas separation (liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas condensate (NGC)) do not contain greenhouse gases and do not produce emissions of any gases other than CO2 when used by end users. 148 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future LOTOS Geonafta’s hydrocarbon production operations in Lithuania generate relatively low emissions of harmful substances, which is why no emissions monitoring is undertaken there. As for LOTOS Norge, in 2013 it did not conduct any operations which could be a source of greenhouse gas emissions. CO 2 emissions in 2013 Unit. Volume LOTOS Petroba ltic* tonne 17,599 Energoba ltic tonne 11,784 Emission volumes including offshore activities. During the overhaul shutdown performed at the refinery in 2013, we introduced a number of low-emission improvements, which have contributed positively to our performance. Type of CO2 emissions in Grupa LOTOS [thousands of tonnes per year] Type of emission 2011 2012 2013 Direct 2,045 1,979 1,689 Indirect 365 400 373 Total 2,410 2,379 2,062 A reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants into the atmosphere was achieved also thanks to the completion in 2013 of the following projects: Replacement of process furnaces at the gasoline hydrorefining and oils refining units – the new furnaces are m uch m ore energy efficient com pared with the old units; Upgrade of the third boiler at our CHP plant and its adaptation to the burning of natural gas; Construction of a flare gas recovery unit, which redirected 45% of the total volum e of flare gases to the fuel gas network between the beginning of Septem ber and the end of the year. The only significant source of indirect emissions in Grupa LOTOS is in the purchase and use of electricity . It should be noted that in 2013 we significantly reduced the use of heavy fuel oil as a fuel for heat generation, replacing it with more environmentally friendly fuel gas, the main ingredient of which is natural gas. These projects allowed Grupa LOTOS to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 185 thousand tonnes in 2013. Apart from carbon dioxide, Grupa LOTOS is also required to monitor emissions of such substances as sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate matter (PM). The method of monitoring these pollutant emissions remained unchanged from the previous year. Measurements are performed separately for two installations: the CHP plant and the refinery. An online measurement system has been fitted inside the flue gas stack of the CHP plant, which continuously indicates the average concentrations of emitted oxides and particulate matter. Emissions from the refinery are calculated based on periodic measurements. Pollutant emissions in Grupa LOTOS [tonnes per year]: Substance 2011 Es 2011 Ed 2012 Es 2012 Ed 2013 Es 2013 Ed SO 2 5,708 7,137 3,370 6,342 548 5,169 149 843 dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate matter (PM). The method of monitoring these pollutant emissions remained unchanged from the previous year. Measurements are performed separately for two installations: Integrated Annualand the CHP plant Report refinery. the2013 GrupaAnLOTOS S.A. measurement system has been fitted inside online theflue the Win Future gas stack of the CHP plant, which continuously indicates the average concentrations of emitted oxides and particulate matter. Emissions from the refinery are calculated based on periodic measurements. Pollutant emissions in Grupa LOTOS [tonnes per year]: Substance 2011 Es 2011 Ed 2012 Es 2012 Ed 2013 Es 2013 Ed SO 2 5,708 7,137 3,370 6,342 548 5,169 NO 2 1,620 2,650 1,308 2,501 843 2,264 PM 344 556 264 461 91 366 Es actual level of emissions from Grupa LOTOS installations Ed permissible level of emissions In LOTOS Petrobaltic, fuel combustion emissions of such substances as nitrogen and sulphur oxides are due mainly to the combustion of fuel oils. It needs to be emphasised that none of the emissions from the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group’s production operations contain any ozone-depleting substances. Pollutant emissions in the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group in 2013 [tonnes] Substance Unit Volume LOTOS Petrobaltic SO x tonne 4.53 NO x tonne 26.88 Dust tonne 2.88 LOTOS Geonafta SO x tonne 0.46 NO x tonne 2.95 VOC (volatile organic compounds) tonne 69.54 Dus tonne 0.29 Energobaltic SO x tonne 0.004 NO x tonne 11.23 Dust tonne 0.005 In 2013, a flare gas recovery unit was put in service at the Grupa LOTOS refinery in Gdańsk. The unit was fitted on one of the two discharge ducts leading to flare 3500. To achieve the greatest possible mitigation of environmental nuisance while ensuring that the project remains economically viable, the unit’s connection point was located on the duct which carries the vast majority of all flare gases produced in Grupa LOTOS. Amount of discharge – amount of flare gas in Grupa LOTOS [thousand cubic metres per year] Source Unit 2011 2012 2013 Flare 3500 thousa nd cubic m etres 21,036 19,388 16,363 Flare 3550 thousa nd cubic m etres 10,819 3,603 5,499 Total thousand cubic metres 150 31,855 22,991 21,862 In 2013, a flare gas recovery unit was put in service at the Grupa LOTOS refinery in Gdańsk. The unit was fitted two discharge on one of theIntegrated ducts2013 Annual Report leading Grupa flare 3500. to LOTOS S.A. To achieve the greatest possible mitigationWin ofthe Future environmental nuisance while ensuring that the project remains economically viable, the unit’s connection point was located on the duct which carries the vast majority of all flare gases produced in Grupa LOTOS. Amount of discharge – amount of flare gas in Grupa LOTOS [thousand cubic metres per year] Source Unit 2011 2012 2013 Flare 3500 thousa nd cubic m etres 21,036 19,388 16,363 Flare 3550 thousa nd cubic m etres 10,819 3,603 5,499 Total thousand cubic metres 31,855 22,991 21,862 Significant volumes of flare gases are produced at shutdowns and startups of installations. Given that an overhaul shutdown was performed in our refinery in 2013, the aggregate volumes of gas being burned in flares should have been significantly higher than in previous years. However, the construction of a flare gas recovery unit, in addition to many other minor improvements, reduced the aggregate annual volumes of flared gases. The extent to which Grupa LOTOS managed to reduce its environmental impact is also reflected by the figures showing a reduction in our air emissions. Emission reduction in 2013 [tonne]* Action CO 2 SO 2 Pył NO x Repla cem ent of fuel oil with na tura l ga s in the fuel ga s network 35,000 1,960 150 190 Repla cem ent of fuel oil with na tura l ga s a t the CHP pla nt 68,000 1,420 60 220 Repla cem ent of light petrol/LPG with na tura l ga s in the Hydrogen Genera tion Unit (HGU) 82,000 0 0 0 Total 185,000 3,380 210 410 * compared with production conditions of 2011. In 2013, as in previous years, we did not use any ozone-depleting substances, neither did we introduce any products the use of which would cause atmospheric emissions of such compounds. In the years to come, we want to continue our efforts to gradually reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants into the atmosphere, through further: increasing the share of natural gas in our fuel gas network; reducing the consum ption of heavy fuel oil by replacing it with fuel gas. Energy efficiency The energy efficiency of all production units used by Grupa LOTOS is one of our top priorities. Our steady progress in this area is reflected in the comparative performance analyses of the refining industry published by Solomon Associates. In the latest Solomon report for 2012, Grupa LOTOS was named the most energy efficient fuels refinery in Central Europe and Southern Europe, and secured one of the top positions in Europe. 151 We constantly undertake new initiatives to improve the refinery’s energy efficiency. In 2013, the key project In the latest Solomon report for 2012, Grupa LOTOS was named the most energy efficient fuels refinery in Central Europe and Southern Europe, and secured one of the top positions in Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Europe. We constantly undertake new initiatives to improve the refinery’s energy efficiency. In 2013, the key project consisted in replacing process furnaces at two refining units, i.e. the gasoline hydrodesulphurisation unit and the oils refining unit. The new furnaces are highly efficient, with an energy efficiency ratio of over 90%. By using advanced, highly efficient technological solutions, we also reduced the consumption of primary energy, which relative to 2012 was down 28% and 30% in the fuel and lube complexes, respectively. As a result of the work performed during the overhaul shutdown and rational management of process media, we managed to permanently reduce the refinery’s consumption of compressed (control) air by 20%. In 2013, we also took steps to lower the indirect use of energy by the refinery. To this end, low voltage switchgears were modernised and inverters were installed on the supplies of the motors of all cooling fans in one of the cooling water units. This solution enhances the cooling efficiency and saves electricity through flexible control of the rotational speed of the fan motors in individual cooling units. The system was put in service in late 2013. We also continued to use LED lights on a test basis. Given the requirements of the Act on Liquid Biocomponents and Biofuels, the Grupa LOTOS refinery’s fuel products contain biocomponents (renewable energy carriers): ethanol and ethyl tert-butyl ether are used in gasoline production, whereas fatty acid methyl esters are added to diesel oils. According to the current quality requirements for liquid fuels, the permitted ethanol and ethyl tert-butyl ether content in gasoline is 5% and 15%, respectively. Similarly, the volume of fatty acid methyl esters in diesel oils must not exceed 7%. The total required content of biocomponents in motor fuels is set by the state. In 2013, the Council of Ministers issued a Regulation on National Indicative Targets for 2013-2018, whereby the NIT was set at 7.10%, which means that biocomponents must account for 7.10% of the energy content of fuels marketed in Poland. Grupa LOTOS has met this requirement. Direct energy consumption of Grupa LOTOS in 2013, by primary energy source [GJ] Direct − purchased Direct − produced Direct − sold Direct − total energy Item Unit energy energy energy consumption Natural gas GJ 7,943,250 0 0 7,943,250 Fuel gas GJ 0 9,542,926 140,807 9,402,119 HSFO+Bleed fuel 0 0 0 0 GJ oil LSFO GJ 0 1,952,920 0 1,952,920 Light fuel oil 0 GJ 25,043 0 25,043 (HON) Electricity GJ 0 0 0 0 Heat GJ 0 0 118,054 -118,054 Residual gas GJ 0 3,258,653 0 3,258,653 Total 7,943,250 14,779,542 258,861 22,463,931 Indirect energy consumption of Grupa LOTOS, by primary energy source Year Unit Amount of electricity purchased from the National Power Grid 2011 GJ 152 4,163,239 Heat GJ 0 0 118,054 -118,054 Residual gas GJ 0 3,258,653 0 3,258,653 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Total 7,943,250 14,779,542 258,861 22,463,931 Indirect energy consumption of Grupa LOTOS, by primary energy source Year Unit Amount of electricity purchased from the National Power Grid 2011 GJ 4,163,239 2012 GJ 4,407,590 2013 GJ 4,036,944 The main source of energy used on the drilling platforms is diesel oil, supplied by ships, as well as natural gas extracted together with oil. On the ‘Petrobaltic’ platform, energy is generated by a system of power engines and generators running on diesel oil, which meets the requirement to keep sulphur content below 1%. Energy generated in this way is then distributed throughout the platform. On the ‘Baltic Beta’ platform, energy is additionally generated by gas turbines powered by gas separated from the formation fluid, composed chiefly of crude oil. In LOTOS Geonafta, energy on the rigs is produced by a diesel generator. Direct energy consumption of LOTOS Petrobaltic in 2013, by primary energy source Direct − purchased Direct − produced Direct − sold Direct − total energy Item Unit energy energy energy consumption Natural 0 GJ 53,048 25,139 27,910 gas Diesel oil GJ 106,733 0 0 106,733 Total GJ 106,733 53,048 25,139 134,643 Direct energy consumption of LOTOS Geonafta in 2013, by primary energy source Direct − purchased Direct − produced Direct − sold Direct − total energy Item Unit energy energy energy consumption Natural gas GJ 2,521 0 0 2,521 Fuel gas GJ 0 17,056 0 17,056 Diesel oil GJ 24,874 0 0 24,874 Total GJ 27,395 17,056 0 44,451 Direct energy consumption of Energobaltic in 2013, by primary energy source Direct − purchased Direct − produced Direct − sold Direct − total energy Item Unit energy energy energy consumption Natural gas type E 17,679 GJ 0 0 17,679 (GZ 50) Natural fuel gas (dry) GJ 262,519 0 0 262,519 Light fuel oil GJ 116 0 0 116 Electricity GJ 0 50,033 47,968 2,065 Heat GJ 0 134,163 102,275 31,887 Total GJ 280,314 184,196 150,243 314,266 Indirect energy consumption of LOTOS Petrobaltic -in 2013, by primary energy source 153 Electricity GJ 0 50,033 47,968 2,065 Heat GJ 0 134,163 102,275 31,887 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Total GJ 280,314 184,196 150,243 314,266 Indirect energy consumption of LOTOS Petrobaltic in 2013, by primary energy source Unit. Quantity Energy purcha sed for the la nd ba se’s opera tions GJ 5,948 Indirect energy consumption of LOTOS Geonafta in 2013, by primary energy source Item Unit Quantity Energy purcha sed for a dm inistra tive purposes GJ 1,256 Energy for production purposes GJ 11,826 Total GJ 13,082 Indirect energy consumption of Energobaltic in 2013, by primary energy source Unit Quantity Energy purchased GJ 26,539 Raw materials and consumables used Raw materials used in exploration and production are substances used in the drilling and production processes. In the case of drilling, these include: Drilling m ud com ponents (m aterials), Cem ent used to bond well casing to the drilled rock. LOTOS Petrobaltic does not use oil-based muds for drilling. All muds used on the drilling rig are water-based. Drilling mud components are brought to the platform, where they are added to water to obtain drilling mud of the required physical and chemical properties. The main ingredients of drilling mud are bentonite or metal salts (KCl, NaCl), with baryte or galena as weighting agents. Various other chemical substances are added to achieve the required properties. The main raw materials used in the production process include also: Chem ical substances (m aterials) added to the form ation and produced water injection system , Materials used as filter inserts (anthracite, ground nut shells, gravel of different grain size, m etal and fibrous filter inserts). Formation water is saturated brine, mostly chlorine, sodium and calcium brine. From the point of view of environmental protection, injection of water into a deposit does not pose any environmental threat because the applied pressure does not exceed the fracture pressure of the rock layer, and so does not affect its structure. However, the presence of water in extracted crude oil poses the problem of its disposal or recycling by further technological process. So far, the main method of managing this highly mineralised formation water, extracted together with oil, consists in separating it from the oil in separators, and discharging it into the sea after cleaning it to a level below 15 ppm of oil components (in accordance with the requirements of MARPOL 73/78 and HELCOM). In order to protect the Baltic Sea and meet the environmental requirements set forth in the Baltic Sea Action Plan, such as those imposing a total ban on discharge -of waters, including treated formation water, directly 154 into the sea, LOTOS Petrobaltic has built an installation which pumps produced waters back into the deposit. and so does not affect its structure. However, the presence of water in extracted crude oil poses the problem of its disposal or recycling by further technological process. So far, the main method of managing this highly mineralised formation water, extracted together with oil, consists in separating it from the oil in separators, and discharging it intoAnnual Integrated Report the sea 2013 after cleaning it to aS.A. Grupa LOTOS Win the Future level below 15 ppm of oil components (in accordance with the requirements of MARPOL 73/78 and HELCOM). In order to protect the Baltic Sea and meet the environmental requirements set forth in the Baltic Sea Action Plan, such as those imposing a total ban on discharge of waters, including treated formation water, directly into the sea, LOTOS Petrobaltic has built an installation which pumps produced waters back into the deposit. Consequently, all formation water is pumped back to the deposit it came from, together with the sea water. This solution does not interfere with the marine environment or with the formation of oil-bearing strata, but merely returns the extracted substance. Water parameters around the platforms are continually monitored in order to ensure that they meet the relevant environmental requirements. We carry out regular monitoring of multiple parameters, including hydrocarbon content in the water, chemical and biological oxygen demand, chlorides, sulphides, bacteria, surfactants and others. The cementing process uses water-based slurry with chemical additives which delay the setting time. The purpose here is to bond the casing pipes to the drilled levels, prevent contact between drilled rock layers of different pressure gradients, and ensure tightness of the uncased section to prevent the overflow of drilling mud or substances extracted during operations. The parameters are monitored before, during and after drilling, in accordance with the relevant environmental decisions and approvals. Any variations that may occur are due to country-specific regulations. The Baltic Sea is particularly sensitive, which is why operations on the Baltic Sea are governed by more rigorous regulations than those applicable in other areas. Raw materials and consumables used in 2013 by the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group, by weight and volume (tonnes) LOTOS Petrobaltic Injected and formation water Volume Biocides 10.17 [t] De-emulsifiers Coagulants 8.84 1.69 [t] Other 15.16 [t] Total 35.9 [t] Drilling mud Volume Bentonite 19.3 [t] Salts (drilling mud and packer fluid) 78.8 [t] Hydroxides 2.9 [t] Other (for maintaining appropriate properties viscosity, filtration, etc) 22.8 [t] Total 123.8 [t] Cement slurry Volume Cement 430.6 [t] Processing agents 14.4 [t] Total 445.0 [t] Total 604.7 [t] Transport of gas from the platform via pipeline to Władysławowo Volume Methanol 8.08 [t] LOTOS Geonafta 155 Processing agents 14.4 [t] Total 445.0 [t] Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Total 604.7 [t] Transport of gas from the platform via pipeline to Władysławowo Volume Methanol 8.08 [t] LOTOS Geonafta Substances used in the drilling process Volume Acid inhibitors 6.95 [t] Drilling mud additives 111.40 [t] Polymers 48.31 [t] Blokers 29.25 [t] Lubricants 1.40 [t] Cement 162.42 [t] Extraction additives 111.40 [t] Total 471.13 [t] Substances used in the production process Volume Corrosion inhibitors 2.16 [t] De-emulsifiers 29.28 [t] Oxidants 0.20 [t] Total 31.65 [t] Total 502.78 [t] Energobaltic Stage I Gas Compressor Station Volume Input material: waste gas 9,790,352 [Nm 3 ] Indirect production material: methanol 10,200 [l] Stage II Gas/Input Material Separator Station Volume Input material: waste gas (wet) for LPG production 4,966.58 [t] Input material: natural gas condensate 1,613.51 [t] Obtained natural fuel gas (dry) as a fuel for heat and electricity generation 5,250,374 [Nm 3 ] Raw materials and consumables used by Grupa LOTOS, by weight and volume (tonnes) Raw materials Unit 2011 2012 2013 Crude oil tonne 9,163,836 9,673,647 8,702,622 Raw materials and components tonne 1,062,156 833,610 834,114 Enhancing additives tonne 2,254 2,091 1,994 Water consumption The refinery draws water from the nearby Motława river, which is its only source of surface water. Given the risk of seawater influx into the river near our intake, to156 ensure an adequate supply of freshwater the refinery Crude oil tonne 9,163,836 9,673,647 8,702,622 Raw materials and components tonne 1,062,156 833,610 834,114 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Enhancing additives tonne 2,254 2,091 1,994 Water consumption The refinery draws water from the nearby Motława river, which is its only source of surface water. Given the risk of seawater influx into the river near our intake, to ensure an adequate supply of freshwater the refinery draws water into a retention tank with a capacity of 350,000 m3, constructed in the Motława oxbow lake. Underground water is sourced from Cretaceous and Quaternary formations. Cretaceous water drawn by means of two wells is an important source of water for human use. Because of its quality, Quaternary water is used solely for industrial purposes, and given that our intake from these formations is relatively small, the source is classified as immaterial. Economic use of the natural environment, including water resources, is based on relevant water-law permits and an integrated permit for drawing water from Cretaceous wells. The environmental impact of water intake is assessed during each permit application procedure. Inspections carried out near the refinery's underground and surface water intakes confirm that our water intake does not affect any protected sites or areas of great environmental value. We consistently maintain water consumption substantially below the prescribed volumes. In 2013, the volume of surface water drawn by the refinery represented 28.9% of the permitted volume, with Quaternary and Cretaceous waters at 0.4% and 59.2% of the respective limits. Total freshwater drawn by Grupa LOTOS, by source (m 3 /year) Source Unit 2011 2012 2013 3 162,511 Underground water m 202,429 189,217 3 3,574,791 Surface water m 3,607,427 3,532,113 3 Total m 3,809,856 3,721,330 3,737,302 Grupa LOTOS processes consuming large quantities of water Source Unit 2011 2012 2013 3 CHP plant – production of utilities m /year 2,929,811 2,936,080 2,778,592 3 Refinery – circulatory cooling water m /year 1,386,304 1,503,995 1,418,925 Freshwater for the needs of the LOTOS Petrobaltic platforms is extracted from a deep well, for which the company holds the required permit. The amount of water drawn is closely monitored and remains below permitted levels. The amount of water drawn from the Baltic Sea for the needs of the rigs is negligible in relation to its total water resources – 303,121 m3 out of 21,727 m3. It should also be noted that none of the other companies of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group are depleting water resources through excessive withdrawal. Water is used on the platforms for human use and for technological purposes. In addition to freshwater, seawater is also used for production purposes, for example in the water injection system. This water is drawn directly from the sea by means of deep-well pumps. Total freshwater drawn by LOTOS Petrobaltic in 2013, by source (m 3 ) Source Unit Amount of water drawn 3 27,645 Freshwater – own intake m 157 other companies of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group are depleting water resources through excessive withdrawal. on the platforms Water is usedIntegrated Annual Reportfor2013 human Grupa and for useLOTOS S.A.technological purposes. In addition to freshwater, Win the Future seawater is also used for production purposes, for example in the water injection system. This water is drawn directly from the sea by means of deep-well pumps. Total freshwater drawn by LOTOS Petrobaltic in 2013, by source (m 3 ) Source Unit Amount of water drawn 3 27,645 Freshwater – own intake m 3 2,467 Freshwater – municipal water supply m Seawater m3 303,121 Formation water m3 94,366 Total m3 427,599 Total freshwater drawn by LOTOS Geonafta in 2013, by source (m 3 ) Source Unit Amount of water drawn Freshwater m3 3,012 Water for technological purposes m3 1,855 Total m3 4,867 Total freshwater drawn by Energobaltic in 2013, by source (m 3 ) Source Unit Amount of water drawn 4,853 Wa ter dra wn from m unicipa l network m3 Grupa LOTOS seeks to increase the volume of reused water and wastewater. Our goal is to increase the share of recycled water in our overall process water consumption. In this way, we keep the use of natural resources to a necessary minimum. For a number of years now, we have been witnessing measurable effects of our efforts, as the percentage of reused water in our overall water consumption continues to rise. Recycled water includes industrial water produced from treated wastewater as well as condensate returned to the boiler feedwater. Volume of water recycled in Grupa LOTOS (m3 ) Unit 2011 2012 2013 Industrial water produced from treated wastewater m3 1,179,317 1,254,556 1,368,844 Pure condensate volume m3 2,030,131 2,207,217 2,237,300 Total volume of water recycled in Grupa LOTOS Unit 2011 2012 2013 3 3,606,144 Total volume of recycled water m 3,209,448 3,461,773 Percentage of recycled water % 45.7 48.2 49.1 Treated wastewater from the Grupa LOTOS treatment plant is discharged to the Martwa Wisła river. The receiving body was historically a part of the Wisła Leniwka river. The reservoir was cut off from the main course of the Wisła in the 19th century, following construction of the Wisła cutting and the Przegalina sluice. The Martwa Wisła waters in the refinery area are classified as internal seawaters. The second stream of water discharged from the plant158 consists of treated drainage water and clean 3 3,606,144 Total volume of recycled water m 3,209,448 3,461,773 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Percentage of recycled water % 45.7 48.2 49.1 Treated wastewater from the Grupa LOTOS treatment plant is discharged to the Martwa Wisła river. The receiving body was historically a part of the Wisła Leniwka river. The reservoir was cut off from the main course of the Wisła in the 19th century, following construction of the Wisła cutting and the Przegalina sluice. The Martwa Wisła waters in the refinery area are classified as internal seawaters. The second stream of water discharged from the plant consists of treated drainage water and clean rainwater, which are directed to the Rozwójka river, an element of the Żuławy Gdańskie hydrological improvement system and a tributary of the Martwa Wisła. Neither of these receiving waters are protected or have high biodiversity value in the discharge area. Furthermore, long-term monitoring has confirmed that wastewater discharged by Grupa LOTOS has no material impact on them. Additionally, despite many years of operation, the refinery does not seem to materially affect any of the habitats located in the vicinity of its discharge areas. The separate treatment lines allow us to redirect almost all oily rainwater after treatment, to produce industrial water which is fed back to the plant and reused. Only excess volumes of treated oily rainwater are discharged, together with technical wastewater and greywater/blackwater, to the receiving body. Total volume of wastewater from Grupa LOTOS, by quality and destination (m 3 ) Unit 2011 2012 2013 3 4,220,723 Rozwójka m 3,874,089 4,305,910 3 1,273,851 Martwa Wisła m 1,354,015 1,293,596 Total m3 5,228,104 5,599,506 5,494,574 Treated wastewater discharged by Grupa LOTOS into the Martwa Wisła river 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 Measure Unit Wr Wd Wr Wd Wr Wd pH 7.81 6.50-9.00 7.79 6.50-9.00 7.56 6.50-9.00 mg Biological Oxygen Demand 2.68 25.00 2.56 25.00 2.99 25.00 O 2 /dm 3 mg Chemical Oxygen Demand 34.00 125.00 30.20 125.00 44.10 125.00 O 2 /dm 3 Suspended solids mg/dm 3 7.89 35.00 6.38 35.00 7.89 35.00 Volatile phenols µg/dm 3 1.00 100.00 <5.00* 100.00 <0.005* 100.00 Substances extractable with petroleum mg/dm 3 0.58 50.00 0.74 50.00 0.73 50.00 ether Petroleum hydrocarbons mg/dm 3 0.83 5.00 1.93 5.00 0.23 5.00 Total Nitrogen mg/dm 3 2.90 30.00 2.40 30.00 4.30 30.00 Total Phosphorus mg/dm 3 1.07 3.00 1.03 3.00 0.57 3.00 Sulphides µg/dm 3 2.00 200.00 6.00 200.00 9.00 200.00 Nickel µg/dm 3 10.10 500.00 10.20 500.00 17.05 500.00 Vanadium µg/dm 3 36.30 2,000.00 28.90 2,000.00 19.10 2,000.00 Aluminium µg/dm 3 92.20 3,000.00 62.40 3,000.00 69.00 3,000.00 159 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Wr actual average annual level Wd permissible average annual level * result below the quantification limit for the analytical method used in a given year Treated wastewater discharged by Grupa LOTOS into the Rozwójka river Measure Unit 2011 Wr 2011 Wd 2012 Wr 2012 Wd 2013 Wr 2013 Wd 3 Suspended solids mg/dm 11.92 35.00 10.71 35.00 9.50 35.00 3 Petroleum hydrocarbons mg/dm 1.64 5.00 2.15 5.00 0.74 5.00 Wr real average annual value Wd permissible average annual value All oily wastewater is stored on the LOTOS Petrobaltic platforms in special containers, and later taken ashore for disposal. Greywater/blackwater is processed in a biological treatment station and then released to the sea. The condition of seawater around the platform is monitored on a daily basis. Similarly, no wastewater produced by LOTOS Geonafta in its drilling operations is discharged directly into natural bodies of water (lakes and rivers). All technological wastewater and greywater/blackwater is stored and subsequently transported to a wastewater treatment plant. Volume of wastewater produced in 2013, by destination (m3 ) LOTOS Petrobaltic Unit Volume 3 7,546 Greywa ter/bla ckwa ter m LOTOS Geonafta Unit Volume 3 3,012 Greywa ter/bla ckwa ter m Energobaltic Unit Volume 3 617 Greywa ter/bla ckwa ter m All formation water produced by LOTOS Petrobaltic in the oil extraction process is pumped back to the reservoir it came from. Volume and disposal method of formation water and water produced by LOTOS Petrobaltic in 2013 Item Unit Volume Degree of oil contamination of formation water ppm 7.64 3 94,366 Water injected back to the reservoir m Volume and disposal method of formation water and water produced by LOTOS Geonafta in 2013 Unit Volume 3 246,333 Form a tion wa ter m In LOTOS Geonafta, all formation water produced in the oil extraction process is stored on the rig and then transferred for disposal. Waste management 160 3 246,333 Form a tion wa ter m In LOTOS Geonafta, allAnnual Integrated formation Report water produced LOTOSin 2013 Grupa the oil extraction process is stored on the rigWin S.A. then andthe Future transferred for disposal. Waste management Management of waste generated by Grupa LOTOS is carried out in compliance with EU and national regulations, ensuring maximum safety for the environment. As a result of the work performed during the overhaul shutdown in 2013, noticeably more waste was produced, which, however, comprised mostly nonhazardous waste. Waste generated by Grupa LOTOS − quantity [tonnes/year] Waste generated by Grupa LOTOS 2011 2012 2013 Waste stored at the end of the previous year 2,244 2,195 1,777 Generated hazardous waste 7,338 6,784 6,478 Generated non-hazardous waste 5,046 5,574 6,659 Total generated waste 12,384 12,358 13,137 Volumes permitted by the integrated permit 89,627 89,627 89,627 Waste generated by service providers N/A 4,154 3,170 Our endeavours towards environmentally friendly waste management is evidenced by the fact that in 2013 we managed to recycle all waste produced by the Grupa LOTOS refinery. Waste management methods applied by Grupa LOTOS − quantity [tonnes/year] Waste management method 2011. 2012 2013 Waste recycled 12,428 12,749 13,504 Waste treated or disposed of 4 28 0 Incineration 4 27 0 Landfilling 0 1 0 Waste stored on site at the end of the year 2,196 1, 777 1,410 Hazardous 1,977 1,503 1,376 Non-hazardous 219 274 34 The only hazardous waste sent abroad by Grupa LOTOS are used catalytic converters. Foreign companies have the appropriate technologies to manage such waste in an environmentally friendly way. Type of hazardous waste generated by Grupa LOTOS Type of waste Unit. 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous waste transported from external sources (from outside the LOTOS Group) to the 0 tonne 21 0 refinery 6,352 Hazardous waste transported from the refinery to external sites in Poland tonne 6,286 7,258 253 Hazardous waste transported from the refinery to external sites outside of Poland tonne 119 0 161 6,605 Total hazardous waste transported tonne 6,426 7,258 Type of waste Unit. 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous waste transported from external sources (from outside the LOTOS Group) to the 0 tonne 21 0 refinery Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 6,352 Hazardous waste transported from the refinery to external sites in Poland tonne 6,286 7,258 253 Hazardous waste transported from the refinery to external sites outside of Poland tonne 119 0 6,605 Total hazardous waste transported tonne 6,426 7,258 Percentage of waste transported across international borders % 2 0 3.8 In 2013, there were two incidents involving hazardous substances at the Grupa LOTOS refinery , but their potential impact was limited to the immediate area and neither of them resulted in environmental pollution, as confirmed by appropriate tests carried out under the inspection of the Pomeranian District Inspector for Environmental Protection. In 2013, the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group did not report any significant spills into the environment . Drill cuttings (small pieces of rock fragmented by the advancing drill bit) are the main waste product of the drilling process. Once carried to the surface, they are directed to the drilling mud treatment system. Drill cuttings do not contain any of the substances listed in Annex 1 to the Helsinki Convention. Drill cuttings with drilling mud from primary and secondary treatment are discharged to the seabed after being separated and washed, whereas drill cuttings from tertiary treatment are carried ashore and transferred to a waste management company. Every batch of disposed drill cuttings is tested for toxic content. Drilling mud, on the other hand, is recycled so it can be reused in the drilling process. When drilling mud is not suitable for recycling, it is also taken ashore and transferred to a waste management company. Waste generated by LOTOS Petrobaltic − quantity [tonnes/year] Generated waste 2013 Generated hazardous waste 38 Generated non-hazardous waste 644 Total generated waste 682 Waste generated by LOTOS Geonafta − quantity [tonnes/year] Generated waste 2013 Generated hazardous waste 22 Generated non-hazardous waste 3,966 Total generated waste 3,988 Waste generated by Energobaltic − quantity [tonnes/year] Generated waste 2013 Waste stored at the end of the previous year 0.07 Generated hazardous waste 0.42 Generated non-hazardous waste 0.808 Total generated waste 1.30 Waste management methods applied by LOTOS Petrobaltic − quantity [tonnes/year] 162 Waste management method 2013 Generated hazardous waste 0.42 Generated non-hazardous waste 0.808 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Total generated waste 1.30 Waste management methods applied by LOTOS Petrobaltic − quantity [tonnes/year] Waste management method 2013 Waste recycled 141 Landfilling 541 Waste stored on site at the end of the year: 0 ha za rdous 0 non-ha za rdous 0 Waste management methods applied by LOTOS Geonafta − quantity [tonnes/year] Waste management method 2013 Waste treated or disposed of 3,988 Landfilling 0 Waste stored on site at the end of the year: 0 ha za rdous 0 non-ha za rdous 0 Waste management methods applied by Energobaltic quantity [tonnes/year] Waste management method 2013 Waste treated or disposed of 0.65 Waste recycled 0.40 Landfilling 0.25 Waste stored on site at the end of the year: 0.146 ha za rdous 0.101 non-ha za rdous 0.045 All drilling mud and drill cuttings generated by LOTOS Petrobaltic are produced using water-based drilling fluid. In the process of drilling, drill cuttings (small pieces of drilled rock, containing 5%-10% of drilling mud) are separated from drilling mud. The quantity of drill cuttings differs depending on the drilling interval and its diameter. The chemical composition and environmental impact of drill cuttings depend on the type of drilling mud being used. In order to completely eliminate the chemical activity of produced waste, the use of the simplest type of drilling muds was designed for the process. The drilling muds were tested for their impact on the marine environment (a study entitled ‘Determination of the potential impact of drilling mud on the marine environment of the Baltic Sea’ prepared at the Gdańsk University of Technology) and considered environmentally non-toxic. LOTOS Geonafta used only water-based drilling mud in its production operations. Most of its ingredients are biodegradable. All technological water, drilling mud and drill cuttings are carried away for disposal. Waste generated in 2013 Drill cuttings [tonne] (LOTOS Petrobaltic) Drill cuttings Unit Total weight 163 transferred as waste tonne 94 environment of the Baltic Sea’ prepared at the Gdańsk University of Technology) and considered environmentally non-toxic. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future LOTOS Geonafta used only water-based drilling mud in its production operations. Most of its ingredients are biodegradable. All technological water, drilling mud and drill cuttings are carried away for disposal. Waste generated in 2013 Drill cuttings [tonne] (LOTOS Petrobaltic) Drill cuttings Unit Total weight transferred as waste tonne 94 discharged to the sea tonne 1,054 Total tonne 1,148 Waste generated in 2013 [tonne] (LOTOS Petrobaltic) Drilling mud Unit Total weight in circulation tonne 1,141 transferred as waste tonne 340 discharged to the sea tonne 144 Total tonne 1,625 Waste generated in 2013 [tonne] (LOTOS Geonafta) Unit Total weight Drill cuttings tonne 1,601 Drilling mud and technological water tonne 2,322 Total tonne 3,924 In accordance with applicable regulations, the LOTOS Group companies have engaged recycling contractors for recovery and recycling of packaging introduced to the domestic market. At Grupa LOTOS, LOTOS Oil and LOTOS Paliwa, the aggregate recovery rates for packaging waste were in line with the statutory requirements and in 2013 stood at 58.5% for recovery and 50% for recycling. Tar papers were a product sold by LOTOS Asfalt in packaging until mid-2013 Altogether, the recovery rate for used packaging waste for this company was 58.5% , with the recycling rate at 15.8%. Transport Transport is another key area in which we seek to mitigate our environmental impact. All bitumen and heavy fuel oil transport for the Polish market is coordinated by LOTOS Asfalt. In 2013, road tankers carried nearly 510 thousand tonnes of products, covering more than 11.5 million kilometres and consuming more than 3.5 million litres of fuel. To limit exhaust gas emissions, the company’s products are first transported to distribution centres by rail, and only then dispatched to customers in road tankers. The products are reloaded in modern handling terminals, where harmful vapour emissions are minimised. Seeking to protect the environment, LOTOS Kolej, the company providing transport services i. a. to the LOTOS Group’s companies, keeps increasing the share of electric traction transport, gradually replacing diesel locomotives. As at the end of 2013, the company used 91 locomotives, including 54 electric vehicles. Due to traction issues, a portion of transport and shunting work is still carried out using diesel locomotives. 164 Share of electric and diesel Diesel oil consumption by LOTOS Traction electricity consumption Seeking to protect the environment, LOTOS Kolej, the company providing transport services i. a. to the LOTOS Group’s companies, keeps increasing the share of electric traction transport, gradually replacing diesel Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future locomotives. As at the end of 2013, the company used 91 locomotives, including 54 electric vehicles. Due to traction issues, a portion of transport and shunting work is still carried out using diesel locomotives. Share of electric and diesel Diesel oil consumption by LOTOS Traction electricity consumption traction in overall transport (%) Kolej diesel locomotives in 2011by LOTOS Kolej electric 2013 (thousand litres) locomotives in 2011-2013 (MWh) 80,281 78,065 74,037 5,798 4,771 4,871 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Out of the total volume of fuels sold by LOTOS Paliwa in 2013, 7% was transported by rail and 26% by road tankers, with the balance represented by fuels collected from storage depots by customers using their own means of transport. In 2013, no fuel spills were reported in road or rail transport. Mitigation of environmental impact Refinery The environmental impact of Grupa LOTOS products is unavoidable. Fuels provide energy which is released through combustion, emitting exhaust gas. The efficiency of chemical energy conversion into usable forms of energy (mechanical or thermal) depends on the design of the engine, rather than the fuel itself. Even so, we take steps to make sure that our fuels do not have a significant environmental impact. All Grupa LOTOS products meet the quality requirements prescribed by law, and in some environmentally relevant respects they even exceed the legally required standards. The sulphur content in Grupa LOTOS gasolines and diesel oils is substantially below the legal threshold. In 2013, the average annual sulphur content in m otor gasolines and diesel oils was 3.3 ppm and 5.5 ppm , respectively, considerably beneath the required m axim um of 10 ppm . This results in substantially lower sulphur dioxide em issions. The arom atics content in Grupa LOTOS fuels is also considerably lower than that prescribed by applicable laws. In the case of unleaded gasoline type 95, the average arom atics content in 2013 was 29.7%, less than the legal threshold of 35%. For diesel oils, the content of polycyclic arom atic hydrocarbons is lim ited to 8% of the fuel’s weight. However, in 2013 the average PAH content in our B7 diesel oil was only 0.8% in weight term s. Consequently, this oil produces less soot during com bustion, which translates into lower particulate em issions in exhaust fum es. Benzene, sulphur and lead content in Grupa LOTOS fuels Substance j.m. 2012 volume 2012 volume (average) 2013 volume 2013 volume (average) Benzene (in gasolines) % V/V 0.5 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.0 0.9 165 Sulphur (in gasolines) m g/kg 1.0 9.9 3.9 0.1 7.9 3.3 was 29.7%, less than the legal threshold of 35%. For diesel oils, the content of polycyclic arom atic hydrocarbons is lim ited to 8% of the fuel’s weight. However, in 2013 the average PAH content in our B7 diesel oil was only 0.8% in weight term s. Consequently, this oil produces less soot during Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future com bustion, which translates into lower particulate em issions in exhaust fum es. Benzene, sulphur and lead content in Grupa LOTOS fuels Substance j.m. 2012 volume 2012 volume (average) 2013 volume 2013 volume (average) Benzene (in gasolines) % V/V 0.5 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.0 0.9 Sulphur (in gasolines) m g/kg 1.0 9.9 3.9 0.1 7.9 3.3 Sulphur (in diesel oil) m g/kg 1.4 9.5 5.5 2.0 10.0 5.5 Lead (in gasolines) m g/kg 0 0 0 0 Detailed information regarding the properties and composition of fuel products are available for our customers at www.lotos.pl/en, where descriptions of all our products along with their Safety Data Sheets are published. On request, the Sheets are also available at LOTOS service stations. Another long-used method of mitigating the environmental impact of fuels is the use of biocomponents, which can be considered renewable energy sources, and therefore limit the impact of fuel combustion on the environment. Logistics is another area where the environmental impact of fuel products may be mitigated, by preventing product losses into the environment. In 2013, we launched a new Vapour Recovery Unit (VRU) at the refinery in Gdańsk, to recover the vapours of gasoline. The new unit enables more efficient removal of gasoline vapours from the air pushed out of rail tankers during loading, with three times the capacity of the old one (3,000 m 3/h). Thanks to the investment, the volume of hydrocarbons released into the atmosphere is minimised, which reduces the environmental impact of logistics operations related to gasoline handling. Bitumens We take steps to eliminate hydrocarbon release related to the production, storage and transport of bitumens, which produce olfactory nuisance, especially within the production plants. Completed projects which are part of this strategy include in particular: Jasło: construction of a therm al afterburner, air-tightening of tanks and connecting the air-tight tanks and bitum en nozzles to the therm al afterburner; Gdańsk: connection of all road and rail tank nozzles to a vapour extraction system , air-tightening of tanks, connection enabling treatm ent of extracted vapours in therm al afterburners, construction of an auxiliary unit for treatm ent of vapours collected from the nozzles with activated charcoal. Following completion of the project in 2013, the aerosanitary conditions in the area improved substantially. Rail operations In 2013, we completed an overhaul and modernisation of the advanced rail tanker cleaning facility, operated by LOTOS Kolej in Gdańsk. Apart from the main facility, the project involved the construction of a specially designed track fitted with an additional station for removing LPG residues from tankers and feeding them to flare stacks. The range of services was also extended to include shot blasting of internal tanker surfaces. Oils In 2013, the LOTOS Oil production branch in Czechowice-Dziedzice was working on solutions designed to limit soil, surface water and groundwater contamination. As a result of this work, double bottoms were installed in selected tanks. Fuels 166 In 2013, we continued to invest in mitigating the environmental impact of existing LOTOS service stations. Oils In 2013, the LOTOS Oil production branch in Czechowice-Dziedzice was working on solutions designed to limit soil, surface water and groundwater contamination. As a result of this work, double bottoms were Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future installed in selected tanks. Fuels In 2013, we continued to invest in mitigating the environmental impact of existing LOTOS service stations. These activities included modernising the fuel facilities by installing gasoline vapour recovery units, adding new equipment for measuring and monitoring petroleum product stocks, as well as detecting and signalling any petroleum product leaks to surface water and groundwater, and replacing single-shell tanks with double-shell units. Production One of the most important elements in mitigating the impact of production operations on the natural environment consists in protecting the sea from possible pollution by extracted oil and accompanying substances, and minimising the environmental damage should such an emergency occur. To remain prepared for response to potential emergencies, every year we run obligatory drill exercises on tackling oil spills. In 2013, such training was carried out in the Gdańsk Bay, with the participation of Maritime Search and Rescue services and the Maritime Office in Gdynia. At the same time, LOTOS Petrobaltic updated its Oil Spill Response Plan for spills resulting from exploration and production work conducted within its licence areas, which is part of the National Plan to Combat Pollution of the Marine Environment. One of the most important activities to ensure a clean environment and mitigate adverse impacts is environmental monitoring, which is the study of the environment before, during and after operations. This relates chiefly to seawater and bottom sediment testing. Another important aspect of the process is the management of waste generated on the rigs, based on the ‘zero discharge’ policy, covering both postconsumer and production waste. Chemicals used in the drilling process circulate within a closed system, not entering in any contact with the environment. In order to ensure that the arrangements set out in the Baltic Sea Action Plan are followed, in 2013 LOTOS Petrobaltic equipped the production rig with an installation for pumping oily formation waters. Biodiversity Marine environment As at the end of 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic held eight crude oil and natural gas exploration and production licences in Polish marine areas. Previously, only one of them, SAMBIA W, bordered on conservation areas of the Baltic Sea coast, protected under the EU Birds Directive. Currently, the newly acquired licences Słupsk W and Słupsk E border on the Słupsk Shoal (Ławica Słupska), which is a marine site of the NATURA 2000 network as defined by the Birds and Habitats Directives. One of the most important elements in mitigating the impact of production operations on the natural environment consists in protecting the sea from possible pollution by extracted oil and substances accompanying the drilling process, and minimising the environmental damage should such an emergency occur. Surveys have shown seabed degradation over vast stretches of the central Baltic Sea, caused primarily by accumulations of undegradable organic matter, as well as reduced oxygen content at depths of more than 60 metres. An animal that can be found in this area, although irregularly and very rarely, is the harbour porpoise. In 2013, we took samples for the purpose of biodiversity testing together with bottom sediment samples. The samples, however, contained too little fauna and flora material to perform biodiversity tests. Our activities in the Baltic Sea consist in exploration for and production of crude oil from the seabed. Exploration work can be divided into two stages: 1. Seism ic surveys, which show where hydrocarbons can be found; 167 2. Test drilling to m ake a prelim inary estim ate of the size of a reservoir and its resources, which helps In 2013, we took samples for the purpose of biodiversity testing together with bottom sediment samples. The samples, however, contained too little fauna and flora material to perform biodiversity tests. Our activitiesIntegrated Annual in the Baltic Report Sea 2013inGrupa consist LOTOS S.A. exploration for and production of crude oil from the seabed. Win the Future Exploration work can be divided into two stages: 1. Seism ic surveys, which show where hydrocarbons can be found; 2. Test drilling to m ake a prelim inary estim ate of the size of a reservoir and its resources, which helps evaluate the econom ic viability of future production. Seismic surveys involve generating acoustic waves, which affect the sea fauna. An environmental decision issued by the Regional Directorate for Environmental Protection is required to commence such work. An opinion from the Director of the relevant Maritime Office is also needed. The environmental decision specifies the requirements which must be met in conducting the planned work. In this respect, LOTOS Petrobaltic strictly complies with all the procedures and requirements laid down in the applicable laws and regulations. The Soft Entrance procedures are applied in seismic work, under which the intensity of a seismic source is gradually ramped up so as to allow the fish and porpoises inhabiting the area to leave the affected region. Although the oil deposits beneath the Baltic Sea floor are low-pressure reservoirs, the risk of an eruption during appraisal work and test drilling must be taken into account. Therefore, the procedures to be followed during such operations are very detailed, and provide for all safety measures following from best practice and best technology solutions to reduce, insofar as practically possible, the risk of an eruption. An oil spill would have negative consequences, especially for the bird populations. However, considering that crude oil produced from the Baltic Sea is light oil and 30% of its volatile fractions would evaporate within the first few hours of a spill, and that HELCOM recommends mechanical collection of oil contamination from the sea surface while restricting the use of dispersants causing the clumping and sinking of oil particulates, the impact of a spill on the environment would be minimised. The main output of the production process is formation fluid, which is separated on the drilling rig into crude oil, natural gas and formation water, the latter being injected back into the reservoir to an appropriate depth in order to maintain the reservoir pressure. Natural gas is transported to LOTOS Energobaltic, where it is used to generate electricity. Such measures also help protect the air, in line with the requirements of Annex VI to MARPOL Convention 73/78 and the Baltic Sea Action Plan. The licence areas where LOTOS Petrobaltic may explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas are located outside the so-called Baltic Sea Protected Areas. As a result, the exploration and production operations conducted within the licence areas pose a negligible threat to protected areas and the maritime environment. The Baltic Sea Protected Areas are given priority when it comes to tackling oil spills in sea waters, with the key objective to prevent any contamination from entering those areas. Onshore areas controlled by LOTOS Geonafta are located approximately 700 metres from NATURA 2000 sites. The company manages surface water runoff in a comprehensive way, by using, among other measures, an appropriate system of drainage canals. The level of air and groundwater pollution is also monitored. All projects are preceded by environmental impact reports, with data for the purpose of environmental impact assessment provided by continuous monitoring. Periodic analyses have not shown any impact of the exploration and production operations on the biodiversity of the neighbouring conservation areas. Refinery’s surroundings We are consistent in making biodiversity protection a priority for our planned and ongoing investment projects. In order to obtain an environmental decision, an environmental impact assessment must be performed for every major project which may have a significant effect on the environment. As part of this process, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment report is prepared, containing an obligatory description of the project’s effect on biodiversity. In our effort to uphold the principles of corporate social responsibility, Grupa LOTOS goes above and beyond the statutory requirements, thoroughly covering biodiversity issues in such reports. Our commitment to mitigating the adverse impact of -our 168 operations on the local fauna and flora is also performed for every major project which may have a significant effect on the environment. As part of this process, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment report is prepared, containing an obligatory the project’s description ofIntegrated Annualeffect Reporton biodiversity. 2013 InS.A. our effort to uphold the principles of corporate Grupa LOTOS Winsocial the Future responsibility, Grupa LOTOS goes above and beyond the statutory requirements, thoroughly covering biodiversity issues in such reports. Our commitment to mitigating the adverse impact of our operations on the local fauna and flora is also evidenced by the fact that one of our key environmental objectives for 2014 is to perform a large-area inventory of elements comprising the environment within and surrounding our refinery in Gdańsk. We intend to use the inventory data as a basis for future initiatives to help us manage the biodiversity risks in the refinery’s vicinity. In 2013, our standing with respect to the protection of species included in any category of the IUCN Red List of endangered species did not change relative to previous years. {link to the 2012 Report} So far, the only protected animal species identified as living in the vicinity of our refinery have been peregrine falcon and kestrel. In 2013, a pair of peregrine falcons built a nest on the platform attached to the stack of the refinery’s CHP plant. The birds are under strict protection in Poland, with only ca. 70 nesting pairs left in the country. We have also been recording an increasing number of kestrels nesting within the refinery’s premises. In 2013, two such nests were found on refining units − the first one was located on one of the flares, while the second one was situated on the bearing of the flue gas duct in the oils refining furnace. The second nest is particularly worth mentioning, because the area around the duct was to be modernised in connection with the replacement of the unit’s furnace, as announced the year before. However, to allow the protected birds to raise their young until they were ready to leave the nest, we rescheduled the work by nearly a month. Service station areas In 2013, the LOTOS service station chain was expanded to include 34 locations operating under the CODO model. 12 of them are newly built stations, with state-of-the-art facilities ensuring environmentally safe operation. In accordance with the applicable regulations, each service station was assessed for environmental impact at the design phase to determine its potential impact on the neighbouring areas, in particular protected sites and areas of high biodiversity value. All the stations were approved for operation and have no impact on protected areas. The other 22 service stations were acquired on the market from private owners and made compliant with LOTOS standards not only in terms of visual identity and service quality, but also in technological terms. All the locations selected to be included in the LOTOS service station chain were inspected, with special attention paid to technological solutions and environmental protection documentation. We also reviewed their location in relation to protected areas and any other areas of biodiversity, and performed a risk analysis of the possible impact of each station on the environment. Based on the reviewed documentation and site visits, it was concluded that the service stations newly included in the LOTOS chain were mostly located within towns and cities, away from protected areas. As at the end of 2013, the chain comprised 256 service stations owned by LOTOS Paliwa. To mitigate the risk of uncontrolled environmental impact, we undertook to monitor each station’s environmental impact beyond the scope of mandatory measures. In line with the CSR strategy for 2012-2015, we reviewed the archived documentation of all service stations. In 2012, the review was carried out for 30% of them, with the remaining 70% covered in 2013. In some cases, additional assessments were commissioned to review their impact on the local environment and protected areas. These efforts will be spread over two years, with subcontractors (experts with relevant expertise and experience in assessing fuel sector facilities) to be engaged in the first year. We expect that reports produced as part of this initiative, covering ca. 50 service stations, will provide us with detailed 169 information about the facilities’ location with respect to protected areas, and identify potential hazards for station’s environmental impact beyond the scope of mandatory measures. In line with the CSR strategy for 2012-2015, we reviewed the archived documentation of all service stations. In 2012, the review was carried out for 30% of them, with the remaining 70% covered in Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 2013. In some cases, additional assessments were commissioned to review their impact on the local environment and protected areas. These efforts will be spread over two years, with subcontractors (experts with relevant expertise and experience in assessing fuel sector facilities) to be engaged in the first year. We expect that reports produced as part of this initiative, covering ca. 50 service stations, will provide us with detailed information about the facilities’ location with respect to protected areas, and identify potential hazards for the protected areas arising from their operations. In 2013, no revitalisation work was carried out on areas managed by LOTOS Paliwa. Land owned by the LOTOS Group is discussed in more detail in the 2012 Report . {link} Capital expenditure on environmental protection A substantial decrease in charges for economic use of the natural environment proves that the changes we introduce materially reduce the environmental impact of entities operating as part of the LOTOS Group. Costs and expenditure (PLN ’000) Item 2011 2012 2013 Grupa LOTOS Costs Environm enta l m a na gem ent costs 2,685 3,143 2,137 Environm enta l protection spending 20,011 23,555* 22,336 Fina ncing of pro-environm enta l a ctivities of externa l institutions 285 525 509 Expenditure Pro-environm enta l investm ent 12,116 67,606 63,012 Expenditure on property, pla nt a nd equipm ent** 114,733 141,913 202,314 LOTOS Group Costs Environm enta l m a na gem ent costs 25,450 4,729 4,695 Environm enta l protection spending 34,564 26,716 28,336 Fina ncing of pro-environm enta l a ctivities of externa l institutions 295 547 509 Environm enta l insura nce*** 104 105 194 Expenditure Pro-environm enta l investm ent 34,709 75,515 66,348 Expenditure on property, pla nt a nd equipm ent** 805,265 814,264 1,130,446 * In 2013, there was a change in our approach to calculating our expenditures on environmental protection, which were extended to include also such costs as were associated with ensuring the proper functioning of the sewage system on the premises of refinery in Gdańsk, etc. Therefore, for the sake of comparability, we have also updated the figures representing our expenditures on environmental protection for 2012 accordingly. ** In 2012 the approach was changed, with property, plant and equipment presented in accordance with the financial statements. *** Environmental insurance premiums are paid at the LOTOS Group level. Expenditure [PLN ‘000] 170 Item 2011 2012 2013 * In 2013, there was a change in our approach to calculating our expenditures on environmental protection, which were extended to include also such costs as were associated with ensuring the proper functioning of the sewage system on the premises of refinery in Gdańsk, etc. Therefore, for the sake of comparability, we have also updated the figures representing our expenditures on environmental protection for 2012 accordingly. Integrated ** In 2012 the approach changed,Report was Annual 2013 Grupa with property, LOTOS plant and S.A. presented in accordance with the financial statements. Win the Future equipment *** Environmental insurance premiums are paid at the LOTOS Group level. Expenditure [PLN ‘000] Item 2011 2012 2013 Grupa LOTOS Air em issions 4,268 2,980 1,256 Wa ter withdra wa l 144 140 162 Wa stewa ter discha rge 313 298 316 Wa ste la ndfilling 0 0 0 Total 4,725 3,418 1,734 LOTOS Group Air em issions 4,805 3,218 1,651 Wa ter withdra wa l 210 173 240 Wa stewa ter discha rge 487 388 511 Wa ste la ndfilling 0 0 0 Total 5,502 3,779 2,402 Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 The investment projects completed in 2013 (upgrading one boiler of the CHP plant by converting it into a gas-fired unit, replacing old process furnaces with new and more energy efficient ones at two units, a flare gas redirection system) are fully consistent with our efforts to meet the key objective of the LOTOS Group’s CSR strategy in the Management of natural resources in the production process area, which is to reduce the environmental risk and seek to continually minimise the environmental impact of the LOTOS Group’s operations. Actions mitigating the LOTOS Group’s negative impact will be continued. In 2014, the fourth, and last, boiler of the Grupa LOTOS CHP plant is to be converted to a gas-fired unit. The completion of this task will allow us to fully meet the stringent emission standards regarding large gas combustion units (power plants/CHP plants), which are to come into force as of January 1st 2016. 171 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Development prospects until 2020 Further reduction of the LOTOS Group’s negative environmental impact will be possible thanks to the implementation of two more environmental objectives set for the coming years, which are: To im prove the energy efficiency of the steam heating system of pipelines connecting units; To decrease the prim ary energy consum ption of the Grupa LOTOS refinery through m odernising further process furnaces. These actions contribute to further improvement of the energy efficiency, and thus are in line with the objective of mitigating our negative impact on the natural environment. 172 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Relationship capital Relationship capital of Grupa LOTOS Well-established sales channels and distribution system ensuring custom er satisfaction; Solid m arket position; Reputation of a reliable supplier of prim e quality products; High level of custom er service; Well-earned trust and com m itm ent, which support our relationships with custom ers, suppliers and business partners; Sustainable supply chain. Our objectives in the management of relationship capital: Maxim ise financial perform ance by optim ally leveraging our resources and m arket opportunities, leading to enhancem ent of shareholder value. Build lasting custom er relationships through a focus on understanding custom ers’ needs and delivering the expected product quality and safety. Key activities: Consolidate our reputation of a reliable product supplier. Im prove custom er satisfaction by enhancing our service and sale processes to m eet custom er expectations, introducing a uniform group-wide com plaint handling procedure, designing the im plem entation of a recording system and system for active m anagem ent of custom er relationships, developing the chain of LOTOS Optim a econom y service stations, and other initiatives. Optim ally m anage the supply chain (planning, procurem ent, production and distribution). Continue the policy of diversifying directions and sources of crude oil supplies. Results: Steady improvement in Export of LOTOS-branded Strong growth of the chain customer satisfaction levels products to 75 countries of economy service stations around the world Promotion of the best Leadership in key product categories commercial practices among the supply chain actors 173 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Paweł Maślakiewicz Sales Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Market Partnership to Build Lasting Customer Relationships area Grupa LOTOS ranks among Poland’s major industrial producers. Every day, we process thousands of tonnes of crude oil and deliver thousands of tonnes of oil products to the market. Mobility is the good we offer. Since it would be impossible for us to reach our customers directly, it is key that we build lasting relationships with business partners, whose distribution networks help channel our products to end users. We have the Grupa LOTOS ranks am ong pleasure of working with the industry’s leaders as well as what Poland’s m ajor industrial producers. Every day, we is equally important a number of smaller players, who process thousands of tonnes guarantee stable supplies of LOTOS products to the market. of crude oil and deliver thousands of tonnes of oil In our effort to build lasting relationships with customers, it is key that we create products to the m arket. and strengthen our image of a reliable, responsible supplier, who seeks to Mobility is the good we offer. identify and satisfy market needs, while proposing innovative solutions that set Since it would be im possible positive standards for the entire industry. It is important that we demonstrate our for us to reach our custom ers maturity in the approach to commercial matters, but also to our role as one of the directly, it is key that we build market’s major players. lasting relationships with business partners, whose In 2013, at an annual meeting with our key partners, we unveiled the LOTOS distribution networks help channel our products to end Group’s CSR strategy and showcased the achievements reinforcing our image of users. We have the pleasure of a responsible business partner. I am pleased to say that the presentation was very working with the industry’s warmly received. We showed how, by combining our business capabilities with leaders as well as what is innovative ideas from other spheres of life, we can generate a whole new quality. equally im portant a num ber Our activities for the support of culture, sport and the environment make us a of sm aller players, who partner of choice for our customers. guarantee stable supplies of LOTOS products to the Last year, we also had the pleasure of presenting the LOTOS Group’s Code of m arket. Ethics, which provides a systematic framework for our corporate values. This landmark event, clearly communicated to hundreds of our business partners, has allowed us to establish a transparent platform of cooperation, providing a crucial Paweł Maślakiewicz tool for building our relationships with the market environment. Sales Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Market Partnership to Build Another thing worth noting is the role we play in supporting the government in Lasting Customer the law-making process concerning the energy sector. We take an active part in consultations over proposed amendments to the Mandatory Stocks Act and the Energy Law, and have whole-heartedly supported the introduction of legal measures aimed to eradicate criminal practices from our industry. Thanks to our initiatives, the LOTOS brand has come to be associated not only with premier quality oil products, but also with safety, environmental-mindedness and responsibility for the market on which we operate. 174 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Marketing segment Our marketing business is conducted domestically (sales to foreign companies) and through export sales, by sea and by land. In 2013, the LOTOS Group’s activities involving production and sales to the fuel, lube and bitumen industries were carried out through: Grupa LOTOS and subsidiaries: LOTOS Paliwa, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Asfalt and LOTOS-Air BP Polska. We also provided logistics services through Grupa LOTOS (management of storage capacities) and LOTOS Kolej (primary logistics). In the area of aviation fuel, November 2013 saw the closing of a joint-venture transaction with BP Europe SE, concerning sale of a 50% equity interest in LOTOS Tank, which led to the establishment of LOTOS-Air BP Polska. Achievements Our 2013 performance relative to strategic objectives for the marketing segment was in line with plans. The LOTOS Group secured a 33.4% share in the domestic fuel market, 3.4 pp above the target set in the business strategy for 2015. The market share fell by 0,9 pp on 2012, due to increased activity of the grey market, whose volume in 2013 was estimated at around 1.6 million tonnes. The LOTOS Group’s share in the Polish retail fuel market reached 8.5% which means we are on track to meet our strategic target for 2015. In 2013, our share of the retail market rose by 0.5 pp on 2012. The achievement of our strategic target, to gain a 10% share in the domestic retail fuel market by 2015, will be supported by sustainable development of the service station chain both in the premium and economy segments, and by increasing sales through the existing chain. The target of generating sales in excess of our fuel production capacities, forecast for the end of 2013, was achieved at 8.7% which puts us well on track to meet the 15% target by 2015. In 2013, the volume of products sold by the LOTOS Group ran to 9.3 million tonnes, 8.1% down year on year. The greatest decline was seen in domestic sales of diesel oil, as the increased activity of the grey market took away some of the demand for the fuel, which was further sapped by the economic slowdown. A decline in export sales was due mainly to the overhaul shutdown of our refinery in the first half of the year, and ongoing efforts to optimise the sales mix in response to different refining margins spreads. LOTOS Group’s share in the domestic market of liquid LOTOS Group’s sales [tonnes] fuels (%) 175 In 2013, the volume of products sold by the LOTOS Group ran to 9.3 million tonnes, 8.1% down year on year. The greatest decline was seen in domestic sales of diesel oil, as the increased activity of the grey market took away some ofIntegrated the demandAnnualforReport fuel,which the2013 was further Grupa LOTOS S.A. sapped by the economic slowdown. A Win decline in the Future export sales was due mainly to the overhaul shutdown of our refinery in the first half of the year, and ongoing efforts to optimise the sales mix in response to different refining margins spreads. LOTOS Group’s share in the domestic market of liquid LOTOS Group’s sales [tonnes] fuels (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Source: In-house analysis of Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Trade (POPiHN) data. 176 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Value chain – logistics and sales Sales of motor fuels The volume of the LOTOS Group’s gasoline sales amounted to 1.5 million tonnes, up by 0.4% over the year before. Relative to 2012, there was a shift in the structure of gasoline sales – in view of the economic downturn and falling demand for gasoline seen in recent years on the Polish market, the product was sold on the receptive export markets of the Netherlands, Sweden and the UK. In 2013, a 6% decline in demand for diesel oil led to a 4.8% decrease in total sales of that fuel by the LOTOS Group. A drop in domestic sales was largely compensated by exports, which grew 25% year on year, with Germany, the UK, the Netherlands, France, Denmark and the Czech Republic accounting for the bulk of foreign sales. Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Sales of diesel oil [tonnes] 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Sales of aviation fuel In 2013, the LOTOS Group recorded a 17% drop in sales of aviation fuel, while still remaining the main Polish exporter of that fuel. Intra-Community sales accounted for the majority of exports, with the main customers located in Sweden, the Czech Republic, Finland, Denmark and Switzerland. Domestic sales were conducted via two channels: into plane and wholesale. As part of the into plane fuelling service, fuel was delivered to airline customers operating on the Polish airports in Gdańsk, Warsaw and Kraków. In the wholesale channel, sales were mainly to the aviation industry. Sales of aviation fuel [tonnes] 177 located in Sweden, the Czech Republic, Finland, Denmark and Switzerland. Domestic sales were conducted via two channels: into plane and wholesale. As part of the into plane fuelling service, fuel was delivered to airline customers operating Integrated Annual on the2013 Report Polish airports Grupa LOTOS Gdańsk, Warsaw and Kraków. In the wholesale inS.A. Winchannel, the Future sales were mainly to the aviation industry. Sales of aviation fuel [tonnes] 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Sales of LPG In 2013, for another year running, Grupa LOTOS recorded an increase in LPG sales both in Poland and on foreign markets. The increase was linked to the introduction of natural gas as a production feedstock, which had taken place a year earlier. The Polish LPG market is characterised by a huge deficit, with almost 90% of total demand being satisfied by imports, and thus our additional LPG output was channelled to the Polish market. The key export markets for the product included Germany and Serbia. Sales of LPG [tonnes] 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. The impact of our fuels on human health and safety is assessed at the production stage. For each type of fuel, a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for hazardous substances is prepared, including information on all potential hazards associated with the use of the fuel and required 178precautions. An SDS is delivered directly to each Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future The impact of our fuels on human health and safety is assessed at the production stage. For each type of fuel, a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for hazardous substances is prepared, including information on all potential hazards associated with the use of the fuel and required precautions. An SDS is delivered directly to each wholesale customer and is available to retail customers at the LOTOS service stations. Given the fact that we use road or railway transport to supply fuels to customers, internal procedures have been developed to ensure safety and limit the adverse effect of fuels in transit on human health. Railway transport is handled and supervised in terms of safety and health protection by LOTOS Kolej, whereas road transport is fully outsourced to third parties. Nevertheless, we still oversee the safety of this stage of distribution, by providing tank truck drivers with procedures on how to handle their cargoes and the hazard class of the fuels they carry. As part of our supervision of road transport in terms of safety and health protection, we undertake regular field inspections. The monitoring covers: Loading operations at depots, Safe passage of tank trucks over m onitored routes, including correct cargo m arking as required by applicable regulations, Safety of unloading sites, Unloading in line with the established procedure and conform ity with the procedure, Procedurę in case of spills, failures. Sales of lube products In 2013, the LOTOS Group sold 254 thousand tonnes of lube products. The principal distribution channels on the Polish market included wholesale and direct sales. The main foreign markets for our lubricating oils were EU countries, as well as countries in Central and Middle Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. In 2013, newly acquired customers for LOTOS Oil products included partners from China, France, the Netherlands, Iran, Tunisia, Turkey and UAE. In 2013, LOTOS-branded oil products were sold in 59 countries. Sales of lube products [tonnes] 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. 179 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. All products manufactured by LOTOS Oil are appropriately labelled with information about their potential health impacts and environmental hazards. Extent of the product and service information required by LOTOS Oil’s internal procedures: Source of the product or service components Tha nks to the provision of registra tion num bers for ha za rdous substa nces, it is possible to a ccess inform a tion on ea ch product’s hea lth im pa cts a nd environm enta l ha za rds, such a s ca rcinogenic Content, particularly effects, fertility im pa ct, bioa ccum ula tions, etc. Inform a tion on the com m ercia l source of a product, i.e. its substances that might have supplier, is not provided. an environmental or social impact Guidelines on how to sa fely use a nd ha ndle ha za rdous substa nces a re a lso included in the Sa fety Da ta Safe use of the product or Sheets. In a ddition, la bels on pa cka ged products include pictogra m s providing inform a tion a bout the service risks posed by the product. Sa fety Da ta Sheets a re a va ila ble on LOTOS Oil’s website. Disposal of the product and Lubrica ting oils a re subject to the Act on Obliga tions of Entrepreneurs in Respect of Ma na gem ent of its environmental/social Certa in Wa ste a nd Product Cha rges, da ted Ma y 11th 2001 a nd seconda ry regula tions, a nd thus a re impact collected a nd tra nsferred for disposa l in qua ntities required by the Act. In line with LOTOS Oil’s product policy, products m a rketed by the com pa ny exceed the sta tutory requirem ents with respect to environm ent a nd hea lth protection. The QUANTILUS T50 a nd QUANTILUS 60 pla sticisers, pla ced on the m a rket over the la st three yea rs, m a y serve a s a ca se in point, since they m eet Product policy a ll requirem ents rela ted to m uta genicity level a nd content of ca rcinogenic a gents, a s confirm ed by independent la bora tories. Another exa m ple is the upgra ding of m otor oil lines in a ccorda nce with the ACEA specifica tions, requiring such products’ conform ity with the exha ust a fter trea tm ent system s in pa ssenger ca rs a nd trucks. Approxim a tely 22% of the com pa ny’s oil products bea r specia l la belling. Life cycle stages at which the impact of LOTOS Oil’s products on health and safety is assessed  Concept of product developm ent  Research and developm ent  Certification  Manufacturing and production  Marketing and prom otion  Stocks distribution and supply  Use and service  Disposal, reuse or recycling In 2013, LOTOS Oil recorded no incidents of non-compliance with applicable regulations, rules and codes concerning health and safety impacts of the company’s products and services. Similarly, there were no incidents of non-compliance with the regulations and voluntarily applied procedures concerning the marking and provision of information on products and services. No sanctions were imposed on LOTOS Oil resulting from its non-compliance with the applicable laws or regulations pertaining to the provision and use of the company’s services and products. Sales of heavy fuel oil 2013 saw a 1% overall increase in sales of heavy fuel oil, which − next to diesel oil and gasoline − is a key product sold by the LOTOS Group. The increase came on the back of a 6% growth in exports, mainly to international trading companies. In Poland, the product was sold primarily to power sector companies. 180 incidents of non-compliance with the regulations and voluntarily applied procedures concerning the marking and provision of information on products and services. No sanctions were imposed on LOTOS Oil resulting from its non-compliance with the applicable laws or regulations pertaining to the provision and use Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future of the company’s services and products. Sales of heavy fuel oil 2013 saw a 1% overall increase in sales of heavy fuel oil, which − next to diesel oil and gasoline − is a key product sold by the LOTOS Group. The increase came on the back of a 6% growth in exports, mainly to international trading companies. In Poland, the product was sold primarily to power sector companies. Sales of heavy fuel oil [tonnes] 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Sales of heating diesel oil A slide in domestic demand for light fuel oil in favour of alternative heating fuels, caused our 2013 sales of the product to shrink 13% year on year, to 293 thousand tonnes. Sales of heating diesel oil [tonnes] 403,154 388,116 337,794 292,760 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. Sales of bitumens 181 Integrated Source: The LOTOS Annualdata. Group in-house Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Sales of bitumens In 2013, there was a 19% year-on-year drop in total bitumen sales, attributable to weaker financial performance of construction companies, as well as the economic crisis prevailing across the EU with a resulting decline in infrastructure investment. Similarly to previous years, road bitumen had the largest share in total bitumen sales (around 80%). The remaining volume of bitumens sold by the LOTOS Group included modified and industrial bitumens. Only road (90%) and modified (10%) bitumens were exported, chiefly to European countries, including Sweden, the UK, Germany, Switzerland, Lithuania, Romania and the Czech Republic. Record sales were recorded in Germany, and in Romania LOTOS Asfalt established its first foreign terminal, which will strengthen its foothold in the market thanks to markedly improved logistics and measurable economic benefits. Sales of bitumens [tonnes] 2010 2011 2012 2013 Domestic sales Export sales Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. LOTOS Asfalt manufactures construction materials which include such product categories as paving grade bitumens, modified bitumens, bituminous emulsions and waterproofing materials (until June 2013). The manufacturer is required to provide full product information for each product classified into a given category. Mandatory provision of product-related information is required for over 98% of the total volume of products sold by LOTOS Asfalt. In addition, although petroleum bitumens are not listed among hazardous substances, bitumen products manufactured by LOTOS Asfalt are sold with the Information Sheet for substances or admixtures for which a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) is not required. It contains information on the product ingredients and up-to-date recommendations on its safe handling. Extent of the product and service information required by LOTOS Asfalt’s internal procedures:  Source of the product or service com ponents  Content, particularly substances that m ight have an environm ental or social im pact  Safe use of the product or service  Disposal of the product and its environm ental/social im pact 182 In addition, although petroleum bitumens are not listed among hazardous substances, bitumen products manufactured by LOTOS Asfalt are sold with the Information Sheet for substances or admixtures for which a Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Safety Data Sheet (SDS) is not required. It contains information on the product ingredients and up-to-date recommendations on its safe handling. Extent of the product and service information required by LOTOS Asfalt’s internal procedures:  Source of the product or service com ponents  Content, particularly substances that m ight have an environm ental or social im pact  Safe use of the product or service  Disposal of the product and its environm ental/social im pact At LOTOS Asfalt, health impact and safety assessments are performed virtually throughout a product’s life cycle. If the assessments identify any issue, steps are taken to fully eliminate or at least minimise potential hazards to the natural environment and human safety. Paving grade bitumens, which account for more than 95% of the company’s production volume, are subject to conformity assessment, whose outcome is a warranty for the consumer that the product has appropriate functional properties and meets the relevant requirements for construction products. Declarations of Performance (DoP) have been drawn up for LOTOS Asfalt products. To ensure the safe use of the products − safety enhancement measures have also been extended to their transport and distribution. There are written manuals and videos on how to safely handle bitumens during loading, unloading and transport. The providers of transport services are also assessed for compliance with LOTOS Asfalt’s safety standards. Life cycle stages at which the impact of LOTOS Asfalt’s products on health and safety is assessed  Concept of product developm ent  Research and developm ent  Certification  Manufacturing and production  Marketing and prom otion  Stocks distribution and supply  Use and service In 2013, LOTOS Asfalt recorded no incidents of non-compliance with the applicable regulations concerning product health impacts, markings or provision of information on products and services. No significant penalties for non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were imposed on the company, either. Logistics Logistics is consistently adapted to the requirements of our trading operations, while we keep building an efficient distribution system that meets the expectations of customers, but also helps reduce costs. The purpose of these measures is to build a logistics chain that would function optimally in the constantly changing external and internal environments. 183 Logistics is consistently adapted to the requirements of our trading operations, while we keep building an efficient distribution system that meets the expectations of customers, but also helps reduce costs. The purpose of these measures is to build a logistics chain that would function optimally in the constantly Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future changing external and internal environments. To ensure that our logistics assets operate more efficiently, in 2013 we began to consolidate fuel depots within the LOTOS Group. The first stage of the process consisted in reorganising companies in the south of Poland, changing their business profiles and, consequently, changing their names to LOTOS Terminale and LOTOS Infrastruktura. The next stage culminated in the transfer of ownership of the Rypin and Piotrków Trybunalski fuel depots to LOTOS Terminale. Also, construction work on comprehensive upgrading of the Grupa LOTOS fuel depot in Pozna_ was begun. The consolidation process is expected to be completed in 2014. In 2013, work continued on fully automating and centralising road tanker filling operations at our own depots. A self-service road tanker filling unit was commissioned at the terminal in Gda_sk, and we plan to gradually roll out similar systems at other locations throughout 2014. The introduction of homogeneous solutions will help us achieve work standardisation and implement uniform interfaces for the exchange of data and reporting of processes related to release of products at the LOTOS Group's fuel depots. In the area of secondary logistics, we launched supplies of the JET A-1 aviation fuel for the Warsaw airport. Motor fuel deliveries to hypermarket service station operators were also begun. Preparations continued for the construction of a petroleum product handling terminal on the Martwa Wis_a river in Gda_sk. When completed, the terminal will handle exports and imports of feedstock components and product loads of up to 5,000 tonnes from our own wharf. Rail transport Rail transport of products from the Grupa LOTOS refinery in Gdańsk is a mainstay of our production security. Comprehensive services in the area of rail logistics are provided by LOTOS Kolej, which ensures economically viable, efficient and safe rail freight throughout Poland, and − relying on its well-established forwarding capabilities − can also arrange rail transport across the EU. LOTOS Kolej’s services involve: Managem ent and operation of railroad sidings; Rail freight; Maintenance of railway infrastructure and rolling stock; Eco-friendly cleaning of rail tank cars. LOTOS Kolej leads the industry in use of advanced technology solutions, deploying and refining a number of IT systems designed to optimise the logistics processes. All loading and unloading operations are controlled 184 by the Rail Logistics System, which ensures that rail transport is efficiently managed. Trains are monitored in Managem ent and operation of railroad sidings; Rail freight; Integrated Maintenance ofAnnual railwayReport 2013 Grupa LOTOS infrastructure S.A. and rolling stock; Win the Future Eco-friendly cleaning of rail tank cars. LOTOS Kolej leads the industry in use of advanced technology solutions, deploying and refining a number of IT systems designed to optimise the logistics processes. All loading and unloading operations are controlled by the Rail Logistics System, which ensures that rail transport is efficiently managed. Trains are monitored in real time in conjunction with the Operational Work Recording System of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe. All LOTOS Kolej’s locomotives are fitted with mobile IT systems allowing to transmit operational data and train documents from any place within the PKP network, which is a pioneer solution in Poland. The applied solutions are highly appreciated by customers, as they give them real-time access to reliable information on service status. Thanks to cutting-edge technologies combined with innovative rail logistics, the company is able to offer both full-train and single-car freight services, which positions it strongly against competition. LOTOS Kolej is among the market leaders in terms of using the most modern locomotive fleets in Poland, which increases the efficiency of its transport services, guaranteeing their high quality. As at the end of 2013, modern locomotives represented 28% of the company’s rolling stock, securing it a firm position among rail operators with the most advanced locomotive fleets in Poland. As a result of its continuous development, LOTOS Kolej has the potential to fully satisfy the transportation needs of LOTOS Group companies and, increasingly, to render transport services to third-party customers. Volume of freight transported [million tonnes] 10.5 10.5 9.4 2011 2012 2013 Dangerous goods Total volume of freight In 2013, LOTOS Kolej transported a total of over 9.4m tonnes, including cargoes of over 4.3m tonnes hauled for third-party customers. LOTOS Kolej ranks among Poland’s leading rail carriers, whose share in the domestic market of 7.76%, measured in terms of rail freight volumes, makes it the number two player on the market. 185 Increase in the volume of rail freight hauled by LOTOS Kolej over a decade [thousand tonnes] Dangerous goods Total volume of freight Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In 2013, LOTOS Kolej transported a total of over 9.4m tonnes, including cargoes of over 4.3m tonnes hauled for third-party customers. LOTOS Kolej ranks among Poland’s leading rail carriers, whose share in the domestic market of 7.76%, measured in terms of rail freight volumes, makes it the number two player on the market. Increase in the volume of rail freight hauled by LOTOS Kolej over a decade [thousand tonnes] 5,901 6,493 5,091 4,738 6,070 4,235 3,140 2,498 4,459 4,321 3,977 1,423 676 177 2,496 1,299 781 189 80 426 0 31 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 LOT OS Group Other Source: The LOTOS Group in-house data. LOTOS Kolej’s share in the domestic freight market in 2013 (%) PKP Cargo Grupa CTL Grupa DB Schenker LOTOS Kolej Other Source: In-house analysis of the LOTOS Group based on data from the Railway Transport Authority (Urząd Transportu Kolejowego). As a rail carrier, LOTOS Kolej has a specialist focus on transport of dangerous goods(1). Consignors of dangerous goods are required to place relevant information plates on each side of the rail cars carrying such goods, specifying the good’s identification number (UN number) and hazard identifier, as well as warning labels for a given good. This obligation also applies to empty, uncleaned rail cars and containers in which 186 hazardous substances had been carried, as well as rail cars carrying hazardous waste. Grupa DB Schenker LOTOS Kolej Other Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Source: In-house analysis of the LOTOS Group based on data from the Railway Transport Authority (Urząd Transportu Kolejowego). As a rail carrier, LOTOS Kolej has a specialist focus on transport of dangerous goods(1). Consignors of dangerous goods are required to place relevant information plates on each side of the rail cars carrying such goods, specifying the good’s identification number (UN number) and hazard identifier, as well as warning labels for a given good. This obligation also applies to empty, uncleaned rail cars and containers in which hazardous substances had been carried, as well as rail cars carrying hazardous waste. (1) Dangerous goods are products and materials which – given their physical, chemical or biological properties – pose a potential safety threat if not properly handled during transport, or, in cases of failure or accidents, may cause a risk to human health or life, the natural environment or property. In 2013 − as in previous years − LOTOS Kolej recorded no incidents of incorrect or defective marking of consignments of dangerous goods, or any penalties imposed on it for non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations pertaining to the marking of such consignments. Extent of the product and service information required by LOTOS Kolej’s internal procedures:  Source of the product or service com ponents  Content, particularly substances that m ight have an environm ental or social im pact  Safe use of the product or service  Disposal of the product and its environm ental/social im pact Life cycle stages at which the impact of LOTOS Kolej’s products on health and safety is improved  Concept of product developm ent  Certification  Manufacturing and production  Marketing and prom otion  Stocks distribution and supply  Use and service  Disposal, reuse or recycling. In 2013, there were 17 accidents involving LOTOS Kolej’s staff and rolling stock (against 13 a year earlier) and one incident (against 5 in 2012).(2) As in 2012, one accident occurred by fault of the company’s employee. The downward trend in those statistics confirms the effectiveness of our steady efforts to improve the safety and quality of services provided. (2) According to the classification provided for in the Regulation of the Minister of Transport, dated April 30th 2007 Sea transport Freight transport by sea is a vital element of the LOTOS Group’s logistics chain. Having direct access to the product pipelines linking the refinery in Gdańsk to the liquid fuel handling facilities at Port Północny, we enjoy the considerable advantage of lower transportation costs. It is through maritime transport that we export the majority of petroleum products, and are supplied with a significant portion of raw materials and 187 components for production. one incident (against 5 in 2012).(2) As in 2012, one accident occurred by fault of the company’s employee. The downward trend in those statistics confirms the effectiveness of our steady efforts to improve the safety and quality of services provided. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future (2) According to the classification provided for in the Regulation of the Minister of Transport, dated April 30th 2007 Sea transport Freight transport by sea is a vital element of the LOTOS Group’s logistics chain. Having direct access to the product pipelines linking the refinery in Gdańsk to the liquid fuel handling facilities at Port Północny, we enjoy the considerable advantage of lower transportation costs. It is through maritime transport that we export the majority of petroleum products, and are supplied with a significant portion of raw materials and components for production. 2013 was a record year for Grupa LOTOS both in terms of the volume of cargo handled at sea ports and the number of tanker ships handled, which for the first time in the Company’s history exceeded 300. The liquid fuel handling terminal owned by Naftoport is able to handle tankers with a maximum draught of 15 metres and a capacity to load up to 150,000 tonnes of crude oil or petroleum products. This allows Grupa LOTOS to export surplus products and sell them on the markets of Scandinavia, Northern and Western Europe and the Baltics. The direct connection to the port also facilitates imports of additional feedstock, including intermediate products for further deep processing at the refinery in Gdańsk, as well as fuel components. The coastal location allows us to respond quickly and flexibly to changing market conditions. Apart from the Naftoport fuel depot, we also use the Maritime Bulk Terminal in Gdynia and the Siarkopol terminal in Gdańsk to handle smaller cargoes. Grupa LOTOS enjoys the advantage of having a refinery at a short distance from a cargo handling terminal, which allows it to diversify its supply sources and facilitates the shipping of crude oil from the Company’s own fields under the Baltic Sea and in Lithuania, and − in the future − crude oil produced from under the North Sea. We are consistent in our efforts to take over the management of cargo transportation by sea, or to control the transportation process on the longest possible section of the supply chain, from the affreightment of ships to the formal handling of sea transport. This ensures greater control and helps streamline the planning of cargo handling at sea ports, thus allowing us to reduce the frequency of ship detention and optimise the related costs. Petroleum product exports In 2013, Grupa LOTOS exported 2,806 thousand tonnes of petroleum products, with a total value of PLN 7,445m. Export revenue fell 5.1% year on year, chiefly on the back of lower refining margins in Europe. Despite the overhaul shutdown at the refinery in Gdańsk in 2013, the volume of exports went up 2.6%. Grupa LOTOS petroleum products were exported mainly to Northern and Western Europe. 188 value of PLN 7,445m. Export revenue Integrated fell 5.1%Annual yearReport on year, Grupa on 2013chiefly LOTOS theS.A. back of lower refining margins in Europe. Despite Win thethe Future overhaul shutdown at the refinery in Gdańsk in 2013, the volume of exports went up 2.6%. Grupa LOTOS petroleum products were exported mainly to Northern and Western Europe. Naphtha  integra ted oil a nd petrochem ica l com pa nies in the Netherla nds, Germ a ny a nd Belgium Motor  petroleum hub in Rotterda m , Sweden a nd the UK gasoline Aviation fuel  Sweden, the Czech Republic, Finla nd, Denm a rk a nd Switzerla nd Diesel oil  Germ a ny, the Netherla nds, the UK a nd Fra nce stora ge depots of globa l tra ding com pa nies in Estonia , Denm a rk a nd the Netherla nds, a nd for further sa le outside Heavy fuel oil  of Europe There was a considerable, 25%, year-on-year increase in diesel oil exports. Heavy fuel oil was the Company’s key export product in volume terms (over 1m tonnes in 2013). Export sales by land have gained importance. The value of exports delivered by land in 2013 was up by almost 17% year on year, though export by land still accounts for a little more than 3% of the Company’s total export sales. Most of Grupa LOTOS’ export customers were international vertically integrated oil companies and trading houses. None of the customers accounted for more than 5% of total revenue. LOTOS service stations In 2013, work continued on expanding the LOTOS retail network by adding new stations to the CODO (company owned) and DOFO (franchise operated) chains. In the economy segment, we were rapidly developing the LOTOS Optima business concept. As a consequence of decisions made in previous years, 2013 was another period in which we curtailed retail sales through DODO service stations. Number of LOTOS and LOTOS Optima service stations at the end of 2013 142 CODO sta tions LOTOS 14 MSAs Premium segment 115 DOFO sta tions 17 DODO sta tions LOTOS Optima 100 CODO sta tions Economy segment 51 DOFO sta tions In an effort to expand the chain of CODO stations, properties are acquired, with the most important criterion for selecting a location being the sales potential of the local market. In 2013, we added 34 new locations to the CODO chain, including 3 MSAs (Motor Service Areas). Over the same time, the DOFO chain was expanded to include 11 new service stations. Non-fuel sales represent a significant part of the business of the LOTOS service station chain. In 2013, we continued to develop the Cafe Punkt food service concept, expanding its food and product offering. Among the key initiatives launched in 2013 and continued in 2014 is the standardisation project, aimed to establish a uniform visual identity for the LOTOS retail chain. Other achievements in the service station chain segment in 2013 included: Prom otion of sales activity, Optim isation of m argin on product sales from service station shops, Enhancem ent of the coffee offering at service stations, by Opening new cafés at m ore than 100 locations, Use of a special blend of freshly ground coffee exclusively for the LOTOS chain and introduction 189 of larger, 300 m l coffee cups, Other achievements in the service station chain segment in 2013 included: Prom otion of sales Integrated activity, Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Optim isation of m argin on product sales from service station shops, Enhancem ent of the coffee offering at service stations, by Opening new cafés at m ore than 100 locations, Use of a special blend of freshly ground coffee exclusively for the LOTOS chain and introduction of larger, 300 m l coffee cups, Im plem entation of a financial efficiency im provem ent program m e for the retail chain. LOTOS Paliwa markets ready-made fuels, meeting the quality requirements provided for in industrial standards and legal regulations. To ensure compliance, we regularly monitor the quality of fuels sold through the service station chain in terms of their conformity with the relevant requirements. Annual inspections of all fuel types are carried out at each station operating within the LOTOS chain. In the case of fuel sales from CODO stations, LOTOS Paliwa sets the standards, and supervises adherence to those standards by the station managers. The process is governed by separate agreements and procedures, which are improved on a regular basis. As part of the established health and safety-related standards, the following areas are overseen and assessed for conformity with the applicable requirements: Fuel supplies, Supervision over the stations’ fuel infrastructure, Procedures in case of accidents and failures, Standards of safety with respect to custom er service and fuel sales, Environm ental m anagem ent in accordance with the PN-EN ISO 14001:2005 standard, Occupational health and safety m anagem ent in accordance with the PN-N-18001:2004 standard. LOTOS Paliwa’s activity involving retail sales through CODO stations, conducted by the station managers, is strongly connected with the safety of service station personnel and customers. Given their nature, service stations are retail facilities exposed to the risk of aggressive behaviour by persons who are not customers. This kind of behaviour may pose a threat to the physical safety of the station’s employees. In 2013, 11 such instances were recorded. We attach great importance to the safety of the personnel and customers of our service stations. With that end in mind, we have been taking and enhancing various technical, organizational and HR measures designed to prevent any potentially dangerous incidents. Technical measures protecting the service stations through: Appropriate lighting, Surveillance with the use of video cam eras, Technical protection of building entrances and passageways, Alarm system s. Organizational measures: Establishm ent and enhancem ent of procedures and instructions for service station m anagers and personnel telling them how to behave in case of specific hazards, Establishm ent and enhancem ent of physical security procedures, Em ploym ent of specialist providers of security services, Investigating incidents that have taken place at service stations and taking appropriate preventive m easures. In 2013, we reviewed our procedures relating to property security and provision of third-party security services. 190 Establishm ent and enhancem ent of physical security procedures, Em ploym ent of specialist providers of security services, Investigating incidents Integrated haveGrupa that 2013 Annual Report takenLOTOS place at service stations and taking appropriateWin preventive S.A. the Future m easures. In 2013, we reviewed our procedures relating to property security and provision of third-party security services. HR measures: Provision of station m anagers with instructions on how to behave in case of hazards related to dangerous incidents and how to prevent such hazards, Provision of training to m anagers and personnel of new service stations. In 2013, training in safety procedures was provided to personnel of a few dozen service stations. Last year, no instances were recorded of our products or services negatively affecting the health of LOTOS Paliwa’s employees. The managers of service stations, in their capacity of employers, are required by law to monitor the work environment at the stations and to ensure that all employees undergo medical check-ups. In retail sales, information concerning the properties of fuels sold by the company is provided at a customer’s request in the form of Safety Data Sheets for hazardous substances. Service station dealers are required to provide, at a customer’s request, Safety Data Sheets for hazardous substances included in goods available from their stations. Extent of the product and service information required by LOTOS Paliwa’s internal procedures  Source of the product or service com ponents  Content, particularly substances that m ight have an environm ental/social im pact  Safe use of the product or service  Disposal of the product and its environm ental/social im pact In 2013, LOTOS Paliwa identified no incidents of non-compliance with the regulations and voluntary codes concerning the marking and provision of information on fuel products. No significant penalties for noncompliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were imposed on the company, either. Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 In line with our business strategy for fuel sales, we will primarily aim to further reinforce our market presence by: Maintaining a 30% share in the dom estic fuel m arket; Achieving sales 15% in excess of the fuel production capacities of the Grupa LOTOS refinery; Securing a 10% share in the dom estic retail m arket through sustainable developm ent of the service station chain and enhanced sales from the existing chain. In sales of lubricating oils, the key objective is to retain our leading position on the domestic market. In sales of other products, the key objective is to optimise financial performance by leveraging our resources and market conditions. Customer satisfaction 191 In sales of lubricating oils, the key objective is to retain our leading position on the domestic market. In sales of other products, the key objective is to optimise financial performance by leveraging our Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. resources Win the Future and market conditions. Customer satisfaction In line with our CSR strategy, which supports the effective pursuit of our business strategy, the primary objective is to build lasting customer relationships through a focus on understanding customers’ needs and delivering the expected product quality and safety, measured as the level of customer satisfaction with the LOTOS Group’s marketing companies. Progress in this area is monitored by means of regular surveys. Customer satisfaction surveys are intended to gauge the level of customer satisfaction with the quality of their relationships with the LOTOS Group. Their scope covers: Factors behind the choice of a supplier, Interactions with staff, staff accessibility and com petences, Quality and availability of products, Response tim es to RFQs, Pricing relative to peers, LOTOS Group’s perception. Satisfaction surveys among the LOTOS Group’s customers Survey frequency Company (number / year) Customer segments Grupa LOTOS 1 B2B LOTOS Asfa lt 1 B2B – bitum en a nd hea vy fuel oil LOTOS Kolej 2 LOTOS Group, forwa rding com pa nies, direct custom ers LOTOS Oil 1 B2B LOTOS Pa liwa 1 B2B, B2C – every yea r, a lterna tely At most of the marketing segment’s companies, satisfaction surveys are conducted using the CAWI (Computer-Assisted Web Interview) technique. Their results are then analysed based on the TRI*M methodology (the TRI*M Index being a single number score which measures customer satisfaction and loyalty levels, and the key tool of the licensed TNS Global methodology). In mathematical terms, the TRI*M Index represents a weighted average of scores derived from answers to four questions, selected by TNS over 20 years ago in the course of evaluation surveys. They have been used consistently ever since in satisfaction surveys on a number of different markets, which has allowed TNS to build up one of the largest sets of benchmarks. The TRI*M Index questions cover: 1. Overall satisfaction. 2. Probability of recom m endation. 3. Repurchase intent. 4. Com petitive advantage. The TRI*M Index is a measure of customer retention levels − the higher it is, the more customers are attached to the brand and the less likely to transfer their business to competition. The TNS Poland Report summarizes the combined results of surveys measuring the satisfaction of the LOTOS Group’s customers which were conducted at the beginning of 2014 in: 1. Grupa LOTOS, 2. LOTOS Asfalt, 192 3. LOTOS Oil, to the brand and the less likely to transfer their business to competition. The TNS Poland Report Integrated summarizes Annual the Report 2013 LOTOS results combined Grupa S.A. of surveys measuring the satisfaction of Win LOTOS thethe Future Group’s customers which were conducted at the beginning of 2014 in: 1. Grupa LOTOS, 2. LOTOS Asfalt, 3. LOTOS Oil, 4. LOTOS Paliwa. The 2013 overall customer satisfaction rating, as captured by the TRI*M Index, reached the level of 74 points, which should be considered a good score and testifies to strong brand loyalty. Also, the survey confirmed the high level of customer satisfaction among the LOTOS Group’s business clients. The customer satisfaction surveys included in the overall customer satisfaction rating were conducted at the following LOTOS Group companies 1. Grupa LOTOS the 2013 customer satisfaction rating, as rendered by the TRI*M Index, indicates a rise in the satisfaction level among Grupa LOTOS customers year on year. The points awarded by the respondents to the individual aspects constituting the TRI*M Index suggest an overall rise in the customer satisfaction level among the Company’s customers. In other aspects (recommendation, repurchase intent and competitive advantage), the 2013 score remained on a par with the 2012 one. A positive thing worth noting is the fact that the survey revealed no disloyal or dissatisfied customers. 2. LOTOS Asfalt conducts its satisfaction surveys in the area of customer service and delivered products. In 2013, its rating of customer experience, as measured by the TRI*M Index, improved year on year, which suggests that customers are significantly more satisfied with the company as compared to 2012. Looking at the average scores across the TRI*M Index dimensions, customers seem ready to recommend LOTOS Asfalt to others and very likely to choose it again as their supplier. On the other hand, the competitive advantage score is relatively low. Compared with the previous survey, a shift can be noted in the structure of the company’s customer base. While being largely price-oriented, it no longer includes any strongly dissatisfied or disloyal customers, who had previously represented 30% of the total. The respondents view the company as trustworthy, innovative and committed to customer care, with very high scores achieved for the quality of interaction with the company’s sales force and distribution department, as well as the timeliness of deliveries. 3. LOTOS Oil conducts customer satisfaction surveys covering 193 two primary areas of the company’s operations: the indirect sales channel, whose respondents are Authorised Distributors and major customers the company’s customer base. While being largely price-oriented, it no longer includes any strongly dissatisfied or disloyal customers, who had previously represented 30% of the total. The respondents view the company as trustworthy, innovative and committed to customer care, with very high scores achieved for the Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future quality of interaction with the company’s sales force and distribution department, as well as the timeliness of deliveries. 3. LOTOS Oil conducts customer satisfaction surveys covering two primary areas of the company’s operations: the indirect sales channel, whose respondents are Authorised Distributors and major customers operating as Trade Partners, and the direct sales channel, where those surveyed include end customers from the industrial and automotive segments (car mechanics, authorised service providers, car shops, as well as companies and plants representing various branches of the industry). Customers appear to value LOTOS Oil primarily for its efforts to ensure the high quality of services, high and consistent quality of products, as well as good sales and aftersales support. One of the most important aspects of these efforts is the company’s value-added offering, including investment and visual identity support, the oil services for customers from the industrial and automotive segments, which consist in oil consultancy, analysis and comprehensive oil management monitoring. 4. LOTOS Paliwa also measures customer satisfaction on a systematic basis, as required by the Integrated Management System and the ISO 9001 standard, which has customer focus at its core. 2013 was a year of surveying the company’s institutional customers. The satisfaction rating at LOTOS Paliwa, as captured by the TRI*M Index, indicates a high level of satisfaction among its customers, which should be considered a good score and testifies to their strong brand loyalty. As regards functional aspects, the highest scores given by institutional customers were for product availability, clarity of invoices, number and location of service stations, and consistency between their orders and deliveries. Customers value the high quality of their relationship with LOTOS Paliwa, which follows from the company’s efforts to promote its image as an innovative, customer-oriented partner, standing out from competitors. The company’s strengths reside in its comprehensive range of fuels and environmental awareness. For LOTOS Kolej, a thing of key importance is the superior quality of its freight services, as a factor in further development of the Polish rail freight market. Customer satisfaction ratings are obtained primarily by direct interaction with the customers. Another tool used for measuring customer satisfaction is the questionnairebased evaluation system, which covers such areas as: Tim eliness of deliveries, Rolling stock quality, Quality and com prehensiveness of services offered, Custom er interactions with the m anagem ent and technical personnel operating the rolling stock, Service prices, paym ent m ethods and deadlines, discount policy, Response to com plaints, Reliability. Overall evaluation of LOTOS Kolej Period 2013 (H1) 2012 (H1) 2011 Avera ge score 4.57 4.59 4.63 (2-5 sca le) Sa m ple 11 custom ers 12 custom ers 13 custom ers In 2013, the company received the highest scores for: Reliability (5.00), Custom er interactions with m anagem ent staff (4.90), Custom er service quality (5.0). 194 Period 2013 (H1) 2012 (H1) 2011 Avera ge score (2-5 sca le) Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS4.57 S.A. 4.59 4.63 Win the Future Sa m ple 11 custom ers 12 custom ers 13 custom ers In 2013, the company received the highest scores for: Reliability (5.00), Custom er interactions with m anagem ent staff (4.90), Custom er service quality (5.0). The aspects which received the lowest scores compared with previous years included: payment methods and deadlines, discount policy (4.10), service prices compared with companies with similar business profiles (4.00) and rolling stock quality (4.13). Looking at the survey results over the period 2011-2013, LOTOS Kolej continues to score highly in most of the surveyed areas, especially in terms of reliability and service quality, which is important in building relationships with its customers. Findings derived from the summary survey scores allow the companies to assess the work of their individual departments, and to define further steps to be taken in order to ensure that their business partners are fully satisfied. Comments and feedback from customers are always verified, and if any failures on our part are confirmed, corrective measures are implemented. 195 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Monika Hinc President of the UP Foundation – the Development Initiation Forum ‘Let us all together build the atmosphere of cooperation in Pomerania’ – this is the central idea of the Development Initiation Forum. It is also a statement made two years ago by Paweł Olechnowicz, President of Grupa LOTOS Board, at one of the conferences organized in the ‘CSR Academy’ series, which went on to become the source of inspiration behind this extraordinary initiative. ‘Let us all together build the atm osphere of cooperation in The Development Initiation Forum takes efforts to bring about sustainable Pom erania’ – this is the development of the Pomerania region, based on strong inter-sectoral central idea of the cooperation of business, local government and NGOs. That is the development as Developm ent Initiation it is seen through the eyes of local communities. Social engagement of the Forum . It is also a statem ent residents of Pomerania is very high; fourth position nationwide in terms of the m ade two years ago by Paweł Olechnowicz, President of number of NGOs in relation to its population constitutes a huge potential. What Grupa LOTOS Board, at one will pose the biggest challenge to all of us, however, is a systemic approach to of the conferences organized providing best-quality services to the excluded and to those at risk of social in the ‘CSR Academ y’ series, exclusion. Ensuring equal opportunities in the areas of culture and education, which went on to becom e the counteracting exclusion and supporting local communities – for a long time to source of inspiration behind come, these challenges will not be seen as legitimate objectives for this extraordinary initiative. representatives of business as such. The Development Initiation Forum represents the practical approach to such Monika Hinc cooperation; it is about bringing about benefits to each of the groups President of the UP Foundation – the represented in it and, consequently, about building one consistent coalition. The Development Initiation Forum Forum provides tangible opportunities and guarantees equal access for all parties to its resources – sharing experiences, the knowledge and financing under its Grant Fund. It would not be possible without the contribution and active participation of all our Partners, each of whom is an important element of the whole undertaking. At the same time, it is worth stressing the exceptional role of our special Partner, which is without a doubt Grupa LOTOS. Our cooperation with the Company combines all the elements which are necessary to build all inter-sectoral partnerships. Grupa LOTOS is a professional Partner, actively providing contentrelated contribution along with the financial one, which is so important for our initiative. It is also a Partner who actively participates in the work of our Programme Council. As a large company, Grupa LOTOS serves as the Ambassador of the Forum, being in and of itself a perfect example to other companies, both large and small. It is the Ambassador who promotes the idea of inter-sectoral cooperation among representatives of business in the Pomerania region. Furthermore, Grupa LOTOS supports other inter-sectoral projects run in accordance with the principles of partnership, providing an example of effective cooperation between business, and the NGOs and local government sectors, with the development of local 196 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future and the NGOs and local government sectors, with the development of local communities in mind. Such a Partner as Grupa LOTOS gives a guarantee for the quality and stability of our initiative. Thanks to such Partners, we have a chance to deliver on our objectives and to achieve the expected outcomes. And, at the end of the day, it is owing to such Partners that we build together the atmosphere of cooperation in Pomerania. 197 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Economic impact In accordance with our CSR strategy, we pursue long-term, comprehensive initiatives across all areas of our operations, with a particular focus on systemic approach to any issues that may occur in the organization’s business environment. By entering into agreements and contracting works with companies from the Province of Gdańsk and from the south of Poland, where some of the LOTOS Group companies operate, we have a substantial impact on the local communities, their economic development and rate of growth. We aspire to be the region’s ambassadors based on our culture of doing business, e.g. meeting liabilities in a timely manner and fostering mutual relations with suppliers by best practice sharing, support and propagation of investment technologies. In 2013, we launched the ‘For suppliers’ sub-page of the www.lotos.pl website, with the aim of promoting the best practices, principles and values by which Grupa LOTOS abides in its dealings with prospective and existing suppliers. Divided into several sections, the web page outlines the principles we are guided by in working with our suppliers. Along with a list of commitments, they provide an insight into the requirements and expectations we set before ourselves and before our existing and prospective suppliers, defining the values we adhere to in our activities. Visitors to the page can also study and download standard agreement forms used in dealings with Grupa LOTOS business partners, as well as General Terms and Conditions of Agreements. We have also posted there an electronic version of the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics, In addition, suppliers have a chance to read the currently effective CSR strategy and Misconduct Prevention Policy. To expedite trade, protect the environment and cut down costs, we encourage our suppliers to send their invoices in electronic form, and help them correctly fill out invoices by exactly specifying the data which need to be entered in our settlement system. Thanks to easy access to a wide range of data and documents, suppliers are able to get all information they need. By sharing best practice, we impart knowledge, raise awareness and communicate regulations which govern day-to-day business dealings. We are also aware of the importance of proper, honest business relations, which is why we settle all amounts owed to our trading partners in a timely manner. In order to control procurement costs, we assess the potential of our suppliers and make an effort to accurately estimate the cost of each order. By executing agreements with due care, we can always be sure to act in compliance with the law, including legal regulations on public levies and taxes. We expect the same of our trading partners, as reflected in the provisions of our agreements. Our best trading practices influence the awareness of suppliers in the area of occupational health and safety, fire security, environmental protection and the supply chain. In certain cases, we take steps to ensure that our contractors settle their liabilities towards subcontractors, which is important to us both in commercial terms and as an element of our image. By selecting locally-based suppliers, we indirectly contribute to the affluence of local communities. Benefits of this policy include creation of new jobs by suppliers in the principal area of our business, reduction of the size of local grey markets and higher tax revenues for the state, which can be used to fund new investment projects, also in the region. We contribute to the development of small and medium-sized companies by: 198 and as an element of our image. By selecting locally-based suppliers, we indirectly contribute to the affluence of local communities. Benefits of this policy include creation of new jobs by suppliers in the principal area of our business, reduction of the size of local grey markets and higher tax revenues for the state, which can be Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future used to fund new investment projects, also in the region. We contribute to the development of small and medium-sized companies by: Cooperation and subcontractor services, Improvement of living standards in the Province of Gdańsk, Increase in consumer spending, including on luxury goods, Transfer of knowledge and experience thanks to visits of foreign contractors, subcontractors and consultants, Higher spending on vocational education. In making business decisions, companies of the LOTOS Group are guided by the organization’s CSR strategy, which requires them to give due consideration to the indirect impact they may have on local communities and economic development of their respective regions. This is particularly true in the case of provinces and counties where we are the largest employer, and therefore have the ability to affect the local labour market and vocational education in fields related to the industry’s needs. Through the substantial amount of taxes we pay and our choice of trading partners, we also contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and economic potential of the communities in which we operate. Given the nature of our operations and production facilities, we have developed precise procurement procedures, which cover both the selection of business partners and the contracting process. As a result of legal and procedural considerations, including the principle of equal treatment of all business entities, the selection of suppliers is chiefly based on their business profile, contract delivery potential, knowledge and experience, lead times and pricing. The Polish law precludes any explicit preference for local suppliers, understood as trading partners based in the provinces where companies of the LOTOS Group are located. Accordingly, local suppliers who take part in competitive bid procedures may only do so on terms equal with other bidders. Nevertheless, we keep monitoring the markets, including local markets, as a result of which we invite and select local suppliers to do business with. We evaluate them on the basis of work performed, creating a list of eligible suppliers of goods and services that meet our requirements. To support Pomerania and our affiliation with the region, Grupa LOTOS enters into agreements concerning vehicle fleets on condition that all vehicles have Gdańsk registration plates, which has even prompted one of our contractors to open an office in Gdańsk. While perpetuating the association of the LOTOS brand with the local market, this policy enhances the municipality’s tax receipts. We apply the most exacting quality and safety standards. Entities, including local businesses, which render services at our production facilities receive technical standards applicable to the works they are to perform, which provides them with detailed information on the relevant technologies. Also, personnel employed by those companies undergo regular, mandatory training in safety awareness. Our trading partners are invited to meetings at which they learn about the standards and values we adhere to. For example, we have held meetings on the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics, as well as individual meetings with contractors with the purpose of fostering our mutual business relationships. Such meetings are an important platform for knowledge and experience sharing and an excellent opportunity to showcase the practices followed by our organization. In order to strengthen our relationships with suppliers and to communicate our contractor selection criteria to current and potential business partners, we have developed and distributed our Code of Ethics, effective from January 2013. The fact that we forge and maintain transparent relationships brings value to both the Company and its suppliers, consistent with the ethical and social values of199 Grupa LOTOS. to. For example, we have held meetings on the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics, as well as individual meetings with contractors with the purpose of fostering our mutual business relationships. Such meetings are an important platform for knowledge and experience sharing and an excellent opportunity to showcase the Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future practices followed by our organization. In order to strengthen our relationships with suppliers and to communicate our contractor selection criteria to current and potential business partners, we have developed and distributed our Code of Ethics, effective from January 2013. The fact that we forge and maintain transparent relationships brings value to both the Company and its suppliers, consistent with the ethical and social values of Grupa LOTOS. We conclude annual contracts and framework agreements in order to contract services in the long term, without the need to constantly renegotiate the terms of business. In this way, our trading partners learn the standards of work with large business organizations, which they can then apply internally and pass on in the course of their local market operations, thus enhancing the quality of services provided. This particularly applies to SMEs, giving them an insight into the market trends, which are naturally first implemented by large organizations. In the process of executing contracts for products and services, Grupa LOTOS takes into account all business entities, including those operating locally in the Province of Gdańsk. Purchases made with local suppliers accounted for 27% of all orders in 2013, while purchases from related entities (the Company’s subsidiaries based in Pomerania) represented 93% of total purchases from related parties. In purchases of energy utilities, such as electricity and gas, favourable terms of business are the primary factor behind the choice of a supplier. It is worth noting that a significant amount is allocated on electricity purchases, all of which were supplied by Energa Obrót, a company based in the Province of Gdańsk, while all gas purchases, associated with PGNiG, were made in the Province of Warsaw. In 2013, the business of LOTOS Asfalt focused on the manufacture and sales of bitumens, heavy fuel oil, bunker fuel and waterproofing materials. As these products are sold on a B2B basis, the company − by maintaining relations with its business partners − makes an indirect contribution to their development and improvement of their economic standing. The company’s activity also has an impact on employment levels in the areas where it operates, which has spurred an economic recovery in the region of Jasło, where LOTOS Asfalt has an existing bitumen plant and where, from 2009 to June 2013, it operated a Waterproofing Materials Plant. In mid-2013, the latter was sold to a new investor, who plans to develop it further and hire new staff. Similarly, LOTOS Kolej tries to optimise its procurement processes by contracting local suppliers based in the Province of Gdańsk. This is not always possible, as in the case of spare parts for locomotives the relevant warranty provisions require the company to purchase them from suppliers specified by the rolling stock manufacturer. However, whenever it has the opportunity and permission to substitute spare parts or consumables, LOTOS Kolej always buys them from local suppliers. In other cases, when faced with a choice between prospective suppliers offering similar terms of business, LOTOS Kolej opts for local companies, because this enhances its image in the local community. Given the nature of its activity, LOTOS Petrobaltic is not guided by the criterion of locality when selecting suppliers, doing business with both Polish and foreign partners. In 2013, the supplies of goods and services by local contractors accounted for approximately 8% of all its orders. Also in the case of LOTOS Oil, any business entity registered in Poland will be considered a local supplier. This is due to the specific nature of the company’s activities, for which it procures raw materials (enhancing additives and other inputs needed for the production of lubricants, with the exception of base oils), packaging (to package lubricants), car cosmetics and fluids for vehicle applications. 200 Also in the case of LOTOS Oil, any business entity registered in Poland will be considered a local supplier. This is due to the specific nature of the company’s activities, for which it procures raw materials (enhancing additives andIntegrated other inputs needed for the production of lubricants, with the exception of base oils), Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future packaging (to package lubricants), car cosmetics and fluids for vehicle applications. LOTOS Kolej’s trade payables in 2013 Structure of supplies to LOTOS Oil in 2013, excluding supplies from Grupa LOTOS Suppliers from the Province of Gdańsk Other suppliers non-local supplies local supplies In the case of repairs and maintenance work, the company prefers to employ Polish companies, which account for 90% of all related purchases. LOTOS Oil does not have its own fleet, and therefore works with many providers of forwarding and transport services. Given the location of the company’s production and distribution branches and the specific nature of supplies and services involved, it was assumed that forwarding and transport services should be contracted from local companies, defined as enterprises registered in Poland. In accordance with this definition, 100% of all forwarding and transport services for LOTOS Oil are provided by local companies. Indirectly, the company is instrumental in improving the quality of transport services on the local market by establishing procedures which have to be followed by the carriers themselves and their subcontractors (e.g. expanded checks of tanker purity, ensuring that drivers know foreign languages, strict adherence to occupational health and safety, improvement of information flow relating to the current position of transported products). LOTOS Paliwa has a policy of purchasing almost 100% of its fuel stocks for resale from Grupa LOTOS, with the vast majority of the fuel being produced domestically, at the refinery in Gdańsk. Rail transport of fuels is handled entirely by LOTOS Kolej, also based in Gdańsk, while road transport is fully outsourced to third parties. In the case of fuel shipments to LOTOS service stations, the company works with entities with a countrywide presence. Fuel deliveries to wholesalers are additionally handled by local carriers, because they are familiar with their regions and local transport considerations. LOTOS Paliwa’s wholesale deliveries were outsourced to local freight service providers in the Provinces of Wrocław, Rzeszów, Gdańsk, Szczecin and Olsztyn. In all these cases, the services are provided by locally-based companies. 201 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Social capital Social capital of Grupa LOTOS Good, long-standing relations within and between com m unities and key groups of the LOTOS Group’s stakeholders. Ability to cooperate and share inform ation in order to im prove the quality of life of individuals and com m unities in the organization’s environm ent. Legitim acy for conducting business activities in areas of the organization’s im m ediate im pact. Good knowledge of the social conditions, needs and challenges present in the areas affected by the LOTOS Group’s operations as well as properly addressing our support to them . Public trust built on consistent engagem ent in the region’s developm ent. Our objectives in social capital management: Stronger integration with local com m unities by m eans of increasing the organization’s positive contribution into the region’s developm ent and m inim izing the negative im pact of our activities. Respect for the social capital and diversity, observing hum an rights, including the freedom of speech and the freedom of association. Contributing to creating jobs and to im proving the quality of social capital in the area of the LOTOS Group’s im pact. Counteracting exclusion and other social problem s in areas that fit with our com petence. Stream lining the m ulti-directional com m unication with stakeholders, including further developm ent of our system of public consultations. Key activities: Focusing our social activities on areas that fit with our com petence, i.e. road safety, especially am ong the youngest road traffic participants, ensuring equal social opportunities for gifted youth from areas of lower econom ic potential as well as environm ental protection and ecology, placing particular em phasis on the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea due to the coastal location of our refinery. Perform ing regular evaluations of projects carried out for the benefit of local com m unities. Conducting opinion polls, public consultations and other activities engaging key stakeholders in shaping the organization’s policies. Stream lining our procurem ent procedures by m eans of introducing social, environm ental and ethical clauses into contracts, by applying appropriate requirem ents in bidding procedures, conducting checks and audits of suppliers as well as propagating the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics. Organizing training sessions in the area of hum an rights protection for our security personnel. Creating new jobs in connection with the organization’s investm ent projects, including in the supply chain. Results: Positive feedback from Low level of social risk Mitigated risk connected partners and beneficiaries connected with 202 -the with the organization’s achieved in the evaluation organization’s relations process safety conducting checks and audits of suppliers as well as propagating the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics. Organizing training sessions in the area of hum an rights protection for our security personnel. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Creating new jobs in connection with the organization’s investm ent projects, including in the supply chain. Results: Positive feedback from Low level of social risk Mitigated risk connected partners and beneficiaries connected with the with the organization’s achieved in the evaluation organization’s relations process safety processes accompanying with its local environment the organization’s social and environmental projects Rising number of Development of the research conducted by the beneficiaries of the organization’s social partners with regard to preserving the organization’s community biodiversity of the Baltic Sea and protecting the natural riches development programmes of areas neighbouring with Grupa LOTOS in the Pomerania region 140 trade partners of the LOTOS Group Over 1,500 training hours on human rights have become acquainted with the LOTOS issues conducted at the LOTOS Group Group’s Code of Ethics and the during the year organization’s requirements in this area 203 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Marcin Zachowicz Communication Office Director, Spokesman, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Communicating Changes and Access to Information area As the person responsible for the implementation of the LOTOS Group’s CSR Strategy in the Communication area, I believe that no company can be called a really socially responsible one without having established proper communication. The company may carry out multiple projects, and have an excellent vision and objectives but without communicating effectively with its key stakeholders it will not be successful. As the person responsible for the im plem entation of the Today, this aspect of communication is very well developed at the LOTOS Group. LOTOS Group’s CSR Strategy Our environment treats us as a predictable and responsible market participant in the Com m unication area, I and our stakeholders are well-informed about all our plans and achievements. believe that no com pany can What poses the biggest challenge for us for the years to come is the development be called a really socially of a public culture of communication by means of dialogue. Nowadays, a responsible one without having established proper company’s value is no longer built by unilateral communication but by dialogue, com m unication. The and by competent and intent listening to the voices of social groups which are com pany m ay carry out key for its future. This is in line with the policy of Grupa LOTOS, which has all the m ultiple projects, and have suitable tools and proven methods of dialogue and consultations at its disposal. an excellent vision and objectives but without We strive to listen to what is happening around our organization and to respond com m unicating effectively quickly and adequately. The groups that I mean here are our stakeholders, who with its key stakeholders it will invest in our shares and assess our business activities, but also our customers, who not be successful. comment on the quality of our products and services at the LOTOS service station chain. In the communication with our stakeholders we can find the best confirmation for our openness, which is one of the CSR values of the LOTOS Marcin Zachowicz Group. Communication Office Director, Spokesman, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Our objective in the corporate social responsibility area is to keep up the dialogue Communicating Changes and Access to Information area with our stakeholders and to develop our communication tools necessary for it. The LOTOS Group is a complex international organization whose activities are spread geographically; therefore, we are striving to develop e-communication. In 2013, we launched a new version of our website, in which – apart from a totally new approach to presenting information on the social aspect of our activities, etc. – we also introduced sections dedicated to individual stakeholder groups. The first one is addressed to job applicants; the other one to our suppliers. Both these sections ensure access to information significant for key business processes – recruitment and procurement – whereas at the same time they facilitate direct contact with the appropriate LOTOS specialists. In 2013, we introduced a new self-service HR platform for employees on our Intranet and further significant changes to this platform are planned for 2014. More and more important information for and about the company is provided using mobile devices, also for our employees, whose performance of their work tasks is greatly enhanced by that in effect. Apart from multi-directional communication which is adequate to the 204 contact with the appropriate LOTOS specialists. In 2013, we introduced a new self-service HR platform for employees on our Integrated Annual Report 2013Intranet Grupa and LOTOS S.A. significant changes to this platform are plannedWin further for 2014. the Future More and more important information for and about the company is provided using mobile devices, also for our employees, whose performance of their work tasks is greatly enhanced by that in effect. Apart from multi-directional communication which is adequate to the information needs, we also place great emphasis on organizing properly the system and culture of internal communication, especially in its direct dimension. It is in line with the LOTOS ethical values of cooperation, professionalism and responsibility. A good example of such an approach is the continuous improvement of our system of public consultations in the implementation process of the comprehensive Ethical Conduct Programme of the LOTOS Group. In late 2012, we conducted pioneering consultations on the draft of the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics, a document of paramount importance to the organization. All employees of the LOTOS Group were invited to take part in these consultations. In 2013, we consulted with our employees the question of the preferred model of selecting the LOTOS Group’s Ethics Officer and we evaluated the current level of development of the ethical culture in the organization. Also in 2013, we completed yet another edition of the ‘Let’s talk about LOTOS’ internal communication programme; this time it was devoted to our new strategic project, the Effective and Rising Programme. Although the participation of employees in these meetings with the Board is voluntary, every year they enjoy high attendance. In 2013, the meetings were attended by 3,200 employees, which is almost a 15% increase on the previous edition. In total, at the ‘Let’s talk about LOTOS’ meetings, 400 questions were asked, and then answered by us, and the response rate of the evaluation questionnaires stood at 90%. All these actions testify to the fact that dialogue and communication are deeply ingrained in the organizational culture of the LOTOS Group and significantly contribute to building its value in the long-term perspective. 205 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Stakeholders engagement For the LOTOS Group’s activities, maintaining good relations with three stakeholders groups is of key importance. They have been identified in the course of strategic workshops, which were attended by representatives of all business areas of the organization. Each group is taken into account in the decisionmaking processes having an actual or potential impact on their members. And we strive to build positive relations with all of them, although the scale and character of our impact and their expectations addressed towards us can differ greatly. Key Stakeholders groups of the LOTOS Group Internal Environment Social Environment Market Environment Em ployees Loca l com m unities Contra ctors a nd subcontra ctors LOTOS Group NGOs Suppliers com pa nies Tra de unions Loca l governm ent institutions Custom ers Em ployee Council Governm ent a dm inistra tion Tra de pa rtners Science a nd resea rch institutes, a nd educa tiona l Com petitors centres Industry orga niza tions a nd interna tiona l Em ployer orga niza tions institutions Media Regula tory a nd m onitoring orga niza tions Na tura l environm ent Ca pita l m a rket pa rticipa nts We employ various tools and means of communication to build our relationships with individual stakeholder groups in a responsible manner and in line with expectations. Selected tools and methods for building relations with stakeholders in 2013 Main Stakeholder categories Relations Management forms In-person m eetings, intra net pla tform , intra net kiosks, m obile service, corpora te newsletter, tra ining, opinion polls, public Em ployees consulta tions system , rela tions with corpora te tra de unions a nd with the Em ployee Council. Loca l Socia l progra m m es a nd initia tives, internet service, opinion polls, consulta tions with m em bers of loca l com m unities. com m unities NGOs In-person m eetings, socia l progra m m es, internet service, a nnua l report, opinion polls, consulta tions. Ca pita l m a rket Current a nd periodic reports, a nnua l reports, in-person m eetings, conferences, conference ca lls, webca sts, internet service, pa rticipa nts Ana lyst’s Da y a nd Investor’s Da y events. Public Annua l report, lobbying, in-person m eetings, conferences. a uthorities Ca ll service, internet service, inform a tion provided through product pa cka ging, direct conta ct, socia l ca m pa igns a s pa rt Custom ers of the loya lty progra m m e, sa tisfa ction surveys. Discussions with stakeholders of issues relating to the social and environmental impact of our business are valuable opportunities for learning how to improve our performance. In 2013, we created opportunities to meet our stakeholders using a variety of relationship-building means. These included: 206 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Public consultations with em ployees, Conferences prom oting good practices, Multi-directional com m unication with the capital m arket, Opinion polling. 1. Public consultations with employees In 2013, we conducted public consultations among the LOTOS Group’s employees on the ethical culture of the organization and the preferred model of selecting the Ethics Officer. These consultations, in which more than 500 persons took part, came one year after the implementation of the Ethical Conduct Programme together with its key element, the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics. Environment The Ethical Conduct Programme of the LOTOS Group promotes desirable behaviour and conduct both within the organization and in its relations with investors, customers and partners, as well as with the local community and competitors. The LOTOS Group should promote the adopted ethical standards among its trade and business partners. The LOTOS Group should cooperate only with the companies that commit themselves to respecting LOTOS ethical values. NO I HAVE NO OPINION YES In my opinion, the ethical culture of the LOTOS Group is: (%) Needed for everyday work Irrelevant 207 Needed for everyday work Irrelevant Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future In the course of the consultations, most employees agreed that the Ethical Conduct Programme of the LOTOS In the course Group of thetoconsultations, contributes most employees promoting desirable behaviouragreed and conduct onlyConduct Ethical that thenot Programme within the of the organization LOTOS itself but also in its relations with its external stakeholders. The majority of the participants confirmed their high awareness of the importance of ethical conduct in everyday business activities. 2. Conferences promoting good practices We participate in projects allowing us to share our experiences and good practices in the area of corporate social responsibility with other businesses and NGOs. In 2013, we co-hosted the second edition of the Development of Responsible Business conference as part of the CSR Academy, organized under the auspices of the Ministry of the Treasury. The project, implemented in cooperation with the Puls Biznesu daily, was a response of Polish business circles to the need to promote the idea of corporate social responsibility, especially among SMEs. This joint effort between the state administration, businesses, and NGOs in organizing the CSR Academy increased the substantive value of the project. At the meeting, good CSR practices were presented by several representatives of the LOTOS Group; Zbigniew Paszkowicz, President of the Management Board of LOTOS Petrobaltic, discussed environmental and social conditions of exploration and production, whereas Jowita Twardowska, Communication and CSR Director, Grupa LOTOS, and Joanna Tyszka, Human Resources Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, presented social programmes and the strategic approach to shaping a responsible HR policy, respectively. 100 representatives of businesses, NGOs and tertiary education institutions in the Pomerania region took part in the conference and accompanying workshops. Another opportunity we took to share our good practices was the annual conference, the Development Initiation Forum, held in Gdańsk, which gathered 300 participants representing business, social organizations and local government. As an active participant and partner of the Forum, Grupa LOTOS presented the process of developing its CSR Strategy for the LOTOS Group. Both events were evaluated by their participants, who rated highly our contribution to promoting the idea of CSR. 3. Communication with the capital market Grupa LOTOS is keen to ensure that its relations with investors are forged and fostered in a manner of partnership and based on dialogue to find solutions satisfactory to both parties. We analyze and gradually implement new communication tools, and we constantly strive to perfect the form and content of our communications. We strive to present investors with a precise, reliable, transparent picture of the Company's operations, its strategy and financial standing, in compliance with the principles of involvement, availability, and equal treatment of all investors. To communicate that information to investors, we use a broad range of IR tools, including mailing, newsletters, webcasts, participation in conferences addressed to institutional and individual shareholders as well as representatives of brokerage houses, conference calls, one-on-one meetings, open-house days for analysts and investors, and participation in the RESPECT Index. In 2013, the Company’s Board attended meetings with investors and maintained regular relations with capital market participants. After every release of an interim report presenting the LOTOS Group’s performance, a meeting was held between financial analysts and Mariusz Machajewski, Vice-President of the Board, Chief Financial Officer, Grupa LOTOS. On November 27th 2013, the International Capital Markets Day was held in Gdańsk, focused primarily on the 208 performance of the LOTOS Group's strategy. analysts and investors, and participation in the RESPECT Index. In 2013, the Company’s Board attended meetings with investors and maintained regular relations with capital market Integrated AnnualAfter participants. Grupa LOTOS 2013 -release Reportevery of anS.A. interim report presenting the LOTOS Group’sWin the Future performance, a meeting was held between financial analysts and Mariusz Machajewski, Vice-President of the Board, Chief Financial Officer, Grupa LOTOS. On November 27th 2013, the International Capital Markets Day was held in Gdańsk, focused primarily on the performance of the LOTOS Group's strategy. As part of its relations with individual shareholders, the Company collaborates with the Polish Association of Retail Investors. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS attended the 17th Wall Street Conference of retail investors, organized by the Polish Association of Retail Investors in Karpacz. The Grupa LOTOS investor relations website ( link) is dedicated to market participants, the Company stakeholders. This bilingual (Polish-English) service is updated on an ongoing basis to provide foreign investors and analysts with equal access to information. The website contains information and tools grouped in four thematic sections: 1. LOTOS Group (link) this section of the LOTOS website presents the LOTOS Group, its strategy, share capital structure and CSR activities. 2. Reports and Key Data (link) this section organizes financial and non-financial inform ation (includes an easily downloadable excel file databook), as well as the LOTOS Group's current and periodic reports published via the Warsaw Stock Exchange. 3. Investors (link) – this section contains inform ation on the m ethod of calculating the m odel refining m argin of Grupa LOTOS and its quarterly updated values, inform ation on the Com pany's dividend policy and dividend payouts, investor tools (calculator, historical Grupa LOTOS stock prices). It also groups downloadable files, i.e. periodic reports, strategy and efficiency im provem ent presentations, and the issue prospectus. This section also lists of equity analysts covering the Com pany and their m ost recent recom m endations for the Grupa LOTOS securities traded on the WSE. The corporate events calendar (quarterly reports, General Meeting dates, open-house days, and other events which, in shareholders' opinion, m ight im pact the price of the Com pany shares) is published in the 'Investor's Calendar' tab (link). 4. Corporate Governance (link) – this section contains inform ation concerning the Com pany's com pliance with the requirem ents of the Best Practice for WSE Listed Com panies. It also provides inform ation on the com position, powers and rules of procedure of the Board, Supervisory Board and General Meeting of Grupa LOTOS, and contains the Com pany's constitutional docum ents. 4. Opinion polling We make efforts to conduct opinion polls among our key stakeholders on a regular basis, with a view to improving our management of the aspects of social responsibility and sustainable development. In 2013, one of these efforts was devoted to learning about our employees’ approach to environmental protection and ecology both in their workplace and in their private lives. What can you do/What do you do personally when performing your work duties to reduce the negative impact on the natural environment? (%) Turning off unnecessary lights Waste segregation Double-sided printing Saving209 water Rational use of air-conditioning Using electronic document circulation We make efforts to conduct opinion polls among our key stakeholders on a regular basis, with a view to improving our management of the aspects of social responsibility and sustainable development. In 2013, one of these efforts was devoted Integrated 2013 about to learning Annual Report our employees’ Grupa LOTOS S.A. approach to environmental protection and Win the Future ecology both in their workplace and in their private lives. What can you do/What do you do personally when performing your work duties to reduce the negative impact on the natural environment? (%) Turning off unnecessary lights Waste segregation Double-sided printing Saving water Rational use of air-conditioning Using electronic document circulation Keeping your workplace clean and tidy Boiling just enough water for your needs Disabling the stand-by mode Taking into account ecological criteria on office equipment Eco-driving The results of the survey, called the ‘Green Barometer of Grupa LOTOS’, will be further used to better shape our information policy on environmental issues as well as to provide our employees with useful tips concerning ecology. In 2013, we conducted an opinion survey among Grupa LOTOS employees to find out about their engagement and satisfaction levels. They were asked for their opinion about 16 factors determining employee engagement – what makes their work at the Company special and what still needs improvement, what motivates them and what poses an obstacle that needs to be removed. The survey was anonymous and contained a list of standard questions that have been used by our consultant, Aon Hewitt, in 600 similar surveys so far conducted across Poland. The survey results show that most employees are satisfied with their work at our Company. I am satisfied with my work at Grupa LOTOS (%) I strongly disagree and I disagree I rather disagree I rather agree I strongly agree and I agree At Grupa LOTOS, employee engagement level was rated at 72%. This is the percentage of survey participants who concurrently: 210 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future At Grupa LOTOS, employee engagement level was rated at 72%. This is the percentage of survey participants who concurrently: Say about good working conditions within the Com pany and would recom m end Grupa LOTOS to their friends and fam ily m em bers seeking em ploym ent, Stay at the Com pany, rarely consider leaving and are convinced that there would have to be som e im portant reasons for them to start consider leaving, Strive because the Com pany encourages them to give their best and appropriately m otivates them to go beyond what is norm ally expected of them at work. This result is considerably higher than the average for Polish companies and than the average for the energy sector; very similar results were achieved by best rated companies with highest employee satisfaction and engagement levels. 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% GEM CT Envi ro nm Co er Pay its ION W or k/ en t lle Re Be EN Life T Care Ba lanc ag pu nef TISF er O pp or e ue ta EN A W or tu ni tie s s tio GA k Pr oc es se n SA W W s Em or kSe ni or k Ta sk s pl or Le ad er sh oy ip Grupa LOT OS Average for Poland Average for the energy sector The survey results show that most employees are satisfied with their everyday work tasks and that the 211 environment (work environment, colleagues) favours engagement. Also, the work areas needing E S W W Wor Se Em or k or k Ca ni pl reer oy Grupa LOT OS Average for Poland Average for the energy sector Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future The survey results show that most employees are satisfied with their everyday work tasks and that the environment (work environment, colleagues) favours engagement. Also, the work areas needing improvement have been identified. These results will be used to further improve the work environment at Grupa LOTOS. Effective implementation of the LOTOS Group’s CSR Strategy requires that our relations with social partners, such as NGOs, expert advisers, local government and local communities, are managed responsibly. In order to reach the most effective level of monitoring the implementation of the LOTOS Group’s CSR Strategy, we developed a number of actions to be introduced in each year of its being in effect. In 2013, we conducted a survey among all our partners involved in mutual social, cultural and pro-environmental projects as well as with whom we cooperate in charity initiatives in the regions of our activities. Under the survey, an electronic questionnaire containing 13 questions designed to evaluate the cooperation and communication with Grupa LOTOS as well as to assess the direction and effectiveness of actions taken under the Strategy was sent to our 50 social partners; in total, 37 organizations took part in the survey and they evaluated the level of communication and cooperation with the organization as very high. In response to the question: „How do you rate the quality of communication and information flow in your cooperation with Grupa LOTOS to date?”, more than 65% of respondents stated that it is very high, whereas 27% assessed it as high. When asked: “ How do you evaluate the effectiveness of actions taken by Grupa LOTOS to address social needs identified in the areas of the organization’s activities?”, 59% of the persons surveyed rated the effectiveness of the actions taken as very good and 28% as good. In response to the questions regarding the improvement of the quality of their cooperation with Grupa LOTOS, more than half of the respondents said that the cooperation was very satisfactory; however, 15% of the surveyed partners claimed that they saw room for improvement, which should pose a challenge for us in as far as how to plan our future cooperation with them. 212 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Membership in organizations Grupa LOTOS is a member of national and international industry, business, and specialist organizations. As their members, we can take active part in e.g. shaping the government’s policies and creating laws on energy sector issues, with a particular focus on the fuel sector. Industry organizations Conservation of Clean Air and Water in Europe, CONCAWE We have been a member of CONCAWE since 2006. The organization was established in 1963 by a group of leading oil companies to carry out research on environmental protection, quality of fuels, air, water, biofuels, soil contamination, occupational health and safety, and the management of products supplied via pipelines. The main objectives of CONCAWE are to acquire scientific, economic, and technical information, to the greatest possible extent, on environmental issues involved in the refining of crude oil and the distribution of petroleum products. In 2013, the process of merging CONCAWE with another big European industry organizations, EUROPIA, commenced. Polska Organizacja Przemysłu i Handlu Naftowego, POPiHN (Polish Organization of the Oil Industry and Trade) The Company was a founding member of POPiHN at its inception in 2003. One of our objectives in the organization is to ensure the sustainable development of the competitive fuel market in Poland, by taking measures aimed at the adoption of codes of business conduct in keeping with EU legislation, and by ensuring the equal treatment of all fuel market players in Poland, etc. We are striving to achieve our objectives by initiating, assessing, and commenting on draft legislation proposed by Polish lawmakers and the draft measures of EU laws. As a member of POPiHN, we are also able to present our position to representatives of the Polish parliament, government, and other public administration authorities. Stowarzyszenie Naukowo-Techniczne Inżynierów i Techników Przemysłu Naftowego i Gazownictwa, SITPNiG (Polish Association of the Oil and Gas Industry Engineers and Technicians) Together with LOTOS Petrobaltic and LOTOS Terminale, we are supporting members of SITPNiG. The Association provides support to the oil and gas industry, acting towards the social utility of public projects. It inspires scientific, technical and organizational projects to the benefit of the country's economy, environmental protection, and sustainable development. The Association strives to improve the professional qualifications of its members, disseminates knowledge as well as technological and environmental culture, and promotes the tradition of the oil and gas industry. Windsor Energy Group, WEG We became members of the Windsor Energy Group in 2009. WEG is an independent think-tank headquartered in London that focuses on building the global order and on energy sector security, with a special emphasis on the oil and gas sector and the alternative energy sector. The organization brings together former politicians, former ambassadors in petroleum countries, government advisors, as well as CEOs of large corporations engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. As a member of WEG, we support the development of the European energy sector and promote the position of representatives of the Central European energy sector in the European Union. Paweł Olechnowicz, President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, is a member of WEG's International Advisory Panel. 213 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future World Petroleum Council – Polish National Committee We work on the Polish Steering Committee of the world's only organization representing all fields of the oil sector. Its main function is to facilitate dialogue between stakeholders, both internally within the sector and externally, with regard to key technical, social, environmental, and management aspects. The World Petroleum Council brings together 60 member countries, representing 95 per cent of the world's oil and gas production and consumption. Central Europe Energy Partners, CEEP We are the founding member of CEEP, together with Energa, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Kulczyk Investments, and PFAG. CEEP is an international regional non-profit organization, registered in 2010 in Belgium, with offices in Brussels and Berlin. It represents the Central European energy sector as it is broadly understood, including oil, natural gas, electrical energy, renewable energy sources, nuclear power, and interconnectors. The main objective of the organization, as specified in its statutes, is to support integration of the Central European energy sector under a common energy policy and security policy for the EU energy sector. To that end, CEEP cooperates with international think-tanks such as the Center for Strategic & International Studies (Washington), Windsor Energy Group (London), King’s College (London), Atlantic Council (Washington), as well as international organizations, including the International Energy Agency (Paris), Euracoal (Brussels), and EUROPIA (Brussels). The organization currently includes 22 members from Poland, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Romania. As at the end of 2013, they employed more than 300,000 employees and had an annual turnover in excess of EUR 42bn. Negotiations with new potential members from other Central European countries are well underway. As a member of CEEP, we participate in all major events, consultations, and preparation of expert materials about the energy sector in the European Union. Paweł Olechnowicz, President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, holds the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEEP. Organizacja Polskiego Przemysłu Poszukiwawczo-Wydobywczego (Polish Exploration and Production Industries Organization) We are the founding member of the Polish Exploration and Production Industry Organization, which focuses mainly on unconventional gas. It is a forum for consultations between the hydrocarbons production industry and the Polish government on the planned legal framework for the taxation of hydrocarbons production. The organization was established in 2010. Atlantic Council We have been a member of the Atlantic Council since September 2013. This American organization promotes constructive leadership and engagement in international affairs regarding the energy sector, the environment, world economy and economics as well as the transatlantic cooperation. Through its papers, functional programmes, supporting ideas, building relations and communities, it fosters transatlantic strategies to advance international security and global economic prosperity. The Atlantic Council is one of the most recognizable think-tanks in Washington, which not only has wide experience in issues regarding transatlantic cooperation but is also mainly known for its effectiveness in persuading key decision-makers to accept its arguments. As a member of the Atlantic Council, we take part in international thematic conferences and cooperate in drawing up regional analyses, which will allow us to build a strong position of the LOTOS brand on the American market. Business organizations Business Centre Club, BCC The Company's membership in the BCC dates back to -2000. 214 We focus on co-operation in projects whose main accept its arguments. As a member of the Atlantic Council, we take part in international thematic conferences and cooperate in drawing up regional analyses, which will allow us to build a strong position of the LOTOS brand on the American market. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Business organizations Business Centre Club, BCC The Company's membership in the BCC dates back to 2000. We focus on co-operation in projects whose main objective is to fuel the growth of the Polish economy, increase the number of jobs, and provide assistance to entrepreneurs. We support the BCC in the creation of communication platforms for different social groups on matters of key importance for the country's development, with particular emphasis on the promotion of corporate social responsibility. European League for Economic Cooperation, ELEC Polish section We have been a member of ELEC since 2002. It is an international NGO whose main objective is to support economic integration, foster the social and cultural identity of European societies, and enhance the role of Europe in the international arena. Paweł Olechnowicz, President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, is a member of the management board of ELEC – Polish Section. Gdański Klub Biznesu (Gdańsk Business Club) Since 2002, we have been a member of the Gdańsk Business Club, which brings together entrepreneurs, owners, and directors of leading companies in the Pomerania region. Its mission is to foster economic development in all areas that can potentially influence the financial standing of its members, to provide support in business projects on a reciprocal basis, and to act towards the development of entrepreneurship, infrastructure, culture and education in the Pomerania region, as well as the protection of the health of its inhabitants. Paweł Olechnowicz, President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, is a member of the board of the Gdańsk Business Club. Klub Polskiej Rady Biznesu (Polish Business Roundtable Club) We became a member of the Club back in 2005. The Club was established by the Polish Business Roundtable – an organization bringing together the crème de la crème of Polish entrepreneurs, working towards the economic development of Poland and consolidation of its business circles. Polskie Forum Akademicko-Gospodarcze, PFAG (Polish Higher Education-Business Forum) We have been a member of PFAG since 2004. Its objective is to work towards more intensive cooperation in the area of higher education and business, and to support innovations and knowledge-based economy. The organization was established for the purpose of building strong cooperation between academic and business circles for the development of innovative solutions using national and EU funds. The Forum is a platform for the exchange of views and formulation of opinions on matters of crucial importance to Poland. It brings together representatives of businesses and leading Polish tertiary education institutions. Paweł Olechnowicz, President of the Board of Grupa LOTOS, holds the position of President of PFAG's Management Board. Stowarzyszenie Pomorskie w Unii Europejskiej (“Pomorskie in the European Union” Association) We became a member of the Association in 2010. Its main objective is to support the activities of the Pomerania region's local government, tertiary education units, institutions, and enterprises operating at the EU level. 215 Organizations dedicated to CSR promotion We became a member of the Association in 2010. Its main objective is to support the activities of the Pomerania region's local government, tertiary education units, institutions, and enterprises operating at the EU level. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Organizations dedicated to CSR promotion Forum Odpowiedzialnego Biznesu, FOB (Responsible Business Forum) The Company has been a strategic partner of FOB since 2008. FOB’s mission is to promote the idea of corporate responsibility as a standard in Poland, in order to increase the competitiveness of Polish businesses, enhance social well-being, and protect the natural environment. FOB organises projects supporting the development of CSR in Poland and engages in initiatives promoting corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. United Nations Global Compact We became a member of the organization in 2009. It is a global initiative of the United Nations calling on businesses and social organizations to respect 10 basic principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. The organization also supports the accomplishment of the general objectives of the United Nations, including the Millennium Development Goals. More than 12,000 enterprises and NGOs from 145 countries belong to the organization. Specialist organizations Pracodawcy RP (Employers of Poland) Our membership in the organization dates back to 2004. Its main objective is to act in the common interest of business circles, supporting initiatives aimed at enhancing the role of employers in Poland. By commenting on draft legislation, the organization strives to secure mutual benefits for both employers and employees, on the basis of economic development, and to ensure fair and stable terms of employment, workplace safety, and social order. Polskie Stowarzyszenie Zarzadzania Kadrami, PSZK (Polish Association of Human Resources Management) Since 2013, we have been a strategic member of the biggest and oldest professional association focused on developing and promoting top human capital management standards in companies and organizations active in Poland. PSZK has built a member network for HRM practitioners by organizing nationwide conferences, campaigns, programmes and expert meetings dealing with issues connected with the labour market and HR Management, etc. Stowarzyszenie Emitentów Giełdowych, SEG (Polish Association of Listed Companies) We became a member of the SEG in 2006. As an organization of companies listed on the WSE, the SEG acts in their best interests, offering expertise and advice on stock market regulations and the rights and obligations of listed companies. Being an expert organization, it focuses on the dissemination and sharing of knowledge, with a view to supporting the development of the capital market and modern market economy in Poland. The SEG also serves as a hub for the integration of listed companies and promotes cooperation for the development of civic society. Polskie Towarzystwo Ekonomiczne, PTE (Polish Economic Society) We are a member of this independent professional national association bringing together both practitioners and theoreticians in the field of economics. Its main objectives are to disseminate economic knowledge, act as an opinion-former, improve the qualifications of economists, and integrate their community. Klub Polskie Forum ISO 14000 (Polish ISO 14000 Forum Club) We became a member of the organization in 1997. The Club's mission is to develop and promote initiatives, attitudes and activities conducive to development and216 popularisation of environmental management systems, in particular those based on the ISO 14001 standard and the EMAS Directive. The organization also Polskie Towarzystwo Ekonomiczne, PTE (Polish Economic Society) We are a member of this independent professional national association bringing together both practitioners Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future and theoreticians in the field of economics. Its main objectives are to disseminate economic knowledge, act as an opinion-former, improve the qualifications of economists, and integrate their community. Klub Polskie Forum ISO 14000 (Polish ISO 14000 Forum Club) We became a member of the organization in 1997. The Club's mission is to develop and promote initiatives, attitudes and activities conducive to development and popularisation of environmental management systems, in particular those based on the ISO 14001 standard and the EMAS Directive. The organization also conducts educational activities in the area of environmental protection and management, intergrates circles dealing with environmental management issues, and supports organizations implementing environmental management systems. The Club is fully independent and acts on a voluntary basis. Klub Polskie Forum ISO 9000 (Polish ISO 9000 Forum Club) We became a member of the organization in 1993. The organization associates suppliers of products and services interested in implementing, perfectioning and developing their management systems and the conformity assessment system, based on the ISO 9000 standard, concerning quality management systems, other standardisation documents dealing with organizational systems and management as well as new approach directives. The Club is fully independent and acts on a voluntary basis. Stowarzyszenie Księgowych w Polsce (Accountants Association in Poland) We are a member of this Association, which brings together representatives of professions related to accounting and finance. It focuses on the development of accounting and financial audit systems in Poland to make sure they reflect the latest changes in, and meet the requirements of, internationally recognised standards. Polska Okręgowa Izba Inżynierów Budownictwa (Polish District Chamber of Construction Engineers) Our membership in the organization dates back to 2001. As a self-regulatory professional body, the Chamber represents its members and protects their interests, especially by submitting proposals to the legislative and executive bodies on creating conditions favourable to the development of the construction sector in Poland and the role of the engineering profession in that process, and by cooperating with other self-regulatory professional, scientific and technical bodies operating in the construction sector. 217 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Jowita Twardowska Communication and CSR Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Integration with Local Communities area The implementation of the CSR Strategy helps us significantly in the process of meeting the objectives of the LOTOS Group’s business strategy. With regard to the effectiveness and efficacy of a CSR strategy, several factors are at play, the most important of which are the involvement of the organization’s top-level management, a connection of the actions taken with its strategic objectives, and determining how success should be The im plem entation of the measured along with providing an evaluation mechanism. All of CSR Strategy helps us significantly in the process of these elements have been successfully implemented by LOTOS. m eeting the objectives of the LOTOS Group’s business Our current CSR Strategy for the years 2012-2015 was formulated using a strategy. With regard to the mechanism engaging a wide representation of our employees, including the topeffectiveness and efficacy of a level management, who have been taking part for several years in our pioneering CSR strategy, several factors initiative, which is the ‘CSR Day’. It is an annual event gathering managers for the are at play, the m ost purposes of holding discussions on possible directions of development and im portant of which are the opportunities of further streamlining of the organization’s social responsibility. involvem ent of the organization’s top-level A lot of attention was also given to a thorough analysis of expectations and needs m anagem ent, a connection reported to the organization by its key stakeholders. Thanks to the review of the of the actions taken with its effects of our initiatives and practices in the CSR area so far and to the assessment strategic objectives, and determ ining how success of the conditions of our activities, we succeeded in developing our strategy for should be m easured along this area until 2015. with providing an evaluation m echanism . All of these The 2015 perspective of the CSR Strategy is congruent with the term of the elem ents have been current business strategy of the LOTOS Group. The objectives identified in both successfully im plem ented by these documents complement and support each other, which ensures the LOTOS. sustainable development of the organization and enhances its contribution to the improvement of many social processes. It is all the more important for us as the biggest employer in the Pomerania region but also as a representative of the oil industry, which is bound by the law to apply the highest standards of ensuring Jowita Twardowska Communication and CSR Director, Grupa safety for people and environmental protection. LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Integration with Local Communities area The co-existence of the business and social perspective has been guaranteed by working out detailed operational plans and performance measures in all key areas identified in the CSR Strategy. Leaders of each area, reporting to the Board of Grupa LOTOS, shall be responsible for the supervision of their achievement. The internal reporting of our performance has been assured by establishing a method of monitoring our progress in the implementation of the CSR Strategy in the successive years. We made all effort for this monitoring to most fully meet our current needs related to the Company’s business reporting. Additionally, the mechanisms of social responsibility undergo a maturity assessment along with other key management areas. One should not forget, however, that it is also the CSR Strategy itself that supports the streamlining of many of our practices and contributes to the increased effectiveness of our activities. By applying consistent 218 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future solutions in this area, it also enhances the effectiveness of these processes and allows for a most comprehensive approach to the assessment of our performance. As far as the integration with local communities area of the CSR Strategy is concerned, it is clearly visible that over the course of the last 30 years we have changed from a local company to a significant player not only in Poland but also on the international arena. We are now a highly sought-after employer as well as a highly-desirable trade and business partner for companies in our environment. We enjoy a good reputation among people living in the vicinity of our facilities; as a big company, we pay taxes which significantly contribute to the development of the region we operate in. Also, we commission local companies to perform many tasks for us, which ensures their ongoing functioning. We understand our integration with local communities as constituting a value not just for ourselves but also for everybody who lives in the neighbouring areas of our facilities. In order to build such an understanding of our activities, we take different kinds of actions, which exceed greatly what we are obliged to do by law. We make efforts to help people in need in our surroundings, as counteracting exclusion of those who have not been successful in life is part of our CSR Strategy. We continuously mitigate our negative impact on the natural environment and increase our positive impact on the quality of life in our region. Many of our initiatives can be regarded as a sign of our interest in and concern about the local community, which is noticed and appreciated by our environment. In conclusion, it is noteworthy that Grupa LOTOS’ reputation for being a socially responsible company enables us to build lasting relations and long-term cooperation based on trust and professionalism. It also helps us attract the best specialists on the market, which further contributes to our constant development for the benefit of the key groups of our stakeholders. 219 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Contribution to the society Our key community development programmes are aimed at the residents of three provinces (Gdańsk, Katowice and Rzeszów), where our production plants, warehousing facilities and other installations are located. It is also where several subsidiaries of the LOTOS Group operate, including the Grupa LOTOS refinery in Gdańsk and the biggest facilities in the south of Poland belonging to LOTOS Terminale in CzechowiceDziedzice and LOTOS Infrastruktura in Jasło. The key objective of the LOTOS Group's CSR Strategy until 2015 with respect to integration with local communities, is to ensure favourable attitudes among local communities and strengthen the company’s image as a socially committed business, by undertaking initiatives designed to provide lasting solutions to social and environmental issues. The project which is directed at counteracting and overcoming problems in the Pomerania region and to which we contribute most is the Development Initiation Forum, inaugurated in Gdańsk in 2012. It is an initiative born of the experiences and needs of the representatives of three sectors: local government, business and NGOs. The project deals with the effective social and economic development of the region, based on the implementation of inter-sectoral projects. The idea of the Development Initiation Forum: Learning the practicalities of inter-sectoral cooperation; Providing opportunities for the exchange of good practices; Using tried and tested cooperation and activation strategies; Providing opportunities for building informal contacts and actively searching for partners to cooperate with. The most important results achieved under this initiative in 2013 include: Creating m ore than a dozen partnerships gathering around 20 entities, represented by the very active Program m e Council, in which representatives of NGOs, business and public institutions are associated; Organizing a conference in Gdańsk dedicated to inter-sectoral cooperation, which was attended by 300 delegates representing around 80 organizations, com panies and institutions; Conducting the first edition of inter-sectoral cooperation workshops in the County of Bielsko-Biała; Prom oting the activities of the Forum at two conferences in the CS R Academ y. Res p o ns ib le Bus ines s Develo p m ent series, addressed to SMEs in the Pom erania and Olsztyn region. The contribution of Grupa LOTOS into the Forum’s work is not only financial but we also share our experiences in the areas of infrastructure, educational, environmental and cultural initiatives, which have supported the development of the Pomerania region for years. The launch of the Grant Fund – Development Initiation Forum, whose aim is to support the completion of several developmental projects, is planned for 2014. In the LOTOS Group, we place great emphasis on maintaining good relations with groups of stakeholders, which for any reason whatsoever are or can be affected by our operational activities. For all infrastructure investments, before obtaining the building permit, we perform environmental impact 220 is planned for 2014. In the LOTOS Group, we place great emphasis on maintaining good relations with groups of stakeholders, Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future which for any reason whatsoever are or can be affected by our operational activities. For all infrastructure investments, before obtaining the building permit, we perform environmental impact assessment reports. Polish law requires for such reports to be consulted with the community – and their results are made publicly available so that all interested parties have access to the prepared documentation and can, in case of doubt, voice their objection. For investments potentially increasing our impact on the environment, we always conduct consultations with the local community. Public consultations In 2013, we conducted public consultations in connection with the planned construction of the complex of heavy-fraction oil distillates deep-processing installations at Grupa LOTOS refinery in Gdańsk. As part of them, a number of meetings with authorities, representatives of the industry and potentially most concerned local residents were organized, during which we tried to give as much information as possible about the planned investment and respond to all queries. The consultations were accompanied by an information campaign in the press, on the radio and TV. The participants were interested in the investment’s impact on the refinery’s surroundings, and its potential benefits. In the first case, the only environmental factor that may change is the level of noise. However, the environmental impact assessment report shows that both daytime and nighttime noise limits will not be exceeded. What interested the participants the most were the employment possibilities both at the construction stage and after the new installations are launched. It was stated that at the construction stage alone will require Grupa LOTOS to employ further 1,000 – 1,500 workers and for the purposes of the planned installations we will also be looking for operators. In 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic performed environmental impact assessments of its exploration, appraisal and production activities from oil and natural gas deposits in the areas of its licences in the Polish sea territory. Like Grupa LOTOS, LOTOS Group’s companies from South Poland – LOTOS Biopaliwa, LOTOS Terminale and LOTOS Infrastruktura – continued their active cooperation with local government institutions in the area of preventing and reacting to failures also in 2013. As facilities of above-regular and high risk of failures, the companies passed on to mayors of towns in which they operate information on safety measures taken and emergency response plans, and their representatives attended Town Hall meetings. We realize that the operational activities, particularly of the Grupa LOTOS refinery, the LOTOS Kolej manoeuvre area and the production facilities of LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Biopaliwa and RCEkoenergia, does have an impact on the life quality of the local communities. However, it should be noted that these activities have no negative environmental impact on their neighbours – all companies abide by the emission limit values provided for in environmental permits. Also, oil extraction carried out in Lithuania by LOTOS Geonafta does not have any potential or real environmental impact on the local environment. The company has pursued its activity in the same locations for years so the environmental impact of both current and planned activities in these locations is very wellresearched. Also, the quality of all environmental media – air, surface and underground water, and soil – is monitored at all locations of oil extraction and the monitoring results are regularly sent to supervisory bodies, where all representatives of the local authorities and communication have easy access to them. We have not received any information suggesting excessive use of natural resources in the vicinity of our facilities nor any possible threats to the local communities associated with such use. We place great emphasis on the identification of potential safety threats to people and to the natural environment. To this aim, our employees responsible for process control attend special training sessions and we implement best engineering practices by including them in their job and process manuals. All these efforts attest to the high process safety culture in the organization. In 2013, only two companies reported occurrences of process safety threats. At LOTOS Asfalt, there were two incidents posing a threat 221 to health, which highlighted to us the areas needing improvement. The identified threats were examined by the Accident Committee, which environment. To this aim, our employees responsible for process control attend special training sessions and we implement best engineering practices by including them in their job and process manuals. All these efforts attest to the high process safety culture in the organization. In 2013, only two companies reported Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future occurrences of process safety threats. At LOTOS Asfalt, there were two incidents posing a threat to health, which highlighted to us the areas needing improvement. The identified threats were examined by the Accident Committee, which recommended post-failure preventive and improvement measures. At LOTOS Oil, one Tier 1 process safety threat was recorded, which resulted in one employee getting injured. Apart from than, 15 incidents which can be classified as Tier 2 process safety threats were recorded at LOTOS Oil. Their identification made it possible to take early safety measures and prevent their transformation into Tier 1 threats. To maintain an appropriate level of process safety, LOTOS Oil develops inspection timetables for key equipment, supporting prevention of accidental emission of substances, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials. Also, the company keeps records of events which might potentially affect process safety. In 2013, there were several incidents which can be classified as safety threats at LOTOS Paliwa. 13 incidents involved fires in customers’ vehicles at service stations, in one case a customer’s car damaged an LPG pump, and in 3 cases there were fires in the facilities neighbouring with a service station or in a service station itself. In each instance, the employees responded properly, following the applicable procedures. The situation was assessed, the emergency was reported to relevant persons, the premises of the station were closed and secured, and, where necessary, fire-fighting measures were taken and the relevant emergency services were alerted in order to remedy the threat and secure the premises. Managers of the affected stations analyze each dangerous incident and report it to LOTOS Paliwa’s OSH team, where it is again analyzed for the possibility of a recurrence and the formulation of preventative measures. For years, we have supported initiatives aimed at improving the life quality in our neighbouring communities, and which are local to our employees. Education and healthcare systems are well developed in our environment; however, we are particularly involved in initiatives that support our social partners in the area of access to appropriate professional equipment. Selection of such projects is usually preceded by consultations with the local authorities or social partners with the relevant competencies. In 2013, we cooperated with NGOs and social organizations with regard to purchasing advertising materials; money raised by selling advertising gadgets was used to support the statutory activities of these organizations. We supported a number of initiatives which had an impact on the infrastructural development of our local communities, bringing positive effects to many spheres of their life. It is worth emphasizing that in June 2013, the General Shareholders Meeting of Grupa LOTOS adopted a resolution on distribution of profit for 2012. Under the resolution, part of Grupa LOTOS’ net profit in the amount of PLN 1,500,000 was earmarked for the Company’s special account for financing of Grupa LOTOS’ CSR projects. Money donated by us in 2013 was invested in medical equipment for public healthcare institutions, necessary equipment related to environmental protection and ecology, investments aimed at the improvement of residents' quality of life and road safety education. These investments were realised pro publico bono. LOTOS Group’s involvement in initiatives serving the development of its local communities in 2013 No. Institution City/town Purpose of grant Co-fina ncing of the m oderniza tion of a 1. Municipa lity of Gda ńsk Gda ńsk pla yground. Co-fina ncing of the equipm ent for the 2. Socia l Ca re Associa tion 'Ba nk of the Open Hea rts' Gda ńsk pla yground. 3. Prim a ry School No. 11 Gda ńsk Purcha se of educa tiona l equipm ent. ENDOSIGMA Associa tion for Supporting the Gda nsk Co-fina ncing of the purcha se of m edica l 4. Gda ńsk Ga stroenterology equipm ent. 222 5. Specia list Hospita l in Ja sło Ja sło Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. No. Institution City/town Purpose of grant Co-fina ncing of the m oderniza tion of a 1. Municipa lity of Gda ńsk Gda ńsk pla yground. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Co-fina ncing of the equipm ent for the 2. Socia l Ca re Associa tion 'Ba nk of the Open Hea rts' Gda ńsk pla yground. 3. Prim a ry School No. 11 Gda ńsk Purcha se of educa tiona l equipm ent. ENDOSIGMA Associa tion for Supporting the Gda nsk Co-fina ncing of the purcha se of m edica l 4. Gda ńsk Ga stroenterology equipm ent. 5. Specia list Hospita l in Ja sło Ja sło Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. Pom orskie Centrum Chorób Za ka źnych i Gruźlicy (Pom era nia n 6. Gda ńsk Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. Infectious Disea ses a nd TB Centre) 7. Uniwersyteckie Centrum Kliniczne (University Clinica l Centre) Gda ńsk Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. Stowa rzyszenie COR Ka rdiochirurgia (COR Ca rdia c Surgery 8. Gda ńsk Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. Associa tion) Funda cja z Pom pą – Pom óż Dzieciom z Bia ła czką (Help Children 9. Gda ńsk Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. with Leukem ia Founda tion) Pom orskie Centrum Tra um a tologii im . M. Kopernika (Copernicus 10. Gda ńsk Purcha se of m edica l equipm ent. Pom era nia n Centre of Tra um a tology) Stowa rzyszenie Na Rzecz Osób z Upośledzeniem Um ysłowym RAZEM BielskoCo-fina ncing of the construction of the 11. ('Together' Associa tion for Persons with Menta l Disa bility) Bia ła infra structure for the disa bled. Jesteśm y Ra zem Stowa rzyszenie Przyja ciół Szkoły ('We a re Together' 12. Gda ńsk Purcha se of the pla yground equipm ent. Associa tion of Friends of School) Poszukiwa wcze Ochotnicze Pogotowie Ra tunkowe (Volunteer 13. Gdynia Purcha se of rescue a nd tra ining equipm ent. Sea rch a nd Rescue) Zespół Szkół Ogólnokszta łcą cych nr 3 (Com prehensive Seconda ry Co-fina ncing of the conversion of a 14. Gdynia School Com plex No. 3) cla ssroom into a chem ica l la bora tory. Szkoła Podsta wowa im . Obrońców Ziem Polskich (Defenders of the Cedry 15. Purcha se of educa tiona l equipm ent. Polish La nds Prim a ry School) Wielkie Zespół Szkół Przem ysłu Spożywczego i Chem icznego im . M. 16. Skłodowskiej-Curie (Ma ria Skłodowska -Curie Food a nd Chem ica l Gda ńsk Purcha se of educa tiona l equipm ent. Industry Schools Com plex) 17. Prim a ry School No. 61 Gda ńsk Purcha se of educa tiona l equipm ent.. Co-fina ncing of the renova tion of the 18. Stowa rzyszenie Przyja zne Pom orze (Friendly Pom era nia Associa tion) Gda ńsk fa cilities a nd purcha se of equipm ent. Funda cja Agencja Regiona lnego Monitoringu Aglom era cji Co-fina ncing of the m oderniza tion a nd 19. Gda ńskiej (Agency of Regiona l Air Qua lity Monitoring of Gda ńsk Gda ńsk repla cem ent of the a ir qua lity m onitoring Agglom era tion) network. Sta cja Ornitologiczna Muzeum i Instytut Zoologii PAN Co-fina ncing of sta tutory a ctivities, 20. (Ornithologica l Sta tion a t the Museum a nd Institute of Zoology of Gda ńsk including the purcha se of tea ching the Polish Aca dem y of Science) m a teria ls. Funda cja Rozwoju Uniwersytetu Gda ńskiego (Founda tion for the Co-fina ncing of sta tutory a ctivities 21. Gda ńsk Developm ent of Gda ńsk University) connected with resea rch objectives. Co-fina ncing of sta tutory a ctivities, Grupa Ba da wcza Pta ków Wodnych KULING (Kuling Wa terbird 22. Gda ńsk including the crea tion of tea ching Resea rch Group) infra structure in the ‘Mewia Ła cha ’ Reserve. Stowa rzyszenie Przyja ciół Wyspy Sobieszewskiej (Associa tion of Co-fina ncing of the purcha se of sports a nd 23. Gda ńsk Sobieszewo Isla nd Lovers) recrea tiona l infra structure. Structure of 2013 LOTOS Group’s support in the form of grants, broken down by sphere of life (%) 223 Stowa rzyszenie Przyja ciół Wyspy Sobieszewskiej (Associa tion of Co-fina ncing of the purcha se of sports a nd 23. Gda ńsk Sobieszewo Isla nd Lovers) recrea tiona l infra structure. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Structure of 2013 LOTOS Group’s support in the form of grants, broken down by sphere of life (%) Safety Social activities Culture and arts Health protection and promotion Science, education and education system Environmental protection and ecology Sports (including co-financing of children’s and youth’s holidays) In 2013, we took a number of preventive measures and activities contributing to the development of the local communities living in the vicinity of LOTOS Group facilities. Many of these are long-term programmes that have already been in place for several years. As they fit with the areas of our competence, determined in consultation with our stakeholders, they are indeed likely to improve aspects of life that are important to the communities' members. Road safety The low level of traffic safety has been one of the major social problems in Poland for many years. According to preliminary reports of the Polish National Police Headquarters, there were around 35,400 road accidents in 2013, in which almost 3,300 people were killed and roughly 43,500 people were injured – as compared to 2012, these numbers have fallen by a few percentage points but they still illustrate a serious danger to people’s lives and health. It means that despite a gradual improvement of the road safety the situation still remains very bad as compared to other EU members. The road traffic mortality in Poland (the number of fatalities per 1 million residents) is almost twice as high as the EU average. In 2013, 28,000 people lost their lives on EU roads, 13% of which were Polish although Poles make up only 8% of EU residents. Given the scale of the risk, educational campaigns should be run among the very youngest pupils of primary schools, as it is at this stage that the right attitudes and behaviour are shaped most effectively. Grupa LOTOS sees its involvement in the enhancement of road traffic safety as a priority. To this end, we established ‘Akademia Bezpieczeństwa LOTOS’ (‘LOTOS Safety Academy’) – a programme dedicated chiefly to educating children and teenagers. Events organized by the LOTOS Safety Academy in 2013 included another iteration of the ‘LOTOS – Bezpieczna droga do szkoły’ (‘LOTOS – Safe Journey to School’) programme, the ‘Uwolnić odblaski’ art competition (‘Free Reflectors to promote reflective clothing and accessories’) and the ‘W drodze do prawa jazdy’ (‘On the Way to a Driving Licence’) initiative. 1. ‘LOTOS – Safe Journey to School’ is a social education and accident prevention programme run jointly with Polish Police and road traffic safety experts, designed to educate and promote safe road behaviour, thus preventing traffic accidents involving young schoolchildren. The idea behind the programme is to make children conscious and safety-minded road traffic participants. The programme is addressed to primaryschool first year pupils, and is designed to draw their attention to safe use of roads by both pedestrians and drivers, including their parents. At the beginning of every 224 -school year, the programme offers an opportunity the ‘W drodze do prawa jazdy’ (‘On the Way to a Driving Licence’) initiative. 1. ‘LOTOS – Safe Journey to School’ is a social education and accident prevention programme run jointly with Polish Police and Annual Integrated Reportsafety road traffic experts, 2013 Grupa designed LOTOS S.A. to educate and promote safe road behaviour, thus Win the Future preventing traffic accidents involving young schoolchildren. The idea behind the programme is to make children conscious and safety-minded road traffic participants. The programme is addressed to primaryschool first year pupils, and is designed to draw their attention to safe use of roads by both pedestrians and drivers, including their parents. At the beginning of every school year, the programme offers an opportunity to participate in classes with police officers and road safety instructors to learn about road traffic safety and safe places to play. Participants are presented with road safety reflectors and special road safety educational packages funded by our Company. Major partners in this programme include the Gdańsk Province Police Headquarters, the Bielsko-Biała City Police Headquarters and the Jasło Motor and Road Rescue Club. The programme is run in the areas of selected LOTOS Group subsidiaries, including in the Province of Gdańsk and the municipalities lying within the sphere of influence of LOTOS Terminale and LOTOS Infrastruktura. It was first implemented in Jasło, in 1998. In the 2013/2014 school year, we distributed a total of 14,000 road safety reflectors and the same number of educational packages to primary school first-year pupils of the Gdańsk Province, and of the Counties of Jasło and Bielsko-Biała. In total, we have distributed 100,000 road safety reflectors and 80,000 educational packages over the course of the last 8 years. 2. The ‘Free Reflectors’ competition was devised for first-grade pupils, particularly those participating in the ‘LOTOS – Safe Journey to School’ programme. Its overall aim is to remind and warn children about road traffic risks and to help them get into the habit of wearing reflective accessories, which reduces the likelihood of accidents. The competition is open to schoolchildren of the Gdańsk Province and the Counties of Bielsko-Biała and Jasło. Its partners make joint efforts to encourage parents, carers and teachers to equip children with reflective accessories. The competition is held in the summer semester and the finale takes place in June, just before the end of the school year and the beginning of the holidays. Each participating school selects and submits up to ten pieces of art by their children. From among all the entries, the three best works are selected in each region. First-place winners are awarded bicycles with safety enhancing accessories. Additionally, the schools of the winners are awarded mini road-sign kits and bicycles with safety enhancing accessories. Second-place winners receive roller blade sets with accessories, while third-place winners receive educational game sets. In 2013, a total of 712 pieces of art from 124 schools were submitted as part of the ‘Free Reflectors’ competition. First prizes were awarded to the pupils of Dr Leon Heyke Primary School No. 2 in Kościerzyna (Gdańsk Province), the Primary School No. 26 in Bielsko-Biała (County of Bielsko-Biała) and the Community Primary School in Lipnica Dolna, Commune of Brzyska (County of Jasło). Between 2010-2013, a total of more than 2,000 students took part in the contest. 3. The ‘On the Way to a Driving Licence’ project, of which we are a partner, is run in cooperation with the Road Traffic Department of the Gdańsk Province Police Headquarters. It is aimed at promoting the rules of safe behaviour on the road among students of secondary schools, thus preventing accidents involving young drivers. The project focused on meetings with students of selected junior high schools. These meetings involved lectures on the rules of road safety, delivered by a police officer, as well as lectures on first aid and the medical consequences of road accidents, delivered by a medical rescue expert. The theoretical part was followed by a practical one, which was aimed at increasing the participants’ awareness of safe behaviour on the road both as pedestrians and future drivers. The main emphasis was placed on such risks as speeding, reckless driving, and not wearing seat belts. In 2012-2013, the ‘On the Way to a Driving Licence’ project, was attended by 600 junior high school students in Gdańsk. 4. Grupa LOTOS is also a partner of the ‘On the Road to Safety’ programme run by the Governor of the 225 Gdańsk Province. This initiative is aimed at selecting the best original road safety programmes completed in reckless driving, and not wearing seat belts. In 2012-2013, the ‘On the Way to a Driving Licence’ project, was attended by 600 junior high Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future school students in Gdańsk. 4. Grupa LOTOS is also a partner of the ‘On the Road to Safety’ programme run by the Governor of the Gdańsk Province. This initiative is aimed at selecting the best original road safety programmes completed in the Pomerania region in the given school year. The competition participants include local government institutions, central government institutions, NGOs and associations. The prize is the co-funding for the winning projects. In 2013, two joint first prizes were awarded to the Special Purpose School and Education Centre in Puck and the ‘Safe Region of Słupsk’ Association. The Junior High School in Żukowo was awarded an honorable distinction. Equal opportunity initiatives and preventing exclusion Openness to the future is among the key social values of the LOTOS brand, which is why we place a special emphasis on projects promoting young people’s personal development, especially of the children and youth living in the immediate vicinity of our production facilities. ‘Dobry Sąsiad’ (‘Good Neighbour’) Programme We have developed a dedicated programme for the inhabitants of Grupa LOTOS’ neighbouring areas. Its strategic objective is to ensure equal opportunities, prevent social exclusion, to activate and integrate the local communities and to support the education of the youngest. As part of the programme, we: Get involved in the life of local com m unities by organizing fam ily events, sporting events, cofinancing sum m er and winter holidays for children ; Support selected local governm ent projects im proving the quality of life of people residing in the districts covered by the program m e; Develop local inhabitants’ understanding of our operations and assure them that the refinery has state-of-the-art environm ental security controls; Tackle social inequalities by providing support to public benefit institutions; Get involved in long-standing initiatives aim ed at the inhabitants of Grupa LOTOS’ neighbouring districts. 1. Family picnics and sports events In 2013, we organized the ‘Ekologiczny Dzień Dziecka’ (‘Ecological Children Day’) family event in the Sobieszewo Island district, neighbouring our facility in Gdańsk. The ecological subject of the event was connected with our ‘Chronimy NATURĘ na Wyspie Sobieszewskiej’ (‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’) programme, run by Grupa LOTOS for several years in this part of Gdańsk. The event, which apart from a number of games for the youngest participants also included educational activities about the areas of outstanding natural value present in the district (the ‘Mewia Łacha’ and ‘Ptasi raj’ nature reserves), attracted around a thousand participants. The festival took place on the premises of the Special Primary and Junior High School Complex No.1 in Sobieszewo and its pupils were involved in the organizational activities. We asked the adult participants to assess the event in a survey. Their opinions concerning the venue, the programme of the event and its organization, as well as the quality of the service, overall satisfaction and quality of the gifts distributed were all at the top of the scale (99% of respondents). 85% of the respondents said Grupa LOTOS was taking care of the immediate surroundings, and 83% of the people asked felt the event met their social needs and expectations. As for the sport and recreational initiatives, we were involved in the ‘Bieg Wyspy Sobieszewskiej im. Wincentego Pola’ (‘Sobieszewo Island Wincenty Pol Run’), which was organized in the vicinity of the Grupa LOTOS refinery. This half-marathon attracted more than 400 competitors, who followed an untypical route, through a forest, a beach and along a recreational path for runners, cyclists and ramblers, which was prepared 226 under our cooperation with ‘Stowarzyszenie Przyjaciół Wyspy Sobieszewskiej’ (‘The Association of 85% of the respondents said Grupa LOTOS was taking care of the immediate surroundings, and 83% of the people asked felt the event met their social needs and expectations. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future As for the sport and recreational initiatives, we were involved in the ‘Bieg Wyspy Sobieszewskiej im. Wincentego Pola’ (‘Sobieszewo Island Wincenty Pol Run’), which was organized in the vicinity of the Grupa LOTOS refinery. This half-marathon attracted more than 400 competitors, who followed an untypical route, through a forest, a beach and along a recreational path for runners, cyclists and ramblers, which was prepared under our cooperation with ‘Stowarzyszenie Przyjaciół Wyspy Sobieszewskiej’ (‘The Association of Sobieszewo Island Lovers’) – the organizer of the half-marathon and administrator of the path. 2. The Open Day at Grupa LOTOS In August 2013, we organized an ‘Open Day’, the purpose of which was to allow organized groups accompanied by guides, the Company’s employees, who talked about the installations and processes employed by the refinery, and protections strictly observed by it and answered queries, to go on a sightseeing bus-tour of the refinery’s premises, which are not generally accessible to the public. During 5 hours of the Open Day, 5 bus lines did 19 tours on the premises of the Grupa LOTOS refinery, enabling almost 900 persons to see our facilities. We provided free-of-charge bus lines, which enabled residents of the neighbouring districts to get to the refinery itself. During the event, a multitude of attractions were organized for people of all ages. A parade of uniformed forces cooperating with the Company was held. Also, Kuling Waterbird Research Group and the Ornithological Station at the Museum and Institute of Zoology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, our partners in the ‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’ programme and the 'LOTOS Protects the Baltic Sea’s Wildlife' programme, presented their activities during the event. The ‘Open Day’ attracted more than 2,000 participants, who were also asked to assess the event in a survey. Their opinions concerning the venue, the attractiveness of the event’s programme and its date, as well as the quality of the service were all very good (80% of respondents expressed a positive opinion), and 87% of the respondents felt that the ‘Open Day at Grupa LOTOS’ met their expectations and they would like to participate again in a similar event organized by the Company in future. 3. Charity initiatives As part of the ‘Good Neighbour’ programme, we work together with non-governmental organizations, offering assistance to the neediest in our closest neighbourhood. In 2013, we supported persons under the care of the Municipal Family Support Centre in the Gdańsk district of Rudniki, ‘Stowarzyszenie Przyjazne Pomorze’ (‘Friendly Pomerania Association’), which runs a community library in the Gdańsk district of Stogi, ‘Fundacja Pomóż Sobie i Innym’ (‘Help Yourself and Others Foundation’), ‘Stowarzyszenie Pedagogów Praktyków’ (‘Association of Practising Educators’) and Parafia p.w. Matki Boskiej Bolesnej w Gdańsku (Our Lady of Dolours Parish in Gdańsk). We co-financed summer and winter holidays for more than 100 children under the care of these organizations and purchased equipment for rooms where educational activities for children take place. We also organized Santa Claus gift-giving events for children under the care of these organizations and in family-type children’s homes. In total, Christmas packages were distributed to 270 children from 13 organizations and children’s homes, including 9 from the Gdańsk area, 2 from Jasło and 2 from Czechowice-Dziedzice. The ‘Skrzydła z Grupą LOTOS’ (‘Wings with Grupa LOTOS’) Programme We have adopted a strategic approach to equal opportunity initiatives addressed to talented children at risk of social exclusion, not only from Pomerania, but also from other regions where the LOTOS Group conducts its business. This was possible thanks to our participation in the group of strategic partners of the ‘Skrzydła’ (‘Wings’) programme run by Caritas Polska in the years 2013-2013. Under the ‘Skrzydła z Grupą LOTOS’ programme, we have assisted 70 pupils from low-income families in three regions of Poland. ‘Skrzydła’ is a programme of long-term assistance for pupils of primary, junior high and high schools who, given the insufficient means of their families, need assistance. Under 227 the programme, the form of assistance can be The ‘Skrzydła z Grupą LOTOS’ (‘Wings with Grupa LOTOS’) Programme We have adopted a strategic approach to equal opportunity initiatives addressed to talented children at risk of social exclusion, not only from Pomerania, but also from other regions where the LOTOS Group conducts its Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future business. This was possible thanks to our participation in the group of strategic partners of the ‘Skrzydła’ (‘Wings’) programme run by Caritas Polska in the years 2013-2013. Under the ‘Skrzydła z Grupą LOTOS’ programme, we have assisted 70 pupils from low-income families in three regions of Poland. ‘Skrzydła’ is a programme of long-term assistance for pupils of primary, junior high and high schools who, given the insufficient means of their families, need assistance. Under the programme, the form of assistance can be tailored to the needs of a child. We have extended assistance to the neediest junior high and high school pupils from the Gdańsk Province, Jasło County and the Czechowice-Dziedzice Municipality. This assistance is rendered by the associated ‘Skrzydła na przyszłość’ (‘Wings for the Future’) programme, ensuring equal opportunities for all children to pursue their plans and ambitions. ‘Skrzydła’ has had a positive influence on its participants and has helped them achieve their objectives. The pupils covered by the programme have improved their grades in multiple subjects and their behaviour, and are now more involved in lessons, the work for the benefit of their schools and their own development. Sports education programmes We are also involved in community-oriented sports projects supporting the development of sports skills among children and youth, to train future generations of sportsmen who would like to join their local or national teams. We believe that education through sports is also a good way to spend leisure time, educate young people in the spirit of healthy competition and fair play, and counteract social pathologies. For the last 10 years, Grupa LOTOS, together with its partner the Polish Skiing Association, has run one of the widest-ranging projects in the area of sports education – the National Ski Jumping Development Programme, 'In Search for the Champion's Successors'. The programme's main objective is to support young athletes practising ski-jumping and to discover the finest Polish ski-jumping talents. Till the end of 2013, more than 800 pieces of skiing equipment (skis complete with bindings, suits, skijumping boots, and helmets) were given to the most talented young ski jumpers. One of the talents discovered through the ‘In Search for the Champion’s Successors’ programme is Kamil Stoch, double gold medalist of the Sochi Winter Olympic Games, winner of multiple World Cup competitions and Polish Champion, who is also the Ambassador of the Programme. Other talented ski-jumpers who got support through the Programme include Jakub Wolny (Individual and Team World Junior Champion), and Klemens Murańka, Aleksander Zniszczoł and Krzysztof Biegun – Team World Junior Champions. Another field of the Company's activities supporting young sportsmen is our work with youth groups practising with the Lechia Gdańsk Football Academy. In 2012, the Company and the Academy jointly launched the ‘White and Green Future with LOTOS’ programme. Ultimately, the programme will cover a total of 3,000 children from 13 Academy’s branches outside Gdańsk, at locations across Pomerania and the neighbouring provinces. Till the end of 2013, 10 regional branches were opened, which, together with the Gdańsk central branch, look after 1,800 children aged 6-14. Around 70 trainers work under the programme, using a comprehensive training programme developed by the Lechia Gdańsk Football Academy. The children are monitored through the Junior Database, where all information about each participant and about the teams they represent is gathered. In 2013, we continued our support of the training of girls basketball teams at the Gdynia Basketball Society (GTK). A total of around 300 young basketballers practise with the GTK, who won the Polish U-18 National Championship in 2013. We also cooperated with the Wybrzeże Gdańsk Speedway Club Association, which trains children and youth. The aim of the Speedway Youth School is to develop young riders to join the first team of GKS Wybrzeże – the LOTOS Wybrzeże Gdańsk club. One of the beneficiaries is Krystian Pieszczek, called the hope of Gdańsk speedway and winner of the Brown Helmet in 2013. Additionally, we acted as the main sponsor of the Gdańsk Sailing Club, which promotes water sports among large groups of children and youths representing different sailing and windsurfing classes. Protection of the environment and ecology 228 As our refinery is located on the coast of the Baltic Sea, many of our initiatives are related to the protection of the first team of GKS Wybrzeże – the LOTOS Wybrzeże Gdańsk club. One of the beneficiaries is Krystian Pieszczek, called the hope of Gdańsk speedway and winner of the Brown Helmet in 2013. Additionally, we acted as the main sponsor Integrated ofReport Annual the Gdańsk Sailing 2013 Grupa S.A. which promotes water sports among large Club, LOTOS groups Win of the Future children and youths representing different sailing and windsurfing classes. Protection of the environment and ecology As our refinery is located on the coast of the Baltic Sea, many of our initiatives are related to the protection of its resources. Our partners include: the Foundation for the Development of Gdańsk University (FRUG) and the Marine Station of the University’s Institute of Oceanography (IOUG) in Hel. Together with these institutions, we have implemented projects, under the name of the 'LOTOS Protects the Baltic Sea’s Wildlife', aimed at protecting the natural riches of the Baltic Sea. Another programme we pursue in the areas of great natural value NATURA 2000, together with the Kuling Waterbird Research Group, the Ornithological Station at the Museum and Institute of Zoology of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Association of Sobieszewo Island Lovers, is the long-term 'Chronimy NATURĘ na Wyspie Sobieszewskiej' (Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island) programme. The 'LOTOS Protects the Baltic Sea’s Wildlife' programme Grupa LOTOS cooperates with the FRUG Foundation and the IOUG Marine Station on protection of, research on and communication about the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea. The IOUG Marine Station conducts research projects on the biology and ecology of coastal fish in the Baltic Sea as well as of marine mammals and their habitats. In 2013, we were involved in actions designed to prevent the extinction of the endangered harbour porpoise, the only cetaceans permanently inhabiting the Baltic Sea. The equipment purchased in the course of our cooperation, which already goes back several years, has also been used to support the statutory research of the Marine Station on the presence of harbour porpoises under the action point entitled ‘Biological and ecological research of marine organisms and habitats with view to implementing more effective methods of managing their resources and protection’. Our support was used for making construction and technical improvements to the Zelint research unit which allow for its allyear-round use for exploration of the Baltic basin. Our activities also led to the purchase of special cod pots for testing purposes, which are safe for harbour porpoises and seals and also make it possible to catch living fish. In the course of several years of our cooperation, more than 25 articles and scientific papers reflecting the researching, as well as the scientific and educational potential of the Station’s employees have been published. Furthermore, Grupa LOTOS supported the SAMBAH (Static Acoustic Monitoring of the Baltic Sea Harbour Porpoise) project by co-financing the equipment and modernization of the Zelint research unit, which significantly aided the research on presence, distribution and habitat preferences of harbour porpoises. SAMBAH is the biggest static acoustic monitoring project regarding harbour porpoises, whose study area stretches from the Darss and Limhamn ridges in the southwest to the northern border of the Åland archipelago in the north. Data reflecting changes in the distribution and density of these mammals are necessary to identify areas of their presence and their habitat preferences as well as areas with higher risk of conflicts with anthropogenic conflicts. An important element of the project is to develop best practice methods for research of harbour porpoises in a low density area and to increase the awareness among the communities of the presence of this endangered species. The knowledge acquired should also serve to develop and later implement the most efficient methods of monitoring the presence of these rare animals. The grant from Grupa LOTOS was used to upgrade, to provide additional equipment to and to purchase elements of the research apparatus. In effect, it is possible to preserve the continuity of research in all measuring units of the Marine Stations. The data acquired will be analyzed and the results will be published in 2014. In 2013, a number of educational campaigns informing about the threats to the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea were launched in the Tri-city area. Such projects include the 'Blue Schools' on the Hel Peninsula where children and teenagers can meet with educators teaching about the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea. In 2013, courses offered by the ‘Blue Schools’ were attended by 4,300 students, while the Seal Centre (Fokarium), one of the most important facilities of the Blue Village complex, attracted more than 400,000 visitors. During the year, some 18,000 items of informational and educational 229 materials were handed out by the IOUG Marine methods of monitoring the presence of these rare animals. The grant from Grupa LOTOS was used to upgrade, to provide additional equipment to and to purchase elements of the research apparatus. In effect, it the continuity preserveAnnual is possible toIntegrated ofresearch Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A.measuring units of the Marine Stations. The in all data Win the Future acquired will be analyzed and the results will be published in 2014. In 2013, a number of educational campaigns informing about the threats to the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea were launched in the Tri-city area. Such projects include the 'Blue Schools' on the Hel Peninsula where children and teenagers can meet with educators teaching about the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea. In 2013, courses offered by the ‘Blue Schools’ were attended by 4,300 students, while the Seal Centre (Fokarium), one of the most important facilities of the Blue Village complex, attracted more than 400,000 visitors. During the year, some 18,000 items of informational and educational materials were handed out by the IOUG Marine Station and the FRUG Foundation at a number of their events. One of the most important events in 2013 was the opening of the newly-built ‘House of the Harbour Porpoise’, a building serving academic and school education purposes, with an exhibition hall and an outdoor exhibition area to be gradually extended in the coming years. It is a unique bank of materials on the presence of harbour porpoises, sources of scientific information as well as of scientific materials tailored for the general public which all promote knowledge on this species. In 2013, we once again engaged in the ‘Clean Up the World’ campaign, with our organization of the ‘Let’s clean up the Baltic Sea! Let’s clean up the world!’ event. 700 children from 70 Tricity primary schools were invited to join the initiative, which took place on Gdańsk beach. During the collective cleaning event, 18,000 litres of waste was collected in compliance with the rules of waste segregation, which is triple the amount collected as compared to 2012. The initiative was inaugurated with a ceremony of planting a tree of ‘Lovers of the Baltic Nature’, which was part of the jubilee celebrations of the 20th edition of the ‘Clean Up the World’ campaign in Poland, to which we were invited by the Our Earth Foundation. Divers of LOTOS Straż took part in the cleaning of the seabed. The purpose of the event was to develop a sense of responsibility for the world around us, particularly for protecting the Baltic Sea and keeping it clean. The ‘Chronimy NATURĘ na Wyspie Sobieszewskiej’ (‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’) programme Together with the Ornithological Station at the Museum and Institute of Zoology (MIZ) of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Kuling Waterbird Research Group and the Association of Sobieszewo Island Lovers, we pursue the ‘Chronimy NATURĘ na Wyspie Sobieszewskiej’ (‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’) programme. The programme provides for comprehensive initiatives undertaken on Sobieszewo Island to preserve its natural riches and provide for pro-environmental education. The work of the programme, which was launched in 2009, has resulted in construction of protective infrastructure, for instance the development of an educational eco-route within the ‘Mewia Łacha’ Reserve. The specially designed route, far away from areas where birds’ breeding grounds and protected flora are located, is marked with educational info-boards and enables visitors to see the reserve all year round. Under the programme, we also pursue on-going ecological education activities for the residents and tourists. The Kuling Group actively conducts educational sessions at its events such as ‘Biodiversity – learn to preserve’, ‘Baltic Science Festival’ and ‘Edu-picnic’. Apart from that, it also constantly monitors the ‘Mewia Łacha’ Nature Reserve and, in 2013, it recorded 2,500 visitors, who were informed about the natural riches of the reserve, the protected species residing in it and its habitats. As the administrator of the ‘Mewia Łacha’ Nature Reserve, Kuling also conducts an annual survey among the residents of Sobieszewo Island to test their knowledge of the reserve and of the protected species residing in it. The level of knowledge about the natural riches of the reserve is very high – 94% of respondents said that they heard of and were in this place, and 63% heard of and could name actions taken to protect the environment under the ‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’ programme. Our engagement in the protection of the reserve brings measurable effects such as successful clutches of terns and other species of water birds. In 2013, 244 chicks of sandwich tern (Sterna Sandvicensis) were ringed, as compared to 62 in 2012, and the number of sandwich tern nests also almost doubled, from 276 in 2013 to 415 in 2013. An important action undertaken in the ‘Mewia Łacha’ Reserve, which helps us enhance our knowledge on protected bird species and those decreasing in population, is ringing. In 2013, the record number of 196 common ringed plovers (Charadrius hiaticula) 230 was ringed, whereas in 2012 there were only 77. Since 2010, i.e. since the launch of the protective measures in the reserve under the ‘Protect the Wildlife and could name actions taken to protect the environment under the ‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’ programme. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Our engagement in the protection of the reserve brings measurable effects such as successful clutches of terns and other species of water birds. In 2013, 244 chicks of sandwich tern (Sterna Sandvicensis) were ringed, as compared to 62 in 2012, and the number of sandwich tern nests also almost doubled, from 276 in 2013 to 415 in 2013. An important action undertaken in the ‘Mewia Łacha’ Reserve, which helps us enhance our knowledge on protected bird species and those decreasing in population, is ringing. In 2013, the record number of 196 common ringed plovers (Charadrius hiaticula) was ringed, whereas in 2012 there were only 77. Since 2010, i.e. since the launch of the protective measures in the reserve under the ‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’ programme, more than 8,500 birds of different species have been ringed. In conjunction with the Ornithological Station, we also organize free-of-charge lectures for students of Gdańsk schools. The idea of these lectures is to develop the young generation’s interest in ecology and environmental protection, and to promote the Natura 2000 European Ecological Network. The lectures entitled ‘Sobieszewo Island vs. Natura 2000 areas. Protection of birds and their habitats’ concern not only the areas of natural beauty but also biology, ecology and recognizing different bird species with particular emphasis on these species which reside on the Sobieszewo Island, including the birds migrating along the Baltic coast. In 2013, over 2,500 people benefited from the educational classes developed in the ‘Mewia Łacha’ Nature Reserve as part of the ‘Protect the Wildlife of the Sobieszewo Island’ programme. In the educational activities organized by the Ornithological Station were attended by almost 2,000 pupils from 34 primary and junior high schools in the Tri-city. Maritime Education Programme Another programme we support, implemented by the Gdańsk Foundation at the request of the Mayor of Gdańsk, the Maritime Education Programme was initiated by Mateusz Kusznierewicz, the Ambassador for Maritime Affairs of the City of Gdańsk. Its purpose is to expand young people's knowledge of the natural environment, sailing, the maritime heritage of Gdańsk and water safety rules. Each year, all first class students of junior high schools from Gdańsk (totaling approximately 3,500) take educational cruises along the Gdańsk harbour channel and around the Gdańsk Bay, which last several hours at a time. Participation in the cruises is free of charge. As part of the Maritime Education Programme, an environmental competition is also organized, which in 2013 was held under the slogan ‘Don’t Pollute the Water’. 2013 was declared by the United Nations the International Year of Water Cooperation. The organizers of the Maritime Education Programme in Gdańsk decided to join this international action and the 2013 edition of the environmental competition was dedicated to the problem of water deficit. The competition was addressed to students of all Polish junior high and high schools, who recorded short films encouraging people to use water resources rationally – not to waste or pollute them. On the first stage, the jury chose 10 films from among almost 90 competition entries. Then, the finalists were competing for the votes of Internet users and the vote was closed on 17th June, the World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought. In total, 12,000 votes were sent and the most popular among the viewers was the film entitled “The Apocalypse”, prepared by pupils of the John Paul II Public Junior High School No. 2 in Święta. The competition laureates representing the distinguished schools were awarded a summer holiday cruise on board the General Zaruski sailing ship, and a sailing picnic attended by Mateusz Kusznierewicz was organized in the school of the winning team. In 2013, 71 teachers took part in evaluation of the programme, 99% of whom rated its attractiveness as very high and stated that it should definitely be continued. 93% of respondents expressed the opinion that commercial companies should engage in activities supporting local communities and the environment. In all editions of the Maritime Education Programme 231 between 2010-2013, around 14,000 people took part in the cruises along the Gdańsk Bay, during which they covered a total in the school of the winning team. In 2013, 71 teachers took part in evaluation of the programme, 99% of whom rated its attractiveness as very high and stated that it should definitely be continued. 93% of respondents expressed the opinion that In 2013, 71 teachers took part in evaluation of the programme, 99% of whom rated its attractiveness as very commercial companies should Integrated Annual engage Report 2013 -in activities Grupa LOTOSsupporting S.A. local communities and the environment. Win the Future high and stated that it should definitely be continued. 93% of respondents expressed the opinion that commercial companies should engage in activities supporting local communities and the environment. In all editions of the Maritime Education Programme between 2010-2013, around 14,000 people took part in the cruises along the Gdańsk Bay, during which they covered a total In all editions of the Maritime Education Programme between 2010-2013, around 14,000 distance of over 28,000 nautical miles. people took part in the cruises along the Gdańsk Bay, during which they covered a total distance of over 28,000 nautical miles. Social innovations E(x)plory Festival Social innovations E(x)plory In Festival 2013, Grupa LOTOS was the main partner of the nationwide E(x)plory Festival, a programme aimed at developing scientific innovations, creativity and interest in the world in an attractive and modern way. The In 2013, Grupa LOTOS was the main partner of the nationwide E(x)plory Festival, a programme aimed at initiative promotes scientific achievements among children and teenagers, at the same time responding to developing scientific innovations, creativity and interest in the world in an attractive and modern way. The the contemporary challenges connected with the need for developing innovation and ensuring workforce initiative promotes scientific achievements among children and teenagers, at the same time responding to for future. As part of the festival, a competition for young scientists, a fair and shows of technological the contemporary challenges connected with the need for developing innovation and ensuring workforce projects, workshops for pupils and teachers and scientific conferences were held. The E(x)plory Festival is for future. As part of the festival, a competition for young scientists, a fair and shows of technological dedicated to pupils, students, teachers and school principals. It attracted almost 12,000 persons. projects, workshops for pupils and teachers and scientific conferences were held. The E(x)plory Festival is dedicated to pupils, students, teachers and school principals. It attracted almost 12,000 persons. Enactus Poland Enactus Poland academic year, Grupa LOTOS launched its cooperation with the Enactus Poland In the 2013/2013 programme. Enactus, formerly known as SIFE, is an international organization associating students, and In the 2013/2013 academic year, Grupa LOTOS launched its cooperation with the Enactus Poland academic and business leaders. Under the programme, students carry out business projects supporting the programme. Enactus, formerly known as SIFE, is an international organization associating students, and development of local communities. These projects address economic, ecological and social challenges, and academic and business leaders. Under the programme, students carry out business projects supporting the are aimed at improving the quality of life and standard of living of their target groups. The best projects then development of local communities. These projects address economic, ecological and social challenges, and take part in the Enactus National Competition and get the chance to represent Poland in the Enactus World are aimed at improving the quality of life and standard of living of their target groups. The best projects then Cup. When preparing their projects, the students can use help and advice from their academic tutors and take part in the Enactus National Competition and get the chance to represent Poland in the Enactus World managers, business representatives, who all act as mentors for the projects. Currently, there are 12 university Cup. When preparing their projects, the students can use help and advice from their academic tutors and teams in Poland, which are involved in around 40 projects. In 2013, almost 60 jurors and 200 students took managers, business representatives, who all act as mentors for the projects. Currently, there are 12 university part in the Polish National Competition. teams in Poland, which are involved in around 40 projects. In 2013, almost 60 jurors and 200 students took part in the Polish National Competition. As part of our cooperation with Enactus, we announced a grant competition called ‘Responsibly with LOTOS’ in 2013, targeted at students associated in Enactus Poland. Its purpose was to select the best projects As part of our cooperation with Enactus, we announced a grant competition called ‘Responsibly with carried out by students of Polish universities in the area of CSR, which will fit in the framework of the LOTOS LOTOS’ in 2013, targeted at students associated in Enactus Poland. Its purpose was to select the best projects Group’s CSR Strategy and bring measurable outcomes to the target community. At the beginning of 2014, carried out by students of Polish universities in the area of CSR, which will fit in the framework of the LOTOS the Competition Committee chose the project “Eco-competition” entered by Enactus Univesity of Gdańsk Group’s CSR Strategy and bring measurable outcomes to the target community. At the beginning of 2014, (STRATEG Student Circle) and decided to grant PLN 10,000 for its completion. The project is a follow-up to the the Competition Committee chose the project “Eco-competition” entered by Enactus Univesity of Gdańsk SLOW (Second Life of Waste) project completed by STRATEG in 2013 and is to organize an educational (STRATEG Student Circle) and decided to grant PLN 10,000 for its completion. The project is a follow-up to the campaign, one stage of which will be the collection of PET bottles in schools, gyms and during ecological events held in Gdańsk. In the course of the pilot version of the project, 25,000 PET bottles were collected, which were then processed and 200 quilts were made. The quilts were passed on to night shelters in the Pomerania region. In 2014, the project will be extended to include a ‘Day with Ecology’, directed at 30 schools in Gdańsk, and information campaigns. Human rights In our social and economic relations, we place great emphasis on human rights issues. There are no formal or systemic measures in place at LOTOS Group companies to verify whether our trading partners respect human rights. In the business landscape in which we operate, human rights issues are governed by a legal framework. We maintain relations only with those entities that operate legally and are required to comply with the law, including human rights regulations. However, due to the priority given by Grupa LOTOS to occupational health and safety, fire protection and physical security in our relations with our trading partners, agreements executed with our suppliers include mandatory provisions requiring these entities to comply with the relevant laws, which compliance is then monitored. 232 At Grupa LOTOS, 100% of agreements with our trading partners include clauses requiring occupational health and safety, fire protection and physical security in our relations with our trading partners, agreements executed with our suppliers include mandatory provisions requiring these entities to comply with the relevant whichReport laws,Annual Integrated compliance is then 2013 Grupa monitored. LOTOS S.A. Win the Future At Grupa LOTOS, 100% of agreements with our trading partners include clauses requiring them to ensure safe working conditions, whose observance is verified by our audits, and, in case of commercial companies, the same applies to the majority of significant agreements, which shapes our everyday cooperation with suppliers. We also constantly add to our agreements and bidding offers new provisions regarding human rights issues and ethics. Due to the great emphasis we place on ethical behaviour and transparency of business processes, most of our agreements include a reference to {www.odpowiedzialny.lotos.pl/en}, where the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics has been published. The Code is also sent and passed on in paper version to our trading partners from Poland and abroad. In connection with the implementation of the idea of responsible business, Grupa LOTOS in its requests for proposals when selecting a trading partner has included two ethical clauses pertaining to respecting human rights, observing employee rights and protecting the natural environment. Further, in Grupa LOTOS’ requests for proposals, bidders are required to submit a representation to the effect that they are not in default of payment of any due taxes, charges or social security premiums Although in 2013 more than a dozen significant agreements were concluded at Grupa LOTOS, none of them has undergone human rights screening. As for secondary logistics, in 2013 employees of LOTOS Paliwa carried out a total of 901 inspections of fuel supplies delivered by external carriers providing services to the company, including 611 checks on drivers having abided by the rules regarding occupational health and safety, and fire and environmental protection, etc. The inspections also examined whether the drivers used appropriate work wear, protective wear and personal protective equipment, as well as whether they had carried the required documentation while transporting hazardous goods. Whenever the rules regulating a driver’s work time or the use of protective wear and personal protective equipment were not followed, the company requested the carrier to promptly restore compliance. In the case of construction projects, compliance with the requirements stipulated in the agreements with the contractors with regard to operational safety and occupational health and safety is monitored on an ongoing basis during a project’s execution. Additionally, 138 employees responsible for people and property protection employed by LOTOS Ochrona have attended lectures on human rights and workshops on intervention techniques and the use of coercive means. In monthly tests they undergo, the issues regulated in the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics are included. In 2013, 77% of the Company’s employees attended lectures devoted to basic human rights and their kinds, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the violations of human rights. Also, external organizations providing security to us are required to hold training sessions in human rights issues for their employees. Human rights issues are also discussed within our adaptation programme for new employees and at periodical training sessions on occupational health and safety. Training in human rights issues in 2013 LOTOS Group* Grupa LOTOS Percenta ge of em ployees tra ined in hum a n rights issues a nd in the orga niza tion’s hum a n rights 15.2% 19.1% policies a nd procedures a nd their a pplica tion a t work Tota l num ber of tra ining hours in hum a n rights issues 1,503 578 * Data for the LOTOS Group, excluding LOTOS Petrobaltic subsidiaries. 233 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Human capital Human capital of Grupa LOTOS Em ployees’ knowledge, com petence, experience and m otivation to involve them selves in developing the organization. Stable system of com m on values as the foundation of organizational culture. Motivation to im prove and develop processes, products and services, including em ployees’ leadership, m anagem ent and cooperation skills. High safety culture. Our objectives in the management of human capital: Ensure availability and developm ent of highly qualified resources required to successfully im plem ent our business strategy. Continuously enhance our organizational culture based on adopted values. Continuously raise awareness and involvem ent in work safety im provem ent am ong m anagem ent staff, em ployees and contractors. Key activities: Responsible recruitm ent and em ploym ent, quick adaptation to the workplace. Enhancem ent of em ployee training and developm ent schem es. Creation of an involving workplace. Reliable evaluation and good m otivation of em ployees. Adherence to ethics in business. Dissem ination of values em braced by the organization am ong em ployees of the LOTOS service stations. Im plem entation of projects to im prove safety at work and health protection. Involvem ent of m anagem ent personnel in the prom otion of OSH awareness am ong em ployees. Results: The Best Employer 2013 Effectiveness of internal staff development process title confirmed by 80% of participants having been promoted The title of the Human Resources Management Leader for outstanding achievements in all HR management areas Employment optimisation through the creation of an High employee involvement environment where staff’s competence and potential can be (72%), with 77% of utilised in the best possible way (in 2004−2013, more 234 than workforce declaring The title of the Human Resources Management Leader for outstanding Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future achievements in all HR management areas Employment optimisation through the creation of an High employee involvement environment where staff’s competence and potential can be (72%), with 77% of utilised in the best possible way (in 2004−2013, more than workforce declaring one thousand people changed employer within the LOTOS satisfaction with their jobs Group) Increasing employees’ influence on the Strengthening safety-at-work culture based safety and ergonomics of their working on the management’s increased environment involvement in promotion of relevant attitudes 235 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future System of values In our activities, we are guided by the key principle of legal compliance and responsibility for the impact of our operations on the world around us. Our system of social values comprises transparency, openness, innovativeness and responsibility. The LOTOS Group’s mission is to pursue innovation-driven, sustainable development in the exploration, production and processing of hydrocarbons and marketing of high-quality products, which is conducive to creating lasting value for shareholders, ensuring customer satisfaction, enhancing and leveraging the employee potential, and which is responsible towards society, environmentally friendly and consistent with the energy security policy. In 2013, we implemented our Code of Ethics, in which employees of the LOTOS Group additionally committed to behave in accordance with the following ethical values: Professionalism Respect – we try to make the most of our knowledge and − manifests itself in decisions and actions that do not skills by actively applying them in our work. We build infringe the dignity of other individuals and entities. the organization’s value primarily on the We follow the principle of respect in building our professionalism of our staff, who all aspire to being relations with employees, as well as with business experts in their respective fields. We perform our and social partners. We respect the diversity and duties to the highest standards of care and equality of all our associates and representatives of objectivity, striving to continually improve our skills the LOTOS Group partners, irrespective of their and professional qualifications. nationality, race, sex, age, disability, religious denomination, political convictions or sexual orientation. Transparency Cooperation we act and communicate transparently in our − cooperation is a defining feature of our approach relations with employees, clearly and intelligibly to building mutual relations in such a way as to defining their rights and obligations, and justifying maximise benefits for the LOTOS Group, with due decisions that affect them. We make sure that our regard to the interests of the other party. employees have access to information they need to Cooperation is based on open communication, trust properly perform their duties. In our external and strong focus on the achievement of common relations, we openly communicate our decisions, goals. We practise the values of cooperation in our actions and reasons by which we are guided in relations with both internal and external parties. mutual relations, especially with customers, suppliers, participants of the capital market and local communities. As a corporate citizen, in all areas of our activity we endorse and abide by the principles of United Nations 236 properly perform their duties. In our external and strong focus on the achievement of common relations, we openly communicate our decisions, goals. We practise the values of cooperation in our actions and reasons by which we are guided in relations with both internal and external parties. Integrated mutual relations, Annualwith especially Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. customers, Win the Future suppliers, participants of the capital market and local communities. As a corporate citizen, in all areas of our activity we endorse and abide by the principles of United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary international corporate citizenship initiative of unprecedented reach. Principles of UN Global Compact 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Eliminate human rights abuse. 3. Uphold the freedom of association. 4. Eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labour. 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Effectively eliminate discrimination in employment. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives designed to promote environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 237 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Responsible employer Statement by Joanna Tyszka, Human Resources Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Investment in Human Resources area As provided for in its CSR Strategy for 2012−2015, the objective of the LOTOS Group’s HR policy is to ensure the availability and development of highly qualified staff required to successfully implement its business strategy and enhance the organizational culture based on adopted values. Employees are regarded as our key asset, which is why our practices in employment relations are geared towards developing their competences, As provided for in its CSR encouraging their involvement and creating conditions Strategy for 2012−2015, the objective of the LOTOS conducive to their increased identification with the Group’s HR policy is to ensure fundamental values underlying the LOTOS Group’s the availability and organizational culture. developm ent of highly qualified staff required to Our HR policy is carried out in a comprehensive and strategic manner, in line with successfully im plem ent its the principles of accessibility for employees, consistency across systems and business strategy and solutions, flexibility in relation to business needs, and above all responsibility for enhance the organizational work results. Our HR policy is long-term and based on continued application and culture based on adopted improvement of best practices in responsible recruitment and employment, values. Em ployees are regarded as our key asset, facilitating employees’ adaptation to work environment, qualification raising which is why our practices in systems, evaluation and motivation of employees, compliance with ethical em ploym ent relations are principles and rules of occupational health and safety. geared towards developing their com petences, With a focus on filling the positions within the LOTOS Group in a manner that encouraging their reflects our business needs, we take every care to communicate with potential involvem ent and creating candidates by providing good access to information, for example during job fairs, conditions conducive to their through cooperation with universities and technical colleges, as well as increased identification with internships, work placements, and grant programmes. We carry out our the fundam ental values recruitment processes in a transparent and objective way, taking advantage of underlying the LOTOS Group’s the most up-to-date candidate evaluation methods. We create opportunities for organizational culture. horizontal and vertical promotions, by encouraging employees to apply for vacancies in our internal recruitment process, which is given priority over external recruitment. Joanna Tyszka Statement by Joanna Tyszka, Human We improve our organizational culture based on the adopted values, not only by Resources Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Investment in Human presenting them in our programmes and activities, but also by their promotion Resources area during our internal training (including induction training), underlining their importance and assessing the level of adherence during periodic employee evaluations, and also by describing and promoting them through the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics. We have a positive impact on employment practices, incentives and organizational culture building, by introducing optimised solutions across the LOTOS Group. In 2013, we implemented the SAP HCM IT system across the entire LOTOS Group. The system has streamlined the process of managing and reporting employee data. It also meets the needs of both management and employees, facilitating their access to information and use of tools supporting HR matters through the self-service HR Portal. All those systemic and continuous initiatives reflect our strong belief that employees are LOTOS Group’s crucial asset. Their high competences and involvement are our strength, while their potential is reflected in the organization’s innovation-driven development. We are recognised as a reliable 238 and respected employer, promoting social responsibility standards, adhering to Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future their access to information and use of tools supporting HR matters through the self-service HR Portal. All those systemic and continuous initiatives reflect our strong belief that employees are LOTOS Group’s crucial asset. Their high competences and involvement are our strength, while their potential is reflected in the organization’s innovation-driven development. We are recognised as a reliable and respected employer, promoting social responsibility standards, adhering to rules in every sphere of social life, and counteracting discrimination in employment and promotion. Our concern for professional advancement and improvement of employees’ skills and expertise goes hand in hand with our efforts to foster a good working atmosphere and friendly relations between colleagues. We value open communication, teamwork and partnership between the management and employees. The quality of our initiatives was recognised and appreciated by the Selection Committee of the Human Resources Management Leader award organized by the Institute of Labour and Social Studies. In 2013, the Committee awarded Grupa LOTOS with the Human Resources Management Leader title and Golden Statuette for our outstanding achievements in all areas of HR management. The grant of the Best Employer 2013 title was also based on the results of the Employee Satisfaction and Engagement Survey carried out using Aon Hewitt’s methodology. The majority of our employees see Grupa LOTOS as one of the best employers for people with comparable skills and professional experience. According to these results, our Company clearly stands out among industry peers and other major Polish companies. 239 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Responsible employer  data has been verified See full text of the Independent Assurance Report  Workforce of the LOTOS Group Company Dec 31 2011 Dec 31 2012 Dec 31 2013 Grupa LOTOS 1329 1349 1345 LOTOS Asfalt 301 254 202 (1) 245 LOTOS Terminale and its subsidiaries 236 236 LOTOS Gaz w likwidacji (in liquidation) 1 1 1 (2) 75 LOTOS Infrastruktura 74 75 LOTOS Kolej 717 812 833 LOTOS Lab 152 153 156 LOTOS Ochrona 160 161 162 LOTOS Oil 340 338 317 LOTOS Paliwa 263 270 272 LOTOS Park Technologiczny 1 1 1 LOTOS Petrobaltic and all its subsidiaries 549 546 557 LOTOS Serwis 697 697 684 LOTOS Straż 88 89 89 (3) 44 LOTOS-Air BP 11 26 (1) Before 2013: LOTOS Czechowice. (2) Before 2013: LOTOS Jasło. (3) Before2013: LOTOS Tank. The LOTOS Group’s workforce by type of employment contract in 2013 – men (4) Fixed-term contracts Open-ended contracts Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Company employees employees employees employees Grupa LOTOS 133 3 778 15 LOTOS Asfalt 15 0 146 0 LOTOS Kolej 204 9 539 0 LOTOS Oil 27 0 197 1 LOTOS Petrobaltic with its subsidia ries: LOTOS Geona fta , LOTOS 80 1 371 1 Norge a nd Energoba ltic 240 (1) Before 2013: LOTOS Czechowice. (2) Before 2013: LOTOS Jasło. (3) Integrated Before2013: LOTOS Tank. Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future The LOTOS Group’s workforce by type of employment contract in 2013 – men (4) Fixed-term contracts Open-ended contracts Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Company employees employees employees employees Grupa LOTOS 133 3 778 15 LOTOS Asfalt 15 0 146 0 LOTOS Kolej 204 9 539 0 LOTOS Oil 27 0 197 1 LOTOS Petrobaltic with its subsidia ries: LOTOS Geona fta , LOTOS 80 1 371 1 Norge a nd Energoba ltic LOTOS Air BP 30 0 10 0 (4) Thanks to the implementation of the SAP HCM IT system in the LOTOS Group, we are gradually expanding the scope of reporting of HR data. We are planning to be able to report full HR data for all companies starting from 2015. The LOTOS Group’s workforce by type of employment contract in 2013 – women Fixed-term contracts Open-ended contracts Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Company employees employees employees employees Grupa LOTOS 71 0 344 1 LOTOS Asfalt 6 0 35 0 LOTOS Kolej 36 0 45 0 LOTOS Oil 11 0 81 0 LOTOS Petrobaltic with its subsidia ries: LOTOS Geona fta , LOTOS 22 0 67 3 Norge a nd Energoba ltic LOTOS-Air BP 1 0 3 0 Our 2013 HR policy objectives, as set out in the business strategy and CSR strategy, were achieved. We managed to ensure the availability of a sufficient number of highly qualified resources required to successfully implement our business strategy. The e-recruitment system enhanced the objectiveness and efficiency of recruitment processes across the LOTOS Group thanks to fast publication of announcements in several media at the same time, efficient searches in the candidate database thanks to the use of a digital application form and browsers, collection and exchange of information on candidates with the highest security standards in place, and monitoring of statistics on the effectiveness of announcements. This recruitment process allowed us to employ persons with the required qualifications. Next year, we intend to publish the ‘Guidelines for recruitment specialists’, to be distributed to persons responsible for coordinating the selection of employees at the LOTOS Group companies, as well as the heads of organizational units planning to hire new employees. Moreover, as part of our effort to share knowledge and best practices in the area of employee selection and assessment of candidates’ qualifications in order to build effectively working teams, we will organise internal training. Our key development activities in 2013 were related to the Succession Programme, designed to ensure the continuity of management in key positions at the LOTOS Group, identify and improve leadership potential at 241 LOTOS Kolej (the Managers Academy Development Programme) and coaching of key personnel at LOTOS the required qualifications. Next year, we intend to publish the ‘Guidelines for recruitment specialists’, to be distributed to persons responsible for coordinating the selection of employees at the LOTOS Group companies, as well as the heads of organizational units planning to hire new employees. Moreover, as part of Integrated our effort to share knowledge and2013 Annual Report bestpractices in S.A. Grupa LOTOS the area of employee selection and assessment Winofthe Future candidates’ qualifications in order to build effectively working teams, we will organise internal training. Our key development activities in 2013 were related to the Succession Programme, designed to ensure the continuity of management in key positions at the LOTOS Group, identify and improve leadership potential at LOTOS Kolej (the Managers Academy Development Programme) and coaching of key personnel at LOTOS Terminale. Besides being given training and development opportunities as part of the LOTOS Academy, employees gain and expand their expertise and job-related qualifications in line with the training schedules for individual years in place at each company, prepared taking into account the development targets set on the basis of periodic employee evaluations. Costs of specialist training and postgraduate education of employees are fully financed by Grupa LOTOS. We also cover 50% of costs of employees’ studies at higher education institutions, taken up to complement their education, and 50% of costs of foreign language courses, if the command of a given language is recommended in a given position. We fully utilise the potential of our employees. We have created a knowledge sharing culture, drawing on the experience and expertise of employees aged over 50, involving them in the professional advancement of other staff. They can pass on their valuable knowledge during Induction Training, and are engaged as tutors of new employees and as coaches in internal training programmes. In 2013, we expanded the induction training programme to cover CSR issues and the principles of ethical conduct set out in the Code of Ethics. We implemented the Employee Induction Programme at further companies: LOTOS Lab, LOTOS Straż and LOTOS Asfalt, and we also plan to introduce it at LOTOS Paliwa, LOTOS-Air BP and LOTOS Ochrona, based on e-learning techniques. The strong results of the most recent Periodic Employee Evaluation, which covered most employees of the LOTOS Group, confirm the effectiveness of our tools used for recruitment, induction, training, development and motivation of staff. Periodic evaluation is performed with respect to all employees working under employment contracts whose length of service in a given organizational unit at the time of the evaluation is at least six months. The person performing the evaluation must likewise have at least six months’ experience in a given position. At the LOTOS Group companies in which the Periodic Employee Evaluation System was implemented, an average of 91.8% , or around 4,500, employees of both sexes were subject to evaluation in 2013 (94.6% at Grupa LOTOS). The Periodic Employee Evaluation System coverage rate was in the assumed range of 75%–100%. In 2013, employee evaluation was performed at Grupa LOTOS and the following companies: LOTOS Paliwa, LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Ochrona, LOTOS Straż, LOTOS Lab, LOTOS Serwis and LOTOS Petrobaltic. As of 2014, all the LOTOS Group companies will be covered by a new Periodic Employee Evaluation System supported by the SAP/HCM IT solution, with the evaluation process performed electronically via the new HR website. We have enhanced our organizational culture based on the adopted values. In 2013, our efforts in this area were focused on developing a new system for periodic evaluation of employees that would promote conduct in accordance with the values embraced by the Company. We developed a Competence Model uniform for the entire LOTOS Group, and a related Positions Map. The model defines the competences required to perform each function within the LOTOS Group, which are also used as criteria in the evaluation of both employees and candidates taking part in the recruitment process. The first evaluation of ca. 5,000 employees according to the new uniform rules will be performed in 2014 and will be preceded by workshops for evaluators, as well as briefing meetings with all employees concerned. Once the Periodic Employee Evaluation System is implemented across the entire LOTOS Group, it will be delivering objective and comparable evaluation results, making 242 it possible to set professional goals and development targets for employees and monitor their achievement. employees that would promote conduct in accordance with the values embraced by the Company. We developed a Competence Model uniform for the entire LOTOS Group, and a related Positions Map. The model defines the competences Integrated Annual Reportrequired to perform 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A.each function within the LOTOS Group, which thealso Winare Future used as criteria in the evaluation of both employees and candidates taking part in the recruitment process. The first evaluation of ca. 5,000 employees according to the new uniform rules will be performed in 2014 and will be preceded by workshops for evaluators, as well as briefing meetings with all employees concerned. Once the Periodic Employee Evaluation System is implemented across the entire LOTOS Group, it will be delivering objective and comparable evaluation results, making it possible to set professional goals and development targets for employees and monitor their achievement. In 2013, we conducted a Survey of Engagement and Satisfaction of Grupa LOTOS Employees. The result was 72% for engagement and 77% for satisfaction, placing us at the top end of the Best Employers 2013 ranking compiled by Aon Hewitt. In 2014, the survey will cover all the LOTOS Group companies and will employ a method Grupa LOTOS has adopted to ensure anonymity of data and comparability of results both across the organization and with the results of other companies operating in Poland. Satisfied and committed employees are the key element of any organization’s effort to deliver stable business performance. In the engagement and satisfaction survey, our employees gave the highest score to working conditions, appreciating the fact that their workplace is appropriately prepared to support the tasks performed. Moreover, they appreciate the possibility of keeping a balance between work and private life, and view their professional duties as interesting and conducive to personal development. They also appreciate the support of their superiors and a healthy working atmosphere in their teams. Parental leaves at Grupa LOTOS Number of employees who Number of employees returned to work after parental Number of employees whose employment was who took parental leave leave terminated within twelve months after return to work Year Women Men Women Men Women Men 2011 14 13 2 2012 19 2 14 2 2013 22 0 17 0 0 0 The LOTOS Group has a remuneration system ensuring that the pay reflects the position held and the scope of duties. As additional remuneration, employees receive an annual bonus based on the financial performance of the LOTOS Group. Employees who achieve their individually set targets in a given period may also receive a quarterly incentive bonus. The most committed and outstanding employees receive financial bonuses awarded by the Chief Executive Officer. We try to offer attractive base salaries, but we also need to take into account the conditions on the Polish labour market and internal factors involved in our operations. In 2013, the ratio of average salary of men to that of women at Grupa LOTOS was 130%. Ratio of the base and actual salary of women to men by position held [as at December 31st 2013] Employment Ratio of base salary of men to base salary of Ratio of average/actual salary of men to average salary of category women [%] women [%] Grupa LOTOS Senior 75 96 m a na gem ent Lower 108 124 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 110 148 Production sta ff 71243 166 Grupa LOTOS Senior 75 96 m a na gem entIntegrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Lower 108 124 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 110 148 Production sta ff 71 166 TOTAL 110 130 LOTOS Asfalt Senior 63 82 m a na gem ent Lower 102 119 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 97 139 Production sta ff 57 121 TOTAL 71 121 LOTOS Kolej Senior 117 123 m a na gem ent Lower 98 125 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 105 128 Production sta ff 100 162 TOTAL 100 137 LOTOS Oil Lower 100 98 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 136 121 Production sta ff 91 150 TOTAL 98 128 LOTOS-Air BP Senior 96 89 m a na gem ent Lower 68 84 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 148 113 TOTAL 114 71 LOTOS Petrobaltic Senior 89 139 m a na gem ent Lower 111 147 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 131 147 TOTAL 131 157 LOTOS Geonafta Senior 91 144 m a na gem ent 244 Lower Lower 111 147 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 131 147 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future TOTAL 131 157 LOTOS Geonafta Senior 91 144 m a na gem ent Lower 58 81 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 123 112 Production sta ff 51 108 TOTAL 51 99 LOTOS Norge Ma na gem ent 100 0 Boa rd Senior 90 0 m a na gem ent Lower 194 0 m a na gem ent Ba ck-office sta ff 0 0 Production sta ff 0 0 TOTAL 0 0 Energobaltic Production sta ff 74 108 TOTAL 92 133 The LOTOS Group offers an attractive work environment and career development opportunities, plus a good benefits package, to all employees regardless of their gender and age. Our employees, whether working on a fixed-term or open-ended basis, full time or part time, are offered the same package of fringe benefits guaranteed by the Collective Bargaining Agreement for Grupa LOTOS employees and by the Rules of Participation in the Company Social Benefits Fund. The Collective Bargaining Agreement covers 95.3% of all Grupa LOTOS employees. The remaining employees are part of the Company’s top management, whose terms and conditions of employment and remuneration are agreed individually with the Board, in consideration of the applicable labour laws. All companies of the LOTOS Group have their own Collective Bargaining Agreements or remuneration policies identical with the relevant provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement of Grupa LOTOS, and the percentage of employees covered by these documents ranges between 99.5% and 99.9%. Every employee can take advantage of additional medical care provided by private healthcare institutions and dental care within the prepaid medical care package paid for by the employer. All parental leaves for mothers and fathers and additional maternity leaves are granted in accordance with legal regulations. The organization offers other social support in the form of loans, allowances, and partial financing of holidays for employees and their children. Additionally, employees who retire due to disability or old age receive retirement severance pay on terms more favourable than those provided for in the Polish Labour Law. Old age and disability pensioners also have access to additional medical care provided by private healthcare establishments and dental care at their former employer’s cost. Under the Benefit Programme, the LOTOS Group also offers membership cards for sports clubs and gyms to its employees, giving them access to sports facilities and activities at discounted prices. 245 We also provide our employees with the opportunity to join pension plans. Currently, 13 LOTOS Group Under the Benefit Programme, the LOTOS Group also offers membership cards for sports clubs and gyms to its employees, giving them access to sports facilities and activities at discounted prices.Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Integrated Win the Future We also provide our employees with the opportunity to join pension plans. Currently, 13 LOTOS Group companies take advantage of unit-linked group life insurance cover, developed especially for LOTOS Group employees, which is fully funded by the employer. Participation in the scheme is voluntary and available to all insurable employees under 70 years of age, employed under employment contracts. Saving with a Pillar 3 retirement savings scheme is an essential aspect of responsible planning for one’s financial future, and we make every effort to secure our employees’ future. As at the end of 2013, 79.7% of the LOTOS Group employees and 89.2% of Grupa LOTOS employees were covered by the group insurance. Premiums paid under unit-linked insurance policies (Pillar 3 of the Polish pension system) in PLN ’000 2011 2012 2013 Grupa LOTOS 3,465 3,519 3,587 Grupa Kapitałowa LOTOS 10,339 11,182 11,261 The LOTOS Group provides adequate conditions for effective development and practical application of the knowledge and skills required of all employees throughout their employment. Goals and objectives defined in the LOTOS Group’s shortand long-term development plans are reflected in personal development plans, agreed with the employees on an annual basis during their periodic evaluation. All employees, irrespective of their age and time of planned retirement, are offered opportunities to take part in training designed to help them acquire and enhance their knowledge and professional qualifications, and develop general skill sets. The base monthly salary of employees who decide to retire within two years prior to their acquisition of pension rights can be raised by 8.5% under a relevant amendment to employment contracts. Moreover, retiring employees are entitled to a one-off cash severance payment, in an amount depending on their length of service. This payment may range from an amount equal to an employee’s monthly pay when their length of service is up to 15 years, to 500% of the base pay amount if the employee has worked for 35 years. For the past 30 years, former employees of the LOTOS Group have been associated in the Senior Employees and Pensioners Club. The Board of Grupa LOTOS earmarks considerable funds to support the Club. The Club’s board organises trips around Poland and to other regions of Europe, giving the pensioners an opportunity to visit new places and at the same time promote a healthy lifestyle. Every year around Christmas, the Board of Grupa LOTOS organizes annual meetings with about 600 of its pensioners, in recognition of their contribution to the Company’s growth. In 2013, in order to exert a positive impact on employment practices, incentives and value-based work ethics at LOTOS service stations, we undertook initiatives to support the processes of recruitment, provision of incentives and fostering a work culture based on the adopted values. We developed profiles for an ‘ideal’ sales assistant and station manager, which − combined with the adopted standards for job interviews and training for area managers − facilitates the process of recruitment and selection of our service station staff. The LOTOS Paliwa website provides clear information on how to apply for work at our service stations. As part of the incentive scheme for service station staff, in 2013 we held 15 competitions to improve their sales performance. We have analysed our methods for fostering sound work ethics and developed a programme entitled One Day at a Service Station. The programme is based on the idea that each employee of LOTOS Paliwa works at a service station for one day, participating in customer service, encouraging customers to buy products, replenishing stocks, and assisting in the operation of fuel dispensers, thus stressing the importance of work performed by service station attendants. Approximately 200 employees took part in the programme in 2013 to show the service station staff that their work is very 246 important and that LOTOS is an The LOTOS Paliwa website provides clear information on how to apply for work at our service stations. As part of the incentive scheme for service station staff, in 2013 we held 15 competitions to improve their sales performance.Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future We have analysed our methods for fostering sound work ethics and developed a programme entitled One Day at a Service Station. The programme is based on the idea that each employee of LOTOS Paliwa works at a service station for one day, participating in customer service, encouraging customers to buy products, replenishing stocks, and assisting in the operation of fuel dispensers, thus stressing the importance of work performed by service station attendants. Approximately 200 employees took part in the programme in 2013 to show the service station staff that their work is very important and that LOTOS is an organization they can identify with and be proud of. Incentive competitions and schemes are to be continued at LOTOS service stations in 2014, and around the end of 2014 and beginning of 2015 an e-learning training programme will be implemented to improve professional skills and motivation of employees of the LOTOS service station chain. The process of building business awareness of the LOTOS Group’s management is ongoing, taking into consideration the importance of social, environmental and corporate governance factors. The effectiveness of this process is confirmed by the results of our periodic employee evaluations. In 2013, more than 90% of all evaluated employees obtained good and very good scores with regard to the criterion involving the importance of social and corporate governance factors, with 96% of the management achieving very good grades. Our training policy is distinguished by long-term, consistently implemented development plans, supported by renowned authorities, members of the LOTOS Academy Scientific Council, including Prof. Jerzy Hausner, Prof. Witold Orłowski, Prof. Janusz Rachoń, Dr. Mirosław Gronicki, Prof. Wojciech Rybowski, Dr. Jan Szomburg, and Prof. Edmund Wittbrodt. In 2014, we will celebrate the tenth anniversary of LOTOS Academy, a comprehensive employee training and development project, whose goal is to create a partnership-based team and build a modern, efficient and competitive organization. This initiative is highly valued in the world of science and business. In 2013, we implemented a number of training and development projects under the LOTOS Academy banner. The LOTOS Group Succession Programme, which guarantees the im plem entation of our business strategy by ensuring continuity of m anagem ent processes in key positions, clearly defining prom otion paths and reducing the risk of choosing the wrong candidate for prom otion. The ‘LOTOS Kolej Managers Academy’ Development Programme, the m ain goal of which is to ensure the im plem entation of the com pany’s strategy by retaining and accelerating the developm ent of key em ployees. Its im plem entation will enable LOTOS Kolej to identify and m ake better use of the potential of its em ployees, increase their productivity and provide an incentive to develop the com petences essential from the em ployer’s point of view, to better prepare them for assum ing key positions with the com pany, and to m eet their prom otion needs. Coaching at LOTOS Terminale as a tool for developing com petences relevant to functions perform ed by the com pany’s senior m anagem ent. The m ain objective of the developm ent activities was to enhance the m anagem ent skills of specific em ployees with better knowledge about them selves, their strengths and weaknesses, and their role within the organization, and to develop personalised solutions and new strategies for action in cooperation with the coach. ‘Situational Team Leadership’ training programme. The m ain objective of this two-day, licencebased workshop was to increase the productivity of work team s through developm ent of the leadership skills of m anagem ent staff. 247 Internal training projects – Knowledge sharing in the LOTOS Academy: Coaching at LOTOS Terminale as a tool for developing com petences relevant to functions perform ed by the com pany’s senior m anagem ent. The m ain objective of the developm ent activities was to enhance the m anagem ent skills of specific em ployees with better knowledge Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future about them selves, their strengths and weaknesses, and their role within the organization, and to develop personalised solutions and new strategies for action in cooperation with the coach. ‘Situational Team Leadership’ training programme. The m ain objective of this two-day, licencebased workshop was to increase the productivity of work team s through developm ent of the leadership skills of m anagem ent staff. Internal training projects – Knowledge sharing in the LOTOS Academy: Induction training at which senior colleagues share inform ation regarding the organization itself, its Code of Ethics, CSR, processes and procedures, and the technologies for processing of crude oil and other refinery products, Basic training for production workers within the production knowledge certification process, wherein our internal coaches share their knowledge of the techniques and technologies necessary for working as an equipm ent operator, Internal knowledge-sharing workshops – group training focusing on various aspects of our operations, drawing on the knowledge and experience of em ployees aged 50 or m ore. Training schedule – development of employees’ individual competences through participation in training sessions, courses and workshops that cover issues arising from analysis of the results of periodic em ployee evaluations, developm ent targets for em ployees working at individual organizational units and our business developm ent needs. Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 In addition to the continuation of our current staff training and development programmes, our plans include: Im plem entation of the 2nd edition of the Master Program m e to train another group of back-up production staff. Our plan is to carry out a Developm ent Center survey to determ ine the potential of our staff in key com petences for the job of a supervisor and to im plem ent a soft training program m e based on 7 m odules; Preparation of a new developm ent program m e for em ployees whose length of service with the LOTOS Group ranges from 3 to 5 years. Its objective is to prevent a decline in com m itm ent and reduce staff turnover in this group of em ployees. The program m e will rely on various developm ent stim ulation tools, such as training and team -building projects, sim ulation gam es, job rotation, and e-learning; Im plem entation of a dedicated program m e for the LOTOS Group internal coaches, aim ed to build a group of em ployees with unique expertise, useful to other em ployees, who are ready to share their knowledge and have the necessary knowledge-sharing skills. Development prospects until 2020 We will continuously take actions to ensure the provision of qualified employees necessary for the effective implementation of our business strategy and for the enhancement of our organizational culture based on the adopted values. Our main activities planned for the coming years include: Optim ization of the em ploym ent level across the LOTOS Group in connection with the im plem entation of the 2013-2015 Efficiency and Growth Program m e, supporting the restructuring processes, and em ployee allocation under the continuation of the job rotation project. Building such an im age of the LOTOS Group as an em ployer which ensures access to the best job candidates and guarantees the attraction and retention of the best em ployees in the organization, with view to the changing job m arket situation. Active participation in the activities of the Coalition for Friendly Recruitm ent, observing the Code of Best Practice, prom oting recruitm ent standards of Grupa LOTOS in the external environm ent as well as adopting uniform recruitm ent standards and enhancing them within the LOTOS Group, im plem enting ‘The LOTOS Recruiter’s 248 Manual’ and ‘The Recruitm ent Guidebook for LOTOS Managers’, developing e-recruitm ent, using im plem entation of the 2013-2015 Efficiency and Growth Program m e, supporting the restructuring processes, and em ployee allocation under the continuation of the job rotation project. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Building such an im age of the LOTOS Group as an em ployer which ensures access to the best job candidates and guarantees the attraction and retention of the best em ployees in the organization, with view to the changing job m arket situation. Active participation in the activities of the Coalition for Friendly Recruitm ent, observing the Code of Best Practice, prom oting recruitm ent standards of Grupa LOTOS in the external environm ent as well as adopting uniform recruitm ent standards and enhancing them within the LOTOS Group, im plem enting ‘The LOTOS Recruiter’s Manual’ and ‘The Recruitm ent Guidebook for LOTOS Managers’, developing e-recruitm ent, using social networking sites for the purposes of com m unication with our environm ent. Im provem ent of the com m itm ent culture by regular em ployee opinion polling in order to identify their attitudes and conduct, m onitor their satisfaction and com m itm ent to develop a work environm ent conducive to m eeting business targets. Prom oting HR activities within the LOTOS Group, stream lining com m unication regarding the rules of prom otion, rem uneration, and m otivation of the em ployees and their developm ent prospects. Building the business awareness of the em ployees and the m anagem ent staff of the LOTOS Group, taking into account the im portance of the social, environm ental and corporate governance factors for the organization’s activity. Stream lining the Periodic Em ployee Evaluation System – the tool used by the m anagem ent and HR staff, based on the evaluation of the key m anagem ent and functional com petences as well as the progress in reaching the em ployees’ work and developm ent objectives. Developm ent of the LOTOS Academ y – undertaken training and developm ent activities will serve the im provem ent of the em ployees’ priority com petences, identification of talents within the areas of the organization needing enhancem ent and further developm ent, and the popularisation of the expert knowledge. The subjects of the closed training sessions undertaken under the Training schedule of the LOTOS Academ y for all em ployees of the LOTOS Group will be adapted to the developm ental needs of the particular segm ents of the organization. The e-learning form will be prom oted in response to the growing percentage of the organization’s em ployees aged 25-34, who prefer using m odern IT tools. Dissem ination of the knowledge-sharing culture in the organization will becom e an im portant elem ent of our training policy. Perfecting our em ployee m otivational system with regard to rem uneration and fringe benefits. Upholding the leading position in the Pom eranian job m arket, m onitoring the rem uneration m arket and participation in rem uneration surveys conducted by specialized com panies in the area of personnel consultancy, including the survey assessing the refinery’s efficiency conducted by Solom on Associates. Developing the SAP HCM system – stream lining the functionality of this HR supporting system across the LOTOS Group and of the HR portal – the self-service tool for em ployees and m anagers. The overriding objective of our activities planned for the coming years will be to enhance the strategic role of HR in the organization, to strengthen the cooperation with line managers, to stress the HR role in management and to point out possibilities of gaining a competitive advantage in the Human Resources Management area. Useful information Newly hired employees in 2013 Grupa LOTOS LOTOS LOTOS LOTOSLOTOS LOTOS Petrobaltic with its subsidiaries LOTOS Geonafta, LOTOS Asfalt Kolej Oil Air BP Paliwa LOTOS Norge, and Energobaltic 249 The overriding objective of our activities planned for the coming years will be to enhance the strategic role of HR in the organization, to strengthen the cooperation with line managers, to stress the HR role in management and to point out possibilities of gaining a competitive advantage in the Human Resources Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Management area. Useful information Newly hired employees in 2013 Grupa LOTOS LOTOS LOTOS LOTOSLOTOS LOTOS Petrobaltic with its subsidiaries LOTOS Geonafta, LOTOS Asfalt Kolej Oil Air BP Paliwa LOTOS Norge, and Energobaltic 73 11 41 11 20 28 109 Employees hired and dismissed in 2013 and staff turnover rate Grupa LOTOS LOTOS Asfalt LOTOS Kolej LOTOS Oil LOTOS-Air BP LOTOS Paliwa turnover rate turnover turnover turnover turnover turnover rate rate rate rate rate [%] number [%] number [%] number [%] number [%] number [%] number Gender Women 48 3.57 19 9.41 13 1.56 11 3.47 3 6.82 23 8.46 Men 101 7.51 56 27.72 50 6 35 11.04 18 40.91 25 9.19 Age Below 31 2.3 9 4.46 14 1.68 5 1.58 8 18.18 11 4.04 30 30 to 80 5.95 52 27.54 35 4.2 25 7.88 13 29.55 33 12.13 50 Over 50 38 2.83 14 6.93 14 1.68 16 5.05 0 0 4 1.47 Total 149 11.08 75 37.13 63 7.56 46 14.51 21 47.73 48 17.65 Employees hired and dismissed in 2013 and staff turnover rate at the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group LOTOS Petrobaltic LOTOS Geonafta LOTOS Norge Energobaltic number turnover rate [%] number v [%] number turnover rate [%] number turnover rate [%] Gender Women 1 0 0 1 Men 50 2 1 0 Age Below 30 11 1 0 1 30 to 50 8 1 1 0 Over 50 32 0 0 0 Total 51 1 1 Due to the specific nature of LOTOS Petrobaltic’s business activity (work performed in a continuous system on drilling rigs), external back-up staff must be hired every year as temporary replacement of rig operators. It often happens that one person is hired more than once under the same or different terms of employment. As a result, the company reports high staff turnover rates. Workforce, by gender and age [as at December 31st 2013] Percentage 250 Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Due to the specific nature of LOTOS Petrobaltic’s business activity (work performed in a continuous system on Due to the specific nature of LOTOS Petrobaltic’s business activity (work performed in a continuous system on drilling rigs), external back-up staff must be hired every year as temporary replacement of rig operators. It external back-up drilling rigs), Integrated staff2013 Annual Report must Grupa LOTOSevery be hired S.A. year as temporary replacement of rig operators. It Win the Future often happens that one person is hired more than once under the same or different terms of employment. As often happens that one person is hired more than once under the same or different terms of employment. As a result, the company reports high staff turnover rates. a result, the company reports high staff turnover rates. Workforce, by gender and age Workforce, by gender and age [as at December 31st 2013] [as at December 31st 2013] Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage of total Percentage of total Percentage of total Number Percentage of total workforce Percentage women of total in Percentage of men total in Number Number Employee Employment of Percentage of total workforce in the age Number Percentage of total women in the age Number Percentage of total men the agein Employee Employment of workforce of total the age /women/ incategory Number of total the age /women/ of men total the age age category employees women category /women/ category age category employees workforce category /women/ women category men category Grupa LOTOS Grupa LOTOS Back-office 57 4.24 38.26 37 8.89 100 20 2.16 17.86 Below 30 Back-office Below 30 staff 57 4.24 38.26 37 8.89 100 20 2.16 17.86 staff Production 92 6.84 61.74 0 0 0 92 9.9 82.14 Below 30 Production Below 30 staff 92 6.84 61.74 0 0 0 92 9.9 82.14 staff Below 30 TOTAL 149 11.08 100 37 8.89 100 112 12.06 100 Below 30 TOTAL 149 11.08 100 37 8.89 100 112 12.06 100 30 to 50 Board 2 0.15 0.25 0 0 0 2 0.22 0.36 30 to 50 Board 2 0.15 0.25 0 0 0 2 0.22 0.36 Senior 27 2.01 3.31 4 0.96 1.51 23 2.48 4.18 30 to 50 Senior 30 to 50 management 27 2.01 3.31 4 0.96 1.51 23 2.48 4.18 management Lower 74 5.50 9.08 31 7.45 11.7 43 4.63 7.82 30 to 50 Lower 30 to 50 management 74 5.50 9.08 31 7.45 11.7 43 4.63 7.82 management 30 to 50 Back-office 399 29.66 48.96 230 55.30 86.79 169 18.19 30.73 30 to 50 Back-office staff 399 29.66 48.96 230 55.30 86.79 169 18.19 30.73 staff 30 to 50 Production 313 23.37 38.40 0 0 0 313 33.68 56.91 30 to 50 Production staff 313 23.37 38.40 0 0 0 313 33.68 56.91 staff 30 to 50 TOTAL 815 60.59 100 265 63.71 100 550 59.20 100 30 to 50 TOTAL 815 60.59 100 265 63.71 100 550 59.20 100 Over 50 Board 3 0.22 0.79 0 0 0 3 0.32 1.12 Over 50 Board 3 0.22 0.79 0 0 0 3 0.32 1.12 Over 50 Senior 15 1.12 3.94 3 0.72 2.63 12 1.29 4.49 Over 50 Senior management 15 1.12 3.94 3 0.72 2.63 12 1.29 4.49 management Over 50 Lower 47 3.49 12.34 11 2.64 9.65 36 3.88 13.48 Over 50 Lower management 47 3.49 12.34 11 2.64 9.65 36 3.88 13.48 management Over 50 Back-office 174 12.94 45.67 99 23.80 86.84 75 8.07 28.09 Over 50 Back-office staff 174 12.94 45.67 99 23.80 86.84 75 8.07 28.09 staff Over 50 Production 142 10.56 37.27 1 0.24 0.88 141 15.18 52.81 Over 50 Production staff 142 10.56 37.27 1 0.24 0.88 141 15.18 52.81 staff Over 50 TOTAL 381 28.33 100 114 27.40 100 267 28.74 100 Over 50 TOTAL 381 28.33 100 114 27.40 100 267 28.74 100 TOTAL 1,345 100 416 100 929 100 TOTAL 1,345 100 416 100 929 100 Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage of total Percentage of total Percentage of total Number Percentage of total Number Percentage workforce of total women in Percentage of men total in Employee Employment Number of Percentage of total workforce in the age Number of Percentage of total women the agein Number Percentage of total men the age in Employee age Employment category employees of workforce of total incategory the age women of of total women the age Number category of men of men total the age category age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Asfalt LOTOS Asfalt Back-office 6 2.97 42.86 3 7.32 100 3 1.86 27.27 Below 30 Back-office Below 30 staff 6 2.97 42.86 3 7.32 100 3 1.86 27.27 staff Below 30 Production 8 3.96 57.14 0 0 0 8 4.97 72.73 Production staff 8 3.96 57.14 0 0 0 8 4.97 72.73 Below 30 staff Below 30 TOTAL 14 100 100 3 7.32 100 11 6.83 100 Below 30 TOTAL 14 100 100 3 7.32 100 11 6.83 100 Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 to 50 Management 30 to 50 Board 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Board 30 to 50 Senior 11 5.45 6.75 1 2.44 2.86 10 6.21 7.81 Senior management 11 5.45 6.75 1 2.44 2.86 10 6.21 7.81 30 to 50 management Lower 12 5.94 7.36 2 4.88 5.71 10 6.21 7.81 30 to 50 Lower 30 to 50 management 12 5.94 7.36 2 4.88 5.71 10 6.21 7.81 management 30 to 50 Back-office 62 30.69 38.04 31251 75.60 88.57 31 19.25 24.22 30 to 50 Back-office staff 62 30.69 38.04 31 75.60 88.57 31 19.25 24.22 Over 50 TOTAL 381 28.33 100 114 27.40 100 267 28.74 100 TOTAL 1,345 100 416 100 929 100 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Asfalt Back-office 6 2.97 42.86 3 7.32 100 3 1.86 27.27 Below 30 staff Production 8 3.96 57.14 0 0 0 8 4.97 72.73 Below 30 staff Below 30 TOTAL 14 100 100 3 7.32 100 11 6.83 100 Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 to 50 Board Senior 11 5.45 6.75 1 2.44 2.86 10 6.21 7.81 30 to 50 management Lower 12 5.94 7.36 2 4.88 5.71 10 6.21 7.81 30 to 50 management Back-office 62 30.69 38.04 31 75.60 88.57 31 19.25 24.22 30 to 50 staff 30 to 50 Production 78 38.61 47.85 1 2.44 2.86 77 47.84 60.16 staff 30 to 50 TOTAL 163 80.69 100 35 85.36 100 128 79.51 100 Over 50 Management 1 0.50 4.00 0 0 0 1 0.62 4.55 Board Over 50 Senior 2 0.99 8.00 0 0 0 2 1.24 9.09 management Over 50 Lower 2 0.99 8.00 0 0 0 2 1.24 9.09 management Over 50 Back-office 5 2.48 20.00 3 7.32 100 2 1.24 9.09 staff Over 50 Production 15 7.42 60.00 0 0 0 15 9.32 68.18 staff Over 50 TOTAL 25 12.38 100 3 7.32 100 22 13.66 100 TOTAL 202 100 41 100 161 100 Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Kolej Lower 1 0.12 1.05 0 0 0 1 0.13 1.39 Below 30 management Back-office 14 1.68 14.74 9 11.11 39.13 5 0.66 6.94 Below 30 staff Below 30 Production 80 9.60 84.21 14 17.29 60.87 66 8.78 91.76 staff Below 30 TOTAL 95 11.40 100 23 28.40 100 72 9.57 100 30 to 50 Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Board Senior 2 0.24 0.41 1 1.23 2.13 1 0.13 0.22 30 to 50 management Lower 17 2.04 3.45 5 6.17 10.64 12 1.60 2.69 30 to 50 management 252 Back-office 45 5.40 9.13 19 23.46 40.43 26 3.46 5.83 Over 50 TOTAL 25 12.38 100 3 7.32 100 22 13.66 100 TOTAL 202 100 41 100 161 100 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Kolej Lower 1 0.12 1.05 0 0 0 1 0.13 1.39 Below 30 management Back-office 14 1.68 14.74 9 11.11 39.13 5 0.66 6.94 Below 30 staff Production 80 9.60 84.21 14 17.29 60.87 66 8.78 91.76 Below 30 staff Below 30 TOTAL 95 11.40 100 23 28.40 100 72 9.57 100 Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 to 50 Board Senior 2 0.24 0.41 1 1.23 2.13 1 0.13 0.22 30 to 50 management Lower 17 2.04 3.45 5 6.17 10.64 12 1.60 2.69 30 to 50 management 30 to 50 Back-office 45 5.40 9.13 19 23.46 40.43 26 3.46 5.83 staff 30 to 50 Production 429 51.51 87.02 22 27.16 46.81 407 54.12 91.26 staff 30 to 50 TOTAL 493 59.19 100 47 58.02 100 446 59.31 100 Over 50 Management 1 0.12 0.41 0 0 0 1 0.13 0.43 Board Over 50 Senior 4 0.48 1.63 1 1.23 9.09 3 0.40 1.28 management Over 50 Lower 9 1.08 3.67 1 1.23 9.09 8 1.06 3.42 management Over 50 Back-office 26 3.12 10.61 5 6.18 45.45 21 2.79 8.97 staff Production 205 24.61 83.67 4 4.94 36.36 201 26.74 85.90 Over 50 staff Over 50 TOTAL 245 29.41 100 11 13.58 100 234 31.12 100 TOTAL 813 100 81 100 752 100 Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Oil Back-office 20 6.30 62.50 12 13.04 100 8 3.56 40.00 Below 30 staff Below 30 Production 12 3.79 37.50 0 0 0 12 5.33 60.00 staff 253 Over 50 TOTAL 245 29.41 100 11 13.58 100 234 31.12 100 TOTAL 813 100 81 100 752 100 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Oil Back-office 20 6.30 62.50 12 13.04 100 8 3.56 40.00 Below 30 staff Production 12 3.79 37.50 0 0 0 12 5.33 60.00 Below 30 staff Below 30 TOTAL 32 10.09 100 12 13.04 100 20 8.89 100 Management 1 0.32 0.47 0 0 0 1 0.44 0.69 30 to 50 Board Senior 5 1.58 2.36 0 0 0 5 2.22 3.45 30 to 50 management Lower 20 6.31 9.43 5 5.43 7.46 15 6.67 10.34 30 to 50 management Back-office 106 33.44 50.00 46 50 68.66 60 26.67 41.38 30 to 50 staff 30 to 50 Production 80 25.23 37.74 16 17.4 23.88 64 28.44 44.14 staff 30 to 50 TOTAL 212 66.88 100 67 72.83 100 145 64.44 100 Over 50 Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Board Over 50 Senior 2 0.63 2.74 0 0 0 2 0.89 3.33 management Over 50 Lower 6 1.89 8.22 1 1.08 7.69 5 2.22 8.33 management Over 50 Back-office 16 5.05 21.92 8 8.70 61.54 8 3.56 13.33 staff Over 50 Production 49 15.46 67.12 4 4.35 30.77 45 20 75.00 staff Over 50 TOTAL 73 23.03 100 13 14.13 100 60 26.67 100 TOTAL 317 100 92 100 225 100 Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Air BP Back-office 1 2.27 9.09 1 25.00 100 0 0 0 Below 30 staff Below 30 Production 10 22.73 90.91 0 0 0 10 25.00 100 staff Below 30 TOTAL 11 25.00 100 1 25.00 100 10 25.00 100 Management 1 2.27 3.23 0 0 0 1 2.5 3.57 30 to 50 Board 30 to 50 Senior 3 6,82 9.68 1 25.00 33.33 2 5.00 7.14 management Lower 3 6.82 9.68 1 25.00 33.33 2 5.00 7.14 30 to 50 management 30 to 50 Back-office 2 4.55 6.45 1 25.00 33.33 1 2.50 3.57 staff 254 Production 22 50.00 70.97 0 0 0 22 55.00 78.57 30 to 50 Over 50 TOTAL 73 23.03 100 13 14.13 100 60 26.67 100 TOTAL 317 100 92 100 225 100 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Percentage Percentage Percentage of total of total of total Number Percentage workforce Number Percentage women in Percentage men in Employee Employment of of total in the age of of total the age Number of total the age age category employees workforce category women women category of men men category LOTOS Air BP Back-office 1 2.27 9.09 1 25.00 100 0 0 0 Below 30 staff Production 10 22.73 90.91 0 0 0 10 25.00 100 Below 30 staff Below 30 TOTAL 11 25.00 100 1 25.00 100 10 25.00 100 Management 1 2.27 3.23 0 0 0 1 2.5 3.57 30 to 50 Board Senior 3 6,82 9.68 1 25.00 33.33 2 5.00 7.14 30 to 50 management Lower 3 6.82 9.68 1 25.00 33.33 2 5.00 7.14 30 to 50 management Back-office 2 4.55 6.45 1 25.00 33.33 1 2.50 3.57 30 to 50 staff 30 to 50 Production 22 50.00 70.97 0 0 0 22 55.00 78.57 staff 30 to 50 TOTAL 31 70.46 100 3 75.00 100 28 70.00 100 Over 50 Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Board Over 50 Senior 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 management Over 50 Lower 1 2.27 50.00 0 0 1 2.50 50.00 management Over 50 Back-office 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 staff Over 50 Production 1 2.27 50.00 0 0 1 2.50 50.00 staff Over 50 TOTAL 2 4.54 100 0 0 100 2 5.00 100 TOTAL 44 100 0 100 40 100 The LOTOS Group employs its senior management according to the profile and requirements of the position. Only candidates best meeting the employment criteria are recruited. Senior management positions include those of director, chief accountant, plant manager and office manager. Senior management positions are often filled by persons selected in an internal recruitment process. In the case of Grupa LOTOS, 95.2% of senior management staff employed in the Company’s main business location were recruited from the local employment market, understood as the Province of Gdańsk. Pomerania is also the local recruitment market for LOTOS Kolej, for which 100% of its senior staff are from the area. The companies’ key locations are locations where the number of employees represents a significant percentage of the total headcount. For LOTOS Asfalt and LOTOS Oil, it is the counties where their business is located and neighbouring towns up to 100km away from their business locations which are considered to be their local employment markets. In 2013, both companies run their business in three locations: Southern Poland (Jasło, Czechowice) and Northern Poland (Gdańsk). At LOTOS Asfalt, 100% of staff are recruited from the local communities of the Jasło and Czechowice regions and 82% from Gdańsk. At LOTOS Oil, the indicator is 100% in all locations. Given the nature of LOTOS Paliwa’s operations, its management staff are recruited on an as-needed basis across Poland. At LOTOS Petrobaltic, 40% of the company’s senior management is sourced from Gdańsk, where the company is located. LOTOS Geonafta recruits its staff from Gargždai, where it is based, whereas LOTOS Norge, which did not start its operations in 2013, did not report any information. Energobaltic, which 255 is based in Władysławowo, did not analyze where its staff is sourced from last year. For LOTOS Asfalt and LOTOS Oil, it is the counties where their business is located and neighbouring towns up to 100km away from their business locations which are considered to be their local employment markets. In 2013, both companies run their business in three locations: Southern Poland (Jasło, Czechowice) and Integrated Northern Poland AnnualAt (Gdańsk). Report LOTOS2013 LOTOSof Grupa100% Asfalt, S.A. staff are recruited from the local communities the Winof Future the Jasło and Czechowice regions and 82% from Gdańsk. At LOTOS Oil, the indicator is 100% in all locations. Given the nature of LOTOS Paliwa’s operations, its management staff are recruited on an as-needed basis across Poland. At LOTOS Petrobaltic, 40% of the company’s senior management is sourced from Gdańsk, where the company is located. LOTOS Geonafta recruits its staff from Gargždai, where it is based, whereas LOTOS Norge, which did not start its operations in 2013, did not report any information. Energobaltic, which is based in Władysławowo, did not analyze where its staff is sourced from last year. Ratio of minimum base pay at Grupa LOTOS to minimum national base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum base Minimum base Grupa LOTOS pay at pay at /all Grupa LOTOS Grupa LOTOS Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 2,715 PLN 2,715 PLN 3,000 PLN 1,600 170% 170% 188% 2013 Dec 31 PLN 2,500 PLN 2,500 PLN 3,000 PLN 1,500 167% 167% 200% 2012 Dec 31 PLN 2,400 PLN 2,400 PLN 3,000 PLN 1,386 173% 173% 216% 2011 Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Kolej to minimum national base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum base Minimum base LOTOS Kolej pay at pay at /all LOTOS Kolej LOTOS Kolej Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 2,700 PLN 2,700 PLN 2,700 PLN 1,600 169% 169% 169% 2013 Dec 31 PLN 2,657 PLN 2,700 PLN 2,657 PLN 1,500 177% 180% 177% 2012 Dec 31 PLN 2,530 PLN 2,700 PLN 2,530 PLN 1,386 183% 195% 183% 2011 256 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Asfalt to minimum national base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum Minimum LOTOS Asfalt base pay at base pay at /all LOTOS Asfalt LOTOS Asfalt Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 2013 PLN 3,160 PLN 3,400 PLN 3,160 PLN 1,600 198% 213% 198% Gdańsk Dec 31 2013 CzechowicePLN 2,960 PLN 3,923 PLN 2,960 PLN 1,600 185% 245% 185% Dziedzice Dec 31 2013 PLN 2,400 PLN 4,060 PLN 2,400 PLN 1,600 150% 245% 150% Jasło Dec 31 2012 PLN 2,800 PLN 2,800 PLN 3,000 PLN 1,500 187% 187% 200% Gdańsk Dec 31 2012 CzechowicePLN 2,500 PLN 3,763 PLN 2,500 PLN 1,500 167% 251% 167% Dziedzice Dec 31 2012 PLN 1,976 PLN 1,976 PLN 2,000 PLN 1,500 132% 132% 133% Jasło Dec 31 2011 PLN 3,190 PLN 3,500 PLN 3,190 PLN 1,386 230% 253% 230% Gdańsk Dec 31 2011 CzechowicePLN 2,750 PLN 3,583 PLN 2,750 PLN 1,386 198% 259% 198% Dziedzice Dec 31 2011 PLN 1,500 * PLN 1,568 PLN 1,500 PLN 1,386 108% 113% 108% Jasło Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Oil to minimum national base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum Minimum LOTOS Oil base pay at base pay at /all LOTOS Oil LOTOS Oil Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 2013 PLN 2,700 PLN 2,700 PLN 3,030 PLN 1,600 169% 169% 189% Gdańsk Dec 31 2013 CzechowicePLN 2,652 PLN 2,906 PLN 2,652 PLN 1,600 166% 182% 166% Dziedzice Dec 31 2013 Jasło Dec 31 2012 PLN 2,760 PLN 3,402 PLN 2,760 PLN 1,500 184% 227% 184% Gdańsk Dec 31 2012 CzechowicePLN 2,491 PLN 2,745 PLN 2,491 PLN 1,500 166% 183% 166% Dziedzice Dec 31 2012 PLN,2 413 PLN 3,247 PLN 2,413 PLN 1,500 161% 216% 161% Jasło Dec 31 2011 PLN 2,732 PLN 3,240 PLN 2,372 257 PLN 1,386 197% 234% 197% Gdańsk PLN 3,190 PLN 3,500 PLN 3,190 PLN 1,386 230% 253% 230% Gdańsk Dec 31 2011 CzechowicePLN 2,750 PLN 3,583 PLN 2,750 PLN 1,386 198% 259% 198% Dziedzice Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Dec 31 2011 PLN 1,500 * PLN 1,568 PLN 1,500 PLN 1,386 108% 113% 108% Jasło Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Oil to minimum national base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum Minimum LOTOS Oil base pay at base pay at /all LOTOS Oil LOTOS Oil Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 2013 PLN 2,700 PLN 2,700 PLN 3,030 PLN 1,600 169% 169% 189% Gdańsk Dec 31 2013 CzechowicePLN 2,652 PLN 2,906 PLN 2,652 PLN 1,600 166% 182% 166% Dziedzice Dec 31 2013 Jasło Dec 31 2012 PLN 2,760 PLN 3,402 PLN 2,760 PLN 1,500 184% 227% 184% Gdańsk Dec 31 2012 CzechowicePLN 2,491 PLN 2,745 PLN 2,491 PLN 1,500 166% 183% 166% Dziedzice Dec 31 2012 PLN,2 413 PLN 3,247 PLN 2,413 PLN 1,500 161% 216% 161% Jasło Dec 31 2011 PLN 2,732 PLN 3,240 PLN 2,372 PLN 1,386 197% 234% 197% Gdańsk Dec 31 2011 CzechowicePLN 2,372 PLN 2,614 PLN 2,372 PLN 1,386 171% 189% 171% Dziedzice Dec 31 2011 PLN 2,298 PLN 3,092 PLN 2,298 PLN 1,386 166% 223% 166% Jasło Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Paliwa to national minimum base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum Minimum LOTOS Paliwa base pay at base pay at /all LOTOS Paliwa LOTOS Paliwa Minimum Relacja /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,760 PLN 1,600 172,50% 172,50% 172,50% 2013 Dec 31 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,898 PLN 1,500 184% 184% 189% 2012 Dec 31 PLN 2,665 PLN 2,665 PLN 2,760 PLN 1,386 192% 192% 199% 2011 Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Petrobaltic to national minimum base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base Minimum base LOTOS pay at pay at Petrobaltic LOTOS LOTOS /all Petrobaltic Petrobaltic Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 3,064 PLN 3,064 PLN 4,000258 PLN 1,600 1,92 1,92 2,5 2013 Dec 31 2011 CzechowicePLN 2,372 PLN 2,614 PLN 2,372 PLN 1,386 171% 189% 171% Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Dziedzice Dec 31 2011 PLN 2,298 PLN 3,092 PLN 2,298 PLN 1,386 166% 223% 166% Jasło Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Paliwa to national minimum base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum Minimum LOTOS Paliwa base pay at base pay at /all LOTOS Paliwa LOTOS Paliwa Minimum Relacja /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,760 PLN 1,600 172,50% 172,50% 172,50% 2013 Dec 31 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,760 PLN 2,898 PLN 1,500 184% 184% 189% 2012 Dec 31 PLN 2,665 PLN 2,665 PLN 2,760 PLN 1,386 192% 192% 199% 2011 Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Petrobaltic to national minimum base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base Minimum base LOTOS pay at pay at Petrobaltic LOTOS LOTOS /all Petrobaltic Petrobaltic Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 3,064 PLN 3,064 PLN 4,000 PLN 1,600 1,92 1,92 2,5 2013 Dec 31 PLN 3,000 PLN 3,000 PLN 3,500 PLN 1,500 200% 200% 233% 2012 Dec 31 PLN 2,500 PLN 2,500 PLN 2,500 PLN 1,386 180% 180% 180% 2011 Ratio of minimum base pay at LOTOS Geonafta to national minimum base pay in Lithuania /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum base Minimum base LOTOS pay at pay at Geonafta LOTOS LOTOS /all Geonafta Geonafta Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 1,000 LTL 1,950 LTL 1,000 LTL 1,000 LTL 100% 195% 100% 2013 Dec 31 910 LTL 910 LTL 2,486 LTL 850 LTL 107% 107% 292% 2012 Dec 31 910 LTL 910 LTL 2,810 LTL 800 LTL 114% 114% 351% 2011 Ratio of minimum base pay at Energobaltic to national minimum base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum base Minimum base 259 Dec 31 1,000 LTL 1,950 LTL 1,000 LTL 1,000 LTL 100% 195% 100% 2013 Dec 31 Integrated 2013 Annual Report 910 910 LTL LTLGrupa LOTOS 2,486S.A. LTL 850 LTL 107% 107% Win the Future 292% 2012 Dec 31 910 LTL 910 LTL 2,810 LTL 800 LTL 114% 114% 351% 2011 Ratio of minimum base pay at Energobaltic to national minimum base pay /1/ /2/ /3/ /4/ /5/ /6/ /7/ /8/ Minimum base pay at Minimum base Minimum base Energobaltic pay at pay at /all Energobaltic Energobaltic Minimum Ratio /2/ Ratio /3/ Ratio /4/ employees/ /women/ /men/ national pay to /5/ to /5/ to /5/ Dec 31 PLN 3,585 PLN 3,880 PLN 3,585 PLN 1,600 243% 224% 242% 2013 Dec 31 PLN 3,465 PLN 3,780 PLN 3,465 PLN 1,500 231% 252% 231% 2012 Dec 31 PLN 3,300 PLN 3,600 PLN 3,300 PLN 1,386 238% 259% 238% 2011 The indicator does not apply to LOTOS Norge. According to Norwegian law, there is no minimum pay. Additionally, the company employs only highly qualified personnel in independent positions. 260 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Jarosław Jóźwiak Occupational Safety and Health Office Head, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Improvement of Health and Safety area. Occupational safety has long been a cornerstone of all business activities pursued by the LOTOS Group. Our employees perform particularly hazardous work, in workshops, at active production units, on offshore rigs, in chemical laboratories, or on railway tracks. Therefore, we treat occupational safety as our priority and make every effort to ensure safety at work, especially by implementing solutions which go beyond the legal Occupational safety has long requirements and draw on the world’s best practices. Their been a cornerstone of all business activities pursued by effectiveness was recognised with an award we received in the LOTOS Group. Our 2011 from Poland’s Chief Labour Inspector in the nationwide em ployees perform “Employer – Provider of Safe Work” competition. particularly hazardous work, in workshops, at active Awareness of workplace hazards is the basis of their prevention, and therefore production units, on offshore better awareness can improve workplace safety at the LOTOS Group. This must be rigs, in chem ical laboratories, always borne in mind not only by employees directly involved in the OSH area, but or on railway tracks. also other staff performing their routine work on site. Therefore, we treat occupational safety as our priority and m ake every effort We must remember that an organization with a highly developed safety culture to ensure safety at work, is characterised by trust-based communication. Accordingly, in addition to an especially by im plem enting appropriate work environment and solutions protecting staff from workplace solutions which go beyond hazards or accidents, safety at work involves primarily the development of a the legal requirem ents and safety culture and responsible approach to occupational safety and health by all draw on the world’s best employees. In a company with a well-developed safety culture, workplace safety practices. Their effectiveness should be given the highest priority, staff should have confidence in the safety was recognised with an measures protecting them against various workplace hazards, and each award we received in 2011 employee should feel personally responsible for safety at work on a daily basis. from Poland’s Chief Labour Inspector in the nationwide “Em ployer – Provider of Safe Being aware that occupational safety and health is an area for continuous Work” com petition. improvement, the LOTOS Group’s OSH team are consistently striving to ingrain the OSH rules and guidelines in the minds of our employees, contractors, and visitors. Jarosław Jóźwiak There are two ways to enhance knowledge and awareness. The first method is Occupational Safety and Health Office Head, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the based on employee education and commitment, while the second focuses on Improvement of Health and Safety area senior, middle and lower management, who are responsible for ensuring safe work conditions to all employees and for encouraging their commitment to developing a safe work culture. At LOTOS, we make use of both these methods. Examples of measures targeted at LOTOS Group employees include the Occupational Safety and Health Day and educational programmes promoting safe work practices and the importance of reporting workplace hazards to supervisors. For our management staff, we implement a number of incentive and involvement projects, including training sessions and meetings focusing on occupational safety and health as an 261 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future important area of management. By working closely with contractors and undertaking a number of initiatives in the area of safety, the LOTOS Group improves, both directly and indirectly, the standards of safe work also for its contractors and their subcontractors. In 2013, the ‘Spring 2013 Overhaul Shutdown' was carried out at the Grupa LOTOS refinery. It was a very challenging time for us, as the preparation and execution of a major overhaul is a complex project from the logistics, technical and operational perspectives. More than 2 thousand contractors were carrying out complex checks, repairs, maintenance or construction work at the same time, in the same small place. Safety at work was one of the priorities of the project. Based on the lessons learned from previous overhauls and installation of new plant and equipment, but also from daily observation of contractors performing their maintenance work at active production units, we prepared OSH Guidelines for the ‘Spring 2013 Overhaul Shutdown'. The Guidelines contained provisions on how to perform various works during the challenging shutdown period. They often referred to existing procedures and instructions, but on a more detailed level, and also introduced new requirements applicable only during the shutdown. One example of such temporary measures were weekly meetings with the work managers and representatives of OSH services of individual contractors, at which we discussed dangerous incidents and situations reported in the preceding week, to ensure they are prevented in the future. Prior to the overhaul shutdown, we also held many meetings with contractors, organised training sessions, and assessed proposed work instructions, especially those relating to work in confined spaces where, the risk of workplace hazards is high. All the above (and many other) measures were implemented in the best interest of each employee. Our OSH services performed on-site checks and offered advice on how to perform works in a safe manner. Additional support was provided by OSH services of our contractors participating in the maintenance works. We want to make sure our employees and contractors remain interested in occupational safety and health, and we must keep abreast of the changing legal regulations. We are full of new ideas for interesting OSH projects. Obviously, they can be put into practice only within our own corporate social responsibility policy, in cooperation with and with the involvement of all employees. We will continue to do our best to make sure that all employees, contractors and visitors at the LOTOS Group feel safe on our premises. We want them to take care of their health, participate in our OSH initiatives, educational projects and training, make use of available consultancy and advice, and report any issues in the area of work safety so we can resolve them on an ongoing basis. 262 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Occupational safety  data has been verified See full text of the Independent Assurance Report  In order to provide optimum occupational safety and health conditions, we spare no effort to maintain our current safety levels and to continuously raise the bar on our OSH standards, and we do our best to systematically improve our performance in this area. These objectives are advanced by ensuring that: Workplaces are properly organised, Environm ental surveys are perform ed on a regular basis, The best possible precautions are applied with respect to technical processes and people’s health, The m an-m achine-environm ent hazard identification and risk assessm ent system is enhanced on an ongoing basis, Consulting, oversight and inspection tasks are consistently im plem ented, Hands-on training sessions and workshops are held to im prove our em ployees’ professional skills, Em ployee awareness and com m itm ent are raised to achieve a culture of safe work. We have for years followed the principle that building the awareness and commitment of both management and staff, promoting their culture and sense of occupational safety, and promoting appropriate attitudes and behaviour under normal working conditions and in crisis situations is the key factor in maximising the effects of the occupational safety system in place at the LOTOS Group. We try to raise the workplace safety awareness by: Training and other developm ent initiatives for em ployees, Education on OSH-related m atters, Encouraging staff’s involvem ent in developing and im plem enting the corporate OSH policy, Advisory, practical support and partnership. As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, we undertake initiatives aimed at promoting cooperation with third-party stakeholders. Such initiatives include: Cooperation with a view to im proving occupational safety in the oil and gas industry, in accordance with the declaration signed at the General Labour Inspectorate in 2011 by Grupa LOTOS and other sector com panies, Joint, regular exercises involving response to crisis situations (industrial failures) and evacuation, perform ed together with external units of the National Fire Service and Police, Sharing OSH experience with representatives of other com panies, Cooperation with research institutions, e.g. through a project of learning from actual events occurring at the refineries of Statoil and Grupa LOTOS, Participation in external conferences in the role of speakers prom oting a culture of occupational safety culture and sharing their experience, Participation in com petitions organised by such institutions as the State Labour Inspection Authority, the Central Institute for Labour Protection, and the Polish National OSH Association. We are committed to ensuring the safety of our visitors and contractors. Considering that we are involved in multifaceted projects, and given the pace of related construction and assembly work and the number of external contractors’ staff performing services on our premises, there is a permanent need to raise the 263 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future workers’ awareness regarding such issues as correct behaviour, workplace safety and compliance with our internal Occupational Health and Safety and Fire Protection requirements. The OSH services of the LOTOS Group and representatives of external contractors exercise supervision over the ongoing repair, maintenance and construction works. Our representatives are present at work sites to offer advice, especially to supervisors appointed by the Company or by the contractors. Our agreements with contractors contain clauses under which they are required to respect the applicable occupational safety rules and regulations, as well as other requirements and standards applicable on our premises. In this way, the contractors’ undertaking to protect the rights of their staff becomes a prerequisite condition for the performance of contracts. During regular OSH inspections and audits performed at the refinery, we check whether the OSH regulations are being adhered to by contractors, and thus whether human rights are being observed in the relations between employees, employers and the LOTOS Group. Those activities are an essential part of risk management. Each on-site check of whether external contractors are observing employee rights has a bearing on our further relations and is also reflected in the annual assessment of contractors, where safety at work, protection of health, and respect for human rights are among the key criteria. Thanks to strictly enforced compliance with the national OSH regulations and our internal standards applicable to work performed at the facilities of the LOTOS Group: Em ployees have a better chance that legal requirem ents pertaining to their safety will be m et by contractors, who at our facilities are obliged to m eet work safety standards beyond the m andatory, Contractors have to provide their em ployees with the necessary collective and personal protection equipm ent, including protective workwear appropriate to the hazards identified at the refinery, Contractors m ust properly cooperate with their subcontractors, for whom they are as responsible at the LOTOS Group’s sites as for their own em ployees, Our OSH training, the sharing of work safety standards with contractors and assessm ents perform ed during inspections of their com pliance with our OSH rules result in increased awareness of and im proved ability to correctly identify threats and em ploy safe work m ethods. As a result of the opportunities our contractors are offered, after their work for us is completed, they will have aware and committed employees, who are more alert to potential hazards at work, and take more care to ensure workplace safety. Such cooperation involving the transfer of requirements, knowledge and best practices results in lower accident rates, incidence of occupational diseases, and sickness absence among the contractors’ employees, which brings them measurable financial benefits in the form of lower social security contributions or a reduction in the cost of post-accident compensation. As a socially responsible business, the LOTOS Group benefits from investments in OSH, which: 264 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Im prove working conditions, Minim ise the num ber of accidents at work, Reduce accident rates, including LTIF, Reduce costs related to accidents at work and occupational diseases, Elim inate burdensom e, harm ful and dangerous factors in the workplace, Elim inate threats and any irregularities which m ay arise, Raise personnel’s awareness and com m itm ent, Im prove personnel’s skills and qualifications, Increase em ployee satisfaction, Reduce operating costs and work disruption costs, Increase investors’ and insurers’ confidence, Increase em ployees’ confidence in the em ployer, Strengthen the brand’s im age and value, Im prove the Com pany’s reputation, Reduce potential exposure to crim inal or civil litigation, and Allow the Com pany to m atch the benchm arks set by HSE leaders in the refinery sector. In accordance with our business and CSR strategy, safety at work and employee health protection are priorities for the LOTOS Group, with respect to both our employees and the employees of our cooperating partners. Particular attention is given to efforts aimed at maintaining high safety standards, minimising risks and reducing accident rates. A major challenge for us is to raise the awareness of how important it is to demonstrate personal commitment to compliance with OSH standards, in particular in the case of the middle management’s interactions with subordinate employees, who watch their behaviour. Increasing the awareness and commitment of the management staff and other employees is a priority, being one of the key determinants of a company’s accident rate. As we work closely together with the OSH teams of the LOTOS Group companies, every year goals and targets are set aimed at improving safety at work, adopting uniform standards across the LOTOS Group, and sharing expertise and experience between the OSH specialists. The key objective in our OSH approach is to raise the awareness and degree of involvement in improving safety among the management and employees of all ranks, as well as contractors. In 2013, we pursued this objective through: Introduction of a system of quarterly OSH goals for the LOTOS Group com panies, Cross-checking of workplace safety standards at the LOTOS Group com panies operating in Poland, Inform ation and education cam paigns prom oting workplace safety and health prophylaxis, Preparing grounds for the Board’s decision to include an OSH criterion in the Periodic Em ployee Evaluation System , Developing an electronic database from the m onitoring of accidents at work and dangerous situations at the LOTOS Group, Drafting educational m aterials concerning accidents and safety threats at work, Internal training sessions for the LOTOS Group m anagem ent, designed to rem ind them of their OSH responsibilities and duties conducted by a specialised training centre, OSH workshops for em ployees, covering the rules for handling AED defibrillators, extinguishing fires using fire-fighting equipm ent and giving first aid as well as reacting appropriately in em ergency situations. We are involved in a number of initiatives, beyond those mandatorily required, designed to promote 265 OSH responsibilities and duties conducted by a specialised training centre, OSH workshops for em ployees, covering the rules for handling AED defibrillators, extinguishing fires using fire-fighting equipm ent and giving first aid as well as reacting appropriately in Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future em ergency situations. We are involved in a number of initiatives, beyond those mandatorily required, designed to promote occupational health and safety and disease prevention in a manner which our employees find engaging and attractive. In 2013, we: Organised the 4th Occupational Safety and Health Day accom panied by an eyesight awareness event, during which the em ployees had an opportunity to be tested for ocular diseases, have their sight defects checked using state-of-the-art ophthalm ologic equipm ent, and consult a specialist doctor. Based on the results of the tests, a report on em ployee health was prepared covering ocular diseases and eyesight loss prevention. Selected the safest production plant of Grupa LOTOS and the safest LOTOS Group company − in 2012, the titles were awarded to the Lube Oil Complex and LOTOS Petrobaltic, respectively. Carried out a cam paign prom oting occupational health and safety as part of the Occupational Safety and Health Promotion Schedule, with each m onth devoted to a different health-related issue. To further this cam paign, we also published brochures on spinal disorders, diabetes, sight and hearing defects and viral hepatitis. Organised safe driving classes for em ployees who m ake frequent business trips because of their duties related to m anagem ent of the LOTOS service station chain. Identified threats and assessed occupational risks related to specific workstations by carefully checking and evaluating workplace factors which could potentially harm or injure em ployees. Such system atic assessm ent allows us to continuously m onitor whether threat m itigation m easures applied at a specific station are adequate, and to determ ine what steps need to be taken to ensure successful threat m itigation. Made employees aware of chemical hazards every tim e a new chem ical substance is introduced to the workplace. Our constantly updated electronic record stores Safety Data Sheets and inform ation on LOTOS products and chem icals purchased for the Com pany’s needs. This solution enables alm ost im m ediate retrieval of inform ation on chem icals by em ployees who com e into contact with such substances while perform ing their duties. Implemented a pilot Lockout-Tagout (LOTO) safety system for blocking the flow of hazardous energies and marking blockages of energy at selected Grupa LOTOS production units. The system is aim ed at preventing an accidental start-up of the installations by an unauthorised person during m aintenance or servicing works carried out on them and its objective is to protect people who happen to be in their surroundings and the surroundings them selves from uncontrolled release of energy from the production unit installations. Every year, we monitor the health of our employees, while also providing them with preventive medical care in line with applicable laws. We place strong emphasis on prevention and education, by means of training, awareness and prophylactic initiatives designed to minimise the consequences of diseases which may affect our staff. Occupational Health and Safety Committee An Occupational Health and Safety Committee (OHS Committee) operates at Grupa LOTOS, serving as an advisory and consultative body to the employer. In accordance with the labour law, the committee is composed of employer representatives, workforce representatives (selected by trade unions active at the Company) and an occupational physician. The Committee reviews working conditions, evaluates the status of occupational safety and advises on measures taken by the employer to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. In 2013, the OHS Committee was involved in a review of the working conditions at the Hydrogen and Sulphur Production Complex of Grupa LOTOS, as well as consultations on: 266 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future occupational risk scorecards for individual positions at the Com pany, the content of updated internal regulations and rules, including im plem enting the rules governing the operation of the First-Aid Rescue Team , the establishm ent of first-aid dispensary posts and rules for perform ing works based on written perm its. In the existing legal environment, both Polish and EU legislators point to dialogue, understood as organised exchange of information and opinions, as the only acceptable channel of workforce influence over occupational safety matters. The dialogue takes the form of OSH consultations. In accordance with an internal regulation in place at Grupa LOTOS, employees and their representatives are able to participate in OSH consultations by getting to know, discussing, commenting and presenting their proposals on matters at hand. Consultations are carried out with respect to matters which may pose an immediate threat to the workforce’s safety and occupational hazards which the employees requested to be eliminated or limited. The area is regulated by internal measures, procedures, orders and instructions, which are always first subject to employee consultations. At present, there are 8 regulations and 15 procedures and instructions in place at Grupa LOTOS to ensure workplace safety. Accident rates Both strategies pursued by the LOTOS Group, i.e. its business strategy and corporate social responsibility strategy, posit the achievement of specific LTIF rates. The LTIF rate measures the number of accidents at work per million hours worked. In 2013, the LOTOS Group’s LTIF rate stood at 4.4 – a total of 39 accidents were recorded, of which 35 required medical leave. Approximately 40% of all accidents recorded at the organization in 2013 happened when employees were moving on foot; these included mostly stumblings and slippings. Those accidents could have been avoided if the employees had exercised more caution. Accidents of this type are difficult to prevent – the employer has little ability to limit their occurrence beyond educating and raising the general safety awareness of staff. An additional analysis was undertaken to identify the causes of accidents, revealing that nearly 60% of them were directly attributable to human error, while technical and organizational factors accounted for approximately 20% of the total. Accidents recorded at the LOTOS Group in 2013 were mainly caused by: Inappropriate em ployee behaviour consisting of e.g. crossing the road or driving where it is banned, entering potentially dangerous areas without m aking sure if they are safe, etc.; Loss of balance or insufficient focus on the task at hand especially when m oving around; Infrequent reporting of irregularities at the workplace . If dangerous situations are not reported, the em ployer m ay be unable to rem ove the related hazards; Routine or rushed approach to work com prom ising vigilance against potential hazards at the workplace; Lack or im proper use of personal and collective protection m easures by em ployees; Incorrectly organised workstations; Incorrect general organisation of work; Atypical construction of certain technical com ponents, latent defects of equipm ent used. Accidents at work Grupa LOTOS 2011 2012 2013 (1) 1,344 Number of employees 1,318 1,323 (2) 12 Accidents at work, including: 5 13 Wom en 267 No da ta a va ila ble (3) 2 1 Lack or im proper use of personal and collective protection m easures by em ployees; Incorrectly organised workstations; Incorrect general organisation of work; Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Atypical construction of certain technical com ponents, latent defects of equipm ent used. Accidents at work Grupa LOTOS 2011 2012 2013 Number of employees (1) 1,318 1,323 1,344 Accidents at work, including: 5 13 (2) 12 Wom en No da ta a va ila ble (3) 2 1 Men No da ta a va ila ble (3) 11 11 Post-accident absenteeism (calendar days) (4), including: 168 253 302 Wom en No da ta a va ila ble (3) 28 11 Men No da ta a va ila ble (3) 225 291 Occupational diseases None None None Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) (5) (per 1 million hours worked) 2.1 4.3 4.5 Lost Day Rate (LDR) (6) (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.42 0.9 0.9 LOTOS Group (7) 2011 2012 2013 Number of employees (1) 5,004 4,795 4,773 Accidents at work, including: 31 34 39 (8) Wom en No da ta a va ila ble (3) 5 7 Men No da ta a va ila ble (3) 29 32 Post-accident absenteeism (calendar days) (4), including: 1,826 1,651 (9) 1,238 Wom en No da ta a va ila ble (3) 196 174 Men No da ta a va ila ble (3) 1,455 1,064 Occupational diseases None None None Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) (5) (per 1 million hours worked) 3.3 3.3 4.4 Lost Day Rate (LDR) (6) (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.7 0.7 0.9 (1) Average number of employees at companies reporting OSH metrics. (2) Including 1 accident treated as an accident at work. (3) Data collected since 2012. (4) Lost days are counted from the day when medical leave is taken. (5) LTIF – number of occurrences resulting in inability to work x10 6 /number of hours worked. (6) LDR – number of occurrences resulting in inability to work x2*10 5 /number of hours worked. (7) Companies reporting OSH metrics: Grupa LOTOS, LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Lab, LOTOS Oil, LOTOS Serwis, LOTOS Straż, LOTOS-Air BP, LOTOS Ochrona, LOTOS Paliwa, LOTOS Infrastruktura, LOTOS Terminale, RCEkoenergia, LOTOS Biopaliwa, LOTOS Petrobaltic. (8) In 2013, the LOTOS Group recorded 39 accidents at work (including 5 accidents treated as accidents at work), with medical leave taken in 36 cases. (9) Including 380 days of absence due to accidents which occurred in 2011. In 2013, no severe, group or fatal accidents or confirmed occupational diseases were recorded at the LOTOS Group. Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 268 (9) Including 380 days of absence due to accidents which occurred in 2011. In 2013, no severe, group Integrated Annual fatal accidents or Report orLOTOS 2013 Grupa S.A. occupational diseases were recorded atWin confirmed the the LOTOS Future Group. Challenges in strategy implementation until 2015 Im plem entation of the Lockout-Tagout safety system for certain types of work at active production units of Grupa LOTOS. Introduction of the fundam ental HSE standards aim ed at shaping proper conduct am ong the em ployees and contractors. Im plem entation of a revised work perm it system with the use of IT tools as part of the overall im provem ent m easures. Prom otion of workplace safety by organising an annual Occupational Safety and Health Day and encouraging em ployee participation. Provision of OSH workshops to adm inistration and office staff. Im plem entation of a workstation self-check system based on them atic checklists. Perfectioning of an electronic tool for m onitoring the work safety system at the organization – the OSH Portal. Modification of the program m e of exercises teaching em ployees how to react to accidents at work, chem ical hazard alerts and evacuation, and conduct of em ergency drills using sim ulated threats. Developm ent of a m ethodology for calculating accident costs taking into account technical, organisational and hum an causes. Development prospects until 2020 Im plem entation of periodic and additional OSH training based on e-learning tools, with practical training sessions. Im plem entation of a learning project based on actual incidents occurring at Grupa LOTOS and other com panies around the world Adoption of uniform occupational health and safety standards across the LOTOS Group. Revision of OSH and fire safety requirem ents and standards for contractors. Continuation of training and preventive program m es regarding workplace safety and health protection, including im plem entation of new educational projects. Developm ent of a work safety culture centred around the com m itm ent of m anagem ent, lowertier staff and contractors working with the Com pany. Cooperation with international HSE corporations and consultants with the view to prom oting and im plem enting world best HSE practices. Occupational safety best practice benchm arking. 269 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Intellectual capital Intellectual capital of Grupa LOTOS Intangible resources associated with the LOTOS brand. Intangible resources associated with the LOTOS Group’s reputation. Intangible resources associated with product brands and tradem arks. Intangible resources based on staff’s expertise and com petence. Managem ent system s, internal procedures, policies. Intellectual property. Our objectives in the management of intellectual capital: Enhance the LOTOS brand value. Raise the awareness of LOTOS as a socially responsible brand. Get across to capital m arket participants the m essage that corporate social responsibility is perceived by the LOTOS Group as an essential part of its corporate m anagem ent. Continually develop staff’s qualifications. Im prove corporate m anagem ent by ensuring transparency of the business processes and protecting the organization against the risk of irregularities that m ay threaten its operations. Key activities: Incorporating solutions and technologies developed outside the organization – by acquiring patents, licences and know-how, liaising with academ ic com m unities and form ing strategic alliances between businesses; Product, process, m arketing and organizational innovations; Com prehensive staff developm ent program m es; R&D activities. Wide-ranging assessm ent of organizational m aturity. Results: LOTOS brand value in Introduction of innovative technology, product and excess of PLN 1 billion management solutions which bring down costs, mitigate the Company’s adverse impact on its environment, help achieve anticipatory compliance with stringent legal requirements, improve customer satisfaction and optimise processes Highly qualified staff prepared to implement advanced Own product and technologies and apply the best available operational technological patents practices. At Grupa LOTOS, 57% of employees have a university diploma, and 1% hold a PhD degree Growth of the intellectual capital in regions where 270 the Company maintains Highly qualified staff prepared to implement advanced Own product and technologies and apply the best available operational technological patents At Grupa practices.Integrated LOTOS, Annual Report57% 2013 -of employees LOTOS S.A. have a Grupa Win the Future university diploma, and 1% hold a PhD degree Growth of the intellectual capital in regions where the Company maintains long-term relationships with higher education institutions, which have been granted PLN 1.2m on scholarships and awards for 234 undergraduate and doctoral students, and with secondary schools, where submissions to the ‘Jasło Science League with LOTOS’ in 2013 included 91 R&D projects 271 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Statement by Anna Goliszewska Brand Management Office Director, Grupa LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Market Partnership to Raise LOTOS Brand Awareness area In modern economy, a company’s value is derived not only from its ability to generate earnings, but also from how it is perceived by its external and internal stakeholders. That is why an approach to corporate social responsibility is now increasingly used as one of the variables in a company’s overall assessment, with intangible assets contributing as much as 50% of the company’s value. These may include assets which drive up the In m odern econom y, a company’s market value, such as patents, utility models, know com pany’s value is derived not only from its ability to how and technologies, but also strong brand, wide customer generate earnings, but also base, sound relationships with stakeholders, all kinds of from how it is perceived by its strategic partnerships and professional approach to CSR. external and internal According to current estimates, brand values may account for as stakeholders. That is why an approach to corporate social much as a third of the global wealth. A strong brand is a responsibility is now valuable corporate asset, playing an important part as a source increasingly used as one of of permanent competitive advantage and value growth. the variables in a com pany’s overall assessm ent, with Higher shareholder value is delivered by companies with strong brands, but also intangible assets contributing those associated with positive CSR performance, fair treatment of employees and as m uch as 50% of the good offering for customers. Responsible CSR activities combined with capable com pany’s value. These m ay include assets which drive up management of customer relationships and community outreach initiatives may the com pany’s m arket value, yield measurable benefits to the company, by strengthening its reputation and such as patents, utility image. Promoting the perception of LOTOS as a socially responsible brand is one m odels, know how and of the key efforts we take to position LOTOS on the market. technologies, but also strong brand, wide custom er base, We seek to support every area of the LOTOS Group’s activities, be they of strategic sound relationships with importance, such as the recent 10+ and the currently pursued 2013-2015 stakeholders, all kinds of Effective and Rising programmes, or non-strategic outreach and sports projects, strategic partnerships and with an advertising drive. We take advantage of the brand promotion as an professional approach to CSR. occasion to communicate our community-oriented and sports projects, such as ‘In According to current Search for the Champion’s Successors − LOTOS Cup’ in ski jumping, to the general estim ates, brand values m ay account for as m uch as a public. We try to use the title sponsor strategy, which additionally weaves the third of the global wealth. A brand into the emotions accompanying a given event. The advertising campaign strong brand is a valuable run in 2013 around the image of world-class rally driver Robert Kubica was also corporate asset, playing an aimed to highlight our involvement in the support of sports, building an im portant part as a source of association between the LOTOS brand and the spirit of fair play. With equal perm anent com petitive consistency, we engage in the promotion of product brands, by linking the advantage and value growth. respective brand messages with areas of our core expertise as an oil company. The effects of our image building efforts are reflected in a concrete financial metric, i.e. the value of the LOTOS brand. As at the end of 2013, it was estimated at over PLN 1bn according to a ranking prepared by the Rzeczpospolita daily, Anna Goliszewska Brand Management Office Director, Grupa which means a cumulative growth of more than 500% since 2007. LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Market Partnership to Raise LOTOS Brand Awareness Another important measure of the brand condition is our proprietary brand area 272 account for as m uch as a public. We try to use the title sponsor strategy, which additionally weaves the third of the global wealth. A brand into the emotions accompanying a given event. The advertising campaign strong brand is a valuable run in 2013 around the image of world-class rally driver Robert Kubica was also corporateIntegrated Annual Report 2013aimed asset, playing an toLOTOS Grupa an the Future S.A.our involvement in the support of sports, buildingWin highlight im portant part as a source of association between the LOTOS brand and the spirit of fair play. With equal perm anent com petitive consistency, we engage in the promotion of product brands, by linking the advantage and value growth. respective brand messages with areas of our core expertise as an oil company. The effects of our image building efforts are reflected in a concrete financial metric, i.e. the value of the LOTOS brand. As at the end of 2013, it was estimated Anna Goliszewska at over PLN 1bn according to a ranking prepared by the Rzeczpospolita daily, Brand Management Office Director, Grupa which means a cumulative growth of more than 500% since 2007. LOTOS, CSR Strategy Leader in the Market Partnership to Raise LOTOS Brand Awareness area Another important measure of the brand condition is our proprietary brand equity index based around four crucial assets, including brand awareness, attitudes, knowledge and image. In 2013, we recorded a 6% rise in the brand equity metric. In monitoring the progress of our CSR strategy, we also measure the socially responsible brand index, defined by three variables reflecting the LOTOS Group’s CSR commitment, which include the perception of LOTOS as an environmentally-minded business, supporting culture and engaging in community outreach projects. In 2013, we posted a 30% rise in this measure of the brand’s social capital. Our efforts to enhance brand value were recognised by the Business Superbrand 2013 title in the seventh reiteration of a programme designed to select Poland’s strongest brands. Grupa LOTOS received the award again in the corporate brand category. 273 Intangible resources Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Intangible resources  data has been verified See full text of the Independent Assurance Report  Brand  data has been verified See full text of the Independent Assurance Report  Brand In the LOTOS Group strategy for 2011-2015, along with the development directions until 2020, the fostering of a strong LOTOS brand and distinctive brand image is named as a key element of corporate management. All individual product brands are subordinated to the corporate brand strategy, which is consistent with the In the LOTOS Group strategy for 2011-2015, along with the development directions until 2020, the fostering business strategy of Grupa LOTOS. of a strong LOTOS brand and distinctive brand image is named as a key element of corporate management. All individual product brands are subordinated to the corporate brand strategy, which is consistent with the businessOur strategic strategy goalLOTOS. of Grupa is to enhance the LOTOS brand value by building its image as a brand which: Relies goal Our strategic on the is key values ofthe to enhance LOTOS brandsolutions, state-of-the-art development value by building and as its image partnership, a brand which: Has an international presence, Relies on the keytop Represents quality values products, of state-of-the-art solutions, development and partnership, Has Isansocially responsible. international presence, Represents top quality products, Is socially responsible. Fostering the image and strength of the LOTOS brand is one of the priorities for Grupa LOTOS. Efforts are always being made to increase the brand awareness and to position Grupa LOTOS as an organization recognised for its professional management style that builds on its quality, innovation, environmental Fostering the image and strength of the LOTOS brand is one of the priorities for Grupa LOTOS. Efforts are awareness and security. always being made to increase the brand awareness and to position Grupa LOTOS as an organization recognised for its professional management style that builds on its quality, innovation, environmental In the 10th edition of Poland’s Most Valuable Brands ranking, published by the Rzeczpospolita daily in 2013, awareness and security. the LOTOS brand was valued at PLN 1,107.3m. Since the ranking’s inception in 2004, its value has risen by PLN 887m. Last year, LOTOS was ranked 9th among the 330 brands covered by the listing, driven by our consistent In the 10th edition of Poland’s Most Valuable Brands ranking, published by the Rzeczpospolita daily in 2013, efforts, our mindset focused on maximising the brand’s strength, and our innovative approach to image the LOTOS brand was valued at PLN 1,107.3m. Since the ranking’s inception in 2004, its value has risen by PLN building, which have helped forge lasting relationships with our customers. 887m. Last year, LOTOS was ranked 9th among the 330 brands covered by the listing, driven by our consistent efforts, our mindset focused on maximising the brand’s strength, and our innovative approach to image building, Value whichof the LOTOS have helpedbrand (PLNm) forge lasting relationships with our customers. Value of the LOTOS brand (PLNm) + PLN 887m + PLN 887m 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Rzeczpospolita daily, December 2013. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 274 Source: Rzeczpospolita daily, December Integrated 2013.2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Annual Report Win the Future The following rules are applied in the overall management of corporate brand strategy, product brands, promotion strategies, value creation, creation of the desired image of the LOTOS brand, advertising, promotion and sponsorship activities, as well as the marketing research of the LOTOS Group: Com pliance with applicable laws, Avoidance of deliberate harm or dam age, Accountability, Education, professional background and experience of personnel put to good use. We conduct our operations without using any discriminatory or controversial content that might offend certain social groups or abuse the trust of recipients of our communications, and without inciting negative emotions. These rules complement the applicable laws and regulations, which include the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the following Polish Acts: the Civil Code, the Act on Combating Unfair Competition, the Press Law Act, the Radio and Television Act, the Act on Protection of Certain Consumer Rights, the Act on Provision of Electronic Services, the Act on Personal Data Protection, the Act on Copyrights and Neighbouring Rights, and the Act on Industrial Property. In our sponsorship efforts, we adhere to standards spelled out in voluntary codes of conduct, e.g. those published by business organizations. As a member of the Polish Confederation of Private Employers Lewiatan, we engage in sponsorship activities in a manner compliant with the code of ethics drawn up by that body. All our sponsorship contracts are transparent and clear, and precisely identify all stakeholders and obligations. We do not engage in any events which might cause damage to objects or facilities of historic or artistic value, or events which could have an adverse environmental impact. We observe the guidelines set out in the Culture Sponsorship Code an initiative of the National Centre for Culture, the PKPP Lewiatan association of employers and the Warsaw Stock Exchange The quality of our communications with the market is also subject to the standards of conduct defined in the LOTOS Group’s Code of Ethics. The above corporate practices in the area of marketing communications are applicable to Grupa LOTOS and all its marketing companies, i.e. those companies which, given their business profiles, target communications regarding their products and services at wider audiences. LOTOS Oil and LOTOS Paliwa, which are responsible for product brand communications, have adopted their own supplementary regulations. At LOTOS Paliwa, the development of marketing content and standards of conduct, including standards of communication with customers, are regulated by the following documents: Com m unication and Positioning Strategy for the LOTOS and LOTOS Optim a Service Stations, Com m unication and Positioning Strategy for the LOTOS Dynam ic brand, Strategy of Sponsorship and MotorSports Involvem ent. LOTOS Oil and LOTOS Paliwa, in their marketing communication activities, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, adhere (on a voluntary basis) to the standards of the Code of Ethics in Advertising, developed by the Polish Board of Advertising and the Polish Advertising Standards Committee. Due to the specific nature of the market on which LOTOS Asfalt and LOTOS Kolej are present, the companies have not implemented separate procedures for marketing communications. In 2013, no cases of inconsistencies in the promotional and advertising activities with the provisions of law, regulations and voluntary codes on marketing communications were found to have occurred at Grupa LOTOS or at its marketing companies: LOTOS Asfalt, LOTOS Kolej, LOTOS Oil and LOTOS Paliwa. 275 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Sponsorship Key objectives of our sponsorship activities include the promotion and raising of brand awareness of LOTOS Group products, improving their recognition, building their positive image and supporting advertising activities focused on boosting product and service sales. Our sponsorship activities are carried out in accordance with the Sponsorship Plan approved each year by the Company’s Supervisory Board. We are the main sponsor of sports clubs, sporting events, cultural institutions and cultural events in the regions where LOTOS Group companies operate. Areas sponsored by Grupa LOTOS in 2013 One of the criteria we use when choosing which activities to sponsor is their social dimension, their significance to local communities and their impact on the region’s national and international reputation. If we were to cease our sponsorship activities, the cultural sphere might suffer and the young people’s potential to become involved in sports might deteriorate. In 2013, we sponsored a number of professional sports, including such key disciplines as motor rallying and racing, football, skiing, basketball, volleyball and cycling. The highest returns on funds earmarked for sponsorship activities, as measured by media presence, were recorded for winter sports (ski jumping and cross-country skiing), as well as cycling, football and motor rallying. The value of media returns exceeded the value of our sponsorship spending almost seven times over. For ten years now, we have also been Poland’s General Nordic Skiing Sponsor. As part of our work with the Polish Nordic Skiing Association, we support ski jumpers from the national and youth teams, cross-country skiers from the national and youth teams, as well as the Nordic combined team. Kamil Stoch, this year’s winner of two gold medals at the Sochi Winter Olympics, thirteen-time winner of the World Cup and multiple Polish champion, was the first person awarded a grant under our ‘In Search for the Champion’s Successors’ CSR project. Since 2004, we have supported the National Ski Jumping Development Programme, run together with the Polish Nordic Skiing Association. Since 2013, Grupa LOTOS has been an official partner of Robert Kubica, who is among the top drivers chasing the crown in the World Rally Championship and who succeeded in winning the title of the WRC2 World Champion in his very first season. In 2013, the Company was involved in the LOTOS Rally Team project, represented by four-time Polish Champion Kajetan Kajetanowicz and his navigator Jarek Baran in the Polish Rally Championship and by Michał Kościuszko and his -navigator 276 Maciej Szczepaniak in the WRC. The winner of two gold medals at the Sochi Winter Olympics, thirteen-time winner of the World Cup and multiple Polish champion, was the first person awarded a grant under our ‘In Search for the Champion’s Successors’ CSR project. Since 2004, Integrated we have Annual 2013 Grupathe Reportsupported National LOTOS S.A. run the Future Ski Jumping Development Programme, Win together with the Polish Nordic Skiing Association. Since 2013, Grupa LOTOS has been an official partner of Robert Kubica, who is among the top drivers chasing the crown in the World Rally Championship and who succeeded in winning the title of the WRC2 World Champion in his very first season. In 2013, the Company was involved in the LOTOS Rally Team project, represented by four-time Polish Champion Kajetan Kajetanowicz and his navigator Jarek Baran in the Polish Rally Championship and by Michał Kościuszko and his navigator Maciej Szczepaniak in the WRC. The promotion of the LOTOS Dynamic fuel brand in motorsports by this Team lends credibility to its communicated benefits, including improved performance and dynamics and better harnessing of a car’s power. Related actions support the image of the entire chain of LOTOS service stations and improve the reliability of the stations’ marketing message. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS was the sponsor and main technological partner of the KIA LOTOS Race (an event with the status of Polish Motor Racing Championship), where the car make lends credibility to the formula and quality of the company’s oil products. 2013 saw the conclusion of another three-year sponsorship agreement between Grupa LOTOS and Lechia Gdańsk (the Company is the main sponsor of Lechia Gdańsk, an Ekstraklasa League football club, since 2010). In the Gdańsk-Gdynia-Sopot conglomeration, we also support the LOTOS TREFL Gdańsk volleyball team and the Trefl Sopot basketball team. Apart from sports sponsorship, we are also involved in sponsorship of cultural events, focusing our efforts in the latter area on increasing corporate value through the promotion of intellectual and cultural potential of regions close to the organization. Some of our key cultural sponsorships in 2013 included the Strategic Partnership of the Baltic Opera House, sponsorship of the Solidarity of Arts Festival, the Shakespearian Festival, the Siesta Festival, the open-air event „CudaWianki – Lato zaczyna się w Gdyni” (“The Summer Begins in Gdynia – CudaWianki”), the ‘SOPOT Theatrical Summer’, the concert of the band Bon Jovi and the LOTOS Jazz Festival – Bielsko Jazz Blizzard. Socially engaged marketing In 2013, LOTOS Paliwa continued its work, begun three years earlier, with the SOS Children’s Villages Association in Poland. Each member of the LOTOS Navigator loyalty programme, available from LOTOS service stations, could donate their credits to orphaned or abandoned children under the care of SOS Children’s Villages. This initiative is in line with the objectives of our CSR strategy. The funds raised from credits donated by our customers are applied towards the costs of living, health care and education of children. In 2013, the usual range of awards available under the LOTOS Navigator programme was extended to include the SOS Children’s Villages Association cup. One cup collected by a customer (250 credits) represents PLN 2 for the Association. The SOS Children’s Villages Association in Poland provides care for abandoned children, orphans and children at risk of losing parental care. The Association, which has been active for 29 years and currently helps 1,250 children, is part of SOS-Kinderdorf International, an international organization present in 132 countries. Staff’s expertise and competence In order to fully leverage our intellectual capital to enhance the corporate value, we consider it necessary to create systemic solutions designed to stimulate innovation. We also attach great importance to knowledge sharing between employees in the course of project works conducted across the organization, including team projects, in which they have a chance to apply knowledge from various fields in which the LOTOS Group is active, while bringing in new perspectives and ideas on existing tasks. We strive to improve the staff’s qualifications by offering them training opportunities, courses, studies, symposia, conferences, as well as newly established and regularly run programmes within our in-house Akademia LOTOS (LOTOS Academy) Training Schedule. 277 In order to fully leverage our intellectual capital to enhance the corporate value, we consider it necessary to create systemic solutions designed to stimulate innovation. We also attach great importance to knowledge sharing between employees in the course of project works conducted across the organization, including team projects, Integrated in which they Report Annual have a2013 Grupa chance applyS.A. toLOTOS Future Win theGroup knowledge from various fields in which the LOTOS is active, while bringing in new perspectives and ideas on existing tasks. We strive to improve the staff’s qualifications by offering them training opportunities, courses, studies, symposia, conferences, as well as newly established and regularly run programmes within our in-house Akademia LOTOS (LOTOS Academy) Training Schedule. LOTOS Academy was established to improve the staff’s competences in various fields, to identify and develop talent, to disseminate expert knowledge and to foster a culture conducive to increasing the staff’s satisfaction and involvement. As part of the LOTOS Academy project, we have developed a culture of knowledge sharing, an induction training programme, a certification process for production-related training and ‘On the Road to Perfection’ training schedule. We have engaged senior employees, aged 50+, in the development of younger staff. The Academy initiates and runs talent development programmes targeted at various employee groups, including the Leader Programme, the Master Programme, the Managers Academy, the Management Skills Development Programme for Technical Staff and the LOTOS Group Succession Programme. The organization invests in professional development of its staff, by making them acquire and strengthen their expert knowledge, as well as their interpersonal, communication, negotiation, management, IT and linguistic skills. Its comprehensive staff development programme brings Grupa LOTOS closer to meriting the label of a Learning Organization. Average annual number of training hours per person, by Grupa LOTOS employment category Employment category 2011 2012 2013 Senior management 40 41.9 43 Lower management 38 42.8 43.7 Back-office staff 30.7 25.8 25.4 Production staff 13.2 17.7 12.1 Average annual number of training hours in Grupa LOTOS, by gender Number of Number of Average number Gender Year employees training hours of training hours Women 2012 417 11,096 26.6 Men 2012 932 21,936 23.5 Women 2013 416 12,039 28.9 Men 2013 929 17,811 19.2 Our staff education methods, techniques and tools include a broad range of open and closed training courses, both in hard and soft skills, which are run based on annual schedules in the form of conferences, seminars, workshops, symposia and forums. We rely on advanced education techniques and technologies, such as simulation games, e-learning and blended learning. Equally important are our in-house training programmes dedicated to specific employee groups, carried out under the LOTOS Academy banner. Since accessibility is one of the main features of our 278 training policy, the target groups of our training opportunities include senior and middle management, as Our staff education methods, techniques and tools include a broad range of open and closed training courses, bothIntegrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. in hard and Win the Future soft skills, which are run based on annual schedules in the form of conferences, seminars, workshops, symposia and forums. We rely on advanced education techniques and technologies, such as simulation games, e-learning and blended learning. Equally important are our in-house training programmes dedicated to specific employee groups, carried out under the LOTOS Academy banner. Since accessibility is one of the main features of our training policy, the target groups of our training opportunities include senior and middle management, as well as supervisors, coordinators and specialists. Among the solutions applied are those based on coaching and mentoring, the latter chiefly in the production area, where skills learning is the longest process, requiring many years of experience. Our coaches and mentors are experienced instructors from the operating training team, who − by direct interaction − pass on their knowledge to younger colleagues working as equipment operators. Our employees are also familiar with knowledge sharing workshops, at which they can share knowledge relating to the organization’s various operational areas. In addition, at least twice a year, we hold seminars dedicated to management staff, to acquaint them with the most recent solutions in the management area by attractively integrating theory with practice. Innovative development, involving continuous improvement and use of the staff’s intellectual capital and experience, is an inherent element of Grupa LOTOS’ mission, stemming from our conviction that innovation plays a key strategic role for a business geared towards sustainable development. Grupa LOTOS’ innovative approach works on several levels: Development of intellectual capital Deployment of cutting-edge technologies Inter-sectoral cooperation and stakeholder involvement As a player in the high-tech industry, we have for years worked with academic and research institutions of key relevance to the industry, thus contributing to the development of solutions which are beneficial not only to us and other industry players, but also to the academic community. LOTOS Scholarship We work with higher education institutions as part of the LOTOS Scholarship programme. Given the nature of our business and the key role we play in ensuring Poland’s energy security, we share the knowledge and experience of our employees with students, because we feel committed to securing the future of our industry by training the next generation of experts. In the academic year 2004/2005, we began working with the Gdańsk University of Technology, as part of which we sponsor scholarships, provide work placement opportunities under the supervision of industry experts, and help students write their MSc dissertations on topics connected with the Company’s operations, which are later reviewed by the Company’s experts. In the academic year 2012/2013, we granted 13 scholarships to the best students from the Chemical Faculty, the Faculty of Electronics, Telecommunications and Informatics, the Faculty of Electrical and Control Engineering and the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, as well as 2 awards for the best MSc theses at the Chemical Faculty. In the academic year 2007/2008, a similar relationship was forged with the AGH University of Science and Technology in Kraków, leading to five scholarships being granted in the academic year 2012/2013 to outstanding students from the Faculty of Geology, Geophysics and Environment Protection, the Faculty of 279 Mining Surveying and Environmental Engineering, the Faculty of Drilling, Oil and Gas and the Faculty of experts, and help students write their MSc dissertations on topics connected with the Company’s operations, which are later reviewed by the Company’s experts. In the academic year 2012/2013, we granted 13 scholarships to the best students from the Chemical Faculty, the Faculty of Electronics, Telecommunications Integrated and Informatics, Report Annual of the Faculty 2013 Grupa Electrical LOTOS S.A. and Control Win the Future Engineering and the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, as well as 2 awards for the best MSc theses at the Chemical Faculty. In the academic year 2007/2008, a similar relationship was forged with the AGH University of Science and Technology in Kraków, leading to five scholarships being granted in the academic year 2012/2013 to outstanding students from the Faculty of Geology, Geophysics and Environment Protection, the Faculty of Mining Surveying and Environmental Engineering, the Faculty of Drilling, Oil and Gas and the Faculty of Energy and Fuels. We also granted two awards for the best MSc theses written at the Faculty of Drilling, Oil and Gas. Since the programme’s inception, we have granted some PLN 1.2m to fund scholarships and awards for 234 undergraduate and doctoral students. As part of our cooperation with higher education providers, we also offer unpaid internships and summer work placements, during which students have a chance to expand their knowledge under the supervision of a tutor – an industry expert. In 2013, internships and work placements at Grupa LOTOS were provided to 162 undergraduates, including 73 students of the Gdańsk University of Technology and 16 students of the AGH University of Science and Technology in Kraków. Additionally, work placements at LOTOS Petrobaltic were offered to 20 students from various universities, who had an opportunity to gain valuable experience by working both on drilling rigs and at the operation maintenance unit. For the eleventh time, we participated in the local programme Summer Holiday Internship initiated by the Mayor of Gdańsk and adressed to students and graduates. We funded two-month internships for participants of the Energy Academy Programme an educational project started by Lesław A. Paga Foundation 2065, which is addressed to persons interested in the power industry who consider starting their future professional career in this sector. Additionally, we entered the prestigious nationwide programme organized by PwC and Gazeta Wyborcza daily Win an Internship. In 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic was a partner to the DRILLING OIL – GAS AGH International Scientific and Technical Conference, organised by Fundacja Wiertnictwo-Nafta-Gaz, Nauka i Tradycje (Drilling-Oil-Gas, Science and Traditions Foundation). As part of the Baltic Science Festival, to which we were also a partner, LOTOS Petrobaltic ran an information and education campaign on the specific features of the petroleum upstream industry. In addition, as part of a joint scheme with the Food and Chemical Industry Vocational School in Gdańsk, in 2013 we funded seven scholarships for future chemical engineering technicians and analytical chemists who distinguished themselves for the best school performance, provided prizes in the ‘Chemistry is all around us’ competition and organised work placements for students. In 2013, in association with the Jasło Municipality, we launched a project entitled ‘The Jasło Scientific League with LOTOS’, a unique educational initiative aiming to find Jasło’s most able schoolchildren and give them an opportunity to foster their talents. Entrants to the ‘The Jasło Scientific League with LOTOS’ in 2013 included 299 children from 9 elementary schools and 4 junior high schools from Jasło, who submitted a total of 91 research projects. The project encourages schoolchildren to seek for their own answers to a given set of questions, through a number of research activities carried out under the eye280 of -their teachers, with their work evaluated by a panel of experts and prominent academics. competition and organised work placements for students. In 2013, in association with the Integrated Annual Jasło Report 2013 Grupa LOTOSwe Municipality, S.A.launched a project entitled ‘The Jasło Scientific League Win the Future with LOTOS’, a unique educational initiative aiming to find Jasło’s most able schoolchildren and give them an opportunity to foster their talents. Entrants to the ‘The Jasło Scientific League with LOTOS’ in 2013 included 299 children from 9 elementary schools and 4 junior high schools from Jasło, who submitted a total of 91 research projects. The project encourages schoolchildren to seek for their own answers to a given set of questions, through a number of research activities carried out under the eye of their teachers, with their work evaluated by a panel of experts and prominent academics. 281 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Management systems The Integrated Management System (IMS) is regularly reviewed and updated as our needs change, supporting the delivery of the LOTOS Group’s strategy. Since the 1990s, when we first began to deploy management systems, the well-designed and coherent management and operational processes provide the foundation for our business, while concurrently undergoing some major changes. Every year, new needs are identified which must be Integrated Management System addressed by our management systems. We For customers quality of products and invariably strive to work out uniform policies and to services implement new systems effectively, so we can derive For the external environment measurable benefits from their operation. By environment protection streamlining and modifying the processes, we seek For employees occupational safety to exploit synergies across the entire LOTOS Group. Management systems at the LOTOS Group As at December 31st 2013 Company Management systems in place Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented requirem ents of the energy m a na gem ent system in line with Grupa LOTOS the ISO 50001 sta nda rd, requirem ents of AQAP 2110 (Allied Qua lity Assura nce Publica tion) a nd requirem ents of the Interna l Control System for tra ding in stra tegic m a teria ls (consistent with the PN-N19001 sta nda rd) . Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, LOTOS Asfalt a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented a nd certified Site Production Control system . Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with ISO 9001, ISO 14001, a nd PN-N-18001, Ra ilwa y Tra nsport Security Ma na gem ent System (SMS) com plia nt with Directive 2004/49/EC a nd na tiona l regula tions, Ra il Vehicle Ma intena nce Ma na gem ent System (MMS) LOTOS Kolej com plia nt with Directive 2004/49/EC a nd Regula tion (EU) 445/2011, qua lity in welding m a na gem ent system com plia nt with the EN 15085-2 sta nda rd, a nd system of Ma inta ining Freight Ca rs in a ccorda nce with the VPI requirem ents. Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, LOTOS Lab a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Certifica te of com plia nce with PN-EN ISO/IEC 17025:2005 issued by the Polish Centre for Accredita tion. Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, LOTOS Ochrona a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Qua lity Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001 LOTOS Oil sta nda rd a nd AQAP 2110 (Allied Qua lity Assura nce Publica tion) . Im plem ented requirem ents of ISO 14001 a nd PN-N-18001. Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented ISM Code (for com plia nce with the Interna tiona l LOTOS Petrobaltic Ma na gem ent Code for the Sa fe Opera tion of Ships a nd for Pollution Prevention) a nd ISPS Code (Interna tiona l Ship a nd Port Fa cility Security System ) . Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, LOTOS Serwis a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented a nd certified qua lity in welding m a na gem ent system com plia nt with the PN-EN ISO 3834-2:2007 sta nda rd. Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, LOTOS Straż a nd PN-N-18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, a nd PN-NLOTOS Terminale 18001 sta nda rds. Im plem ented a nd certified Integra ted Ma na gem ent System com plia nt with the ISO 9001 sta nda rd. LOTOS Paliwa Im plem ented requirem ents of ISO 14001 a nd PN-N-18001. 282 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future LOTOS Infrastruktura The com pa ny is in the process of im plem enting the Integra ted Ma na gem ent System . LOTOS-Air BP Polska The com pa ny is in the process of im plem enting the Integra ted Ma na gem ent System . Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. Audits of the Integrated Management System provide valuable and objective feedback on the operation of individual areas of the organization. Between 2011 and 2013, we performed nearly 200 internal, corporate and supplier audits at Grupa LOTOS. Audits in 2011-2013 Structure of internal audits in 2011-2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Supplier audits Corporate audits Organizational units Production plants Internal audits Cross-sectional audits Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. The findings of internal audits provide information on the effectiveness of our system, but also help identify areas which still need improvement, allowing the management to make informed decisions on corrective, preventive or adjusting measures. Corporate audits carried out at subsidiaries of Grupa LOTOS assess the degree to which they have implemented corporate requirements and standards. In 2013, additional audits were performed to assess the degree of implementation of personal data protection requirements. Corporate audits in 2011-2013 283 Corporate audits carried out at subsidiaries of Grupa LOTOS assess the degree to which they have corporate implementedIntegrated requirements Annual Report 2013and Grupa LOTOS S.A.In 2013, additional audits were performed Win standards. to assess the Future the degree of implementation of personal data protection requirements. Corporate audits in 2011-2013 2011 2012 2013 Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Source: Grupathe Following audits, LOTOS in-house many indata. areas we have undertaken long-term improvement work, requiring the Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. involvement of persons from different organizational units, which proves that we are an organization that can learn from feedback. Following the audits, in many areas we have undertaken long-term improvement work, requiring the Following the audits, in many areas we have undertaken long-term improvement work, requiring the involvement of persons from different organizational units, which proves that we are an organization that We adapt ourofaudits involvement persons fromchanges to any differentrelevant to the LOTOS organizational units,Group’s that and operation which proves we are identified anyan needs. organization that can learn from feedback. can learn from feedback. We also seek to standardise the qualifications of our auditors through the Auditor School initiative, hands-on We adapt our audits to any changes relevant to the LOTOS Group’s operation and any identified needs. We adaptand exercises ourexchange audits to anyof auditors relevant companies, changesbetween to the LOTOS which helps Group’s them gain operation anyexperience. new and identified needs. We also seek to standardise the qualifications of our auditors through the Auditor School initiative, hands-on Requirements for business partners We also seek to standardise the qualifications of our auditors through the Auditor School initiative, hands-on exercises and exchange of auditors between companies, which helps them gain new experience. exercises and exchange of auditors between companies, which helps them gain new experience. Requirements requirements, for for business The findings of supplier audits provide information on the degree to which our suppliers meet the quality Requirements as well as occupational business partners partners safety and environmental protection requirements, which are high on our list of priorities. They offer assurance that all works on the premises of Grupa LOTOS are carried out safely The findings of supplier audits provide information on the degree to which our suppliers meet the quality and identify areas The findings whichaudits of supplier still need improvement. provide information on the degree to which our suppliers meet the quality requirements, as well as occupational safety and environmental protection requirements, which are high on requirements, as well as occupational safety and environmental protection requirements, which are high on our list of priorities. They offer assurance that all works on the premises of Grupa LOTOS are carried out safely Realising our list ofthat compliance priorities. withassurance They offer our requirements may be that all works onathe demanding premisestask for suppliers, of Grupa LOTOS are make sure wecarried that out safely and identify areas which still need improvement. our audit reports contain detailed and and identify areas which still need improvement. accurate information on all audited areas. Realising that compliance with our requirements may be a demanding task for suppliers, we make sure that Realising Supplier that compliance audits in 2011-2013with our requirements may be a demanding task for suppliers, we make sure that our audit reports contain detailed and accurate information on all audited areas. our audit reports contain detailed and accurate information on all audited areas. Supplier audits in 2011-2013 Supplier audits in 2011-2013 2011 2012 2013 Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 284 Source: Grupa LOTOS in-house data. Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Key changes in process management systems ad structures in 2013 Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) To ensure secure and effective pursuit of our strategic and operational objectives, we have successfully implemented the enterprise risk management system at the LOTOS Group. Measures taken in 2013 as part of the ERM system were designed to mitigate the identified risks, and to enhance the system itself and its risk management process. (More details) Process management In 2013, we started to communicate the findings of process monitoring within the organization via a dedicated portal, which serves as a platform for direct communication of various follow-up measures based on reviews of the Integrated Management System and tasks related to our day-to-day operations. We have also successfully completed one of the projects designed to improve efficiencies along the supply chain. Project management In implementing project management at the LOTOS Group in 2013, our objective was to ensure efficient project execution, effective monitoring of project status and deliverables and proper reporting for projects run in accordance with established corporate policies. We also began to deploy an IT tool to support project management throughout the organization. Energy Management System (EnMS) In 2013, we successfully put in place the energy management system compliant with ISO 50001, which aims to establish uniform standards for a range of measures designed to improve Grupa LOTOS’ energy efficiency through: System atised and standardised approach to energy m anagem ent (with respect to all form s of energy) across different operating areas, Identification of significant energy aspects of the Com pany’s operations, Docum entation of sub-tasks undertaken in areas covered by the EnMS, Identification of upgrade and developm ent work required to achieve energy efficiency. Development until 2015 Faced by the highly complex nature of processes, projects and tasks we need to undertake in the fastchanging environment, we will focus on ensuring efficient communication within the LOTOS Group. We want to pursue that objective by deploying advanced IT tools, suited to the organization’s needs and friendly for users. As part of our plans, we intend to: Enhance the enterprise risk m anagem ent (ERM) system by developing the ERM portal in response to any needs that m ay em erge in connection with the growing m aturity of the ERM system ; In the energy m anagem ent area: satisfy training needs, raise the overall awareness of energy issues am ong our staff, and im prove the auditing qualifications of the LOTOS Group’s em ployees. 2014 will be the first effective year of our new internal regulations pertaining to the Com pany’s energy m anagem ent system and the first year of refining the system based on regularly obtained findings of production process m onitoring, audits and needs reported by those involved in energy efficiency processes; Maintain and im prove the project m anagem ent system , deploy an IT tool designed to support project m anagem ent within the LOTOS Group -and 285 raise the com petences of staff involved in In the energy m anagem ent area: satisfy training needs, raise the overall awareness of energy issues am ong our staff, and im prove the auditing qualifications of the LOTOS Group’s em ployees. 2014 will be the first effective year of our new internal regulations pertaining to the Com pany’s energy Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future m anagem ent system and the first year of refining the system based on regularly obtained findings of production process m onitoring, audits and needs reported by those involved in energy efficiency processes; Maintain and im prove the project m anagem ent system , deploy an IT tool designed to support project m anagem ent within the LOTOS Group and raise the com petences of staff involved in project m anagem ent and execution; Identify on an ongoing basis any processes needing im provem ent and take relevant actions, and develop process m anagem ent based on the best global practice. We also plan to launch a new channel for com m unication with em ployees to expedite feedback reporting and a tool for visual representation of the sum m ary findings of process m onitoring, referenced to risks as well as to strategic and operational objectives; Im plem ent an effective and user-friendly IT tool supporting the circulation of docum ents related to internal regulations. Over the period 2014-2015, we will implement our Effective and Rising Programme, whose success will be supported by the correctly-designed and effective Integrated Management System. 286 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Organizational maturity At Grupa LOTOS, we undertake annual assessments of our organizational maturity. Organizational maturity is understood as the level of professionalism of key organizational solutions, processes and activities, as well as their consistency with the best operating and management practices, which underpin the organization’s potential to achieve success in terms of protection and creation of value for its stakeholders. Organizational maturity depends on the company’s systems and their constituent solutions which are crucial to the creation of value for stakeholders, relevant to the protection of company value, and key to its ability to operate on a day-to-day basis without any disruptions and in compliance with the law. The following systems at Grupa LOTOS meet these criteria to the greatest extent: internal control, risk management, compliance, misconduct prevention and corporate governance. Overall assessment of the systems Corporate governance 50% Internal Risk control management 2011 0% 2012 2013 Compliance Prevention of misconduct Results of the assessment of the LOTOS Group’s organizational maturity in 2013 287 Compliance Prevention of misconduct Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Results of the assessment of the LOTOS Group’s organizational maturity in 2013 As part of the internal control system, key organizational and process solutions have been put in place. The processes defined and deployed by the Company are characterised by a high level of organizational maturity, as evidenced by the fact that the controls have been designed in alignment with the objectives. The key control solutions have been formally established and written into the Company’s internal regulations. They work efficiently towards protecting Company value and allowing the Company to operate in a systematic and effective manner. As part of the risk management system, we have established solutions of key importance to correctly designing its operation, which play a crucial part in ensuring the delivery of the system’s main objective to support the management process and creation of added value. To ensure that the system operates properly, the Enterprise Risk Management Policy has been communicated, and participants of the risk management process, including risk owners, Risk Management Coordinator and Risk Management Committee, have been appointed. Detailed internal regulations defining the manner in which appropriate actions should be taken within the framework of the risk management system have also been established. As part of the compliance system, active steps are taken to ensure compliance of the Company’s activities and internal regulations with applicable laws. The Company also takes care to ensure the compliance of its actions with the requirements laid down in the organization’s internal regulations. As part of the misconduct prevention system, we continued managing the risk of misconduct in a comprehensive and structured manner, while fostering a corporate culture of ethics. Solutions are in place to mitigate the risk of both external and internal misconduct. The organization is building up its knowledge of misconduct involved in its activities and is developing a systemic approach to identifying and monitoring solutions to prevent and detect misconduct. Our consistent efforts to foster a culture of ethics by raising the awareness of desirable attitudes fully support and help develop the misconduct prevention system. It takes time and consistency to achieve the expected outcomes. As part of the corporate governance system, we have established most of our key solutions, including those governing the relations between the Company’s corporate bodies and other internal relations (connected with the approach to managing the organization and its resources), which are to be consistent with applicable standards and best practices. The solutions adopted with respect to the Company’s corporate bodies and their mutual relations are generally consistent with the requirements defined in the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies. The results of the overall assessment of the Company’s organizational maturity testify to the fact that we are an organization oriented towards professionalism and adoption of the best operating and management practices. We take steps to protect Company value, as evidenced by our well-developed internal control system and corporate governance solutions, as well as by our implementation of the misconduct prevention system. We focus on being able to operate without disruptions and in compliance with the law. 288 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Corporate governance 289 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Approach to management Corporate governance strengthens our credibility as an entity listed on the WSE's regulated market, and thus the entire organization's competitive position. Therefore, we have a significant interest in implementing and complying with best practices. We are concerned about the quality of our investor relations and make every effort to ensure that they are founded on equality and developed to the satisfaction of both sides, on the basis of unambiguous and reliable communication. The information policy of Grupa LOTOS and its subsidiaries focuses on effective support of our corporate governance objectives. In 2005−2007, the Best Practices in Public Companies 2005 document, modified by general practice, discussions and the European Commission's recommendations, was used as a guide to corporate governance principles by companies wishing to nurture their long-term shareholder relations. Best practices are principles designed to establish high standards of corporate governance, which thus help bring corporate supervision into line with EU standards. From its stock market debut in June 2005, Grupa LOTOS adhered to most of the recommendations set out in this document. Then, since the beginning of 2008, it has followed the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies (more information), and its versions as amended by the WSE’s Supervisory Board in its Resolutions of October 19th 2011 and November 21st 2012, the latest of which has been in force since the beginning of 2013. In line with disclosure requirements, the Company reports on instances of incidental or permanent noncompliance with corporate governance rules. The reports are published through the Electronic Information Base (EBI), and released in two languages on the Company's investor relations website. (more information) In 2013, we complied with most of the obligatory corporate governance principles set forth in the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies. In line with the comply-or-explain principle, which provides that public companies should either comply with corporate governance rules or explain any instances of incidental or permanent non-compliance, Grupa LOTOS, acting under Par. 29.3 of the WSE Rules, released non-compliance reports via the EBI system, similarly to current reports. On May 31st 2013, we reported non-compliance with Rules 10.1 and 10.2 of Section IV of the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies, on enabling shareholders to participate in General Meetings by means of 290 Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies. In line with the comply-or-explain principle, which provides that public companies should either comply with corporate governance rules or explain any instances of incidental or permanent non-compliance, Grupa LOTOS, acting under Par. 29.3 of the WSE Rules, released Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future non-compliance reports via the EBI system, similarly to current reports. On May 31st 2013, we reported non-compliance with Rules 10.1 and 10.2 of Section IV of the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies, on enabling shareholders to participate in General Meetings by means of electronic communication. We do not provide real-time broadcast of General Meetings or publish the recordings of their proceedings, in audio or video format, on our website, although recommended to do so by Section II.1.9a of the Code. (more information) In our report, we explained that our Articles of Association do not provide for the possibility of participating in General Meetings by means of electronic communication. Further, we do not plan to make audio or video recordings of the proceedings of our General Meetings available, or to publish such recordings on our website, as we believe that our current methods of documenting the proceedings of the General Meeting already ensure the transparency of the Company's activities and protect the rights of all our shareholders. We publish adopted GM resolutions in current reports and releases posted on our website. Pursuant to Article 8.8 of the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board of Grupa LOTOS is authorised to make the decision, if any, to broadcast the proceedings of the General Meeting in real time. The possibility of ensuring compliance with the rules specified above will be examined in the future. We have in place mechanisms enabling our shareholders and employees to submit recommendations and other comments directly to members of the bodies supervising the correctness of the organization’s management processes. In line with the Polish Commercial Companies Code, the Articles of Association of Grupa LOTOS and the Rules of Procedure for its General Meeting address these issues in detail. They define the rules governing participation in the General Meeting and exercising voting rights, the manner of convening and closing the General Meeting, its opening and proceedings. Shareholders, by virtue of their rights, may influence our operations and review the activities undertaken by the Company’s management and supervisory bodies. A key shareholder right is the right to participate in the General Meeting, which accrues to all persons who are Company shareholders sixteen days prior to the date of the General Meeting, i.e. on the record date. Holders of registered shares and temporary certificates and pledgees and usufructees entitled to exercise voting rights are entitled to attend the General Meeting if they are entered in the register of shareholders at the record day. Additionally, the right to participate in the General Meeting entitles shareholders to: subm it m otions prior to and during the General Meeting, request that certain item s be placed on the agenda of the General Meeting, propose draft resolutions concerning item s which have been or are to be placed on the agenda prior to the General Meeting, propose draft resolutions concerning item s included in the agenda, or placed on the agenda during the General Meeting, take the floor during the General Meeting, object to or appeal against resolutions of the General Meeting. Moreover, shareholders representing at least 1/20 of the share capital may request that an Extraordinary General Meeting be convened and certain items be placed on its agenda. In addition to the requirements imposed by law, the rules laid down in the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies define mechanisms aimed to improve the quality of corporate relations with investors, while enhancing the protection of shareholder rights, also in matters falling outside the scope governed by law. They encourage companies to: 291 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future post on their corporate websites detailed inform ation on General Meetings, including reasons for calling off or postponing a Meeting, changes to a Meeting’s agenda together with reasons justifying such changes, notices of adjournm ent, shareholder questions relating to agenda item s asked before and during a Meeting, as well as answers to such questions, ensure that General Meetings are attended by Supervisory Board and Board m em bers, set the venue and date of General Meetings so as to enable the highest num ber of shareholders to participate, enable representatives of the press to be present at General Meetings. In 2013, the Annual General Meeting was convened on June 28th 2013 as an Ordinary General Meeting of Grupa LOTOS and reviewed and approved the financial statements and directors’ report on the operations of the Company and of the LOTOS Group in 2012; and granted discharge in respect of performance of duties to Members of the Supervisory Board and Members of the Board. Moreover, the General Meeting granted its approval for the sale of organized parts of Grupa LOTOS business which were the fuel depots in Piotrków Trybunalski and Rypin. During the Meeting, shareholder B. Kamola exercised his right to take the floor. The proposals and comments submitted by the shareholder related to the Company’s operations, primarily to financial and economic issues, the LOTOS Group strategy, the Yme project and the issue of fuel depots. Questions asked by the shareholder and answers provided by the Board have been published on the Company’s website. Moreover, the shareholder exercised his right to object to the resolution concerning approval of the directors’ report on the Company’s operations in the year ended December 31st 2012. Corporate governance structure of Grupa LOTOS 292 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Powers The Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS exercises ongoing supervision of the Company’s business, across all areas of its operations. It performs its duties collectively, but may also delegate its members to perform certain tasks or functions individually, and may set up ad hoc or standing committees to exercise supervision of specific areas of the Company’s activities. The procedures followed by the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS are defined in the Company’s Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board. Statute of Grupa LOTOS � Rules of Procedure for the General Meeting of Grupa LOTOS � Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS � Members of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS should perform their duties to a professional standard of care. Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure for the General Meeting and the rule set forth in Section I.6 of the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies, members of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS should also possess appropriate expertise and experience, and be able to devote the time necessary to perform their duties. 293 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Composition Wiesław Skwarko Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS Marcin Majeranowski Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS Oskar Pawłowski Secretary of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS Małgorzata Hirszel Member of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS Agnieszka Trzaskalska Member of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS Michał Rumiński Member of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS The Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS may be composed of five to nine members, appointed for a joint three-year term of office by the General Meeting. As long as it remains a shareholder in the Company, the State Treasury is entitled to directly appoint and remove one of the Supervisory Board members. The Supervisory Board may delegate its members to perform certain tasks or functions individually. The Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS of the eighth term of office (January 1st − December 31st 2013) No. Name and surname Function 1. Wiesła w Skwa rko Cha irm a n 2. Ma rcin Ma jera nowski Deputy Cha irm a n 3. Oska r Pa włowski Secreta ry 4. Ma łgorza ta Hirszel Mem ber 5. Agnieszka Trza ska lska Mem ber 6. Micha ł Rum iński Mem ber Number of women and men on the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS in 2011 − 2013 Year Period Total members Number of women Number of men 294 5. Agnieszka Trza ska lska Mem ber 6. Micha ł Rum iński Mem ber Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Number of women and men on the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS in 2011 − 2013 Year Period Total members Number of women Number of men Ja n 1st − Jun 27th 8 2 6 2011 Jun 27th − Nov 8th 7 2 5 Nov 8th − Dec 31st 6 1 5 Ja n 1st − Jun 27th 6 1 5 2012 Jun 27th − Nov 8th 5 1 4 Nov 8th − Dec 31st 6 2 4 2013 Ja n 1th − Dec 31st 6 2 4 295 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Standing committees of the Supervisory Board Standing committees of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS, acting as supporting, advisory and consultative bodies, include the Audit Committee, Strategy and Development Committee and Organization and Management Committee. Each committee is composed of three to five persons, appointed by the Supervisory Board from among its members. The committees are headed by chairpersons, who are appointed by the Supervisory Board from among the committee members. All Supervisory Board members have the right to participate in the meetings of each committee. The powers and duties of the committees are defined by the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and the Rules of Procedure for the individual committees. In the period from January 1st to December 31st 2013, the committees of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS were composed of the following persons: Audit Committee Micha ł Rum iński Cha irm a n Oska r Pa włowski Mem ber Wiesła w Skwa rko Mem ber Ma rcin Ma jera nowski Mem ber Strategy and Development Committee Wiesła w Skwa rko Cha irm a n Ma łgorza ta Hirszel Mem ber Micha ł Rum iński Mem ber Agnieszka Trza ska lska Mem ber Ma rcin Ma jera nowski Mem ber Organization and Management Committee (OMC) Agnieszka Trza ska lska Cha irperson Ma łgorza ta Hirszel Mem ber Oska r Pa włowski Mem ber Ma rcin Ma jera nowski Mem ber O n Ja nua ry 18 th 20 14, the S up e rvis o ry Bo a rd o f Grup a LO TO S a p p o inte d Micha ł Rum ińs ki to the O rga niza tio n a nd Ma na ge m e nt Co m m itte e . As o f tha t da te , the Co m m itte e is co m p o s e d o f the fo llo wing p e rs o ns : Agnieszka Trza ska lska Cha irperson Ma łgorza ta Hirszel Mem ber Oska r Pa włowski Mem ber Ma rcin Ma jera nowski Mem ber Micha ł Rum iński Mem ber 296 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Remuneration The rules of remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board are defined by the General Meeting. The remuneration of Supervisory Board members is subject to the limitations and conditions prescribed under the Act on Remunerating Persons Who Manage Certain Legal Entities of March 3rd 2000 (Dz.U. of 2000 No. 26, item 306, as amended).In accordance with the Act, in 2000 the Extraordinary General Meeting defined a remuneration policy for Supervisory Board members. Pursuant to the policy: Supervisory Board m em bers receive m onthly rem uneration equal to the average m onthly salary in the non-financial corporate sector, net of bonuses paid from profit in the fourth quarter of the preceding year, as announced by the President of the GUS (Central Statistics Office), The rem uneration is payable irrespective of the frequency of Supervisory Board m eetings, except if, in a given m onth, a m em ber of the Supervisory Board is absent from all m eetings held in that m onth without valid reason, If a Supervisory Board m em ber is appointed or rem oved from office during a calendar m onth, the rem uneration am ount is calculated according to their num ber of days in office, The Com pany reim burses any expenses incurred by the Supervisory Board m em bers in connection with the perform ance of their duties, and – pursuant to the Personal Incom e Tax Act – calculates and deducts personal incom e tax prepaym ents from their rem uneration. In line with amendments to the aforementioned Act, in 2013 Supervisory Board members were entitled to receive monthly remuneration calculated on the basis of the average monthly salary in the non-financial corporate sector net of bonuses paid from profit in the fourth quarter of 2009. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members in 2013 Name and surname Amount (PLN '000) Wiesła w Skwa rko 41 Ma rcin Ma jera nowski 41 Oska r Pa włowski 41 Ma łgorza ta Hirszel 41 Micha ł Rum iński 41 Agnieszka Trza ska lska 41 Total 246 297 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Independence status The term “independent members of the supervisory board” in reference to public companies was introduced in the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies, which is the cornerstone of Polish corporate governance tradition and main driver of transparency in listed companies. In accordance with Rule 6, Section III of the Code, at least two supervisory board members should meet the independence criteria set out in Annex II to the Commission Recommendation of February 15th 2005 on the role of non-executive or supervisory directors of listed companies and on the committees of the (supervisory) board. In addition, a person who is an employee of the company, its subsidiary company or its associated company, or has an actual and significant relationship with any shareholder who has the right to exercise at least 5% of all votes at the general meeting, cannot be deemed to meet these independence criteria. Independent members of the supervisory board are persons who are not linked in any way with the shareholders, the company or its employees, as such relations could potentially result in a conflict of interests. Grupa LOTOS has no information on the independence of its supervisory board members. Full compliance with Rule 6 in Section III of the Code will be ensured once the Company receives relevant confirmation that at least two existing or newly appointed members of the Supervisory Board satisfy the independence criteria, in accordance with the conditions set out by the European Commission. 298 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Avoidance of conflicts of interest Under Art. 387 of the Commercial Companies Code, which aims to prevent the combination of management and supervisory roles, particularly with respect to supervisory boards, a current member of the management board of a company, its commercial proxy, liquidator, head of a division or production facility, or internal chief accountant, legal counsel or lawyer may not sit on the company’s supervisory board. Article 387 also prohibits combining management and supervisory functions at an incorporated company in accordance with the principle that the supervised may not exercise supervision. In addition to the requirements imposed by law, pursuant to Rules 2 and 4 in Section III of the Code, a member of the supervisory board should submit to the company’s management board information on any relationship with a shareholder who holds shares representing 5% or more of all votes at the general meeting. This obligation concerns financial, family, and other relationships which may affect the position of the member of the supervisory board on issues decided by the supervisory board. Additionally, a member of the supervisory board should notify the supervisory board of any actual or potential conflicts of interest and should refrain from taking part in the discussion and from voting on the adoption of a resolution on the issue which gives rise to such a conflict of interest. These are the obligations of supervisory board members of listed companies. Members of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS make IFRS-compliant disclosures on related-party transactions in accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures for the purposes of the Company’s financial statements. According to disclosures made in 2013, two members of the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS are employed by the Ministry of State Treasury, which both claim has no influence on their duties on the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS. The remaining Supervisory Board members declare that they do not have any economic links, family ties or other relations with a shareholder holding 5% or more of total votes at the General Meeting of Grupa LOTOS and which might sway their position on matters decided by the Supervisory Board. The Company is not aware of any conflicts of interest that arose or could have arisen in 2013, which the member concerned should have notified the Supervisory Board about, and as a result of which the member should refrain from taking the floor and voting on resolutions pertaining to the matter giving rise to such conflict of interest. In addition to the above requirements, upon appointment, members of the Company’s Supervisory Board are required to make a representation to the effect that they are not engaged in any activities competing with the Company’s business, and that they are not partners in any competing partnership under civil law or another type of partnership, nor members of a governing body of an incorporated company or of any other competing legal entity. 299 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Commitment to sustainable development The Supervisory Board is an important element of the system assessing the performance, opportunities and risks of Grupa LOTOS, and ensuring that the Company’s activities in the area of sustainability remain transparent. In 2013, the Supervisory Board reviewed the core issues and areas of the Company's operations, both in the context of natural resources, as well as the Company’s social and environmental impact. In the year, the Supervisory Board met seven times and adopted 43 resolutions. Key matters pertaining to the Company’s performance, opportunities and risks in the area of sustainable development brought under discussion by the Supervisory Board in 2013 included: im plem entation of the 2013−2015 Effective and Rising Program m e, which aim s to expand and restructure the LOTOS Group, exploration and production operations, investm ent activities and the overhaul shutdown of the refinery, current financial perform ance, spending under the 2013 budget, and preparation of a new budget for 2014, refinancing of the Com pany's inventories, financing of CSR projects by Grupa LOTOS, Com pany sponsorship activities. In 2013, the committees of the Supervisory Board, viewing sustainability as an essential process for the Company and appreciating the importance of a responsible approach to business, brought the following matters under discussion: im plem entation of the LOTOS Group’s strategy, results of the audit and review of the LOTOS Group’s financial statem ents, the budget for 2014, debt servicing forecasts and liquidity m anagem ent plan, the m anagem ent of current assets, hedge accounting, the Com pany's internal audit function, organizational m aturity assessm ent, risk m anagem ent. The activities of the Supervisory Board are evaluated by the General Meeting, which has the authority to grant discharge to members of the Supervisory Board in respect of performance of their duties. The basis for the granting of such discharge is a report containing an assessment of the Company’s standing, covering the sustainable development issues detailed above, presented annually by the Supervisory Board pursuant to the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies. 300 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Powers The Board of Grupa LOTOS represents the Company before third parties and manages its corporate affairs. Individual Board members perform their duties in line with the division of powers and responsibilities resulting from their operational functions. Each member of the Board is authorised to represent the Company in all court and out-of-court transactions, with the exception of matters reserved for the General Meeting or Supervisory Board under the Commercial Companies Code or the Company’s Articles of Association, as well as matters falling outside the scope of ordinary management of the business where they require the Board’s prior resolution and matters within the powers of another member of the Board. The Board operates on the basis of the Grupa LOTOS Articles of Association and its Rules of Procedure. The documents are publicly available on the Company’s website. Statute of Grupa LOTOS � Rules of Procedure for the Board of Grupa LOTOS � 301 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Composition Paweł Olechnowicz President of the Board Mariusz Machajewski Vice-President of the Board Zbigniew Paszkowicz Vice-President of the Management Board Marek Sokołowski Vice-President of the Management Board Maciej Szozda Vice-President of the Management Board The Board of Grupa LOTOS may consist of three to seven members. Members of the Board are appointed by the Supervisory Board, which also determines their number. Board members are appointed for a joint term of three years. From January 1st to December 31st 2013 and as at the release date of this Report, the composition of the Board of Grupa LOTOS in its eighth term of office was as follows: Name and surname Function Pa weł Olechnowicz President of the Boa rd, Chief Executive Officer Ma riusz Ma cha jewski Vice-President of the Boa rd, Chief Fina ncia l Officer Zbigniew Pa szkowicz Vice-President of the Ma na gem ent Boa rd, Explora tion&Production Ma rek Sokołowski Vice-President of the Ma na gem ent Boa rd, Chief Opera tion Officer Ma ciej Szozda Vice-President of the Ma na gem ent Boa rd, Chief Com m ercia l Officer Positions held by members of the Board of Grupa LOTOS at other companies in 2013 Function on the Name and Board of Grupa Function at the surname LOTOS Company company Term of office in 2013 Pa weł President of the LOTOS Explora tion a nd Production Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t Olechnowicz Boa rd Norge AS Boa rd of Directors the relea se da te of this report Pa weł President of the Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 – Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t AB LOTOS Geona fta Olechnowicz Boa rd Boa rd of Directors the relea se da te of this report Ma riusz Vice-President of the Deputy Cha irm a n of Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t LOTOS Pa liwa Sp. z o.o. Ma cha jewski Boa rd the Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Ma riusz Vice-President of the Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t RCEkoenergia Sp. z o.o. Ma cha jewski Boa rd Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report 302 Ma riusz Ma cha jewski Vice-President of the Boa rd, Chief Fina ncia l Officer Zbigniew Pa szkowicz Vice-President of the Ma na gem ent Boa rd, Explora tion&Production Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Ma rek Sokołowski Vice-President of the Ma na gem ent Boa rd, Chief Opera tion Officer Ma ciej Szozda Vice-President of the Ma na gem ent Boa rd, Chief Com m ercia l Officer Positions held by members of the Board of Grupa LOTOS at other companies in 2013 Function on the Name and Board of Grupa Function at the surname LOTOS Company company Term of office in 2013 Pa weł President of the LOTOS Explora tion a nd Production Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t Olechnowicz Boa rd Norge AS Boa rd of Directors the relea se da te of this report Pa weł President of the Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 – Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t AB LOTOS Geona fta Olechnowicz Boa rd Boa rd of Directors the relea se da te of this report Ma riusz Vice-President of the Deputy Cha irm a n of Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t LOTOS Pa liwa Sp. z o.o. Ma cha jewski Boa rd the Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Ma riusz Vice-President of the Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t RCEkoenergia Sp. z o.o. Ma cha jewski Boa rd Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Zbigniew Vice-President of the President of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t LOTOS Petroba ltic S.A. Pa szkowicz Ma na gem ent Boa rd Ma na gem ent Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Zbigniew Vice-President of the LOTOS Explora tion a nd Production Mem ber of the Boa rd Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t Pa szkowicz Ma na gem ent Boa rd Norge AS of Directors the relea se da te of this report Ma rek Vice-President of the LOTOS Czechowice S.A. (LOTOS Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t Sokołowski Ma na gem ent Boa rd Term ina le S.A. – since July 30th 2013) Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Ma rek Vice-President of the Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t LOTOS Biopa liwa Sp. z o.o. Sokołowski Ma na gem ent Boa rd Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Ma ciej Vice-President of the Cha irm a n of the Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t LOTOS Pa liwa Sp. z o.o. Szozda Ma na gem ent Boa rd Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report Ma ciej Vice-President of the Deputy Cha irm a n of Ja n 1 − Dec 31 2013 a nd a s a t LOTOS Biopa liwa Sp. z o.o. Szozda Ma na gem ent Boa rd the Supervisory Boa rd the relea se da te of this report 303 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Remuneration As the State Treasury’s equity interest in the Company exceeds 50% (50% of the total number of shares), remuneration paid to members of the Board of Grupa LOTOS is regulated by the Act of March 3rd 2000 on Remunerating Persons Who Manage Certain Legal Entities (Dz.U. of 2000 No. 26, item 306, as amended). Under the Act, the body authorised to determine the monthly remuneration payable to President of the Board is the General Meeting. Remuneration paid to the other Board members is determined by the Supervisory Board, as provided for under the Company’s Articles of Association. The remuneration policy is discussed in greater detail in the 2012 Report. (more information) In line with an amendment to the Act, in 2013 the Board members were entitled to receive monthly remuneration calculated on the basis of the average monthly salary in the non-financial corporate sector net of bonuses paid from profit in the fourth quarter of 2009. Remuneration of the Grupa LOTOS Board members in 2013 Name and surname Amount (PLN '000) Pa weł Olechnowicz 319 Ma riusz Ma cha jewski 320 Zbigniew Pa szkowicz 260 Ma rek Sokołowski 358 Ma ciej Szozda 323 Total 1,580 304 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Avoidance of conflicts of interest As a means of avoiding conflicts of interest, the Company complies with the provisions of the Commercial Companies Code, the Rules of Procedure for the Board and the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies. If a conflict of interests arises between the Company and a Board member and persons with whom the member has personal ties, the member should refrain from swaying the Company's decisions on matters which gave rise to such conflict. Additionally, a member of the Board of Grupa LOTOS should notify the Board of any actual or potential conflicts of interest and should refrain from taking part in the discussion and from voting on the adoption of a resolution on the issue which gives rise to such a conflict of interest. Furthermore, the Board members and their immediate subordinates are prohibited from serving on the Supervisory Board of Grupa LOTOS. Members of the Board who wish to serve on management or supervisory bodies of other companies are required to seek the approval of the Company's Supervisory Board. 305 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Financial information 306 THE LOTOS GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS PLN’000 EUR’000 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 (restated) (restated) Revenue 28,597,342 33,111,000 6,791,105 7,933,439 Operating profit/(loss) 146,494 312,756 34,788 74,937 Pre-tax profit/(loss) (61,979) 366,341 (14,718) 87,776 Net profit 39,428 927,876 9,363 222,320 Net profit attributable to owners of the 39,415 927,849 9,360 222,314 Parent Net profit attributable to non-controlling 13 27 3 6 interests Total comprehensive income 123,450 1,284,223 29,316 307,702 Total comprehensive income attributable 123,439 1,284,210 29,313 307,699 to owners of the Parent Total comprehensive income attributable 11 13 3 3 to non-controlling interests Net cash from operating activities 1,436,496 1,347,080 341,129 322,762 Net cash from investing activities (938,414) (838,051) (222,848) (200,798) Net cash from financing activities (251,102) (883,278) (59,630) (211,635) Total net cash flow 246,980 (374,249) 58,651 (89,671) Basic earnings per share (PLN/EUR) 0,30 7,14 0,07 1,71 Diluted earnings per share (PLN/EUR) 0,30 7,14 0,07 1,71 PLN’000 EUR’000 As at As at As at As at Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 (restated) (restated) Total assets 20,299,617 20,027,565 4,894,776 4,898,871 Equity attributable to owners of the 9,189,307 9,065,725 2,215,786 2,217,535 Parent Non-controlling interests 289 699 70 171 Total equity 9,189,596 9,066,424 2,215,856 2,217,706 Items in the Financial Highlights table have been translated at the following EUR exchange rates: Items of the statement of financial position have been translated at the mid-exchange rates quoted by the National Bank of Poland for the last day of the reporting period: As at Dec 31 2013 As at Dec 31 2012 1 EUR = 4.1472 PLN 1 EUR = 4.0882 PLN Items of the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of cash flows have been translated using the arithmetic mean of the mid-exchange rates quoted by the National Bank of Poland for the last day of each month in the reporting period: Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 1 EUR = 4.2110 PLN 1 EUR = 4.1736 PLN THE LOTOS GROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR 2013 PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AS ENDORSED BY THE EUROPEAN UNION WITH THE AUDITOR’S OPINION (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ................................................................................................. 4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION........................................................................................................... 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS ....................................................................................................................... 6 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ........................................................................................................... 7 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.................................................................................................................................. 8 1. General information ............................................................................................................................................................... 8 2. Composition of the Group and its changes ............................................................................................................................ 8 3. Basis of preparation............................................................................................................................................................. 11 4. New standards and interpretations ...................................................................................................................................... 12 5. Material judgements and estimates ..................................................................................................................................... 13 6. Effect of final accounting for the acquisition of UAB Manifoldas and change of information presented in previous reporting periods, change of accounting policies and correction of errors ........................................................................................... 15 7. Accounting policies .............................................................................................................................................................. 17 7.1 Basis of consolidation ..................................................................................................................................................... 18 7.2 Revenue ......................................................................................................................................................................... 18 7.3 Dividend income ............................................................................................................................................................. 18 7.4 Interest ........................................................................................................................................................................... 18 7.5 Taxes ............................................................................................................................................................................. 18 7.5.1 Income tax .............................................................................................................................................................. 18 7.5.2 Value-added tax, excise duty and fuel charge ......................................................................................................... 19 7.6 Foreign currency transactions ......................................................................................................................................... 19 7.7 Property, plant and equipment ........................................................................................................................................ 20 7.8 Goodwill.......................................................................................................................................................................... 21 7.9 Other intangible assets ................................................................................................................................................... 21 7.10 Mineral resources exploration and evaluation expenditures ............................................................................................ 22 7.11 Equity-accounted and proportionately-consolidated entities ............................................................................................ 22 7.12 Leases ............................................................................................................................................................................ 22 7.13 Impairment of non-financial non-current assets ............................................................................................................... 23 7.14 Inventories ...................................................................................................................................................................... 23 7.15 Investment property ........................................................................................................................................................ 23 7.16 Trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income .................................................................................... 23 7.17 Cash and cash equivalents ............................................................................................................................................. 24 7.18 Assets held for sale ........................................................................................................................................................ 24 7.19 Equity ............................................................................................................................................................................. 24 7.20 Borrowings and other debt instruments ........................................................................................................................... 24 7.21 Employee benefit obligations .......................................................................................................................................... 24 7.21.1 Retirement severance payments, length-of-service awards and other employee benefits ....................................... 24 7.21.2 Profit distribution for employee benefits and special accounts ................................................................................. 25 7.22 Borrowing costs .............................................................................................................................................................. 25 7.23 Financial assets and liabilities ......................................................................................................................................... 25 7.24 Impairment of financial assets......................................................................................................................................... 28 7.25 Derivative financial instruments ...................................................................................................................................... 28 7.26 Hedge accounting ........................................................................................................................................................... 29 7.27 Provisions ....................................................................................................................................................................... 29 7.27.1 Provisions for decommissioning and reclamation costs ........................................................................................... 29 7.28 Trade payables, other liabilties, accruals and deferred income ....................................................................................... 30 7.29 Grants ............................................................................................................................................................................ 30 7.30 Joint ventures ................................................................................................................................................................. 30 7.31 Segment reporting .......................................................................................................................................................... 30 7.32 Contingent liabilities and assets ...................................................................................................................................... 31 7.33 Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances .................................................................................................................... 31 8. Business segments ............................................................................................................................................................. 32 9. Income and expenses ......................................................................................................................................................... 34 9.1 Expenses by nature ........................................................................................................................................................ 34 9.2 Employee benefits expense ............................................................................................................................................ 35 9.3 Other income .................................................................................................................................................................. 35 9.4 Other expenses .............................................................................................................................................................. 36 9.5 Finance income .............................................................................................................................................................. 37 9.6 Finance costs ................................................................................................................................................................. 38 10. Income tax expense ............................................................................................................................................................ 38 10.1 Tax expense ................................................................................................................................................................... 38 10.2 Corporate income tax calculated at effective tax rate and reconciliation of pre-tax profit to tax base ............................... 39 10.3 Deferred income tax ....................................................................................................................................................... 40 11. Earnings per share .............................................................................................................................................................. 42 12. Dividends ............................................................................................................................................................................ 42 13. Property, plant and equipment ............................................................................................................................................. 43 14. Goodwill .............................................................................................................................................................................. 52 15. Other intangible assets ........................................................................................................................................................ 52 16. Equity-accounted entities..................................................................................................................................................... 57 17. Assets held for sale ............................................................................................................................................................. 58 18. Trade receivables and other assets ..................................................................................................................................... 59 18.1 Change in impairment losses on receivables .................................................................................................................. 60 18.2 Finance lease receivables .............................................................................................................................................. 61 19. Inventories........................................................................................................................................................................... 61 19.1 Change in impairment losses on inventories ................................................................................................................... 62 19.2 Mandatory stocks............................................................................................................................................................ 62 2 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 20. Cash and cash equivalents .................................................................................................................................................. 62 21. Share capital ....................................................................................................................................................................... 63 22. Share premium .................................................................................................................................................................... 63 23. Cash flow hedging reserve .................................................................................................................................................. 63 24. Retained earnings ............................................................................................................................................................... 64 24.1 Restricted ability of subsidiaries of the LOTOS Group to transfer funds to the Parent in the form of dividends ................ 64 25. Exchange differences on translating foreign operations ....................................................................................................... 64 26. Non-controlling interests ...................................................................................................................................................... 64 27. Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease liabilities ........................................................................................... 65 27.1 Borrowings ..................................................................................................................................................................... 65 27.2 Notes .............................................................................................................................................................................. 69 27.3 Finance lease liabilities ................................................................................................................................................... 70 28. Derivative financial instruments ........................................................................................................................................... 71 29. Employee benefit obligations ............................................................................................................................................... 72 29.1 Obligations under length-of-service awards and post-employment benefits .................................................................... 73 29.2 Present value of future employee benefit obligations ...................................................................................................... 74 29.3 Total cost of future employee benefit payments charged to profit or loss ........................................................................ 74 29.4 Actuarial assumptions ..................................................................................................................................................... 74 29.5 Termination benefits ....................................................................................................................................................... 75 29.6 Sensitivity analysis.......................................................................................................................................................... 75 30. Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions .................................................................................................................... 77 30.1 Provisions ....................................................................................................................................................................... 78 30.2 Grants ............................................................................................................................................................................ 80 31. Financial instruments........................................................................................................................................................... 81 31.1 Carrying amount ............................................................................................................................................................. 81 31.2 Fair value hierarchy ........................................................................................................................................................ 82 31.3 Items of income, expenses, gains and losses disclosed in the statements of comprehensive income by category of financial instrument ......................................................................................................................................................... 83 32. Objectives and policies of financial risk management .......................................................................................................... 87 32.1 Risk related to prices of raw materials and petroleum products ....................................................................................... 87 32.1.1 Market risk sensitivity analysis: fluctuations in prices of raw materials and petroleum products ............................... 88 32.2 Risk related to prices of carbon (CO2) allowances .......................................................................................................... 89 32.2.1 Market risk sensitivity analysis: fluctuations in prices of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances ........................ 91 32.3 Currency risk .................................................................................................................................................................. 93 32.3.1 Sensitivity analysis with respect to market risk related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates .......................... 95 32.4 Interest rate risk .............................................................................................................................................................. 98 32.4.1 Market risk sensitivity analysis: fluctuations in interest rates ................................................................................. 101 32.5 Liquidity risk .................................................................................................................................................................. 102 32.6 Credit risk ..................................................................................................................................................................... 105 33. Capital management ......................................................................................................................................................... 105 34. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances ....................................................................................................................... 106 35. Contingent liabilities and assets ......................................................................................................................................... 107 35.1 Material court, arbitration or administrative proceedings and other risks of the Parent or its subsidiaries ...................... 107 35.2 Other contingent liabilities ............................................................................................................................................. 108 36. Related parties .................................................................................................................................................................. 109 36.1 Related-party transactions ............................................................................................................................................ 109 36.2 Group's controlling entity .............................................................................................................................................. 109 36.2.1 Transactions with related entities over which the State Treasury has control, joint control or significant influence . 109 36.3 Remuneration of members of the Management and Supervisory Boards, along with information on loans and other similar benefits granted to members of the management and supervisory staff ............................................................. 110 36.4 Remuneration paid or payable to other members of key management staff .................................................................. 111 37. Material events after the reporting period ........................................................................................................................... 111 38. Approval of the consolidated financial statements.............................................................................................................. 112 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 3 THE LOTOS GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for 2013 Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) Revenue 8 28,597,342 33,111,000 Cost of sales 9.1 (26,913,268) (30,339,959) Gross profit 1,684,074 2,771,041 Distribution costs 9.1 (1,106,746) (1,051,962) Administrative expenses 9.1 (433,984) (446,449) Other income 9.3 30,337 41,963 Other expenses 9.4 (40,659) (1,084,453) Effect of accounting for step acquisition of control (AB LOTOS Geonafta Group) 6 61,650 Loss of control over subsidiary 2 13,472 20,966 Operating profit 146,494 312,756 Finance income 9.5 135,162 302,008 Finance costs 9.6 (342,627) (248,423) Share in net loss of equity-accounted entities 16 (1,008) Pre-tax profit/(loss) (61,979) 366,341 Corporate income tax 10.1 101,407 561,535 Net profit 39,428 927,876 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit/loss: 84,174 357,244 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (13,646) (39,100) Cash flow hedges 23 120,765 472,197 Income tax on other comprehensive income 10.1 (22,945) (75,853) Items that will not be reclassified to profit/loss: (152) (897) Actuarial gain/(loss) relating to post-employment benefits (188) (1,111) Income tax on other comprehensive income 10.1 36 214 Other comprehensive income (net) 84,022 356,347 Total comprehensive income 123,450 1,284,223 Net profit attributable to: Owners of the Parent 11 39,415 927,849 Non-controlling interests 26 13 27 39,428 927,876 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Parent 123,439 1,284,210 Non-controlling interests 26 11 13 123,450 1,284,223 Net profit attributable to owners of the Parent per share (PLN) Weighted average number of shares (’000) 11 129,873 129,873 basic 11 0.30 7.14 diluted 11 0.30 7.14 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The Notes to the consolidated financial statements, presented on pages 8 to 112, are an integral part of the statements. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 4 THE LOTOS GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION for 2013 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Jan 1 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) (restated) ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 10,048,374 9,685,850 10,523,550 Goodwill 14 46,688 46,688 46,688 Other intangible assets 15 686,222 548,659 475,580 Equity-accounted entities 16 66,222 Deferred tax assets 10.3 980,284 1,121,314 400,128 Other non-current assets 18 210,981 107,232 136,291 Total non-current assets 12,038,771 11,509,743 11,582,237 Current assets Inventories 19 5,731,851 5,966,203 5,855,840 including mandatory stocks 19.2 4,250,530 4,353,207 4,427,752 Trade receivables 18 1,594,746 1,632,837 2,071,269 Current tax assets 30,755 90,566 132,876 Derivative financial instruments 28 73,935 121,334 37,202 Other current assets 18 325,079 436,121 224,404 Cash and cash equivalents 20 503,686 268,333 383,680 Total current assets 8,260,052 8,515,394 8,705,271 Assets held for sale 17 794 2,428 109,124 Total assets 20,299,617 20,027,565 20,396,632 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 21 129,873 129,873 129,873 Share premium 22 1,311,348 1,311,348 1,311,348 Cash flow hedging reserve 23 61,019 (36,801) (419,281) Retained earnings 24 7,666,833 7,627,427 6,700,396 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 25 20,234 33,878 59,100 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 9,189,307 9,065,725 7,781,436 Non-controlling interests 26 289 699 947 Total equity 9,189,596 9,066,424 7,782,383 Non-current liabilities Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease 27 4,496,190 4,462,098 5,161,474 liabilities Derivative financial instruments 28 52,876 88,325 127,364 Deferred tax liabilities 10.3 281,307 322,873 105,226 Employee benefit obligations 29 151,425 129,862 115,914 Other liabilities and provisions 30 711,845 412,260 337,561 Total non-current liabilities 5,693,643 5,415,418 5,847,539 Current liabilities Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease 27 1,715,196 2,094,602 2,427,155 liabilities Derivative financial instruments 28 21,277 91,000 140,414 Trade payables 30 2,396,086 2,174,451 2,812,259 Current tax payables 8,823 5,752 7,420 Employee benefit obligations 29 105,057 110,930 94,737 Other liabilities and provisions 30 1,169,939 1,068,988 1,244,327 Total current liabilities 5,416,378 5,545,723 6,726,312 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 40,398 Total liabilities 11,110,021 10,961,141 12,614,249 Total equity and liabilities 20,299,617 20,027,565 20,396,632 CONSOLID AT ED ST AT EMENT OF FIN ANCIAL POSITION The Notes to the consolidated financial statements, presented on pages 8 to 112 are an integral part of the statements. 5 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) THE LOTOS GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for 2013 prepared using the indirect method Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) Cash flows from operating activities Net profit 39,428 927,876 Adjustments: 1,409,414 483,446 Income tax 10.1 (101,407) (561,535) Share in net loss of equity-accounted associates 16 1,008 Depreciation and amortisation 9.1 656,065 666,465 Foreign exchange (gains)/losses 121,495 (131,686) Interest and dividends 193,156 197,801 (Gain)/loss from investing activities 11,576 977,849 Settlement and valuation of financial instruments 9.5 (112,861) (117,772) Decrease in trade receivables 23,023 453,082 Decrease/(Increase) in other assets 200,717 (197,483) Decrease/(Increase) in inventories 232,696 (108,783) Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables 238,465 (639,025) (Decrease)/Increase in other provisions and liabilities (70,378) (84,497) Increase in employee benefit obligations 15,859 29,030 Income tax paid (12,346) (64,242) Net cash from operating activities 1,436,496 1,347,080 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received 680 567 Interest received 6,988 9,316 Sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 9,429 27,727 Sale of shares 14,910 550 Repayment of loans advanced 1,536 Loss of control over subsidiary, net of cash disposed of 78,000 Sale of organised part of business 3,722 138 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets (976,975) (757,925) Acquisition of shares in related entities (13,560) (13,017) Acquisition of a subsidiary, net of cash acquired 2 (129,132) Bank deposits for financing of maintenance shutdown (45,721) Security deposits (margins) 134 586 Funds contributed to the oil extraction facilities decommissioning fund 30.1 (1,654) (1,886) Settlement of derivative financial instruments 17,912 (8,790) Net cash from investing activities (938,414) (838,051) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 27.1 963,045 542,530 Issue of notes 27.2 203,050 362,367 Cash flows attributable to changes in interest in subsidiaries not resulting in 2 (278) (182) loss of control Repayment of borrowings 27.1 (1,263,548) (1,171,040) Redemption of notes 27.2 (364,000) Interest paid (176,361) (205,185) Decrease in finance lease liabilities (16,811) (15,234) Settlement of derivative financial instruments 39,801 (32,534) Net cash from financing activities (251,102) (883,278) Total net cash flow 246,980 (374,249) Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (1,553) (27,958) Change in net cash 245,427 (402,207) Cash at beginning of the period (240,655) 161,552 Cash at end of the period 20 4,772 (240,655) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The Notes to the consolidated financial statements, presented on pages 8 to 112 are an integral part of the statements. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 6 THE LOTOS GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for 2013 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Exchange Equity differences on Cash flow Retained attributable to Non-controlling Share capital Share premium translating Total equity hedging reserve earnings owners of the interests foreign Parent PLN ’000 Note operations Jan 1 2013 129,873 1,311,348 (36,801) 7,627,427 33,878 9,065,725 699 9,066,424 Net profit 39,415 39,415 13 39,428 Other comprehensive income 97,820 (152) (13,644) 84,024 (2) 84,022 (net) Total comprehensive income 97,820 39,263 (13,644) 123,439 11 123,450 Purchase of shares from non2 143 143 (421) (278) controlling shareholders Dec 31 2013 129,873 1,311,348 61,019 7,666,833 20,234 9,189,307 289 9,189,596 Jan 1 2012 129,873 1,311,348 (419,281) 6,700,396 59,100 7,781,436 947 7,782,383 Net profit 927,849 927,849 27 927,876 Other comprehensive income 382,480 (897) (25,222) 356,361 (14) 356,347 (net) Total comprehensive income 382,480 926,952 (25,222) 1,284,210 13 1,284,223 Purchase of shares from non79 79 (261) (182) controlling shareholders Dec 31 2012 (restated) 129,873 1,311,348 (36,801) 7,627,427 33,878 9,065,725 699 9,066,424 The Notes to the consolidated financial statements, presented on pages 8 to 112, are an integral part of the statements. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 7 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. General information Grupa LOTOS Spółka Akcyjna (“Grupa LOTOS S.A.”, the “Company”, the “Parent”), was established on September 18th 1991. The Company’s registered address is ul. Elbląska 135, 80-718 Gdańsk, Poland. The core business of the LOTOS Group (the “LOTOS Group” the “Group”) consists in the production and processing of refined petroleum products and their wholesale and retail sale. The Group’s business also includes acquisition of crude oil and natural gas deposits and oil and gas production. Based on the classification applied by the Warsaw Stock Exchange, Grupa LOTOS S.A. is included in the fuel sector. 2. Composition of the Group and its changes As at December 31st 2013, the LOTOS Group comprised Grupa LOTOS S.A. (the Parent) and 34 production, service and trading companies, including:  13 direct subsidiaries of Grupa LOTOS S.A.,  21 indirect subsidiaries of Grupa LOTOS S.A. In addition, the Group holds shares in equity-accounted entities and a proportionately-consolidated entity. Detailed information on the registered addresses and business profiles of these entities, the Group’s ownership interests and the applied method of consolidation is presented below. The Group’s ownership interest Name Registered office Business profile Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Parent Production and processing of refined Grupa LOTOS S.A. Gdańsk petroleum products (mainly fuels) and Not applicable Not applicable their wholesale Direct fully-consolidated subsidiaries LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. Acquisition of crude oil and natural gas (1) (parent of another group: LOTOS Gdańsk 99.98% 99.96% deposits and hydrocarbon production Petrobaltic Group) Wholesale and retail sale of fuels and light LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk fuel oil, management of the LOTOS 100.00% 100.00% service station network Production and sale of lubricating oils and LOTOS Oil S.A. Gdańsk 100.00% 100.00% lubricants, and sale of base oils LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk Production and sale of bitumens 100.00% 100.00% LOTOS Kolej Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk Railway transport 100.00% 100.00% Maintenance of mechanical and electric LOTOS Serwis Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk operations and controlling devices, 100.00% 100.00% overhaul and repair services LOTOS LAB Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk Laboratory analyses 100.00% 100.00% LOTOS Straż Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk Fire service activities 100.00% 100.00% LOTOS Ochrona Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk Security services 100.00% 100.00% LOTOS Terminale S.A. (2) (parent of Czechowiceanother group: Storage and distribution of fuels 100.00% 100.00% Dziedzice LOTOS Terminale Group) Storage and distribution of fuels Renting LOTOS Infrastruktura S.A. (3) Jasło 100.00% 100.00% and operating of own or leased real estate LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in Kraków Dormant 100.00% 100.00% liquidation) LOTOS Park Technologiczny Sp. z o.o. Jasło Dormant 100.00% 100.00% (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 8 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The Group’s ownership interest Name Registered office Business profile Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Indirect fully-consolidated subsidiaries LOTOS Terminale Group CzechowiceProduction and distribution of electricity, RCEkoenergia Sp. z o.o. 100.00% 100.00% Dziedzice heat and gas CzechowiceProduction of fatty acid methyl esters LOTOS Biopaliwa Sp. z o.o. 100.00% 100.00% Dziedzice (FAME) LOTOS Petrobaltic Group Oil exploration and production on the LOTOS Exploration and Production Norway, Norwegian Continental Shelf, provision of (4) 99.98% 99.96% Norge AS Stavanger services related to oil exploration and production (4) Aphrodite Offshore Services N.V. Curaçao Sea transport services (dormant) 99.98% 99.96% Production of electricity, heat, LPG and (4) ENERGOBALTIC Sp. z o.o. Władysławowo 99.98% 99.96% natural gas condensate Support activities for extraction and (4, 5) B8 Sp. z o.o Gdańsk 99.98% quarrying operations (dormant) B8 Spółka z ograniczoną Exploration and production of crude oil and (4, 6) Gdańsk 99.98% odpowiedzialnością BALTIC S.K.A. natural gas (dormant) Miliana Shipholding Company Ltd. Storage and transport of crude oil, other (4) (parent of another group: Miliana Cyprus, Nicosia 99.98% 99.96% sea transport services Shipholding Group) Technical Ship Management Sp. z o.o. (parent of Sea transport support activities, ship (4) Gdańsk 99.98% 99.96% another group: Technical Ship operation advisory services Management Group) Provision of sea transport and related (4, 7) SPV Baltic Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk 99.98% services Provision of sea transport and related (4) Miliana Shipmanagement Ltd. Cyprus, Nicosia 99.98% 99.96% services Miliana Shipping Group Ltd. (4) (parent of another group: Miliana Cyprus, Nicosia Management of own assets 99.98% 99.96% Shipping Group Group) (4) Bazalt Navigation Co. Ltd. Cyprus, Nicosia Ship chartering 99.98% 99.96% Granit Navigation Company (4) Cyprus, Nicosia Ship chartering 99.98% 99.96% Ltd. Kambr Navigation Company (4) Cyprus, Nicosia Ship chartering 99.98% 99.96% Ltd. St. Barbara Navigation (4) Cyprus, Nicosia Ship chartering 99.98% 99.96% Company Ltd. (4) Petro Icarus Company Ltd. Cyprus, Nicosia Ship chartering 99.98% 99.96% Petro Aphrodite Company (4) Cyprus, Nicosia Ship chartering 99.98% 99.96% Ltd. Crude oil exploration and production, AB LOTOS Geonafta (parent of another Lithuania, (4) drilling services, and purchase and sale of 99.98% 99.96% group: AB LOTOS Geonafta Group) Gargždai crude oil Lithuania, (4) UAB Genciu Nafta Crude oil exploration and production 99.98% 99.96% Gargždai Lithuania, (4) UAB Manifoldas Crude oil exploration and production 99.98% 99.96% Gargždai Equity-accounted entities LOTOS Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. (8) (8) Gdańsk Sale of aviation fuel and logistics services 50.00% 100.00% LOTOS Petrobaltic Group Oil and gas production (support activities (4, 9) Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk 49.99% 99.96% for oil and gas production) Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną (4, 10) Gdańsk Crude oil and gas production 81,68% 99.96% odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy sp.k. Proportionately-consolidated entities AB LOTOS Geonafta Group Lithuania, (4) UAB Minijos Nafta Crude oil exploration and production 49.99% 49.98% Gargždai (1) In 2013, Grupa LOTOS S.A. continued the sqeeze-out process at LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. Following the acquisition of shares in LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. as part of the squeeze-out, as at December 31st 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. held a 99.98% interest in the share capital of LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (2) On July 30th 2013, a change of the company’s name from LOTOS Czechowice S.A. to LOTOS Terminale S.A was registered. (3) On April 18th 2013, a change of the company’s name from LOTOS Jasło S.A. to LOTOS Infrastruktura S.A. was registered. (4) (1) The shareholding changes described in item above had effect on the indirect equity interests held by the Group in the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group entities. (5) On December 30th 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. acquired 100% of shares in B8 Sp. z o.o. One of the objectives of the acquisition was to create establish a vehicle for the financing of development of the B-8 field (see below). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 9 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements (6) On December 30th 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. acquired 99.5% of shares in B8 Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością BALTIC spółka komandytowo-akcyjna, and became a limited partner in the company. B8 Sp. z o.o., holding 0.5% of the company's shares, is a minority shareholder and the general partner in the company. One of the objectives of the acquisition was to create establish a vehicle for the financing of development of the B-8 field (see below). (7) On December 20th 2013, Technical Ship Management Sp. z o.o. acquired 100% of shares in SPV Baltic Sp. z o.o. (8) On November 25th 2013, Grupa LOTOS S.A. sold 1,000 shares in LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o., representing 50% of the company's share capital, to BP Europe SE (see below). On December 17th 2013, a change of the company’s name from LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o. to LOTOS-Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. was registered. (9) The sale by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. of a 50% interest in Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. to CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. was registered on May 17th 2013. (10) The presented ownership interest was determined based on the value of contributions made by individual partners relative to the sum of all contributions as at December 31st 2013: Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. (general partner) (0.002%), LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (limited partner) (81.693%), CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. (CalEnergy) (limited partner) (18.305%). The Group’s indirect ownership interest in Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy sp. k. (a jointly-controlled entity) is 81.68%. Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy spółka komandytowa (“Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k” ) is a partnership. The partnership agreement defines the profit and loss sharing ratio, whereby Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. holds 0.001% share in profits and 100% share in losses, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. holds 50.9995% share in profits, and CalEnergy holds 48.9995% share in profits. The respective percentage shares in the total vote are not given, as any matters subject to the partners’ decision, as set forth in the partnership agreement, require unanimous approval, or the partners are required to unanimously pass a resolution determining the procedure for deciding on other matters not specified in the partnership agreement. For IFRS purposes, Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k is an entity jointly-controlled by the Group. Acquisition of Series A shares in LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. In 2013, Grupa LOTOS S.A. continued the squeeze-out of non-controlling interests in LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (excluding shares held by the State Treasury). From January 1st to December 31st 2013, the Company acquired 2,212 shares with a total value of PLN 278 thousand, representing 0.0223% of the share capital entered in the share register. In line with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, the above transactions were accounted for as equity transactions; as a result, an amount of PLN 143 thousand was recognised as retained earnings attributable to the Parent, and the value of non-controlling interests decreased by PLN 421 thousand. Following the acquisition of shares in LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. as part of the squeeze-out, as at December 31st 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. held a 99.98% interest in the share capital of LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (9,938,484 shares). CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. becomes a limited partner in Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy sp. k. On April 9th 2013, CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o. (“CalEnergy”) became a limited partner in Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy spółka komandytowa (“Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k”), a partnership established by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. for the purpose of implementing an investment agreement with CalEnergy of October 2012, which provides a framework for cooperation between the parties through a special purpose vehicle (the agreement was concluded subject to certain conditions precedent). CalEnergy made a cash contribution of PLN 5 thousand to Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k. Concurrently, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A., as the other limited partner, increased its contribution to equity from PLN 5 thousand to PLN 52,000 thousand, making a cash payment of PLN 295 thousand and an in-kind contribution worth PLN 51,700 thousand. The cooperation agreement provides development of the B-4 and B-6 fields. Under the preparatory work schedule, seismic acquisition and selection of a preliminary field development concept are scheduled for 2013–2014. Upon completion of that stage, the partners will be able to make a final decision whether to pursue development of the B-4 and B-6 fields. Acquisition of an equity interest in Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k by CalEnergy marked the end of preparation for joint operations on the two fields and the beginning of CalEnergy’s financial commitment to the project. During the preparatory work, a number of conditions precedent for project launch were met, including the transfer of licences to Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k upon LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A.’s consent. By virtue of the Minister of Environment’s decision dated March 13th 2013, the following licences were transferred to Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k:  licence for exploration and appraisal of oil and gas deposits in the Gaz Północ area,  licence for extraction of wet natural gas from the B-4 field located in the Polish exclusive economic zone of the Baltic Sea,  licence for extraction of natural gas condensate from the B-6 field located in the Polish exclusive economic zone of the Baltic Sea. Under the investment agreement, CalEnergy will finance the costs of seismic surveys, selection of the development concept and preparation of the front end engineering design. The partners’ participation in profits and losses and the percentage ownership interest in Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k, calculated on the basis of the value of contributions made by individual partners, is presented above. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 10 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Agreement on joint financing of the development of the B-8 oil field in the Baltic Sea. Acquisition of shares in special purpose vehicles On October 7th 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. and Polskie Inwestycje Rozwojowe S.A. (“PIR”) executed an agreement to jointly finance the development of the B-8 oil field in the Baltic Sea. The purpose of the agreement is to work out the terms and structure of the project financing; a special purpose vehicle (SPV) has been established, to which LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. will transfer the mining usufruct rights and the assets related to the development of the B-8 field. The tasks to be carried out by the SPV include completion of the drilling work within the field, installation of subsea production facilities, and conversion of the Petrobaltic drilling platform into a production unit. Subsequently, the SPV will produce and sell oil and gas extracted from the B8 field. PIR will have its claims subordinated to those of banks as senior lenders. The financing can take the form of a private placement of corporate bonds with restricted transferability, and the financing period should not exceed 10 years. PIR has expressed its willingness to participate in the project financing on market terms. The total cost of the B-8 project, including the value of assets contributed by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. to the SPV, stands at approximately PLN 1,600m, of which the market value of the assets contributed by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. is approximately PLN 700m, and the total external financing to be provided by banks and PIR amounts to approximately PLN 900m. Under the agreement, PIR’s share in the project financing will not exceed PLN 563m. The parties want the first tranche of the PIR financing to be advanced in the first half of 2014. The final project financing structure will be subject to further analyses and negotiations, and will be prepared in consultation with banks interested in providing funds for the project. Details of the final financing structure will be published in a report. To facilitate the financing of the B-8 field development, on December 30th 2013 LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. acquired 100% of shares in B8 Sp. z o.o. and 99.5% of shares in B8 Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością BALTIC spółka komandytowoakcyjna, and became a limited partner in the company. With a 0.5% equity interest, B8 Sp. z o.o. is a minority shareholder and general partner in B8 Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością BALTIC spółka komandytowo-akcyjna. Sale of shares in LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o. (currently LOTOS Air-BP Polska Sp. z o.o.) to a third party On November 25th 2013, Grupa LOTOS S.A. sold 1,000 shares in LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o. (currently LOTOS Air-BP Polska Sp. z o.o.), representing 50% of the company’s share capital, to BP Europe SE. The transaction was concluded under the joint venture agreement of June 25th 2013 between Grupa LOTOS S.A. and BP Europa SE, concerning establishment of a new entity based on assets of LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o., through which the two partners will pursue joint operations in the aviation fuel market. The effect of the loss of control over the subsidiary was presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 2013 under Loss of control over subsidiary, in the amount of PLN 13,472 thousand. In the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2013, net cash proceeds of PLN 14,907 thousand from the above transaction were presented under Sale of shares. Until the date of the loss of control, the subsidiary had been fully consolidated and a part of the downstream segment. As at December 31st 2013, shares in LOTOS-Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. were accounted for with the equity method. As a result of the transaction and in line with IAS 27.34.d, the Group disclosed the fair value of 50% of the shares resulting from recognition of the investment held in the former subsidiary, in the amount of PLN 14,907 thousand. The shares are disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position under Equity-accounted entities. 3. Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements (“consolidated financial statements”, “financial statements”) were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) endorsed by the European Union which were in effect as at December 31st 2013. Taking into account the ongoing process of implementing the IFRSs in the EU and the business conducted by the Group, as far as the accounting policies applied by the Group are concerned, there is no difference between the IFRS that became effective and the IFRSs endorsed by the EU for 2013, except for the new set of standards: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, which will be applied by the Group for annual periods beginning on after January 1st 2014. The following new standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretations which have been endorsed by the European Union (the “EU”) are effective in periods beginning after January 1st 2013:  IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013),  Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1st 2012),  Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013),  Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013),  IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013),  Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2012; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013),  Amendments to IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Government Loans (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013),  Amendments introduced as part of Improvements to IFRSs published in May 2012 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 11 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The Group verified these amendments and decided that they had no material impact on the accounting policies applied by the Group to prepare these consolidated financial statements. For information on the impact of amendments under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, see Note 6. The Parent's functional currency and the presentation currency of these consolidated financial statements is the Polish złoty. These consolidated financial statements were prepared in thousands of złoty and, unless indicated otherwise, all amounts are stated in thousands of złoty. 4. New standards and interpretations, which have been published, but are not applicable The following new standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the European Union (the “EU”):  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, as amended in 2011 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, as amended in 2011 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 Transition Guidance (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2013; in the EU effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting, published on June 27th 2013 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets, published on May 29th 2013 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014), Due to the Group’s obligation to apply new standards, i.e. IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27, and IAS 28 as of January 1st 2014, the Group will cease to use the method of proportionate consolidation for the annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014 and will account for shares in UAB Minijos Nafta with the equity method. Starting from January 1st 2014, the investment in UAB Minijos Nafta will be disclosed in the consolidated financial statements under Equity-accounted entities as the Group’s share in net assets of the company, accounting for changes in the assets in the future reporting periods, as well as elimination of the company's intra-Group transactions with other related parties. The Group will no longer disclose the investment as a share in UAB Minijos Nafta's assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, which were previously aggregated with the corresponding items in the consolidated financial statements. The table below presents separate financial data of UAB Minijos Nafta as at December 31st 2013, as per the Group’s ownership interest. PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Non-current assets 38,222 Current assets 14,728 Liabilities 11,056 Net assets 41,894 PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2013 Revenue 38,805 Net profit 4,730 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 12 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements New standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretations which have not been adopted by the European Union:  Amended IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement (the effective date was deferred by the IASB with no planned endorsement date given),  IFRIC 21 Levies, published on May 20th 2013 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2014),  Amendments introduced as part of the Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle, published on December 12th 2013 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1st 2014),  Amendments introduced as part of the Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle, published on December 12th 2013 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1st 2014),  Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1st 2014),  IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts, published on January 30th 2014 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1st 2016). The Group has not opted for early application of any of the standards, interpretations, or amendments which have not yet become effective. The Company’s Management Board is analysing and assessing the effect of the new standards and interpretations on the accounting policies applied by the Group and on the Group’s future financial statements. 5. Material judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards requires a number of assumptions, judgements and estimates which affect the value of items disclosed in these financial statements. Although the assumptions and estimates are based on the management’s best knowledge of the current and future events and developments, the actual results might differ from the estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Any change in an accounting estimate is recognised in the period in which it has been made if it refers exclusively to that period, or in the current period and future periods if it refers to both the current period and future periods. Material assumptions used in making the estimates are described in the relevant notes to these financial statements. While making assumptions, estimates and judgements, the Parent's Management Board (Management Board) relies on its experience and knowledge and may take into consideration opinions, analyses and recommendations issued by independent experts. Apart from the accounting estimates, the professional judgement of the management was of key importance in the application of the accounting policies in the cases described below. Employee benefit obligations Employee benefit obligations are estimated using actuarial methods. For information on actuarial assumptions and valuation of employee benefit obligations see Note 29.4. Amortisation and depreciation Depreciation/amortisation charges are determined based on the expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. The Group reviews the useful lives of its assets annually, based on current estimates. The relevant estimate update which had an effect on the Group's financial statements for 2013 chiefly involved a PLN 8,619 thousand decrease in depreciation at the Parent. Depreciation/amortisation of the assets of onshore and offshore oil and gas facilities is calculated (with the units-of-production depreciation method) based on 2P-category hydrocarbon reserve estimates (proved and probable reserves), evaluated, reviewed and updated by the Group, as well as forecast production volumes for the individual fields based on geological data, test production, subsequent production data and the schedule of work adopted in the long-term strategy. In 2013, the Group made an adjustment to its estimates of hydrocarbon resources used for calculating (with the units-ofproduction amortisation method) the amortisation of intangible assets in the upstream segment at the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group companies in Lithuania. The change in estimates resulted in lower value of resources used for calculating (with the unitsof-production amortisation method) the amortisation of Lithuanian exploration and production licences in 2013 and increased the amortisation charge for these assets in these financial statements by PLN 5,669 thousand (LTL 4,648 thousand). Following the purchase of a portfolio of Heimdal assets on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, the estimated oil and gas resources increased, which will affect the depreciation/amortisation (with the unit-of-production method) of the Group's production assets as of January 1st 2014. Fair value of financial instruments Fair value of financial instruments for which no active market exists is measured with the use of appropriate valuation methods. In selecting the methods and assumptions appropriate for these objectives, the Group relies on professional judgement. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 13 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements For more information on the assumptions adopted for the measurement of fair value of financial instruments, see Note 7.23. Deferred tax assets The Group recognises deferred tax assets if it is assumed that taxable profit will be generated in the future against which the asset can be utilised. If taxable profit deteriorates in the future, this assumption may prove invalid. The Parent's Management Board reviews its estimates regarding the likelihood of recovering deferred tax assets taking into account changes in the factors on which such estimates were based, new information and past experience. For information on deferred tax assets, see Note 10.3. Impairment of cash-generating units, individual items of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, as at the end of each reporting period it is assessed whether there are any indicators of impairment of cash-generating units and individual assets. Impairment indicators may be external and may relate to market variables (including fluctuations in prices, FX rates, stock prices, interest rates and other variables related to current economic trends), and may also follow from plans, actions and developments at the Group, such as decisions concerning change, discontinuation, limitation or development of its business, technology changes, or efficiency and investment initiatives. If there is any indication of impairment, the Group is required to estimate recoverable amounts of assets and cash-generating units. While determining such recoverable amounts, the Group takes into account such key variables as discount rates, growth rates and price ratios. Having analysed cash flows for individual cash-generating units and run the required impairment tests for assets, the Group performed necessary adjustments to assets and presented the effect of those adjustments in these consolidated financial statements. For information on property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets see Notes 13, 14 and 15, which also describe the assumptions and results of impairment tests of these assets performed by the Group in 2013 and in the comparative period. Provision for decommissioning of oil and gas facilities and land reclamation As at the end of the reporting period, the Group analyses the costs necessary to decommission oil and gas facilities and the expenditure to be incurred on future land reclamation. As a result of those analyses, the Group adjusts the value of the land reclamation provision recognised in previous years to reflect the amount of estimated necessary future costs. Any changes in the estimated time value of money are also reflected in the amount of the provision. For information on the rules for recognition of these provisions and information on provisions disclosed in these financial statements for 2013 see Note 7.27.1 and Note 30.1, respectively. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances Emissions trading is a climate policy instrument designed to reduce pollutant emissions. Poland's obligation to participate in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme stems from the commitments it accepted under the Kyoto Protocol, a legally binding international agreement, setting out a long-term plan for reducing emissions of six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide. The emissions trading mechanism was set up in 2005 under directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The relevant EU legislation was implemented into Polish law with the Act on Trading in Emission Allowances for Greenhouse Gases and Other Substances of December 22nd 2004, subsequently superseded by the Act on Trading in Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowances of April 28th 2011. In 2012 and 2013, extensive work was carried out on a new bill to govern emissions trading, which was put for public consultations at the end of December 2013 and beginning of January 2014. The proposed new regulations introduce a number of changes to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme in the 20132020 settlement period (phase III of the EU CO2 Emissions Trading Scheme). As at December 31st 2013, these changes are not effective and they do not affect the estimates shown in these financial statements. However, the Group continues to monitor the legislative process, and will account for its result while managing risk related to carbon emission allowances in periods following introduction of the changes. CO2 emission allowances are presented by the Company in its financial statements in accordance with the net liability approach, which means that the Group recognises only those liabilities that result from exceeding the limit of emission allowances granted, and the liability is recognised only after the Group actually exceeds the limit. As the European Commission approved the planned allowance limits for the final group of Member States, including Poland, before the release of these financial statements, the Management Board is of the opinion that the Group will be able to use the allocated allowances for 2013 to settle emissions in line with the CO2 emission settlement schedule for 2013, i.e. by the end of April 2014. For information on carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances, see Notes 7.33, 32.2, and 34. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 14 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 6. Effect of final accounting for the acquisition of UAB Manifoldas and change of information presented in previous reporting periods, change of accounting policies and correction of errors Change in comparative data relating to the final accounting for the acquisition of shares in UAB Manifoldas by AB LOTOS Geonafta On September 27th 2012, AB LOTOS Geonafta concluded an agreement for purchase of 50% of shares in UAB Manifoldas from a natural person. On November 28th 2012, after clearance from the Lithuanian anti-trust authority was obtained and other contractual conditions were fulfilled, AB LOTOS Geonafta acquired a 50% interest in UAB Manifoldas. The acquisition price of the 50% of shares in UAB Manifoldas comprised the base purchase price of PLN 101,773 thousand and the amount of PLN 7,899 thousand being the difference between UAB Manifoldas's receivables and liabilities. Following the transaction, as at December 31st 2012 AB LOTOS Geonafta, a company of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group, held a 100% interest in UAB Manifoldas. AB LOTOS Geonafta is the parent of another group (the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group), composed of:  UAB Manifoldas (fully consolidated, 100% of shares held by AB LOTOS Geonafta),  UAB Genciu Nafta (fully consolidated, 100% of shares held by AB LOTOS Geonafta),  UAB Minijos Nafta (consolidated with proportionate method, 50% of shares held by AB LOTOS Geonafta). Given the fact that prior to November 28th 2012 AB LOTOS Geonafta held 50% of shares in UAB Manifoldas, the transaction described above, within the meaning of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, is accounted for as a business combination achieved in stages (step acquisition). In the case of a step acquisition, the acquirer remeasures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its combination-date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or loss in the statement of comprehensive income. The business combination of November 28th 2012 (“purchase date”, “acquisition date” or “combination date”) was initially accounted for as at December 31st 2012. In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, a business combination must be finally accounted for within a year from the acquisition date. The transaction was finally accounted for retrospectively in the consolidated financial statements; accordingly, the comparative data was adjusted to reflect the fair value measurement of the acquired net assets. Finally determined values and their effect on the comparative data for the date of assuming control, that is November 28th 2012, are presented below. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 15 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Initial determination of Final determination of acquisition-date fair acquisition-date fair Effect of final value value accounting for the acquisition November 28th 2012 November 28th 2012 PLN ’000 Consideration paid (fair value as at the date of 109,672 109,672 acquiring 50% of shares in the acquiree) (A) Combination-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held 50% equity interest in the acquiree 109,672 109,672 (B) Total (A+B) 219,344 219,344 Equity interest in the acquiree 100% 100% Assets and liabilities of the acquiree: Non-current assets, including: 213,184 217,274 4,090 Property, plant and equipment 35,121 35,121 Intangible assets 177,725 181,815 4,090 Current assets, including: 45,095 45,596 501 Inventories 1,745 2,246 501 Trade receivables 29,612 29,612 Cash and cash equivalents 13,713 13,713 Total acquired assets 258,279 262,870 4,591 Non-current liabilities, including: 30,414 31,102 688 Deferred tax liabilities 26,659 27,347 688 Other liabilities and provisions 3,755 3,755 Current liabilities 8,521 8,521 Total assumed liabilities 38,935 39,623 688 Acquired net assets (C) 219,344 223,247 3,903 Interest in acquired net assets 219,344 219,344 Gain on bargain purchase (C-A-B) 3,903 3,903 (A) Represents the fair value of the payment for 50% of shares in UAB Manifoldas acquired on November 28th 2012. (B) Represents the fair value of the 50% interest in the consolidated net assets of UAB Manifoldas previously held by AB LOTOS Geonafta (before November 28th 2012). (C) Represents the acquisition-date fair value of identifiable net assets of UAB Manifoldas. The Group recognised identifiable intangible assets representing licences held by UAB Manifoldas, under which the licensee has the right to operate crude oil fields in the Republic of Lithuania. The value of the licences was measured at PLN 181,815 thousand (LTL 152,747 thousand), taking into consideration tax effect of PLN 27,272 thousand (LTL 22,912 thousand), computed at the 15% tax rate applicable in the Republic of Lithuania. The fair value of licences identified in the business combination was measured with the excess earnings method subject to the prudent valuation principle. Based on the Group’s current geological expert analyses of the reserves, confirmed by reports of independent experts, as well as current estimated production levels and credible projections of oil market prices used in calculation, the fair value of the licences measured as at the day of final accounting for the acquisition of UAB Manifoldas was slightly higher than initial estimates. As a result, the Group disclosed a surplus of fair value of the acquired net assets over the price paid and recognised a gain on bargain purchase. The Group recognised a gain on bargain purchase of PLN 3,903 thousand (LTL 3,279 thousand) and presented it in the statement of comprehensive income as an adjustment to comparative data under Effect of accounting for step acquisition of control (GK AB LOTOS Geonafta). The calculation of the adjustment of comparative data in the statement of financial position is presented in the table below. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 16 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Adjustment to Adjustment in the Adjustment to Effect of final exchange statement of amortisation of accounting for the differences on financial position intangible assets acquisition translating foreign as at December and its tax effect operations 31st 2012 PLN ’000 Assets Intangible assets 4,090 125 (24) 4,191 Inventories 501 (3) 498 Total 4,591 125 (27) 4,689 Equity and liabilities Retained earnings 3,903 106 4,009 Exchange differences on translating (24) (24) foreign operations Deferred tax liabilities 688 19 (3) 704 Total 4,591 125 (27) 4,689 Change in the Group’s accounting policies following application of the amended IAS 19 Employee benefits, and other presentation changes related to employee benefits The Group applied the amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits in its 2013 financial statements and restated the relevant data for the comparative period ended December 31st 2012. The restatement involved disclosure of actuarial gains/losses on measurement of certain post-employment benefits in other comprehensive income. These changes, reflected in Retained earnings, had no effect on the presentation in the statement of financial position or in the statement of changes in equity, and their impact on the statement of comprehensive income was immaterial. Starting from 2013, the Group recognises the cost of discount on its employee benefit obligations in finance costs rather than in operating profit/loss, as was the case earlier. The Group's comparative data in the statement of comprehensive income for 2012 was adjusted accordingly. As a result, the finance costs rose and the operating profit/loss increased by PLN 6,544 thousand. Other changes The Group reclassified some of its costs (amortisation/depreciation, overhauls, real property tax) previously recognised as administrative expenses, into cost of sales. The Group's comparative data for the year ended December 31st 2012 was restated accordingly. As a result, administrative expenses decreased by PLN 17,481 thousand, while cost of sales increased by the same amount. In the statement of financial position, the Group changed the presentation of selected receivables and payables, previously disclosed under Trade receivables/payables. Following these changes, comparative data was restated – Trade receivables as at December 31st 2012 decreased by PLN 7,523 thousand, while Other current assets as at that date increased by the same amount, and by PLN 4,293 thousand as at January 1st 2012. Trade payables as at December 31st 2012 declined, while Other provisions and liabilities rose by PLN 4,309 thousand as at December 31st 2012 and by PLN 9,483 thousand as at January 1st 2012. The Company offset prepayments with corresponding property insurance liabilities, as a result of which the presented comparative data as at December 31st 2012 and January 1st 2012 was restated. In the statement of financial position, Other current assets and Other liabilities and provisions decreased by PLN 33,503 thousand as at December 31st 2012 and by PLN 26,588 thousand as at January 1st 2012. In the statement of comprehensive income, the Group applied uniform rules for the presentation of gains and losses in Other income/expenses. Gains and losses on disposal of non-financial non-current assets, impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses on property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and receivables, as well as the recognition and release of provisions are presented on a net basis, under Other income / expenses. The change was applied also to the comparative data. 7. Accounting policies These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost principle, except with respect to financial instruments, which are measured at fair value. The key accounting policies applied by the Group are presented below. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 17 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 7.1 Basis of consolidation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the financial statements of the Parent and financial statements of its subsidiaries, jointly-controlled entities and associates, prepared as at December 31st 2013. All significant balances and transactions between the related entities, including material unrealised profits on transactions, have been eliminated in their entirety. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless they are indicative of impairment. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated starting from the date when the Group assumes control over them and cease to be consolidated when the control is lost. The Company is deemed to exert control when it holds, directly or through its subsidiaries, more than 50% of the votes in a given entity, unless it is possible to prove that the ownership of over 50% of the votes is not tantamount to exerting control. The Company’s ability to decide on an entity's financial and operational policies, even where it does not hold the majority of votes in that entity, is also deemed exerting control. As at the end of the reporting period, the Company held shares in an equity-accounted jointly-controlled entity. 7.2 Revenue Revenue is disclosed at the fair value of consideration received or due for the sale of products, merchandise and services, executed in the ordinary course of business, less discounts, value added tax (VAT) and other sales-related taxes (excise duty, fuel charge). Revenue from sale of products and merchandise is recognised at the moment of delivery, when material risk and benefits resulting from the ownership of the products and merchandise have been transferred to the purchaser. 7.3 Dividend income Dividend is recognised as finance income as at the date on which the appropriate governing body of the dividend payer adopts a resolution concerning distribution of profit, unless the resolution specifies another dividend record date. 7.4 Interest income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues (using the effective interest rate), unless its receipt is doubtful. 7.5 Taxes 7.5.1 Income tax Mandatory decrease in profit/(increase in loss) comprises: current income tax (CIT) and deferred income tax. The current portion of income tax is calculated based on net profit/(loss) (taxable income) for a given financial year. Net profit (loss) for tax purposes differs from net profit (loss) for accounting purposes due to temporary differences between revenue amounts calculated for these two purposes, including income which is taxable and costs which are tax-deductible in a period other than the current accounting period, as well as permanent differences attributable to income and cost which will never be accounted for in tax settlements. Tax charges are calculated based on the tax rates effective for a given financial year. For the purposes of financial reporting, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities using the balance-sheet liability method in relation to all temporary differences existing as at the end of the reporting period between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts disclosed in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liability is recognised for all taxable temporary differences:  except to the extent that the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination, and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting pre-tax profit nor taxable profit (tax loss), and  in the case of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, jointly-controlled entities or associates and interests in joint ventures, unless the investor is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are disclosed in relation to all deductible temporary differences, unused tax assets, and unused tax losses brought forward in the amount of the probable taxable income which would enable these differences, assets and losses to be used:  except to the extent that the deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination, and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting pre-tax profit nor taxable income (tax loss), and  in the case of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, jointly-controlled entities or associates and interests in joint ventures, the related deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position to the extent it is probable that in the foreseeable future the temporary differences will be reversed and taxable income will be generated which will enable the deductible temporary differences to be offset. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is revised as at the end of each reporting period and is subject to appropriate reduction to the extent it is no longer probable that taxable income sufficient for its partial or full realisation would be generated. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 18 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are calculated using tax rates expected to be effective at the time of realisation of particular asset or liability, based on tax rates (and tax legislation) effective as at the end of the reporting period or tax rates (and tax legislation) which as at the end of the reporting period are certain to be effective in the future. The effect of deferred tax on items posted directly to equity is recognised in equity through other comprehensive income. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented in the statement of financial position in the amount obtained after they are offset for particular entities consolidated by the Company. 7.5.2 Value-added tax (VAT), excise duty and fuel charge Revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities are recognised net of value-added tax, excise duty and fuel charge:  except where the value-added tax (VAT) paid on the purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the tax authorities (in such a case it is recognised in the cost of a given asset or as part of the cost item), and  except in the case of receivables and payables which are recognised inclusive of the value-added tax (VAT), excise duty and fuel charge. The net amount of the value-added tax (VAT), excise duty and fuel charge which is recoverable from or payable to tax authorities is carried in the statement of financial position under receivables or liabilities, as appropriate. 7.6 Foreign currency transactions Business transactions denominated in foreign currencies are reported in the consolidated financial statements after translation into the Group's presentation currency (Polish złoty) at the following exchange rates:  the exchange rate actually applied on that date due to the nature of the transaction – in the case of sale or purchase of foreign currencies;  the mid rate quoted for a given currency by the National Bank of Poland (the “NBP”) for the day immediately preceding the transaction date – in the case of payment of receivables or liabilities where there is no rationale for using the exchange rate referred to above, and for other transactions. The exchange rate applicable to purchase invoices is the mid rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland for the last business day immediately preceding the invoice date, and the exchange rate applicable to sales invoices is the mid rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland for the last business day immediately preceding the date of sale. Any foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from currency translation (including intra-Group foreign currency transactions) are posted to the statement of comprehensive income, except for foreign exchange gains and losses which are treated as a part of borrowing costs and are capitalised in property, plant and equipment (foreign exchange gains and losses on interest and fees and commissions). Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate effective as at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate effective as at the date of determining the fair value. The Company calculates realised and unrealised foreign exchange gains (losses) separately and recognises the resulting total balance in the statement of comprehensive income under:  operating profit or loss: in the case of foreign exchange gains and losses related to settlement of trade receivables and payables,  finance gain or loss: in the case of borrowings, investment commitments, and cash and cash equivalents. Exchange differences on valuation as at the end of the reporting period of short-term investments (e.g. shares and other securities, loans advanced, cash and cash equivalents) and receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are charged to finance income or costs and operating income or expenses. The financial statements of foreign entities are translated into the presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements at the following exchange rates:  items of the statement of financial position – at the mid rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland for the end of the reporting period (mid rate quoted by the NBP for the end of the reporting period),  items of the statement of comprehensive income – at the exchange rate computed as the arithmetic mean of mid rates quoted by the National Bank of Poland for the end of each month in the reporting period (NBP's average mid rate in the reporting period). The resulting exchange differences are recognised in equity and other comprehensive income as a separate component. Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms a part of a reporting entity's net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and other comprehensive income, and on disposal of the investment they are reclassified to consolidated profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income. At the time of disposal of a foreign entity, the accumulated exchange differences recognised in equity and relating to this foreign entity are disclosed in profit or loss. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets or liabilities of the foreign operation and are translated into the presentation currency of the financial statements at the exchange rate effective for the end of the reporting period. The following exchange rates were used in the valuation of items of the statement of financial position: (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 19 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements (1) (2) NBP’s mid-exchange rate quoted for: Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 USD 3.0120 3.0996 EUR 4.1472 4.0882 NOK 0,4953 0.5552 LTL 1.2011 1.1840 (1) Mid-exchange rates table, effective for December 31st 2013. (2) Mid-exchange rates table, effective for December 31st 2012. The following exchange rates were used in the valuation of items of the statement of comprehensive income: NBP's average exchange rate for the reporting (1) (2) period ended Dec 31 2013 ended Dec 31 2012 USD 3,1653 3.2312 EUR 4.2110 4.1736 NOK 0.5357 0.5594 LTL 1.2196 1.2087 (1) Based on the arithmetic mean of the mid rates quoted by the NBP for the last day of each full month in the period January 1st–December 31st 2013. (2) Based on the arithmetic mean of the mid rates quoted by the NBP for the last day of each full month in the period January 1st–December 31st 2012. 7.7 Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment other than land are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Land is measured at cost less impairment losses. In the case of perpetual usufruct rights to land, cost is understood to mean the amount paid for the right to a third party. Perpetual usufruct rights to land obtained free of charge are capitalised at fair value in the accounting books. Initial value of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises its cost, which includes all costs directly related to its acquisition and bringing it to working condition for its intended use. The cost also includes the cost of replacing component parts of plant and equipment, which is recognised when incurred, if relevant recognition criteria are fulfilled. Costs incurred on an asset which is already in service, such as costs of repairs or overhauls or operating fees, are expensed in the reporting period in which they were incurred. Items of property, plant and equipment (including their components), other than land and property, plant and equipment used for crude oil production, are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which are as follows: Buildings and structures over 1 year – 80 years Plant and equipment over 1 year – 25 years Vehicles and other over 1 year – 15 years Items of property, plant and equipment used in crude oil and gas production are depreciated using the units-of-production depreciation method, i.e. depreciation per unit of production is charged to expenses. The depreciation rate is estimated by reference to forecasts of crude oil production from a given geological area. If the estimated hydrocarbon reserves (in 2P category – proved and probable reserves) change significantly as at the end of the reporting period, depreciation per unit of produced crude oil is remeasured. Then, starting from the new financial year, the revised depreciation rate is applied. An item of property, plant and equipment may be removed from the statement of financial position if it is sold or if the company does not expect to realise any economic benefits from its further use. Any gains or losses on derecognition of an asset from the statement of financial position (calculated as the difference between net proceeds from its sale, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset) are disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of derecognition. The residual value, useful economic life and depreciation method are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted – if required – with effect from the beginning of the next financial year. In its consolidated financial statements, under property, plant and equipment the Group discloses assets corresponding to the value of provision for decommissioning of oil and gas facilities. The assets were recognised in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, which reads: “The cost of an item of property, land and equipment comprises […] the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs when the item is acquired or as a consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes other than to produce inventories during that period”. The Group’s obligation to incur costs of decommissioning of the oil and gas extraction facilities results directly from the reasons specified in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. Under paragraph 63 of the standard, the entities applying the IAS are obliged to test the value of the asset periodically, at least as at the end of the reporting period. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 20 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Revaluation of assets so recognised may be caused by:  change in estimated cash outflow necessary to ensure performance of the decommissioning obligation,  change in the current market discount rate,  change in the inflation rate. Items of property, plant and equipment under construction are measured at the amount of aggregate costs directly attributable to their acquisition or production (including finance costs) less impairment losses, if any. Items of property, plant and equipment under construction are not depreciated until they are ready for their intended use. Property, plant and equipment under construction (including assembly) are recognised at cost. Finance costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment under construction include their costs, in line with the policies described in Note 7.22. Cost of exploration for crude oil and natural gas is capitalised as property, plant and equipment under construction until the deposit volume and the economic viability of production are determined. Upon confirmation of the existence of reserves whose extraction is technically and economically viable, the expenditure incurred on exploration is transferred to property, plant and equipment and is subsequently depreciated. If exploration drillings do not result in discovery of any reserves whose extraction is technically and economically viable, impairment losses on property, plant and equipment under construction are recognised and charged to profit or loss of the period in which it is found that commercial production from the discovered deposits is not viable. 7.8 Goodwill The acquirer recognises the aquiree’s goodwill on acquisition, equal to the excess of the difference between (A) the amount of consideration transferred, measured at its acquisition-date fair value, including the value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, (B) the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (in the case of a business combination achieved in stages), and (C) the net of the acquisition-date amount, including all identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, measured at fair values as at the transaction date. Goodwill = (C) (A) (B) In the case of a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer remeasures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or loss in the statement of comprehensive income. Following the initial recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less cumulative impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment once a year. It is not amortised. As at the date of assuming control, the acquired goodwill is allocated to every identifiable cash-generating unit. The Group calculates impairment of value by estimating the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit relevant to a given part of goodwill. If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is lower than its carrying amount, the Group recognises an impairment loss. If goodwill comprises a part of a cash-generating unit and the Group sells a part of the cash-generating unit's business, the goodwill pertaining to the sold business is included in the carrying amount of the sold business for the purpose of calculating gains or losses on disposal of the part of business. In such a case, goodwill pertaining to the sold business should be measured using the relative value of the sold business, pro-rata to the interest in the retained part of the cash-generating unit. 7.9 Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill comprise licences for production and exploration of crude oil in Lithuania purchased as part of a business combination, expenditure incurred on gas and oil exploration licences on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, other production and exploration licences, software licences, patents, trademarks and acquired CO 2 emission allowances. Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost, if they are acquired in separate transactions. Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised at fair value as at the transaction date. Subsequent to initial recognition, measurement of intangible assets accounts for accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Lithuanian licences obtained during the step acquisition of AB LOTOS Geonafta Group companies are amortised using the unitof-production method, i.e. amortisation per unit of produced crude oil is charged to expenses. The amortisation rate is estimated by reference to forecasts of crude oil production from a given field. If the estimated hydrocarbon reserves (in 2P category – proved and probable reserves) change significantly as at the end of the reporting period, amortisation per unit of produced crude oil is remeasured. Then, starting from the new financial year, the revised amortisation rate is applied. Expenditure on exploration licences on the Norwegian Continental Shelf is not amortised until the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extraction is demonstrated. Accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure is presented below. Other intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The expected useful lives of the Group’s intangible assets range from 2 to 40 years. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset are reviewed at the end of each financial year. Changes in the expected useful life or pattern of generation of the future economic benefits embodied in an intangible asset are reflected by changing the amortisation period or amortisation method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 21 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Except capitalised development expenditure, expenditure on intangible assets produced by the Company is not capitalised but is charged to expenses in the period in which it was incurred. 7.10 Mineral resources exploration and evaluation expenditures Exploration for and evaluation (appraisal) of mineral resources means the search for crude oil, natural gas and similar nonregenerative resources and determination of the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource. From the moment of obtaining the exploration right to a given area to the moment of determination of the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource, expenditure directly connected with exploration for and evaluation of oil and gas resources is recognised as an exploration and evaluation asset. The expenditure includes the costs of acquisition of exploration rights, costs of the exploration rig, salaries and wages, consumables and fuel, insurance, costs of geological and geophysical surveys, as well as costs of other services. The Group classifies the exploration and evaluation assets as property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, depending on the type of the acquired assets, and applies this classification policy in a consistent manner. Once the size of a deposit is confirmed and its production plan is approved, the expenditure is transferred to appropriate items of intangible assets or property, plant and equipment. The Group examines the need to recognise impairment losses on exploration and evaluation assets in relation to a specific area by considering the following:  the period for which the Group has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the current financial year or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed,  no substantial expenditure on further exploration for and appraisal of mineral resources is anticipated,  exploration for and appraisal of mineral resources have not led to discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the Group has decided to discontinue such activities,  sufficient data exist to indicate that, although development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale. 7.11 Equity-accounted and proportionately-consolidated entities Equity-accounted entities Investments in equity-accounted entities are recognised in the statement of financial position at cost, adjusted for subsequent changes in the Group’s share in net assets of the entities, less impairment losses, if any. The statement of comprehensive income reflects the share in the results of operations of such entities, and if a change is recognised directly in their equity, the Group recognises its share in each change and, if applicable, discloses it in the statement of changes in equity. Proportionate consolidation All assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of an entity subject to proportionate consolidation are individually aggregated with the corresponding items in the financial statements, in accordance with the Group's share in the entity's net assets. The Group ceases to apply proportionate consolidation after it ceases to exercise joint control over the entity. For the list of equity-accounted and proportionately-consolidated entities, see Note 2. 7.12 Leases A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset onto the lessee. All other types of leases are treated by the Group as operating leases. The Group as a lessor Finance leases are disclosed in the statement of financial position as receivables, at amounts equal to the net investment in the lease less the principal component of lease payments for a given financial year calculated based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the lessor's net investment outstanding in respect of the finance lease. Finance income from interest on a finance lease is disclosed in the relevant reporting periods based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding in respect of the finance lease. Income from operating leases is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Group as a lessee Assets used under a finance lease are recognised as assets of the Group and are measured at fair value as at the acquisition date or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. The resultant obligation towards the lessor is presented in the statement of financial position under Finance lease liabilities. Lease payments are broken down into the interest component (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 22 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements and the principal component so as to produce a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Operating lease payments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 7.13 Impairment of non-financial non-current assets As at the end of the reporting period, the Group assesses whether there is an indication of impairment of any of its assets. If the Group finds that there is such indication, or if the Group is required to perform annual impairment tests, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of a given asset. The recoverable amount of an asset is equal to the higher of:  the fair value of the asset or cash generating unit in which such asset is used, less cost to sell, or  the value in use of the asset or cash generating unit in which such asset is used. The recoverable amount is determined for the individual assets, unless a given asset does not generate separate cash flows largely independent from those generated by other assets or asset groups. If the carrying amount of an asset is higher than its recoverable amount, the value of the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is recognised up to the established recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the projected cash flows are discounted to their present value (at a pre-tax discount rate) which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Any impairment losses on non-financial assets used in operations are recognised under other expenses. As at the end the reporting period, the Group assesses whether there is an indication that any impairment loss recognised in the previous periods with respect to a given asset should be reduced or reversed in full. If there is such indication, the Group again estimates the recoverable amount of the asset and the recognised impairment loss is reversed accordingly only if following the recognition of the most recent impairment loss there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the asset. In such a case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased up to its recoverable amount. The increased value may not exceed the carrying amount of the asset that would have been determined (net of accumulated amortisation/depreciation) if no impairment losses had been recognised on that asset in the previous years. Reversal of an impairment loss on a non-financial non-current assets is immediately recognised as Other income. Following reversal of an impairment loss, in the subsequent periods the amortisation/depreciation charge related to a given asset is adjusted so that over the remaining useful life of that asset its revised carrying amount, less its residual value, can be regularly written off. The Group offsets corresponding items of other income and expenses in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Section 34) and recognises them in the statement of comprehensive income on a net basis. 7.14 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs incurred in order to bring each inventory item to its present location and condition are accounted for in the following manner:  materials and merchandise – at cost,  finished goods and work-in-progress – at the cost of direct materials and labour and an appropriate portion of indirect production costs, established on the basis of normal capacity utilisation. Net realisable value is the selling price estimated as at the end of the reporting period, net of value added tax, excise duty and fuel charge, less any rebates, discounts and other similar items, and less the estimated costs to complete and costs to sell. Decrease in inventories is established with the weighted average method. Mandatory stocks are disclosed as current assets given their short turnover cycle. For more information on mandatory stocks, see Note 19.2. 7.15 Investment property Investment property is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Investment property, including investments in land, perpetual usufruct of land, buildings and structures, include property which the Group does not use for its own purposes but which will generate benefits in the form of value appreciation or rent income. 7.16 Trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income Trade receivables, which typically become due and payable in 7 to 60 days, are recognised and carried at amounts initially invoiced, less impairment losses on doubtful receivables. Impairment losses on receivables are estimated when the collection of (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 23 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements the full amount of receivables is no longer probable. Uncollectible receivables are written off through the statement of comprehensive income when recognised as unrecoverable accounts. If the effect of time value of money is significant, the value of receivables is determined by discounting the projected future cash flows to their present value at a pre-tax discount rate reflecting the current market estimates of the time value of money. If the discount method is applied, an increase in receivables over time is recognised as finance income. The Group recognises prepayments where costs relate to future reporting periods; prepayments are recognised under other non-financial assets. 7.17 Cash and cash equivalents Cash in hand and at banks, as well as short-term deposits held to maturity are measured at face value. Cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise cash in hand, overdraft facilities as well as those bank deposits maturing within three months which are not treated as investment placements. 7.18 Assets held for sale Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is deemed to be met only if the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Classification of an asset as held for sale means that the management intends to complete the sale within one year from the change of its classification. Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 7.19 Equity Equity is recognised in the consolidated financial statements by categories, in accordance with applicable laws and constitutional documents of the consolidated entities. The share capital of the LOTOS Group is the share capital of the Parent and is recognised at its par value, in the amount specified in the Company’s Articles of Association and in the relevant entry in the National Court Register. 7.20 Borrowings and other debt instruments All borrowings and other debt instruments are initially recognised at cost, equal to the fair value, less cost of obtaining the funds. Following initial recognition, borrowings and other debt instruments are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. Amortised cost includes the cost of obtaining the funds as well as discounts or premiums obtained at settlement of the liability. Upon removal of the liability from the statement of financial position or recognition of impairment loss, gains or losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 7.21 Employee benefit obligations 7.21.1 Retirement severance payments, length-of-service awards and other employee benefits In accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Group's employees are entitled to length-of-service awards and severance payments upon retirement due to old age or disability, as well as death benefits. Also, the employees, retired employees, and pensioners covered by the Group's social benefits are entitled to benefits from a separate social fund, which is established pursuant to applicable national regulations (Company Social Benefits Fund). According to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, old-age and disability retirement severance payments, as well as contributions to the Company Social Benefits Fund to be used for payment of future benefits to retired employees, are classified as defined postemployment benefit plans, while length-of-service awards, death benefits, and benefits paid to currently retired employees are recognised under other employee benefits. Present value of future post-employment benefit obligations as at the end of the reporting period is calculated by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method and is a discounted value of future payments, which the employer has to make in order to fulfil its obligations under the work performed by employees in previous periods (until the end of the reporting period), defined individually for each employee, accounting for employee turnover (probability of employees leaving work), without including future employees. In prior years, the value of future employee benefit obligations included length-of-service awards, old-age and disability retirement severance payments, and social fund benefits payable to retired employees and pensioners. The value as at December 31st 2013 additionally includes the estimated value of death benefits, due to the increased importance of that item in the actuarial estimates. Length-of-service awards are paid after a specific period of employment. Old-age and disability retirement severance payments are one-off and paid upon retirement. Amounts of severance payments and length-of-service awards depend on the length of employment and the average remuneration of an employee. The amount of death benefit depends on the length of employment (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 24 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements of the deceased employee, and the benefit is payable to the family, in accordance with the rules set forth in the Polish Labour Code. Following the amendments to IAS 19 applicable for annual periods beginning after January 1st 2013, the Group changed the presentation of actuarial gains or losses under post-employment employee benefits in its statement of comprehensive income. For annual periods beginning after January 1st 2013, the actuarial gains or losses are recognised in other comprehensive income rather than in operating profit/loss as was the case earlier. In accordance with the provisions of the amended standard, the Group applied these rules retrospectively by adjusting the comparative data. These changes, reflected in Retained earnings, had no effect on the presentation in the statement of financial position or in the statement of changes in equity, and their impact on the statement of comprehensive income was immaterial. For detailed information about changes in the comparative data in the statement of comprehensive income see Note 6. Employees of the Group companies are also entitled to holidays in accordance with the rules set forth in the Polish Labour Code. The Group calculates the cost of employee holidays on an accrual basis using the liability method. The value of compensation for unused holidays is recognised in the Group's accounting records based on the difference between the balance of holidays actually used and the balance of holidays used established proportionately to the passage of time, and disclosed in the financial statements as, respectively, current or non-current liabilities under other employee benefits during employment. Obligations under other employee benefits during employment also comprise bonuses and awards granted as part of the Group's incentive pay systems. For detailed information on employee benefits, see Note 29, containing the individual items of employee benefit obligations and costs, actuarial assumptions, as well as an analysis of sensitivity of estimates to changes of these assumptions. The Group recognises the cost of discount on its employee benefit obligations in finance costs. Given the different nature of pension plans operated by the Group's foreign companies – LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS and the companies of the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group – and their negligible effect on the Group's obligations under length-of-service awards and postemployment benefits, such companies' obligations are presented separately as Obligations under length-of-service awards and post-employment benefits at foreign companies. 7.21.2 Profit distribution for employee benefits and special accounts According to the business practice in Poland, company shareholders have the right to allocate a part of profit for employee benefits by making contributions to the company social benefits fund and to other special accounts. In the financial statements, such distributions are charged to operating expenses in the period to which the profit distribution relates. 7.22 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs (i.e. interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings) are expensed in the period in which they were incurred, except costs which relate directly to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset being completed (including foreign exchange losses on interest and fees and commissions), which are capitalised as part of the cost of such asset (an asset being completed is an asset whose preparation for use or sale requires a significant amount of time). To the extent that funds are borrowed specifically for the purpose of acquiring the asset being completed, the amount of the borrowing costs which may be capitalised as part of such asset is determined as the difference between the actual borrowing costs incurred in connection with a given credit facility or loan in a given period and the proceeds from temporary investments of the borrowed funds. To the extent that funds are borrowed without a specific purpose and are later allocated for the acquisition of an asset being completed, the amount of the borrowing costs which may be capitalised is determined by applying the capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset. 7.23 Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are classified into the following categories:  Financial assets held to maturity,  Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss,  Loans and receivables,  Financial assets available for sale,  Financial liabilities at amortised cost. Financial assets held to maturity are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities, which are quoted on an active market and which the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity, other than those:  designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition,  designated as available for sale,  which qualify as loans and receivables. Financial assets held to maturity are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 25 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Financial assets held to maturity are classified as non-current assets if they mature more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset at fair value through profit or loss is a financial asset that meets either of the following conditions: a) it is classified as held for trading. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they:  have been acquired principally for the purpose of being sold in the near future,  are part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is probability of profit-taking in the near future,  are derivative financial instruments (except for those which are part of hedge accounting or financial guarantee contracts), b) it has been assigned to this category in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement upon initial recognition. Measurement of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss consists in recognition of such assets at fair value by reference to their market value as at the end of the reporting period, without reflecting sale transaction costs. Any changes in the value of such instruments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as finance income or costs. An entire contract can be designated as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss if it contains one or more embedded derivatives. The above does not apply when an embedded derivative has no significant impact on the cash flows generated under the contract or when it is clear that if a similar hybrid instrument was first considered, separation of the embedded derivative would be prohibited under IFRS. Financial assets may be designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if the following criteria are met: (i) such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (an accounting mismatch); or (ii) the assets are part of a group of financial assets that are managed and measured based on fair value, according to a well-documented risk management strategy; or (iii) the assets contain embedded derivatives which should be presented separately. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities initially designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they were acquired for the purpose of being sold in the near future. Derivative financial instruments, including separated embedded instruments, are also classified as held for trading, unless they are considered as effective hedges. Financial liabilities may be designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if the following criteria are met: (i) such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases, (ii) (ii) the liabilities are part of a group of financial liabilities that are managed and measured based on fair value, according to a well-documented risk management strategy, or (iii) (iii) the financial liabilities contain embedded derivative instruments which should be presented separately. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, based on their market value as at the end of the reporting period, without reflecting sale transaction costs. Changes in the fair value of such instruments are recognised in profit or loss as finance income or costs. Based on the fair value measurement methods applied, the Group classifies its individual financial assets and liabilities according to the following levels (fair value hierarchy):  Level 1: Financial assets and liabilities whose fair values are measured directly on the basis of quoted prices (used without adjustment) from active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2: Financial assets and liabilities whose fair values are measured using measurement models when all significant input data is observable on the market either directly (unadjusted market prices) or indirectly (data based on market prices).  Level 3: Financial assets and liabilities whose fair values are measured using measurement models when the input data is not based on observable market data (unobservable input data). The Group discloses derivative transactions with positive fair values under financial assets held for trading. Derivative transactions with negative fair values are disclosed under financial liabilities held for trading. The Group's financial assets and liabilities held for trading include the following types of derivatives: options, forward contracts (in particular forward rate agreements), futures contracts, swaps (in particular interest-rate swaps) and spot contracts. All the above types of forward transactions classified as derivatives are executed by the Group as part of its risk management policy (see below). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 26 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Fair value of commodity swaps is established by reference to future cash flows connected with the transactions, calculated on the basis of the difference between the average market price and the transaction price. The fair value is established on the basis of prices quoted on active markets, as provided by an external consultancy. (Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy). Fair value of spots, forwards and currency swaps is established by reference to future discounted cash flows from the transactions, calculated on the basis of the difference between the forward rate and the transaction price. The forward rate is calculated on the basis of the fixing rate quotations of the National Bank of Poland and the interest rate curve implied in FX swaps (Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy). Fair value of FRAs is established by reference to future discounted cash flows from the transactions, calculated on the basis of the difference between the forward rate and the transaction price. The forward rate is calculated using the zero-coupon interest rate curve based on 6M or 3M LIBOR, depending on the type of transaction (Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy). As part of its risk management activities the Group evaluates the risk of deficit of free emission allowances allocated under carbon dioxide emission reducing programme (see Note 5) and manages the risk of emission allowances prices quoted in an active market. To hedge against the risk associated with CO2 emission allowances prices, the Group enters into EUA, CER and ERU futures contracts The estimated fair value of these instruments is based on the difference between the market price of a contract as quoted at the valuation date by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). (Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy). If required, futures contracts to purchase carbon (CO2) allowances open as at the last day of the reporting period are settled by the Group through physical delivery, with the intention to potentially use the allowances to offset the Group's actual CO 2 emissions. Valuation of transactions to be settled through physical delivery is not disclosed under financial assets/liabilities in the financial statements. However, the Group internally monitors and performs the valuation of its open futures positions as part of an overall assessment of efficiency of its CO2 risk management (off balance sheet). Information on the Group’s limits of free carbon dioxide emission allowances are disclosed in Note 34 and a description of risk management in Note 32.2. The Group applies hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated to hedge cash flows, to the extent representing an effective hedge, are posted directly to other comprehensive income. In the statement of financial position, financial derivatives are recognised under a separate item or, if their value is immaterial, under other assets and liabilities. For more information on recognition and measurement of financial derivatives and hedge accounting, see Notes 7.25 and 7.26. Loans and receivables The category includes financial assets with fixed or determinable payments not classified as derivatives and not traded on any active market. They are disclosed under current assets if they mature within 12 months from the end of the reporting period. Loans and receivables with maturities exceeding 12 months from the end of the reporting period are classified as non-current assets. The category includes: trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, deposits, security deposits, loans advanced, investment receivables, cash pool receivables, and other. In the statement of financial position, these are recognised under: Trade receivables, Cash and cash equivalents, Other current and non-current assets. For information on their recognition and measurement, see Notes 7.16 and 7.17. Financial assets available for sale Financial assets available for sale are recognised at fair value increased by the transaction costs which may be directly attributed to an acquisition or issue of a financial asset. If quoted market prices from an active market are not available and the fair value cannot be reliably measured using alternative methods, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at cost less impairment. The positive or negative differences between the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (if they have a market price derived from an active market or their fair value can be established in any other reliable manner) and their cost are recognised net of deferred tax in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in finance costs. Any purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised at the transaction date. On initial recognition, financial assets are recognised at fair value including – in the case of financial assets other than those at fair value through profit or loss – transaction costs directly attributable to the purchase. A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position when the Group loses control over the contractual rights embodied in the financial instrument. This usually takes place when the instrument is sold or when all cash flows generated by the instrument are transferred to a non-related third party. This category includes shares in other entities which are recognised by the Group in the statement of financial position under Other financial assets. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 27 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Financial liabilities at amortised cost Financial liabilities, not classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Financial liabilities at amortised cost include borrowings, other debt instruments, finance lease liabilities, trade payables, investment commitments, and other liabilities. These liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position under: Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease liabilities, Trade payables, Other liabilities and provisions. For information on recognition and measurement of the above classes in this category of instruments, see Note 7.12, 7.20 and 7.26 7.24 Impairment of financial assets As at the end of the reporting period the Group determines whether there is an objective indication of impairment of a financial asset or a group of financial assets. Assets carried at amortised cost If there is an objective indication that the value of loans and receivables measured at amortised cost has been impaired, the impairment loss is recognised in the amount equal to the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future losses relating to irrecoverable receivables, which have not yet been incurred), discounted at the initial effective interest rate (i.e. the interest rate used at the time of initial recognition). The carrying amount of an asset is reduced directly or by recognising relevant provisions. The amount of loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. The Group first determines whether there exists an objective indication of impairment with respect to each financial asset that is deemed material, and with respect to financial assets that are not deemed material individually. If the analysis shows that there exists no objective indication of impairment of an individually tested asset, regardless of whether it is material or not, the Group includes the asset into the group of financial assets with similar credit risk profile and tests such group for impairment as a whole. Assets which are tested for impairment individually, and with respect to which an impairment loss has been recognised or a previously recognised loss is deemed to remain unchanged, are not taken into account when a group of assets are jointly tested for impairment. If an impairment loss decreases in the next period, and the decrease may be objectively associated with an event that occurred subsequent to the impairment loss recognition, the recognised impairment loss is reversed. The subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost as at the reversal date. Financial assets carried at cost If there exists an objective indication of impairment of a non-traded equity instrument which is not carried at fair value since such value cannot be reliably determined, or of a related derivative instrument which must be settled by delivery of such non-traded equity instrument, the amount of impairment loss is established as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted with the market rate applicable to similar financial assets prevailing at a given time. Financial assets available for sale If there exists an objective indication of impairment of a financial asset classified as an asset available for sale, the amount of the difference between (A) the cost of that asset (less any principal payments and depreciation/amortisation charges) and its (B) current fair value, reduced by any impairment losses previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, (A – B) is derecognised from equity and charged to the statement of comprehensive income. Reversal of impairment losses concerning equity financial instruments classified as available for sale may not be recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. If the fair value of a debt instrument available for sale increases in the next period, and the increase may be objectively associated with an event that occurred subsequent to the impairment loss recognition in the statement of comprehensive income, the amount of the reversed impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Impairment losses on financial assets and their reversals are recognised on a net basis as gains or losses under, respectively, Other expenses / Other income or Finance costs / finance income in the statement of comprehensive income, depending on class of financial instrument. 7.25 Derivative financial instruments Derivative instruments used by the Group to hedge against currency risk include in particular FX forwards. The Group also uses commodity swaps to hedge its exposure to raw material and petroleum product prices, futures contracts to manage its exposure to prices of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances, and interest rate swaps (IRSs) and forward rate agreements (FRAs) to hedge its interest rate exposure. Such financial derivatives are measured at fair value in line with the fair value hierarchy discussed above in the section devoted to financial asset and liability measurement policies. The fair value of FX forwards is established by reference to the forward rates of contracts with similar maturities prevailing at a given time. The fair value of interest rate swaps is established by reference to the market value of similar instruments. Derivative instruments are recognised as assets if their value is positive (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 28 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 20132013 Notes to the financial statements and as liabilities if their value is negative. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of a derivative which does not qualify for hedge accounting are charged directly to the net profit or loss for the financial year. In the statement of financial position, financial instruments are presented as either current or non-current, depending on the expected time of realisation of assets and liabilities classified as held for trading. 7.26 Hedge accounting As of January 1st 2011, the Parent commenced cash flow hedge accounting with respect to a USD-denominated credit facility designated as a hedge of future USD-denominated sales transactions. In the second half of 2012, the scope of application of cash flow hedge accounting was extended to include new hedging relationships established with respect to foreign-currency denominated facilities contracted to finance the 10+ Programme, designated as hedges of future USD-denominated petroleum product sales transactions. The objective of cash flow hedge accounting is to guarantee a specified Polish złoty value of revenue generated in USD. The hedged items comprise a number of highly probable and planned USD-denominated refining product sale transactions, in particular the first portion of revenue (up to the amount of the designated principal repayment) in USD generated in a given calendar month, or if the amount of revenue in a given month is lower than the amount of the designated principal payment – the first portion of revenue generated in three successive months. If a subsequent portion of revenue is designated in a given calendar month, the hedged item is the first portion of revenue generated after the previously designated portion of revenue in USD in a given calendar month, or if the amount of revenue in a given month is lower than the amount of the designated principal repayment – a subsequent portion of revenue generated in three successive months. A hedged item is linked to relevant hedging instruments based on an individual document designating the hedging relationship. The designated hedging instruments cover an obligation to repay a USD-denominated credit facility, whose settlement dates fall on business days of specified calendar months, as provided in the principal repayment schedule. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated to hedge cash flows, to the extent representing an effective hedge, are posted directly to other comprehensive income. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated to hedge cash flows, to the extent not representing an effective hedge, are charged to other finance income or costs in the reporting period. At the time when a hedge is undertaken, the Company formally designates and documents the hedging relationship, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The relevant documentation identifies (i) the hedging instrument, (ii) the hedged item or transaction, (iii) the nature of the hedged risk, and (iv) specifies how the Company will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The hedge is expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether it remains highly effective during all the reporting periods for which it was undertaken. 7.27 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. If the Group anticipates that the costs for which provisions have been recognised will be recovered, e.g. under an insurance agreement, the recovery of such funds is recognised as a separate asset, but only when such recovery is practically certain to occur. The cost related to a given provision is disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income net of any recoveries. If the effect of the time value of money is significant, the amount of provisions is determined by discounting projected future cash flows to their present value at a pre-tax discount rate reflecting the current market estimates of the time value of money and risks, if any, specific to a given obligation. If the discount method is applied, an increase in the provision as a result of lapse of time is recognised as finance costs. Provisions, other than provisions for decommissioning and reclamation costs, are charged against operating expenses, other expenses, or finance costs, depending on what circumstances the future obligation relates to. 7.27.1 Provisions for decommissioning and reclamation costs Provisions for decommissioning and reclamation costs are recognised when the Group has an obligation to decommission oil and gas facilities or to demolish, disassemble or remove other property, plant and equipment and restore the site to its original condition, and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If a decommissioning obligation arises with respect to new property, plant and equipment, such as production and transport infrastructure (pipelines) or refinery installations, it is recognised on completion of construction or installation. If a decommissioning obligation arises with respect to a production well, it is recognised on completion of drilling. A decommissioning obligation may be further adjusted over the useful life of a well, production or transport infrastructure, etc. to reflect changes in applicable laws or a decision to suspend certain operations. The recognised amount of the obligation is the present value of future expenditures, estimated for the local conditions and requirements. On recognition of a decommissioning obligation, a matching decommissioning asset is recognised in the same amount under property, plant equipment, which is subsequently depreciated in line with the asset subject to decommissioning. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 29 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The amount of the decommissioning provision and its corresponding asset is adjusted to reflect changes to the present value of estimated decommissioning and reclamation costs, other than provision discount reversals. Adjustments are also made for foreign exchange gains or losses arising from translation of a decommissioning obligation denominated in a foreign currency when it is certain that the obligation will be settled in that currency. Periodic discount reversals are recognised as finance costs in the statement of comprehensive income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of the decommissioning provision and the corresponding decommissioning asset. Under the Polish Geological and Mining Law of February 4th 1994 (Dz.U.05.228.1947, as amended), the Group is required to operate Oil and Gas Facility Decommissioning Fund, whose financial resources may only be used to cover the cost of decommissioning of an oil and gas facility or its designated part. The amount of contribution to the Fund is calculated separately for each facility and represents an equivalent of 3% or more of the depreciation charge recognised on the facility's property, plant and equipment, determined in accordance with applicable corporate income tax laws. The Company is required to deposit the contributions in a separate bank account until decommissioning start date. 7.28 Trade payables, other liabilities, accruals and deferred income Current trade payables are reported at nominal amounts payable. The Group derecognises a financial liability when it is extinguished, that is when the obligation specified in the contract is either discharged or cancelled or expires. When a debt instrument between the same parties is replaced by another instrument whose terms are substantially different, the Group treats such replacement as if the former financial liability was extinguished and recognises a new liability. Similarly, material modifications to the terms of a contract concerning an existing financial liability are presented as extinguishment of the former and recognition of a new financial liability. Any differences in the respective carrying amounts arising in connection with the replacement are charged to profit or loss. Other non-financial liabilities include in particular value added tax, excise duty and fuel charge liabilities to the tax authorities and liabilities under received prepayments, which are to be settled by delivery of goods or tangible assets, or performance of services. Other non-financial liabilities are measured at nominal amounts payable. Accrued expenses are recognised at probable amounts of current-period liabilities. The Group discloses accruals and deferred income under other non-financial liabilities or, if they refer to employee benefits, under employee benefit obligations. 7.29 Grants If there is reasonable certainty that a grant will be received and that all related conditions will be fulfilled, grants are recognised at fair value. If a grant concerns a cost item, it is recognised as income in matching with the expenses it is to compensate for. If it concerns an asset, its fair value is recognised as deferred income, and then it is written off annually in equal parts through the statement of comprehensive income over the estimated useful life of the asset. 7.30 Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control (strategic financial and operational decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the venturers). When a Group company becomes directly involved in activities as part of a joint venture, the Group’s share of jointly controlled assets and liabilities incurred jointly with the other venturers is disclosed in the financial statements of such Group company and classified in accordance with its nature. Liabilities and costs incurred directly in connection with a share in jointly controlled assets are accounted for using the accrual method. Income from the sale or use of the Group’s share of the output produced by jointly controlled assets and the share of expenses incurred by the joint venture are recognised when the inflow/transfer by the Group of the economic benefits connected with relevant transactions becomes probable, provided that they can be measured reliably. As at December 31st 2013, the Group was a venturer in joint ventures involving production operations conducted by subsidiary LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS in Norway. 7.31 Segment reporting For management purposes, the LOTOS Group is divided into business units which correspond to the business segments, whereas for financial reporting purposes the Group’s operating activity comprises two main reportable operating segments:  upstream segment – comprising activities related to the acquisition of crude oil and natural gas reserves, and crude oil and natural gas production,  downstream segment – comprising the production and processing of refined petroleum products and their wholesale and retail sale, as well as auxiliary, transport and service activities. The reportable operating segments are identified at the Group level. The Parent is included in the downstream segment. The upstream segment comprises companies of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group (excluding Energobaltic Sp. z o.o.). Segment performance is assessed on the basis of revenue, EBIT and EBITDA. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 30 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements EBIT is operating profit/(loss), and EBITDA is operating profit/(loss) before depreciation and amortisation. The segments’ revenue, EBIT and EBITDA do not account for intersegment adjustments. Financial information of the operating segments used by the chief operating decision makers to assess the segments' performance is presented in Note 8. 7.32 Contingent liabilities and assets In line with the policies applied by the Group, consistent with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, a contingent liability is understood as:  a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity, or  a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognised in the financial statements because: (i) it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or (ii) the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the statement of financial position, however information on contingent liabilities is disclosed, unless the likelihood of the outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is negligible. In compliance with the IFRS, the Group defines a contingent asset as a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity. Contingent receivables are not recognised in the statement of financial position, however information on them is disclosed if the inflow of resources embodying economic benefits is likely to occur. Examples of contingent assets and liabilities include liabilities or receivables related to pending court disputes whose future outcomes are neither known not fully controlled by the entity. For more information on pending court disputes and other contingent liabilities, see Note 35.1 and Note 35.2, respectively. 7.33 Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances CO2 emission allowances are presented by the Company in its financial statements in accordance with the net liability approach, which means that the Group recognises only those liabilities that result from exceeding the limit of emission allowances granted. The Group reviews the limits granted to it on an annual basis. The liability is recognised only after the Company actually exceeds the limit. Income from sale of unused emission allowances is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at the time of sale. Additionally purchased emission allowances are measured at acquisition cost less impairment, if any, taking into consideration the residual value of allowances, and presented as intangible assets. If purchased allowances are used to cover the deficit as on the date of settling the annual limit of emission allowances, the allowances thus used are set off at carrying amount with the liability previously recognised for covering the deficit. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 31 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 8. Business segments Downstream Upstream Consolidation segment Other (1) Consolidated segment adjustments PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2013 Revenue: 623,936 28,587,306 24,474 (638,374) 28,597,342 Intersegment sales 578,369 43,093 16,912 (638,374) External sales 45,567 28,544,213 7,562 28,597,342 Operating profit/(loss) (EBIT) 153,930 13,902 13,937 (35,275) 146,494 Amortisation and depreciation 147,192 500,804 9,860 (1,791) 656,065 Operating profit/(loss) before amortisation and depreciation 301,122 514,706 23,797 (37,066) 802,559 (EBITDA) Downstream Upstream Consolidation segment Other (1) Consolidated segment adjustments PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Total assets 4,116,495 17,059,568 120,425 (996,871) 20,299,617 including exploration and 381,130 381,130 evaluation assets Upstream Downstream Consolidation Other(1) Consolidated segment segment adjustments for the year ended Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Revenue: 759,799 32,899,919 27,205 (575,923) 33,111,000 Intersegment sales 512,675 43,467 19,781 (575,923) External sales 247,124 32,856,452 7,424 33,111,000 Operating profit/(loss) (EBIT) (675,213)(2) 984,122 5,397 (1,550) 312,756 Amortisation and depreciation 137,855 520,066 10,339 (1,795) 666,465 Operating profit/(loss) before amortisation and (537,358) 1,504,188 15,736 (3,345) 979,221 depreciation (EBITDA) Upstream Downstream Consolidation Other (1) Consolidated segment segment adjustments Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Total assets 3,373,334 17,397,475 148,607 (891,851) 20,027,565 including exploration and evaluation 150,033 150,033 assets (1) Includes LOTOS Park Technologiczny Sp. z o.o., LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) and Energobaltic Sp. z o.o. (1) Including an impairment loss on YME field assets, of PLN 935,247 thousand; see Note 13. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 32 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Geographical structure of sales Upstream segment Downstream segment Other (1) Consolidated PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2013 Domestic sales 6,491 20,370,299 7,562 20,384,352 products and services 6,257 18,804,309 7,562 18,818,128 merchandise and materials 234 1,565,990 1,566,224 Export sales 39,076 8,173,914 8,212,990 products and services 38,201 7,835,360 7,873,561 merchandise and materials 875 338,554 339,429 Total 45,567 28,544,213 7,562 28,597,342 Upstream segment Downstream segment Other (1) Consolidated PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2012 Domestic sales 304 24,142,354 7,424 24,150,082 products and services 65 23,107,959 7,424 23,115,448 merchandise and materials 239 1,034,395 1,034,634 Export sales 246,820 8,714,098 8,960,918 products and services 207,679 8,368,721 8,576,400 merchandise and materials 39,141 345,377 384,518 Total 247,124 32,856,452 7,424 33,111,000 (1) Includes LOTOS Park Technologiczny Sp. z o.o., LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) and Energobaltic Sp. z o.o. Sales by products, merchandise and services Downstream segment Upstream segment Other (1) Consolidated PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2013 Gasolines 5,010,064 5,010,064 Naphtha 824,241 824,241 Diesel oils 14,365,265 14,365,265 Bunker fuel 124,661 124,661 Light fuel oil 942,434 942,434 Heavy fuel oil 2,037,899 2,037,899 Aviation fuel 1,474,528 1,474,528 Lubricants 380,218 380,218 Base oils 485,887 485,887 Bitumens 1,246,061 1,246,061 LPG 564,540 564,540 Crude oil 32,094 32,094 Other products, merchandise 517,155 517,155 and materials Other products, merchandise 530 292,630 7,523 300,683 and materials Services 12,943 291,082 39 304,064 Effect of cash flow hedge (12,452) (12,452) accounting Total 45,567 28,544,213 7,562 28,597,342 (1) Includes LOTOS Park Technologiczny Sp. z o.o., LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) and Energobaltic Sp. z o.o. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 33 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Downstream segment Upstream segment Other(1) Consolidated PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2012 Gasolines 5,221,788 5,221,788 Naphtha 1,097,071 1,097,071 Reformate 458,827 458,827 Diesel oils 16,374,326 16,374,326 Bunker fuel 111,347 111,347 Light fuel oil 1,145,857 1,145,857 Heavy fuel oil 2,226,874 2,226,874 Aviation fuel 1,855,654 1,855,654 Lubricants 367,701 367,701 Base oils 568,804 568,804 Bitumens 1,730,266 1,730,266 LPG 502,388 502,388 Crude oil 239,828 239,828 Other refinery products, merchandise 765,660 765,660 and materials Other products, merchandise 599 172,838 7,386 180,823 and materials Services 6,697 274,142 38 280,877 Effect of cash flow hedge (17,091) (17,091) accounting Total 247,124 32,856,452 7,424 33,111,000 (1) Includes LOTOS Park Technologiczny Sp. z o.o., LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) and Energobaltic Sp. z o.o. In 2013, there were no customers whose share in the LOTOS Group’s total revenue would significantly exceed 10%. 9. Income and expenses 9.1 Expenses by nature Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) Depreciation and amortisation 8 656,065 666,465 Raw material and consumables used 24,223,055 28,191,721 including exchange differences (1) 31.3 (76,694) 31,196 Services 1,253,948 1,135,525 Taxes and charges 175,888 175,491 Employee benefits expense 9.2 677,053 645,983 Other expenses by nature 160,130 197,513 Merchandise and materials sold 1,752,528 1,320,772 Total expenses by nature 28,898,667 32,333,470 Change in products and adjustments to cost of sales (444,669) (495,100) Total 28,453,998 31,838,370 including: Cost of sales 26,913,268 30,339,959 Distribution costs 1,106,746 1,051,962 Administrative expenses 433,984 446,449 (1) Exchange differences related to operating activities are recognised in cost of sales. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 34 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 9.2 Employee benefits expense Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Current salaries and wages 496,130 483,860 Social security and other employee benefits 151,468 141,980 Length-of-service awards, retirement and other post-employment benefits 29,455 20,143 Total employee benefits expense 677,053 645,983 Change in products and adjustments to cost of sales (8,209) (13,534) Total 668,844 632,449 including: Cost of sales 394,493 365,060 Distribution costs 34,344 32,625 Administrative expenses 240,007 234,764 9.3 Other income Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) (2) Gain on disposal of non-financial non-current assets 16,706 Grants 30,2 2,075 2,059 Provisions 2,900 provision for deficit in CO2 emission allowances 34 (1,527) other provisions (1,276) release of provisions for retired refinery installations 30,1 5,077 release of other provisions 626 Reversal of impairment losses on receivables 18,1; 31,3 5,012 reversal of impairment loss 8,536 impairment loss (3,524) Revaluation of estimated provision related to the offshore oil 6,447 production facility in the YME field in Norway Compensation 7,988 9,647 Gain on sale of organised part of business 379 Reimbursed excise duty 6,143 (1) Other 4,405 8,539 Total 30,337 41,963 (1) Including PLN 1,673 thousand under reimbursed excise duty on intra-Community supplies of heavy fuel oil and PLN 3,634 thousand of excise duty on consumption of electricity and fuel additives reimbursed due to exemption from excise duty under Art. 47.1.1 of the Excise Duty Act. (2) Including PLN 14,469 Grupa LOTOS S.A.'s income from sale of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances. The Group offsets similar transaction items pursuant to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements, sections 34 and 35.The Group discloses material items of other income and expense charged to operating profit or loss separately, as presented in the table above. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 35 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 9.4 Other expenses Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) Loss on disposal of non-financial non-current assets 3,098 Impairment losses on receivables: 18.1, 31.3 6,012 impairment losses 7,291 reversal of impairment losses (1,279) Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and other intangible 17,927 1,064,025 assets: Impairment losses on: 74,200 1,064,025 YME field assets 13 935,247 Norwegian exploration licences 15 4,744 74,481 Lithuanian exploration and production licences 15 26,420 14,504 assets associated with Lithuanian fields 12,837 assets associated with the B-28 field 13 26,842 service stations 13 11,912 the Waterproofing Materials Production Plant assets 13 22,840 other 4,282 4,116 Reversal of impairment losses on: (56,273) assets related to the B-4 and B-6 fields, contributed to Baltic Gas (1) 13 (48,273) the Waterproofing Materials Production Plant assets 13 (8,000) Provisions 2,116 provision for deficit in CO2 emission allowances 34 910 other provisions 2,541 release of other provisions (1,335) Fines and compensation 1,277 2,255 Property damage incurred during ordinary course of business 2,516 3,139 Cost brought forward 2,947 5,498 Charitable donations 2,483 2,277 Other 4,399 5,143 Total 40,659 1,084,453 (1) For more information see Note 2. The Group offsets similar transaction items pursuant to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements, sections 34 and 35.The Group discloses material items of other income and expense charged to operating profit or loss separately, as presented in the table above. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 36 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 9.5 Finance income Year ended Year ended PLN '000 Note Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Dividend received 840 700 Interest 17,361 25,555 on trade receivables 31.3 5,995 8,804 on finance lease receivables 31.3 193 287 on cash 31.3 1,267 1,309 on deposits 31.3 8,413 14,592 other 1,493 563 Exchange differences: 156,112 on foreign-currency denominated bank borrowings 31.3 167,476 on foreign-currency denominated intra-Group borrowings(1) 31.3 (19,503) on realised foreign-currency transactions in bank accounts 31.3 25,560 (1) on intra-Group notes 31.3 (3,454) on cash 31.3 (30,144) on investment commitments 31.3 14,624 on other financial assets and liabilities 31.3 1,553 Gain on disposal of investments 150 Revaluation of financial assets: 112,861 117,772 valuation of derivative financial instruments 31.3 55,148 159,096 settlement of derivative financial instruments 31.3 57,713 (41,324) Provisions 1,699 Other 4,100 20 Total 135,162 302,008 (1) According to IAS 21 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, foreign exchange gains and losses on intra-group foreign currency transactions are recognised in the Group's net profit or loss. The Group offsets similar transaction items pursuant to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements, sections 34 and 35.The Group discloses material items of income and expense charged to profit or loss separately, as presented in the table above. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 37 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 9.6 Finance costs Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) Interest, including: 203,183 230,777 on bank borrowings 31.3 151,875 169,218 on non-bank borrowings 31.3 575 817 on notes 31.3 423 1,607 on trade payables 31.3 53 88 on finance lease liabilities 31.3 16,132 20,112 on factoring arrangements 11,823 18,215 on other financial liabilities 31.3 125 380 discount related to provisions for oil production facilities, for land 30.1 15,284 12,344 reclamation and other provisions discount related to future employee benefit obligations 29.3 6,138 6,544 other 755 1,452 Exchange differences: 115,541 on bank borrowings 31.3 (8,142) on intra-Group borrowings(1) 31.3 119,223 on realised foreign-currency transactions in bank accounts 31.3 (7,278) on notes(1) 31.3 15,767 on cash 31.3 3,516 on cash blocked in bank accounts 31.3 (15,075) on investment commitments 31.3 7,563 on other financial assets and liabilities 31.3 (33) Bank fees 19,358 12,856 Other 4,545 4,790 Total 342,627 248,423 (1) According to IAS 21 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, foreign exchange gains and losses on intra-group foreign currency transactions are recognised in the Group's net profit or loss. The Group offsets similar transaction items pursuant to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements, sections 34 and 35.The Group discloses material items of income and expense charged to profit or loss separately, as presented in the table above. 10. Income tax expense 10.1 Tax expense Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Current tax 82,471 53,593 Deferred tax 10.3 (183,878) (615,128) Total income tax recognised in consolidated net profit or (101,407) (561,535) loss Tax expense recognised in other comprehensive income (net), 22,909 75,639 including: exchange differences on translating foreign operations (13,864) cash flow hedging 23 22,945 89,717 actuarial gain/(loss) relating to post-employment benefits (36) (214) (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 38 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements For the entities operating in Poland, the current and deferred portion of income tax was calculated at the rate of 19% of the income tax base. In the case of Norwegian subsidiary LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS, the marginal tax rate is 78% of the tax base. LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS’s activities are subject to taxation under two parallel tax systems: the corporate income tax system (28% tax rate) and the petroleum tax system (additional tax rate of 50%). In the case of Lithuanian subsidiaries (AB LOTOS Geonafta Group), the current and deferred portion of income tax was calculated at the rate of 15%. 10.2 Corporate income tax calculated at effective tax rate and reconciliation of pre-tax profit to tax base Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Pre-tax profit (61,979) 366,341 Income tax at 19% (11,776) 69,605 Permanent differences 5,355 11,599 Difference related to accounting for step acquisition of control (11,716) (AB LOTOS Geonafta Group)(1) Tax effect of tax losses incurred in the period 1,418 101 Tax effect of tax losses deducted in the period (395) (1,211) Tax effect of share in profit of equity-accounted entities 191 Tax effect of the bio-component tax credit (2) (10,935) (5,518) Adjustments disclosed in current year related to tax 178 (2,978) for previous years Difference resulting from the application of tax rates other (85,949) (623,130) than 19%: Norway (83,220) (618,301) Lithuania (1,015) (1,485) Cyprus (1,713) (3,341) Netherlands Antilles (1) (3) Other differences 506 1,713 Income tax expense (101,407) (561,535) (1) Data for 2012 includes accounting for the acquisition of control over UAB Manifoldas by AB LOTOS Geonafta. For more information on the transaction, see Note 6. (2) The Group used higher tax credit than suggested by the preliminary estimates based on which the relevant deferred tax assets had been recognised. Therefore, as at December 31st 2013, the deferred tax assets related to bio-component tax credit were recognised on the basis of the full amount of tax credit left to be used in the coming years. For more information on the basis and rules for the use bio-component tax credit, see Note 30.2. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 39 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 10.3 Deferred income tax Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) before set-off comprise the following items: Statement of financial position Change Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Jan 1 2012 2013 2012 (restated) (restated) PLN ’000 A B C A-B B-C Deferred tax assets Employee benefit obligations 49,561 42,715 36,701 6,846 6,014 Impairment losses on inventories 797 448 1,877 349 (1,429) Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and 127,529 100,679 40,995 26,850 59,684 other intangible assets Impairment losses on YME field assets 710,083 806,962 165,741 (96,879) 641,221 Negative fair value of derivative financial instruments 13,734 28,905 35,671 (15,171) (6,766) Exchange differences on revaluation of foreign-currency 6,446 80 320 6,366 (240) denominated items Impairment losses on receivables 16,200 15,693 17,767 507 (2,074) Finance lease 28,068 32,032 33,765 (3,964) (1,733) Provisions for decommissioning of oil and gas facilities 188,828 28,086 20,746 160,742 7,340 and land reclamation Unrealised margin assets 8,545 3,120 2,382 5,425 738 Tax loss carried forward 1,145,075 986,442 769,794 158,633 216,648 Other provisions 9,619 6,017 6,011 3,602 6 Bio-component tax credit 4,463 10,934 15,752 (6,471) (4,818) Cash flow hedge accounting 8,633 98,350 (8,633) (89,717) Other 17,220 21,263 18,726 (4,043) 2,537 Total 2,326,168 2,092,009 1,264,598 234,159 827,411 Deferred tax liabilities Difference between the current tax value and carrying amount of property, plant and equipment 1,468,538 1,114,692 824,651 353,846 290,041 and intangible assets Positive fair value of derivative financial instruments 140 2,159 6,088 (2,019) (3,929) Finance lease 28,698 31,814 33,527 (3,116) (1,713) Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 13,864 (13,864) recognised in equity (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 40 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Statement of financial position Change Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Jan 1 2012 2013 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) (restated) A B C A-B B-C Exchange differences on revaluation of foreign-currency 34,605 6,312 (34,605) 28,293 denominated items Tax liabilities associated with the acquired exploration 57,537 64,736 54,296 (7,199) 10,440 and production licences in Lithuania Cash flow hedge accounting 14,312 14,312 Accrued interest 43,966 33,128 16,968 10,838 16,160 Other 14,000 12,434 13,990 1,566 (1,556) Total 1,627,191 1,293,568 969,696 333,623 323,872 Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 698,977 798,441 294,902 (99,464) 503,539 Change in deferred tax assets and liabilities disclosed in the statement of financial position (99,464) 503,539 Reconciliation of differences between the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities disclosed in the statement of financial position and the deferred tax disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income Note Exchange differences on translating deferred tax of foreign operations 122,175 11,651 Effect of accounting for the acquisition price of the Heimdal assets (1) 13 138,115 (2) Deconsolidation (LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o.) 143 (3) Deferred tax disclosed as a result of accounting for step acquisition of control (AB LOTOS Geonafta Group) 24,299 Deferred tax disclosed under other comprehensive income, net 10.1 22,909 75,639 Deferred tax expense recognised in net profit or loss 183,878 615,128 (1) Accounting for the tax due resulting from pro and contra cash flows generated in the transitional period, which are a part of the cost of Heimdal assets, by decreasing the tax asset relating to tax losses. (2) For more information on the transaction, see Note 2. (3) For more information on the transaction, see Note 6. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 41 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements As the Group entities are separate taxpayers, deferred tax (deferred tax assets and liabilities) is assessed separately by each entity. The Group entities offset deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. The table below presents the deferred tax disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position: Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Deferred tax assets 980,284 1,121,314 Deferred tax liabilities (281,307) (322,873) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) 698,977 798,441 Taxable temporary differences are expected to expire in 2014–2083. As at December 31st 2013, the tax losses with respect to which no deferred tax assets were recognised in the statement of financial position were PLN 33,960 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 43,101 thousand ). The decrease in the amount of the above tax losses in 2013 is a result of their partial settlement, as well as the loss of deduction right due to expiry of the period when the tax losses could be settled in accordance with the tax regulations. 11. Earnings per share Year ended Year ended Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 (restated) Net profit attributable to owners of the Parent (PLN ‘000) (A) 39,415 927,849 Weighted average number of shares (’000) (B) 129,873 129,873 Earnings per share (PLN) (A/B) 0.30 7.14 Earnings per share for each reporting period are calculated by dividing net profit for a given reporting period by the weighted average number of shares in the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share are equal to basic earnings per share since the Group carries no instruments with a dilutive effect. 12. Dividends On June 28th 2013, the General Meeting of Grupa LOTOS S.A. passed a resolution on distribution of the Company’s net profit earned in 2012. The General Meeting resolved not to distribute the Company’s net profit for 2012, totalling PLN 836,431 thousand, to the Company shareholders, and to allocate the profit as follows:  PLN 834,931 thousand to the Company’s statutory reserve funds,  PLN 1,500 thousand to the Special Account designated for financing corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects. In these consolidated financial statements, the distributed 2012 net profit is presented under Retained earnings. As at the date of publication of these consolidated financial statements, the Company's Management Board has not yet passed a resolution on coverage of the net loss for 2013. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, Grupa LOTOS S.A. was restricted in its ability to distribute funds in the form of dividends. The restrictions follow from the credit facility agreement executed on June 27th 2008 for the financing of the 10+ Programme, whereby dividend amounts are subject to certain conditions, including generation of sufficient free cash and achievement of certain levels of financial ratios. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 42 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 13. Property, plant and equipment PLN '000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Land 456,390 428,922 Buildings, structures 3,414,803 3,497,440 Plant and equipment 4,728,815 4,244,449 Vehicles, other 442,857 491,533 Property, plant and equipment under construction 822,818 888,829 Exploration and evaluation property, plant and equipment 182,691 134,677 Total 10,048,374 9,685,850 Change in property, plant and equipment Exploration Property, and Plant and plant and Buildings, Vehicles, evaluation PLN ’000 Land equipment equipment Total structures other property, under plant and construction equipment Gross carrying amount Jan 1 2013 443,869 4,623,749 5,637,734 1,093,450 2,097,646 198,975 14,095,423 Purchase 1,234 9,020 15,286 28,892 429,481 76,475 560,388 Acquisition of Heimdal assets 339,772 339,772 Transfer from property, plant and 29,692 125,822 196,741 59,885 (427,614) (15,474) equipment under construction Contribution of assets for development of B-4 and B-6 fields (2,363) (48,287) (50,650) to Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp.k.(1) Reclassification to assets held for (923) (23,556) (21,676) (1,717) (29,273) (77,145) sale (2) Exchange differences on 27 (44,968) (4,054) (190,671) (10) (239,676) translating foreign operations Borrowing costs 1,842 1,842 Assets related to decommissioning (3) (1,404) 265,345 11,995 275,936 of oil extraction facilities Sale (952) (3,449) (6,715) (2,647) (33) (13,796) (4) Liquidation (5,968) (13,043) (186,258) (37) (205,306) Deconsolidation (LOTOS Tank Sp. (3,987) (1,944) (8,026) (5) (13,962) z o.o.) (1) Other 14 3,196 12,587 (34,670) (3,875) (1,994) (24,742) Gross carrying amount 472,934 4,723,450 6,379,119 944,855 1,887,093 225,159 14,632,610 Dec 31 2013 (1) For more information on the transaction, see Note 2. (2) Including assets of LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. associated with the Waterproofing Materials Production Plant and assets related to the YME field, see note 17. (3) Including an asset of PLN 265,709 thousand (NOK 496,004 thousand) related to decommissioning of oil and gas production facility following acquisition of the Heimdal portfolio, described in more detail in information on acquisition of interest in Norwegian production and exploration licences Heimdal. (4) Including PLN 180,429 thousand under liquidation of spent catalysts at Grupa LOTOS S.A. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 43 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Exploration Property, and Plant and plant and Buildings, Vehicles, evaluation PLN ’000 Land equipment equipment Total structures other property, under plant and construction equipment Accumulated depreciation Jan 1 2013 14,006 1,102,084 1,376,212 600,671 3,092,973 Depreciation 1,492 199,073 296,209 90,835 587,609 Exchange differences on 1 (20) (2,999) (3,018) translating foreign operations Reclassification to assets held for (1) (70) (3,734) (4,806) (960) (9,570) sale (2) Liquidation (3,546) (11,611) (186,371) (201.528) Deconsolidation (LOTOS Tank Sp. (3) (831) (694) (241) (1,766) z o.o.) Other 71 (421) (5,466) (732) (6,548) Accumulated depreciation 15,499 1,292,626 1,649,824 500,203 3,458,152 Dec 31 2013 Impairment losses Jan 1 2013 941 24,225 17,073 1,246 1,208,817 64,298 1,316,600 Recognised 952 13,866 2,058 593 1,824 26,842 46,135 Reclassification to assets held for (669) (15,221) (13,611) (201) (19,855) (49,557) sale (1) Exchange differences on (125,779) (125,779) translating foreign operations Used / Reversed (179) (6,849) (5,040) (91) (732) (48,672) (61,563) Other 248 248 Impairment losses 1,045 16,021 480 1,795 1,064,275 42,468 1,126,084 Dec 31 2013 Net carrying amount 456,390 3,414,803 4,728,815 442,857 822,818 182,691 10,048,374 Dec 31 2013 (1) Including assets of LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. associated with the Waterproofing Materials Production Plant and assets related to the YME field, see note 17. (2) Including PLN 180,429 under liquidation of spent catalysts at Grupa LOTOS S.A. (3) For more information on the transaction, see Note 2. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 44 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Exploration Property, and plant and Buildings, Plant and Vehicles, evaluation PLN ’000 Land equipment Total structures equipment other property, under plant and construction equipment Gross carrying amount Jan 1 2012 414,608 4,502,781 5,556,750 1,032,442 1,766,080 138,254 13,410,915 Purchase 41 3,309 67,828 591,824 65,264 728,266 Transfer from property, plant and 29,782 115,937 84,385 32,758 (280,799) (17,937) equipment under construction Acquisition of control (AB LOTOS (1) 4 16 33,138 433 2,073 35,664 Geonafta Group) Exchange differences on (146) (8,868) (11,392) (36,265) (147) (56,818) translating foreign operations Reclassification of exploration and evaluation property, plant and 4,396 (4,396) equipment(2) Borrowing costs 11,299 11,299 Assets related to decommissioning 11,823 (930) 56,506 67,399 of oil extraction facilities Sale (94) (3,723) (6,523) (5,356) (2,693) (18,389) Liquidation (429) (3,134) (3,763) (6,738) (14,064) Deconsolidation (AB LOTOS (2) (8) (25,287) (308) (1,037) (26,642) Geonafta Group) (1) Other 162 1,127 (16,217) (9,342) (24,270) Gross carrying amount 443,869 4,623,749 5,637,734 1,093,450 2,097,646 198,975 14,095,423 Dec 31 2012 (1) Effect of the acquisition of control over UAB Manifoldas by AB LOTOS Geonafta. For more information on the transaction, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for 2012. (2) Exploration and evaluation property, plant and equipment relating to mineral resources with demonstrable technical feasibility and commercial viability of their extraction. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 45 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Exploration Property, and Plant and plant and Buildings, Vehicles, evaluation PLN ’000 Land equipment equipment Total structures other property, under plant and construction equipment Accumulated depreciation Jan 1 2012 12,456 902,616 1,112,523 493,303 2,520,898 Depreciation 1,488 202,054 279,310 121,268 604,120 Exchange differences on (7) (1,938) (7,697) (9,642) translating foreign operations Sale (25) (1,033) (5,866) (3,406) (10,330) Liquidation (1,740) (3,319) (3,607) (8,666) Deconsolidation (AB LOTOS (1) (6,541) (92) (6,633) Geonafta Group) Other 87 194 2,043 902 3,226 Accumulated depreciation 14,006 1,102,084 1,376,212 600,671 3,092,973 Dec 31 2012 Impairment losses Jan 1 2012 408 16,385 2,373 1,037 280,178 66,086 366,467 Recognised 940 9,157 15,234 616 943,512 364 969,823 Reclassification to assets held for sale (390) (390) Exchange differences on (12,764) (119) (12,883) translating foreign operations Reclassification of exploration 2,033 (2,033) and evaluation assets (2) Deconsolidation (AB LOTOS (2,033) (2,033) Geonafta Group)(1) Used / Reversed (407) (1,317) (534) (13) (2,109) (4,380) Other (4) (4) Impairment losses 941 24,225 17,073 1,246 1,208,817 64,298 1,316,600 Dec 31 2012 Net carrying amount 428,922 3,497,440 4,244,449 491,533 888,829 134,677 9,685,850 Dec 31 2012 (1) Effect of the acquisition of control over UAB Manifoldas by AB LOTOS Geonafta. For more information on the transaction, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for 2012. (2) Exploration and evaluation property, plant and equipment relating to mineral resources with demonstrable technical feasibility and commercial viability of their extraction. Property, plant and equipment used under finance lease Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Gross Gross Accumulated Net carrying Accumulated Net carrying PLN ’000 carrying carrying depreciation amount depreciation amount amount amount Plant and equipment, vehicles 198,737 47,379 151,358 199,202 31,316 167,886 The Group uses finance leases to finance primarily rolling stock assets. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 46 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The table below presents items under which depreciation of property, plant and equipment was recognised: Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Cost of sales 496,122 503,547 Distribution costs 58,575 52,025 Administrative expenses 21,609 32,207 Change in products and adjustments to cost of sales 11,303 16,341 Total 587,609 604,120 As at December 31st 2013, borrowing costs capitalised as cost of property, plant and equipment under construction were PLN 43,009 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 43,211 thousand). In 2013, borrowing costs capitalised as cost of property, plant and equipment under construction were PLN 1,842 thousand (2012: PLN 11,299 thousand). As at December 31st 2013, the Group’s future contractual liabilities related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment undisclosed in the statement of financial position were PLN 582,966 thousand, and were mostly related to acquisition of a rig, as described in Note 37 (December 31st 2012: PLN 74,594 thousand). As at December 31st 2013, property, plant and equipment serving as collateral for the Group's liabilities was PLN 7,877,463 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 7,150,215 thousand). Exploration and evaluation assets The Group incurs expenditures on exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources. In 2013, the Group incurred expenditure of PLN 76,745 thousand, chiefly on assets related to the B-8 and B-28 fields in the Baltic Sea ( 2012: PLN 65,264 thousand). In 2013, the value of cash flows related to expenditure on exploration and evaluation property, plant and equipment was PLN 74,360 thousand (2012: PLN 64,296 thousand), and the value of investment commitments related to exploration and evaluation assets was PLN 2,115 thousand as at December 31st 2013 (December 31st 2012: PLN 968 thousand). Exploration and evaluation property, plant and equipment is carried until the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting the mineral resources are demonstrated. As at December 31st 2013, property, plant and equipment related to mineral resources with demonstrable technical feasibility and commercial viability of extraction was PLN 102,678 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 109,030 thousand), and depreciation of these assets in 2013 was PLN 6,786 thousand (2012: PLN 7,300 thousand). As at the end of the reporting period, this property, plant and equipment was not longer presented as exploration and evaluation property, plant and equipment, but as property, plant and equipment comprising production infrastructure, depreciated with the units-of-production method. Assets from decommissioning and reclamation The property, plant and equipment comprising production infrastructure and depreciated with the units-of-production depreciation method includes assets related to future costs of decommissioning of oil and gas facilities. As at December 31st 2013, the net value of assets from decommissioning of oil facilities was PLN 421,667 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 188,523 thousand), attributable chiefly to assets from the YME and Heimdal projects in Norway (see below). Furthermore, under property, plant and equipment the Group recognises an asset for decommissioning of the underground pipeline used by Energobaltic Sp. z o.o. As at December 31st 2013, the value of the asset was PLN 3,653 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 4,045 thousand). Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment In 2013, the Group made a revaluation of its property, plant and equipment. The impairment losses totalled PLN 46,135 thousand (2012: PLN 969,823 thousand), while impairment loss reversals amounted to PLN 58.728 thousand (2012: PLN 1,527). Upstream segment Given that no commercial hydrocarbon flows were recorded on the B-28 field, in 2013 LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. decided to recognise a PLN 26,842 thousand impairment loss on the expenditure incurred in relation to the formation and well. Moreover, in 2013 LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. reversed an impairment loss on assets associated with the B-4 and B-6 gas fields, which were contributed to Baltic Gas (see Note 2). Impairment losses were recognised for the full amount of expenditure on gas exploration operations conducted on the B-4 and B-6 fields, incurred in previous years by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 47 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements In 2012, the Group tested the YME project for impairment, as a result of which it recognised an impairment loss of PLN 935.247 thousand . For detailed information on the YME project see below. Downstream segment In 2013, LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. recognised an impairment loss on assets related to service stations in the amount of PLN 11,912 thousand. LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. determines the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment related to the LOTOS service station network based on the value in use, using the discounted cash flow method. Future cash flows were calculated based on five-year cash-flow projections, prepared using budget projections for 2014 and the cash inflow and outflow plan for subsequent years, based on the development strategy until 2018. The residual value for the discounted cash flows was calculated using the growing perpetuity formula. A fixed growth rate of 1.84% (2012: 1.94%) was used to extrapolate cash-flow projections beyond the five-year period. The extrapolation was based on a quantitative forecast of the fuel consumption growth rate in Poland in 2009–2020. LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o.’s net weighted average cost of capital (WACC) was assumed at 7.16% (2012: 7.53%), based on the company’s capital structure. Discounted cash flows calculated separately for each cash-generating unit were grossed up. Calculation of the value in use of cash-generating units is most sensitive to the following variables:  gross margin, which depends on average values of unit margins in the period preceding the budget period (an 8% average year-on-year decline of the margin was assumed),  discount rates, reflecting risks typical to the cash-generating unit (the median price for five-year PLN-denominated notes quoted by REUTERS in November 2003 was adopted),  volumes based on fuel consumption growth rate (a 5% increase was assumed),  market share in the budget period (a stable market share was assumed),  growth rate used to extrapolate cash-flow projections beyond the budget period, based on a quantitative forecast of the fuel consumption growth rate in Poland in 2013-2020, prepared using GUS, NBP and JBC reports (for gasolines), and based on GDP market consensus As regards the calculation of the value in use of service stations, the Management Board is of the opinion that no reasonably probable change to any of the key assumptions listed above will result in the carrying amount exceeding its recoverable value to a significant extent. In view of the slow pace of reaching the initially assumed sales volumes of finished products and the loss incurred on the Waterproofing Materials Production Plant operations, in 2012 LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. tested the assets for impairment by analysing the discounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the Plant in 2013 2017. Following the test, an impairment loss for the full amount of the assets, i.e. PLN 22,840 thousand, was recognised. The test was carried out based on the following assumptions: consistent growth of sales volumes by 35% in 2013 (relative to 2012) and 10% in 2014-2017 (on a year-on-year basis), taking into account an adjustment for expected inflation rate at 2.44% 2.74% (in 2014-2017), and weighted average cost of capital of 11.17%. In 2013, following the sale of the assets LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. made a reversal of the impairment loss of PLN 8,000 thousand. Interests in Norwegian production and exploration licences − YME Property, plant and equipment under construction include expenditure incurred by LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS (“LOTOS E&P Norge AS”) on the acquisition of interests in Norwegian production licences and on the development associated with the interests in the YME field, in an amount of PLN 1,588m (NOK 3,207m). The Group tested the YME project for impairment as at December 31st 2013. No impairment indicators were found. The Group tested the YME field assets for impairment as at December 31st 2013 using the same methodology as the one used to test the assets for impairment as at December 31st 2012. The test, carried out with the discounted cash flow method, was based on estimated values in use for LOTOS E&P Norge AS's interest in hydrocarbon reserves in the YME licences. The YME field impairment test was carried out assuming a +/-15%/bbl in crude oil prices relative to Brent crude prices as at December 31st 2013, a +/-15% change in the USD/NOK exchange rate, a +/15% change in the YME field reserves, a weighted average cost of capital of 7.5%, and the 78% marginal tax rate (applicable in Norway). For the purposes of the test as at December 31st 2013 it was assumed that production from the field would be launched in 2018. Based on such assumptions, as at December 31st 2013 the carrying amount of the assets related to the YME field was below the upper limit of the recoverable amount ranges determined, and hence no impairment loss was recognised on the tested asset as at the end of December 2013. Further, as LOTOS E&P Norge AS's exit from the YME field project was being considered, the Group calculated the recoverable amount of the assets on the basis of their estimated fair value less cost to sell. For the purposes of determining the price that could be obtained for the interest in the YME field (realisable value), the value of the assets was calculated on the basis of the proved reserves of crude oil (2P category − proved and probable) and the price per unit of reserves in similar market transactions involving fields with comparable development status, taking into account the value of tax position. The realisable value thus determined confirmed the realisability of the YME field assets as presented in the consolidated financial statements as at December 31st 2013, which means that there was no need to recognise any further impairment. As described in Note 35.1, on March 12th 2013, the operator of the YME field, Talisman Energy Norge AS (“Talisman,” Operator”) and the supplier of the Mobile Operating and Production Unit (MOPU) to be operated on the YME field, Single Buoy (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 48 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Moorings Inc. (“SBM”), announced that an agreement had been reached to remove the defective MOPU (evacuated in mid-July 2012) from the YME field and to terminate all existing contracts and agreements between the parties in connection with the YME project. As at December 31st 2013, the then-aggregate impairment losses adjusting the value of expenditure on the YME project were PLN 1,051m (NOK 2,123m). As at December 31st 2013, the amount of expenditure on property, plant and equipment under construction related to the YME field, net of impairment, was PLN 537m (NOK 1,084m). Taking into account the impairment losses on the YME project expenditure recognised in previous years, and the incurred tax losses that may be carried forward, in the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31st 2013 the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of PLN 932m (NOK 1,882m). Given the fact that under the Norwegian tax legislation tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely, and that on December 30th 2013 the Group acquired interests in the Heimdal assets (including interests in producing fields), the Group believes that the deferred tax asset recognised as at December 31st 2013 is fully realisable at the amount disclosed in these consolidated financial statements. Due to significant market volatility, in particular with respect to crude oil prices, the adopted assumptions might be subject to justifiable changes, and such changes may in the future cause a reduction of carrying amounts of assets associated with the YME field as the carrying amounts may exceed the assets' recoverable amount. Therefore, the Group points to a number of uncertainties as to the recoverable amount of the assets recognised in connection with the YME field, such uncertainties being related to:  volatility of market prices of crude oil,  the new PDO (plans for development and operation) for the YME field that is ultimately opted for,  the estimated amount and market value of hydrocarbons recoverable from the YME field, dependent on the new PDO,  the estimated fair value of tax assets taken into account in the impairment test of the YME project,  the amount of reclamation commitments, including those assumed together with elements of the SBM subsea infrastructure, under the agreement of March 12th 2013 concluded between the YME Project Operator and SBM (see Note 35.1),  date of production launch, if any, from the YME field,  date and cost of MOPU removal from the YME field,  volatility of the NOK/USD exchange rate,  discount rates. Acquisition of interests in Norwegian production and exploration licences − Heimdal On October 18th 2013, LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group ( LOTOS E&P Norge AS ) entered into an agreement with Centrica Resources (Norge) AS/Centrica Norway Limited ( Centrica , Seller ), subsidiaries of Centrica Plc. of the UK, to purchase Heimdal assets on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. On December 18th 2013, LOTOS E&P Norge AS obtained the consent of the Norwegian authorities to finalise the transaction and on December 30th 2013 it delivered to the Seller a certificate confirming payment and creation of security in the form of a stand-by letter of credit for international transactions, for future liabilities related to decommissioning of the production infrastructure. On December 30th 2013 ( acquisition date ) all conditions precedent to the agreement were fulfilled and all material risks and benefits related to the ownership of the acquired Heimdal assets were transferred to LOTOS E&P Norge AS. The transaction is recognised in these consolidated financial statements as asset acquisition, in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 49 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The Heimdal assets comprise interests in 14 licences on the following fields in the central part of the North Sea: Fields Status Licences Interests transmission infrastructure (HUB), Heimdal PL036BS 5% exploration Vale production, exploration PL036, PL249 25.75% Skirne/Byggve production PL102 30% Atla production PL102C 20% Trell exploration PL102D 20% Trell exploration PL102E 30% Trell Carve-out Area exploration PL102F, PL102G 10% Frigg Gamma Delta discovered PL442 10% Fulla discovered PL362 50% Fulla discovered PL035B 50% Rind discovered PL026, PL026B 7.87% Under the licence, production activities are no longer being carried out on the Heimdal gas field (located 212 km north west of Stavanger), but the platform continues to operate as the centre for processing and distribution of gas coming from the Norwegian Continental Shelf. At present, given the central location of the field, its infrastructure is used to process gas from other neighbouring fields: Atla, Skirne, Vale and Huldra. It also serves as a distribution point for the transport of gas from the Oseberg Gas Transport. The Heimdal hub can process and transport gas representing approximately 15%-20% of Norway's gas exports, which makes Heimdal one of the key strategic points for gas exports from Norway to Central Europe and the UK. The Heimdal licence operator is Statoil Petroleum AS. The other interest holders are Total E&P Norge AS, Petoro AS and Centrica Norge. Production from the Atla, Skirne and Vale fields attributable to LOTOS E&P Norge AS's interest is approximately 5,000 boe daily and approximately 250,000 toe annually. Gas and condensate are produced from the Skirne/Byggve, Atla and Vale fields. Frigg Gamma Delta, Fulla and Rind are new discoveries, which can be developed by 2020 or later. The Group also obtained access to six exploration licences. On the Fulla field, LOTOS E&P Norge AS is the operator in licences PL362 and PL035B, and a partner in the other licences. Proven and probable (2P) recoverable volumes of gas (70%) and condensate (30%) from the interests acquired by the Group in the producing fields amount to 9m boe. 2C contingent resources in the discoveries attributable to LOTOS E&P Norge AS’s interest amount to 31m boe. The contractual price for the interests in the 14 licences acquired in the Heimdal transaction was set by the parties at USD 175.8m as at January 1st 2013, which under the Norwegian tax law is referred to as the effective economic date of the transaction. Tax consequences of acquisition and sale of interests in joint ventures on the Norwegian Continental Shelf require approval by the Norwegian Ministry of Finance. This requirement is imposed by the legislation governing crude oil taxation. The legislation also requires that January 1st be assumed as the effective transaction date for tax purposes, and that payment for acquired interests include the agreed purchase price, an appropriate share in working capital, and the amount of settlements between the existing partners of the joint venture. The period from January 1st (the effective economic transaction date) to the date of actual transaction settlement is referred to as the transitional period. Once the transaction is finalised, the buyer pays the agreed purchase price and a pro and contra settlement takes place, as part of which the parties make mutual settlements relating to working capital, accounts to be settled with the joint venture partners as at January 1st, and respective shares in net cash flows from the licence in the transitional period. The purchase of the Heimdal assets was partly financed with a bank loan, and the balance of the contractual price of USD 175.8m was settled through the pro and contra mechanism, that is using the cash flows acquired by LOTOS E&P Norge AS, generated in the period from the effective transaction date (January 1st 2013) to the actual date of finalising the transaction (the acquisition date, i.e. December 30th 2013), in the amount of USD 72.16m. Given the high amount of the deferred tax asset recognised in LOTOS E&P Norge AS accounts, no income tax for 2013 will be paid on those cash flows and the Seller will recover income tax overpayment of NOK 278.9m, after assignment to LOTOS E&P Norge AS of cash flows of USD 72.16m, counted towards the contract price of USD 175.8m. Such settlement follows from the Norwegian tax regime and has no effect on the Group's financial result. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 50 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The total value of the acquired Heimdal assets as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements is PLN 710.2m (NOK 1,433.8m). The table below presents the effect of accounting for the acquisition of Heimdal assets in these consolidated financial statements: Reporting position NOKm PLNm I. Property, plant and equipment 634.2 314.1 II. Intangible assets 303.6 150.4 Value of acquired Heimdal assets after pro and contra settlement, taking into account 937.8 464.5 capitalised transaction costs and estimated future conditional payments (I + II) III. Decommissioning asset 496.0 245.7 Total (I + II + III) 1,433.8 710.2 Settlement of acquisition price (A + B): 910.5 450.9 A. Price paid after pro and contra settlement (USD 175.8m USD 72.16m) 631.6 312.8 B. Tax resulting from pro and contra settlement, on cash flows generated in the transitional period (amount paid by Centrica to the Norwegian tax authorities, settled against deferred tax asset of 278.9 138.1 LOTOS E&P Norge AS) Capitalised transaction costs (C + D): 27.3 13.6 C. Amount of conditional future payments as agreed 10.2 5.1 D. Capitalised transaction costs 17.1 8.5 E. Decommissioning provision 496.0 245.7 Total (A+B+C+D+E) 1,433.8 710.2 The purchased property, plant and equipment comprise production equipment (plant and equipment). The remaining assets were classified as intangible exploration and evaluation assets. Under property, plant and equipment the Group recognises an asset related to future costs of decommissioning of offshore oil facility of PLN 245,671 thousand (NOK 496,004 thousand). The value of the asset is dependent on the updated estimated value of the relevant provision. The decommissioning provision recognised by the Group, representing the best estimate of future costs related to land reclamation, is recognised in the financial statements in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and in fulfilment of the obligation resulting from international land reclamation requirements. The estimated reclamation period for the deposits covered by the transaction will span from 2014 to 2035, therefore the amount of future costs was determined by the Group at a 4.5% discount rate and a 2% inflation rate. For information on provisions for offshore oil and gas facilities on the North Sea, see Note 30.1. To finance the acquisition of Heimdal assets, on December 11th 2013 LOTOS E&P Norge AS signed a USD 110m investment loan agreement. The total amount drawn under the loan is USD 105m and includes payments of interest on the deferred settlement with Centrica. The final loan repayment date is December 31st 2016. The bank guarantee provided to the Seller, in the form of a stand-by letter of credit, secures LOTOS E&P Norge AS's liabilities related to decommissioning of depleted off-shore oil and gas facilities. The amount under the bank guarantee agreement, signed with PKO BP S.A. on December 11th 2013, is USD 25m. Prospects for development of the B-4 and B-6 gas fields As at December 31st 2012, the items “Property, plant and equipment under construction” and “Exploration and appraisal assets” included expenditure of PLN 593 thousand and PLN 48,672 thousand, respectively, incurred by the Group on gas exploration on the B-4 and B-6 fields in the Baltic Sea. As at December 31st 2012, impairment losses were recognised for the full amount of those assets. In 2013, pursuing further development of the B-4 and B-6 fields under an investment agreement between LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. and CalEnergy Resources Poland Sp. z o.o., the Group reversed impairment losses on these expenditures in the amount of PLN 48,273 thousand and contributed the amount to Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 51 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements wspólnicy sp. k, a special purpose vehicle, in exchange for Baltic Gas shares acquired by the Group (see Note 2). Under the preparatory work schedule, seismics acquisition and selection of a preliminary field development concept are scheduled for 2013–2014. Upon completion of that stage, the partners will be able to make a final decision whether to pursue development of the B-4 and B-6 fields. 14. Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, as presented in the table below. PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an organised part of business by LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o.: LOTOS Gaz S.A. (wholesale of fuels) 10,009 10,009 ESSO service stations network 31,759 31,759 Slovnaft Polska service stations network 1,932 1,932 Total 43,700 43,700 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of: LOTOS Partner Sp. z o.o. 1,862 1,862 Energobaltic Sp. z o.o. 1,126 1,126 Total 2,988 2,988 Total goodwill 46,688 46,688 As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, impairment tests of individual cash-generating units to which goodwill was allocated did not reveal any impairment indicators. The Group determines the recoverable value of cash-generating units based on their respective values in use, calculated on the basis of a five-year cash flow projection. The residual value for the discounted cash flows was calculated using the growing perpetuity formula. A fixed growth rate of 1.84% (2012: 1.94%) was used to extrapolate cash-flow projections beyond the fiveyear period. The extrapolation was based on a quantitative forecast of the fuel consumption growth rate in Poland in 2009– 2020. The discount rate adopted for calculation reflects net WACC of 7.16% (2012: 7.53%). Discounted cash flows calculated separately for each cash-generating unit were grossed up. The most material factors affecting the estimated values in use of cash-generating units were: gross margin, discount rate, volumes forecast, projected market shares in the budget period and estimated growth rate beyond the forecast period. The Group believes that no reasonably probable change in the key parameters identified above would result in goodwill impairment. 15. Other intangible assets PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 (restated) Licences, patents and trademarks 93,607 91,286 Exploration and production licences(1) 357,559 431,073 Intangible exploration and evaluation assets(2) 198,439 15,356 (3) Other 36,617 10,944 Total 686,222 548,659 (1) AB LOTOS Geonafta Group’s exploration and production licences related to oil fields in Lithuania. (2) Including PLN 180,401 thousand under LOTOS E&P Norge AS North Sea exploration licences (December 31st 2012: PLN 13,896 thousand). (3) Including Grupa LOTOS's purchased carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances of PLN 23,911 thousand. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 52 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Exploration and evaluation assets The Group incurs expenditures on intangible assets in connection with exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources. In 2013, the incurred expenditure of PLN 204,518 thousand mainly related to the acquisition of assets connected with the YME field and Heimdal fields (for more information on the transaction, see Note 13). In 2013, the value of cash flows related to expenditure on intangible exploration and evaluation assets was PLN 181,632 thousand (2012: PLN 73,714 thousand). As at December 31st 2013, the value of investment commitments connected with the expenditure was PLN 21,233 thousand. Exploration and evaluation assets are carried until the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting the mineral resources is demonstrated. As at December 31st 2013, the intangible assets related to mineral resources with demonstrable technical feasibility and commercial viability of extraction stood at PLN 362,438 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 434,949 thousand), and their 2013 amortisation amounted to PLN 55,126 thousand (2012: PLN 49,744 thousand). These assets are recognised under: Exploration and production licences and Other intangible assets. Impairment losses on intangible assets Upstream segment In 2013, the Group recognised impairment losses on intangible assets of PLN 31,164 thousand (2012: PLN 88,986 thousand). The impairment losses were related to exploration licences in Norway and exploration and production licences in Lithuania, as described in more detail below. In 2013, as the drillings performed within the PL 498 and PL 497 licence areas yielded no positive results, the Group recognised an impairment loss on related capitalised exploration expenses of PLN 4,744 thousand (NOK 8,856 thousand). The respective impairment loss recognised in 2012 was PLN 74,481 thousand (NOK 133,145 thousand). As at December 31st 2013 Latvian production licences held by companies of the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group (AB LOTOS Geonafta (Girkaliai, Kretinga and Nausodis fields), UAB Genciu Nafta (Genciu field)) were tested for impairment. The Group determined the recoverable amount of the tested assets at their value in use measured using the discounted future cash flows method. The assets of UAB Manifoldas (Klaipėda, Troba fields) were not tested for impairment, as the key assumptions relating to the allocation of cost for AB LOTOS Geonafta's acquisition of controlling interest in UAB Manifoldas were not materially different from the estimates made in connection with the final accounting for the transaction (see Note 6). Key assumptions underlying computation of the recoverable amount of the tested intangible assets in Lithuania as at December 31st 2013:  the cash flow projection period was assumed to equal the asset's planned life,  the discount rate was assumed to equal the weighted average cost, at 11%,  production volumes were assumed to be in line with a competent person report prepared by Miller & Lents based on available current geological information,  capital expenditure was assumed to match the projected production volumes. The following crude oil price assumptions in USD/bbl were adopted for the purposes of the estimates:  2014-2016 – in line with the assumptions adopted for the purposes of calculating budgets of the LOTOS Group companies and the average annual price in 2011-2013,  2017 and beyond – crude prices reflect the assumptions made for the purposes of acquisition of an interest in Heimdal assets by LOTOS E&P Norge AS (for more information on the acquisition of Heimdal assets see Note 13). Due to significant market volatility, in particular with respect to crude oil prices, the adopted assumptions might be subject to justifiable changes, and such changes may in the future cause a change on the carrying amounts of assets held by the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group. To determine the effect of key factors on the test results, the Group carried out an analysis of sensitivity to a -15%/+15% change of crude oil price, -15%/+15% change in production volumes, and a -15%/+15% change in the USD/LTL exchange rate. As at December 31st 2013, as a result of impairment tests a PLN 26,420 thousand (LTL 21,663 thousand) impairment loss on assets was recognised, including PLN 7,943 thousand (LTL 6,513 thousand) on assets associated with the Girkaliai field and PLN 18,477 thousand (LTL 15,150 thousand) on assets associated with the UAB Minijos Nafta's fields. As at December 31st 2012, remeasurement of the intangible assets related to the Lithuanian licences was necessitated mainly by the determination of new geological information which revised the reserve estimates down. Following impairment tests performed separately for each individual asset generating cash flows, i.e. for the Girkaliai, Kretinga and Nausodis fields, an impairment loss of PLN 14,504 thousand (LTL 12,000 thousand) was recognised on assets related to the Kretinga field In connection with the tests carried out as at December 31st 2012, production profiles based on the current field reports prepared by an independent expert were used to calculate future cash flows (the assets tested for impairment generate cash flows from production of crude oil; production profiles determine the period of detailed cash flow projections for each field). The analysed cash flows in the production periods included revenue from sale of crude oil, operating expenses and capital expenditure necessary to conduct production activities, and the calculated cash flows were discounted to arrive at the present value of future payments. The applied discount rate was based on the weighted average cost of capital after tax, estimated at 11%. With financial effects of production from a given oil field showing high sensitivity to changes in the prices of crude oil, and the prices being highly volatile, the Group applied a range approach to testing the value of its fields, in order to avoid (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 53 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements remeasurement of assets after any price movements, by allowing for the following volatilities: crude oil price: +/15%, production volumes: +/15%, USD/LTL exchange rate: +/15%. The tests revealed that, as at December 31st 2012, the carrying amounts of the Girkaliai and Nausodis fields fell within the ranges determined by the range test. In the case of the Kretinga field, the carrying amount of the tested assets was higher than the field’s range measurement values, which resulted in recognition of the impairment loss on the assets. The table below presents items under which amortisation of other intangible assets was recognised: Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 (restated) Cost of sales 56,679 51,267 Distribution costs 472 1,380 Administrative expenses 11,197 9,590 Change in products and adjustments to cost of sales 108 108 Total 68,456 62,345 As at December 31st 2013, other intangible assets serving as collateral for the Group's liabilities was PLN 150,364 thousand. The collateral was created over the acquired Heimdal assets; for more information see Note 13. As at December 31st 2012, no intangible assets served as collateral. As at December 31st 2013, the Group’s future contractual liabilities related to expenditure on intangible assets undisclosed in the statement of financial position were PLN 9,263 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 8,039 thousand). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 54 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Changes in other intangible assets Intangible Exploration Licences, exploration and PLN ’000 patents and and Other Total production trademarks evaluation licences Note assets Gross carrying amount Jan 1 2013 163,626 527,054 159,305 32,978 882,963 (restated) (1) Purchase 41,890 25,573 67,463 Acquisition of Heimdal assets 13 162,628 162,628 Transfer from property, plant and 12,562 2,912 15,474 equipment under construction Exchange differences on translating 7,612 (30,788) (473) (23,649) foreign operations Contribution of assets for development of B-4 and B-6 fields to Baltic Gas Sp. (1,430) (327) (1,757) z o.o i wspónicy sp. k. (2) Liquidation (179) (14) (193) Other (265) 308 43 Gross carrying amount 175,744 534,666 331,605 60,957 1,102,972 Dec 31 2013 Accumulated amortisation Jan 1 2013 72,337 81,773 7,121 22,008 183,239 (restated) Amortisation 10,249 54,548 1,411 2,248 68,456 Exchange differences on translating 354 (293) 61 foreign operations Contribution of assets for development of B-4 and B-6 fields to Baltic Gas Sp. (1,317) (87) (1,404) z o.o i wspónicy sp. k. (2) Liquidation (172) (10) (182) Other (252) 420 168 Accumulated amortisation 82,162 136,675 7,215 24,286 250,338 Dec 31 2013 Impairment losses 3 14,208 136,828 26 151,065 Jan 1 2013 Recognised 26,420 4,744 31,164 Exchange differences on translating (196) (15,079) (15,275) foreign operations Used / Reversed (542) (542) Other (28) 28 Impairment losses (25) 40,432 125,951 54 166,412 Dec 31 2013 Net carrying amount 93,607 357,559 198,439 36,617 686,222 Dec 31 2013 (1) Including Grupa LOTOS S.A.'s purchased carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances of PLN 23,430 thousand. (2) For more information see Note 2. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 55 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Intangible Exploration Licences, exploration and PLN ’000 patents and assets Other Total production trademarks plant and licences equipment Gross carrying amount 150,007 403,716 87,880 29,834 671,437 Jan 1 2012 Purchase 180 73,714 805 74,699 Transfer from property, plant and 15,518 2,419 17,937 equipment under construction Exchange differences on translating foreign (33,245) (2,289) (80) (35,614) operations Acquisition of control (AB LOTOS Geonafta 184,625 184,625 Group)(1) Liquidation (584) (270) (854) Deconsolidation (AB LOTOS Geonafta (1) (28,042) (28,042) Group) Other (1,495) 270 (1,225) Gross carrying amount Dec 31 2012 163,626 527,054 159,305 32,978 882,963 (restated) Accumulated amortisation 63,340 41,741 6,156 20,280 131,517 Jan 1 2012 Amortisation 10,309 49,017 965 2,054 62,345 Exchange differences on translating foreign (4,007) (56) (4,063) operations Liquidation (584) (270) (854) Deconsolidation (AB LOTOS Geonafta (4,978) (4,978) Group)(1) Other (728) (728) Accumulated amortisation Dec 31 2012 72,337 81,773 7,121 22,008 183,239 (restated) Impairment losses 3 64,311 26 64,340 Jan 1 2012 Recognised 14,504 74,481 88,985 Exchange differences on translating (296) (1,964) (2,260) foreign operations Impairment losses 3 14,208 136,828 26 151,065 Dec 31 2012 Net carrying amount Dec 31 2012 91,286 431,073 15,356 10,944 548,659 (restated) (1) Effect of the acquisition of control over UAB Manifoldas by AB LOTOS Geonafta. For more information on the transaction, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for 2012. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 56 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 16. Equity-accounted entities The Group’s ownership interest Dec 31 2013 LOTOS – Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. 50.00% LOTOS Petrobaltic Group Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. 49.99% Baltic Gas spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością i wspólnicy sp.k. 81.68% For more information on shareholder structure of the equity-accounted entities, as well as changes in the reporting period, see Note 2. Change in shareholdings in equity-accounted entities Baltic Gas Sp. z Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i LOTOS – Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. PLN ’000 o.o. wspólnicy sp.k. Jan 1 2013 5 5 Contributions made 52,296 Purchase price 14,907 Share capital increase 20 Sale of shares (3) Share in net loss (488) (15) (505) Dec 31 2013 14,419 7 51,796 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 57 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Condensed financial information on equity-accounted entities LOTOS – Air BP Baltic Gas Sp. z Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i Polska Sp. z o.o. o.o. wspólnicy sp.k. PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Total assets 39,226 16 70,782 Total liabilities 23,861 2 7,975 Net assets 15,365 14 62,807 LOTOS – Air BP Baltic Gas Sp. z Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i Polska Sp. z o.o. o.o. wspólnicy sp.k. PLN ’000 for the year ended Dec 31 2013 Revenue 19,478 Net loss (976) (28) (1,009) 17. Assets held for sale PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Upstream segment 794 1,658 Downstream segment 770 Total 794 2,428 In 2013, the Group recognised assets held for sale:  On July 1st 2013, LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. (downstream segment) sold assets associated with the Waterproofing Materials Production Plant of Jasło for PLN 8,000 thousand. Proceeds from the sale in the amount of PLN 3,050 thousand were presented in the statement of cash flows under Sale of organised part of business. As at December 31st 2013, the outstanding balance of the amount due under the transaction was disclosed in the statement of financial position as Current investment receivables under Other assets.  On October 15th 2013, an agreement was signed with Wenergy LTD PTE of Singapore for the sale of drilling equipment (WOU) from the YME field platform. The total selling price was USD 15.5m, with USD 3.1m (20%, pro rata to the interest in the consortium) of that amount due to LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS (upstream segment). Cash proceeds of PLN 912 thousand (NOK 1,842 thousand) from the sale was presented in the statement of cash flows under Sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. As at December 31st 2013, the outstanding balance of the amount due under the transaction, i.e. PLN 8,211 thousand (NOK 16,579 thousand), was disclosed in the statement of financial position as Current investment receivables under Other assets.  LOTOS Kolej Sp. z o.o. (downstream segment) sold PLN 870 thousand worth of rolling stock. Cash proceeds from the sale were presented in the statement of cash flows under Sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. As at December 31st 2013, property, plant and equipment disclosed by the Group as held for sale comprised two residential units with the attached interest in land (December 31st 2012: boats, residential unit with the attached land, as well as plant and equipment for plastics processing). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 58 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 18. Trade receivables and other assets Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Jan 1 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) (restated) Financial assets Non-current financial assets Other financial assets: 31.1 194,002 86,435 125,472 Security deposits receivable 23,089 28,555 20,919 Finance lease receivables 18.2 8,061 6,180 3,564 Shares 9,746 9,756 9,746 Oil and gas facility decommissioning fund (1) 32.4.1 29,866 27,481 24,491 Deposits 38,106 Security deposits (margins) 32.4.1 11,029 11,163 11,748 Cash blocked in bank 32.3.1.; 110,379 accounts 32.4.1. Derivative financial instruments 12,098 Other receivables 1,832 3,300 4,800 Total 194,002 86,435 125,472 Current financial assets Trade receivables, including: 31.1 1,594,746 1,632,837 2,071,269 from related entities 36.1 16,657 2,507 90 Other financial assets: 31.1 185,376 173,238 119,789 Security deposits receivable 23,089 10,483 7,998 Deposits 32.4.1 29,653 122,563 40,565 Cash blocked in bank 32.3.1.; 103,559 18,320 49,671 accounts 32.4.1. Investment receivables 13,144 2,457 1,299 Other receivables 15,931 19,415 20,256 Total 1,780,122 1,806,075 2,191,058 Total financial assets 1,974,124 1,892,510 2,316,530 Non-financial assets Non-current non-financial assets Prepayments for lease of railway 6,663 8,990 locomotives Other 10,316 11,807 10,819 Total 16,979 20,797 10,819 Current non-financial assets Value-added tax receivable 51,899 165,152 42,236 Other receivables from the state budget 632 2,780 10,622 other than income tax Property and other insurance 4,522 5,704 4,427 Prepayments for lease of railway 2,336 2,336 locomotives Settlements under joint ventures 27,158 41,756 50 (Norwegian fields) Excise duty on inter-warehouse transfers 27,237 29,678 33,620 Prepaid deliveries 9,588 7,523 4,293 Other 16,331 7,954 9,367 Total 139,703 262,883 104,615 Total non-financial assets 156,682 283,680 115,434 Total 2,130,806 2,176,190 2,431,964 including: non-current 210,981 107,232 136,291 current: 1,919,825 2,068,958 2,295,673 trade receivables 1,594,746 1,632,837 2,071,269 other 325,079 436,121 224,404 (1) Cash deposited in the bank account of the oil and gas facility decommissioning fund (created pursuant to the Geological and Mining Law of February 4th 1994 and the Minister of Economy’s Regulation of June 24th 2002) to cover future costs of decommissioning of oil and gas facilities, as discussed in Note 30.1. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 59 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the item Deposits mainly included the Parent's deposits securing payments of interest under credit facilities contracted for the financing of the 10+ Programme, as well as for financing and refinancing inventories, referred to in Note 27.1. As at December 31st 2012, the item included Parent's cash of PLN 83,826 thousand earmarked for plant maintenance, as required under the 10+ Programme financing agreements. The cash was used in the first half of 2013. As at December 31st 2013, Security deposits (margins) mainly included PLN 8,917 thousand security deposit (margin) provided by the Parent to BNP Paribas Bank Polska, to enable execution of transactions on the ICE Futures Internet platform (December 31st 2012: PLN 9,051 thousand). As at December 31st 2013, Cash blocked in bank accounts comprised cash on ecrow account associated with the agreement concluded between the parties involved in the execution of the YME Project in Norway; for more information, see Note 30.1. As at December 31st 2013, the blocked cash totalled PLN 213,938 thousand. As at December 31st 2012, Cash blocked in bank accounts comprised LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o.'s cash in of PLN 18,320 thousand. These funds were blocked by a court enforcement officer in connection with court proceedings concerning WANDEKO and were released in 2013; for more information, see Note 35.1. The collection period for trade receivables in the ordinary course of business is 7−35 days. As at December 31st 2013, a PLN 3,156 thousand assignment was established on the Group’s receivables as security for the Group's liabilities. As at December 31st 2012, the Group’s receivables were not subject to any assignment by way of security for the Group's liabilities. For description of the financial instruments, see Note 7.23. For description of objectives and policies of financial risk management, see Note 32. The maximum credit risk exposure of financial assets is presented in Note 32.6. For currency risk sensitivity analysis of financial assets, see Note 32.3.1. For interest rate risk sensitivity analysis of financial assets, see Note 32.4.1. 18.1 Change in impairment losses on receivables Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 At beginning of the period 177,152 195,646 Recognised 11,998 11,325 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 34 (1,025) Used (11,015) (20,179) (1) Deconsolidation (LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o.) (735) Reversed (2,141) (8,615) At end of the period 175,293 177,152 (1) For more information on the transaction, see Note 2. The amounts resulting from recognition or reversal of impairment losses on receivables are presented under other income or expenses (the principal portion) and under finance income or costs (the default interest portion). Recognised impairment losses included PLN 9,584 thousand under the principal (2012: PLN 9,898 thousand) and PLN 2,371 thousand under interest (2012: PLN 1,416 thousand). The item Reversed comprised PLN 1,280 thousand under the principal (2012: PLN 8,537 thousand) and PLN 861 thousand under interest (2012: PLN 78 thousand). In 2013, the Group disclosed the recognition and reversal of impairment losses on the principal under Other expenses, in the amount of PLN 6,012 thousand (2012: PLN 5,012 thousand under Other income). Moreover, in 2013 the Group offset the impairment loss of PLN 2,292 thousand against corresponding Other income items (2012: PLN 6,373 thousand). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 60 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The table below presents aging of past due receivables for which no impairment losses were recognised: PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Up to 1 month 47,503 81,742 From 1 to 3 months 8,051 11,932 From 3 to 6 months 5,694 4,800 From 6 months to 1 year 4,948 2,275 Over 1 year 6,341 5,357 Total 72,537 106,106 No impairment loss was recognised on past due receivables because they are secured against credit risk with a mortgage, pledge, insurance policy, bank guarantee or surety. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the share of trade receivables from the Group’s four largest customers as at the end of the reporting period slightly exceeded 20% of total trade receivables. In the Group’s opinion, with the exception of receivables from the above-mentioned customers, there is no material concentration of credit risk. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at the end of the reporting period is best represented by the carrying amounts of those instruments. The concentration of risk related to sales is limited, as the Group trades with large number of partners. 18.2 Finance lease receivables The Group has developed and operates the “LOTOS Family” Franchise Programme, which defines the procedures for managing service stations. The Group has entered into franchise agreements with entities operating service stations at their own risk and for their own account (Partners). Receivables under franchise agreements represent mainly expenditure on the design of DOFO service stations operated by dealers under agreements executed for periods from 5 to 10 years. Present value of minimum lease Minimum lease payments payments PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Up to 1 year (1) 3,437 2,716 3,406 2,683 From 1 to 5 years 7,604 5,970 7,534 5,896 Over 5 years 532 288 527 284 Total 11,573 8,974 11,467 8,863 Less unrealised finance income (106) (111) Present value of minimum lease payments 11,467 8,863 11,467 8,863 including: non-current 8,061 6,180 current 3,406 2,683 (1) Present value of minimum lease payments is disclosed under Trade receivables. 19. Inventories Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 (restated) Finished products 1,755,650 1,800,849 Semi-finished products and work in progress 671,636 751,935 Merchandise 284,497 256,875 Raw material and consumables 3,020,068 3,156,544 Total 5,731,851 5,966,203 including inventories measured: at cost 5,725,835 5,960,708 at net realisable value 6,016 5,495 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 61 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements As at December 31st 2013, the value of inventories serving as collateral for the Parent's liabilities under the inventory refinancing and financing facility discussed in Note 27.1 was PLN 5,032,009 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 4,983,260 thousand). 19.1 Change in impairment losses on inventories Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 At beginning of the period 2,293 11,437 Recognised 3,319 1,336 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 3 (85) Used (265) (5,269) Reversed (874) (5,126) At end of the period 4,476 2,293 including: Finished products 311 332 Semi-finished products and work in progress 2 40 Merchandise 68 29 Raw material and consumables 4,095 1,892 The effect of revaluation of inventories is taken to cost of sales. 19.2 Mandatory stocks The Group maintains mandatory stocks as required by the following acts:  Act on Stocks of Crude Oil, Petroleum Products and Natural Gas, and on the Rules to be Followed in the Event of Threat to National Fuel Security or Disruptions on the Petroleum Market of February 16th 2007 (Dz.U. of 2007, No. 52, item 343, dated March 23rd 2007, as amended).  Regulation of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Social Policy, on fuel stocks at power utility companies, dated February 12th 2003 (Dz.U. No. 39, item 338, as amended). These regulations define the rules for creating, maintaining and financing stocks of crude oil, petroleum products and fuels at power utility companies. The Group's mandatory stocks include crude oil, petroleum products (liquid fuels), LPG and coal. As at December 31st 2013, the gross value of mandatory stocks was PLN 4,250,530 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 4,353,207 thousand). 20. Cash and cash equivalents PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Cash at bank 501,573 267,682 Cash in hand 345 362 Other cash 1,768 289 Total cash and cash equivalents recognised 503,686 268,333 in the statement of financial position Overdraft facilities (498,914) (508,988) Total cash and cash equivalents recognised 4,772 (240,655) in the statement of financial position (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 62 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Cash at banks bears interest at variable rates linked to short-term interest rates prevailing on the interbank market. Short-term deposits are placed for a range of maturities, from one day to one month, depending on the Group’s current cash needs, and bear interest at interest rates set for them. As at December 31st 2013, the amount of undrawn funds available to the Group under working capital facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been fulfilled (including the working capital facility provided by Bank Syndicate (4) (see Note 27.1) was PLN 683,147 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 764,086 thousand). As at December 31st 2013, cash in bank accounts serving as security for the LOTOS Group’s liabilities was PLN 2,629 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 1,484 thousand). 21. Share capital As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the share capital comprised 129,873,362 ordinary shares, fully paid-up, with a par value of PLN 1 per share. Each share confers the right to one vote at the General Meeting and carries the right to dividend. 22. Share premium Share premium as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012 amounted to PLN 1,320,773 thousand and comprised the excess of the issue price over the par value of shares, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue, adjusted for income tax in the amount of PLN 9,425 thousand. 23. Cash flow hedging reserve Cash flow hedging reserve comprises changes in the valuation of foreign-currency denominated bank borrowings used as hedging instruments designated to hedge cash flows, less the effect of income tax. Year ended Year ended PLN '000 Note Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 At beginning of the period (36,801) (419,281) Valuation of cash flow hedging instruments 120,765 472,197 Income tax on valuation of cash flow hedging instruments 10.1 (22,945) (89,717) At end of the period 61,019 (36,801) (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 63 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 24. Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise capital reserves created and used in accordance with the rules stipulated by the applicable laws and provisions of the Articles of Association, as well as current period’s profit. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, Grupa LOTOS S.A. was restricted in its ability to distribute funds in the form of dividends, as described in detail in Note 12. Furthermore, retained earnings include actuarial gains/losses relating to defined post-employment benefits, recognised inclusive of tax effect, which are posted under Other comprehensive income in the statement of comprehensive income. 24.1 Restricted ability of subsidiaries of the LOTOS Group to transfer funds to the Parent in the form of dividends In 2012 and 2013, the ability of subsidiaries of the LOTOS Group to transfer funds to Grupa LOTOS S.A. in the form of dividends was restricted due to the following arrangements:  The agreement concluded on December 16th 2004 by LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. with Bank Pekao S.A. and PKO BP S.A. imposes restrictions on the amount of surplus cash generated by LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. in a financial year that may be allocated to dividend payment, setting specific ratios which must be met.  At AB LOTOS Geonafta, there are restrictions on dividend payment under the credit facility agreements of April 5th and September 27th 2012, which make such payment conditional upon the bank’s prior consent.  At LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS, there are restrictions on dividend payment under the credit facility agreements of December 17th 2010 and December 11th 2013, and the framework agreement concerning provision of bank guarantees dated December 11th 2013. Pursuant to the agreements, no dividends may be paid without a prior consent of the bank. As at December 31st 2013, the following companies were restricted in their ability to pay dividends: LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o., AB LOTOS Geonafta and LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS. 25. Exchange differences on translating foreign operations Exchange differences on translating foreign operations comprise exchange differences resulting from the translation into PLN of the financial statements of foreign companies and groups of companies. Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 At beginning of the period 33,878 59,100 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (13,644) (39,086) (1) Corporate income tax relating to currency-translation differences 13,864 At end of the period 20,234 33,878 (1) Reversal of the deferred tax liability following review of IAS 12 Income Taxes (paragraph 40) by the Group in 2012. 26. Non-controlling interests Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 At beginning of the period 699 947 Share in profit/(loss) 13 27 Share in other comprehensive income, net (2) (14) Share in total comprehensive income 11 13 (1) Sale of shares to the Parent (421) (261) At end of the period 289 699 (1) Shares of LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A., see Note 2. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 64 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 27. Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease liabilities PLN ’000 Note Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Bank borrowings: 27.1 5,851,809 6,373,535 investment credit facilities 4,512,290 4,598,145 working capital facilities 831,739 1,036,012 inventory refinancing and financing facilities 753,296 930,574 funds in bank deposits securing repayment of (245,516) (191,196) interest and principal instalments Non-bank borrowings 27.1 10,306 17,056 Notes 27.2 198,240 Finance lease liabilities 27.3 151,031 166,109 Total 6,211,386 6,556,700 including: non-current 4,496,190 4,462,098 current 1,715,196 2,094,602 27.1 Borrowings Borrowings as at December 31st 2013, by currency and by maturity Borrowings Borrowings Borrowings Total PLN ’000 in EUR in USD in PLN 2014 2,448 1,226,142 449,901 1,678,491 2015 2,444 432,606 60,657 495,707 2016 404,569 25,750 430,319 2017 801,939 26,000 827,939 2018 470,697 24,750 495,447 after 2018 1,894,326 39,886 1,934,212 Total 4,892 5,230,279 626,944 5,862,115 Borrowings as at December 31st 2012, by currency and by maturity Borrowings Borrowings Borrowings Total PLN ’000 in EUR in USD in PLN 2013 16,712 1,818,861 239,419 2,074,992 2014 2,409 415,753 74,553 492,715 2015 2,409 444,706 20,382 467,497 2016 416,167 17,606 433,773 2017 409,554 9,333 418,887 after 2017 2,494,643 8,084 2,502,727 Total 21,530 5,999,684 369,377 6,390,591 Repayment of the above facilities is secured with:  power of attorney over bank accounts  registered pledge over bank accounts  registered pledge over inventories  registered pledge over existing and future movables  mortgage  assignment of property, plant and equipment  assignment of rights under inventory insurance agreement (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 65 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements  assignment of rights under inventory storage agreements  assignment of rights to compensation from the State Treasury due in the event of the requirement to sell stocks below market price  assignment of rights under insurance agreements relating to the Gdańsk refinery  assignment of rights under licence agreements  assignment of rights under agreements for sale of products,  assignment of rights under crude oil sales agreements,  shares in subsidiaries,  representation on voluntary submission to enforcement  blank promissory note  bank guarantees. The credit facilities bear interest based on: 1M, 3M or 6M LIBOR (USD), depending on the interest period selected at a given time in the case of USDdenominated facilities, 1M or 3M EURIBOR in the case of EUR-denominated facilities, O/N, 1M or 3M WIBOR in the case of PLN-denominated facilities. The bank margins on to the contracted facilities are within the range of 0.30pp. – 3.75pp. As at December 31st 2013, the average effective interest rate for the credit facilities denominated in USD and EUR was approximately 2.49% (2.47% as at December 31st 2012). The average effective interest rate for PLN-denominated facilities (excluding the syndicated facilities contracted by the Parent) was approximately 3.96% (4.81% as at December 31st 2012). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 66 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Borrowings by lender PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Non-current Kredyt Bank S.A. 8,987 Pekao S.A. 16,101 20,008 PKO BP S.A. 417,424 15,125 National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management 6,056 Provincial Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management 3,250 4,250 of Gdańsk Nordea Bank Lithuania 28,836 44,240 Bank Ochrony Środowiska S.A. 4,844 36,902 Bank Syndicate (2) 2,598,132 2,988,669 Bank Syndicate (3) 940,647 1,080,892 Bank Syndicate (5) 141,667 43,448 Bank Syndicate (6) 32,723 67,022 Non-current total 4,183,624 4,315,599 Current Kredyt Bank S.A. 6,000 Pekao S.A. 3,976 174,866 ING Bank Śląski S.A. 298 4,830 PKO BP S.A. 194,518 308,815 National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management 6,056 6,000 Provincial Fund for Environmental Protection of Gdańsk 1,000 750 Bank Millennium S.A. 6,529 Nordea Bank Polska S.A. 7,379 23,810 Nordea Bank Lithuania 14,418 14,747 Bank Ochrony Środowiska S.A. 4,844 BRE Bank S.A. 396 10,278 Bank Syndicate (1) 753,296 930,574 Bank Syndicate (2) 270,050 207,042 Bank Syndicate (3) 105,438 83,182 Bank Syndicate (4) 444,268 409,245 Bank Syndicate (5) 51,818 43,462 Bank Syndicate (6) 59,723 42,587 Funds in bank deposits securing payment of interest and principal (245,516) (191,196) Current total 1,678,491 2,074,992 Total 5,862,115 6,390,591 Bank Syndicate (1): Pekao S.A., BRE Bank S.A., ING Bank Śląski S.A., Société Générale S.A., Bank Handlowy w Warszawie S.A., Bank Zachodni WBK S.A.; on December 20th 2013, there was a change in the composition of the syndicate; see below for details. Bank Syndicate (2): Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A., Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (Holland) N.V., Pekao S.A., BNP Paribas S.A., Caja de Ahorros y Monte de Piedad de Madrid, Credit Agricole CIB (formerly Calyon), DnB Nor Bank ASA, DnB Nord Polska S.A., ING Bank Śląski S.A., KBC Finance Ireland, Kredyt Bank S.A., Nordea Bank AB, PKO BP S.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Société Générale S.A., Bank Zachodni WBK S.A., Rabobank Polska S.A., Bank Gospodarki Żywnościowej S.A. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Ltd. Bank Syndicate (3): Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A. and BNP Paribas S.A. Bank Syndicate (4): Pekao S.A., PKO BP S.A., BNP Paribas S.A., ING Bank Śląski S.A., Nordea Bank Polska S.A., Rabobank Polska S.A. and Bank Gospodarki Żywnościowej S.A. Bank Syndicate (5): Pekao S.A. and PKO BP S.A. Bank Syndicate (6): Nordea Bank Finland Plc. Lithuania Branch, Nordea Bank Polska S.A. In accordance with IAS 32, Grupa LOTOS S.A. offsets a financial asset (cash reserved for repayment of the facilities) against a financial liability under the facilities, because it holds a valid legal title to set off the amounts and intends to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same time. The purpose of adopting the net-basis presentation approach in the statement of financial position is to reflect the expected future cash flows from settlement of two or more financial instruments. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 67 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Bank borrowings of the Parent Inventory financing and refinancing facility As at December 31st 2013, the nominal amount drawn under the credit facility for the refinancing and financing of inventories, advanced by Bank Syndicate (1), amounted to PLN 753m (USD 250m). In connection with the credit facility incurred to finance and refinance inventories, Grupa LOTOS S.A. is required to maintain the Tangible Consolidated Net Worth (TCNW) ratio of no less than specified in the facility agreement. The Company is also required to meet a financial covenant of maintaining the Loan to Pledged Inventory Value Ratio at a level not higher than specified in the facility agreement. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the covenants were complied with. Amendments to the inventory financing and refinancing facility On November 7th 2013, Grupa LOTOS S.A. and a syndicate of five banks (Bank Syndicate (1)), comprising:  Pekao S.A. of Warsaw,  BRE Bank S.A. of Warsaw,  ING Bank Śląski S.A. of Katowice,  Nordea Bank AB of Stockholm,  Société Générale S.A of Paris, signed an amendment extending by 12 months, i.e. until December 20th 2014, the term of the credit facility agreement for refinancing and financing of Grupa LOTOS S.A.’s inventories, of October 10th 2012, providing for a revolving credit facility of up to USD 400m (i.e. PLN 1,268m, as translated at the mid rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland for October 10th 2012). Under the amended agreement, as of December 20th 2013 Nordea Bank AB of Stockholm was no longer a party to the credit facility agreement, and its entire credit commitment had been taken over by Bank Handlowy w Warszawie S.A. and Bank Zachodni WBK S.A. of Wrocław. The other legal terms of the credit facility agreement of October 10th 2012, as well as its provisions concerning penalties, did not change, and they did not differ from those commonly applied in agreements of such type. The financial covenants have been adjusted to current market conditions. Investment facilities As at December 31st 2013, the Company had drawn (in nominal terms) PLN 3,960.9m (USD 1,315.0m) under investment facilities advanced by Bank Syndicates (2) and (3). As at December 31st 2012, PLN 4,412.8m (USD 1,423.7m) had been drawn. In connection with the credit facilities incurred to finance the 10+ Programme, Grupa LOTOS S.A. is required to maintain the Tangible Consolidated Net Worth ratio of no less than specified in the facility agreements. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the covenants were complied with. Working-capital facilities The working capital facility was made available to Grupa LOTOS S.A. by Bank Syndicate (4) in the form of overdraft facilities which are used by the Company on an as-needed basis. The Parent may also finance its working capital requirements of up to PLN 600m with funds available under credit facilities contracted from PKO BP S.A. (a PLN 300m credit facility of June 26th 2009) and Pekao S.A. (a PLN 300m credit facility of May 16th 2012). As at December 31st 2013, the Company carried no liabilities under these facilities (December 31st 2012: PLN 23,710 thousand). Borrowings of other Group companies The aggregate value of liabilities under borrowings disclosed by other companies of the Group as at December 31st 2013 was PLN 995.8m (December 31st 2012: PLN 858.5m). This amount includes mainly liabilities of LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS and LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. Bank borrowings of LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS On December 11th 2013, LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS and PKO BP S.A. signed an agreement concerning an investment credit facility for a total amount of USD 110m, intended for financing of the purchase of Heimdal assets (for a more detailed description of the transaction, see Note 13). The final repayment date of the facility is December 31st 2016. As at December 31st 2013, liabilities under the agreement were PLN 316.9m (USD 105.0m). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 68 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements In addition, LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS uses a working capital facility contracted with PKO BP S.A., which is intended for the financing of its day-to-day operations and investment activities. As at December 31st 2013, liabilities under this credit facility were PLN 240.4m (USD 79.8m). Bank borrowings of LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. On March 6th 2013, LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o and a consortium of Pekao S.A. and PKO BP S.A. signed an agreement for a PLN 150m credit facility intended for the financing and refinancing of the purchase of service stations. The final repayment date of the facility is June 30th 2024, and as at December 31st 2013 the amount outstanding under this facility was PLN 150m. Furthermore, as at December 31st 2013, LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. disclosed liabilities under investment credit facilities contracted in the previous years with PKO BP S.A. and Pekao S.A., totalling PLN 73.8m, and liabilities of PLN 40m under a working capital facility advanced by PKO BP S.A. Proceeds from and repayment of bank borrowings In 2013, proceeds from the credit facilities contracted by the Group were PLN 963,045 thousand (2012: PLN 542,530 thousand), while the cash outflows on repayment of borrowings were PLN 1,263,548 thousand (2012: PLN 1,171,040 thousand). These amounts were presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows from financing activities under Proceeds from borrowings and Repayment of borrowings, respectively. In 2013 and in 2012, the Group did not contract any non-bank borrowings. In 2013, the proceeds under the contracted bank borrowings related mainly to: LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS' investment credit facility intended for the financing of the Heimdal assets (PLN 343,847 thousand), LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o.'s investment credit facility intended for the financing and refinancing of the purchase of service stations (PLN 150,000 thousand), working capital facilities of the Parent (PLN 189,965 thousand), working capital facilities of AB LOTOS Geonafta (PLN 255,642 thousand). In 2013, the outflows on repayment of the contracted bank borrowings related mainly to: investment credit facilities of the Parent (PLN 495,300 thousand zł), working capital facilities of the Parent (PLN 213,675 thousand), investment credit facilities of LOTOS Paliwa (PLN 61,434 thousand), working capital facilities of LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. (PLN 159,579 thousand) working capital facilities of AB LOTOS Geonafta (PLN 286,192 thousand). In 2013, none of the Group companies defaulted on credit facilities or other borrowings or breached any material covenants under agreements on credit facilities or other borrowings. 27.2 Notes In 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. issued medium-term notes under an agreement with Bank Pekao S.A. of October 29th 2013. Pursuant to the agreement, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. issued notes for up to the equivalent of PLN 200m in USD. The notes were acquired by Bank Pekao S.A. Carrying amount of notes issued Nominal value Nominal value Issue date Redemption date Interest rate (PLN '000) (USD) translated into PLN Series A 5,000 15,060 Nov 7 2013 Dec 31 2014 1M LIBOR USD + bank margin Series B 5,000 15,060 Nov 7 2013 Dec 31 2015 1M LIBOR USD + bank margin Series C 10,000 30,120 Nov 7 2013 Dec 31 2016 1M LIBOR USD + bank margin Series D 35,000 105,420 Nov 7 2013 Dec 31 2017 1M LIBOR USD + bank margin Series E 10,898 32,825 Dec 9 2013 Dec 31 2017 1M LIBOR USD + bank margin TOTAL 65,898 198,485 As at December 31st 2013 the total value of liabilities under the issue of notes presented above was PLN 198.2m and included interest accrued of PLN 0.1m and a deferred arrangement fee of PLN (0.4m), which reduces the liability. From 2010 LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o., another Group company, operates a short-term note issue programme. The term of the programme is five years. In 2013, no notes were issued by LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. under the programme. As part of the programme, in 2012 LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. issued notes with a nominal value of PLN 364m to investors from outside the LOTOS Group. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, LOTOS Asfalt Sp. z o.o. did not carry any liabilities under issue of notes. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 69 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Proceeds from notes issued by the Group to investors outside the Group, including expenses related to the issue, were PLN 203,050 thousand , after issue costs (2012: PLN 362,367 thousand). The Group did not redeem any notes in 2013. In 2012, the Group spent PLN 364,000 thousand on redemption of notes. Issue proceeds and expenses were presented in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from financing activities under Issue of notes and Redemption of notes, respectively. 27.3 Finance lease liabilities Present value of minimum lease Minimum lease payments payments PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Up to 1 year 34,994 36,794 21,636 19,610 From 1 to 5 years 122,836 134,813 96,764 92,155 Over 5 years 33,816 57,639 32,631 54,344 Total 191,646 229,246 151,031 166,109 Less finance costs (40,615) (63,137) Present value of minimum lease payments 151,031 166,109 151,031 166,109 including: non-current 129,395 146,499 current 21,636 19,610 The Group uses finance leases to finance primarily rolling stock assets. 27.3.1 Commitments related to operating leases As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN’000 Up to 1 year 35,107 58,697 From 1 to 5 years 36,426 99,824 Over 5 years 157 2,142 Razem 71,690 160,663 The Group uses operating leases to finance primarily rolling stock assets, whose value as at December 31st 2013 was PLN 259,776 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 485,346 thousand). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 70 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 28. Derivative financial instruments PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Current financial assets Commodity swaps (commodities and petroleum products) 736 45 Currency forward and spot contracts 34,924 73,452 Interest rate swap (IRS) 11,318 Currency swap 38,275 36,519 Total financial assets 73,935 121,334 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Futures (CO2emissions) 1,293 Interest rate swap (IRS) 52,876 87,032 Total 52,876 88,325 Current financial liabilities Commodity swaps (commodities and petroleum products) 337 Futures (CO2emissions) 2,494 Currency forward and spot contracts 1,017 9,161 Interest rate swap (IRS) 19,387 60,975 Currency swap 873 18,033 Total 21,277 91,000 Total financial liabilities 74,153 179,325 For description of the derivative financial instruments, see Note 7.25. For description of objectives and policies of financial risk management, see Note 32. For market risk sensitivity analysis of derivative financial instruments related to changes in prices of petroleum commodities and products, see Note 32.1.1. For market risk sensitivity analysis of derivative financial instruments related to fluctuations in prices of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances, see Note 32.2.1. For currency risk sensitivity analysis of derivative financial instruments, see Note 32.3.1. For interest rate sensitivity analysis of derivative financial instruments, see Note 32.4.1. For maturities of derivative financial instruments, see Note 32.5. For information on the maximum credit risk exposure of derivative financial instruments (financial assets), see Note 32.6. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 71 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 29. Employee benefit obligations PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Non-current obligations Post-employment benefits 32,741 26,286 Length-of-service awards and other benefits 118,684 103,576 Total 151,425 129,862 Current obligations Post-employment benefits 3,869 6,201 Length-of-service awards and other benefits 11,966 9,553 Bonuses, awards and unused holidays 72,339 78,619 Salaries and wages payable 16,883 16,557 Total 105,057 110,930 Total obligations 256,482 240,792 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 72 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 29.1 Obligations under length-of-service awards and post-employment benefits In accordance with the Group’s remuneration systems, the Group employees are entitled to post-employment benefits upon retirement. Length-of-service awards are paid after a specific period of employment. Therefore, based on valuations prepared by professional actuary firms or based on own estimates, the Group recognises the present value of obligations under length-ofservice awards and post-employment benefits. The table below provides information on the amount of the obligations and reconciliation of changes in the obligations during the reporting period. Post-employment Length-of-service awards Total PLN ’000 Note benefits and other benefits Jan 1 2013 32,018 113,129 145,147 Current service cost 1,804 17,277 19,081 Cost of discount 9.6 1,158 4,980 6,138 Past service cost (152) (793) (945) Benefits paid (2,206) (11,236) (13,442) Actuarial (gain)/loss under 7,680 7,680 profit or loss Actuarial (gain)/loss under 225 225 other comprehensive income Dec 31 2013 32,847 131,037 163,884 including: non-current 29,132 119,033 148,165 current 3,715 12,004 15,719 Obligations under length-ofservice awards and post3,802 3,802 employment benefits at foreign companies (1) Deconsolidation (39) (387) (426) (LOTOS Tank Sp. z o.o.) Dec 31 2013 36,610 130,650 167,260 including: non-current 32,741 118,684 151,425 current 3,869 11,966 15,835 Post-employment Length-of-service awards Total PLN ’000 Note benefits and other benefits Jan 1 2012 34,271 99,903 134,174 Current service cost 1,918 7,430 9,348 Cost of discount 9.6 1,560 4,984 6,544 Past service cost (3,879) 11,972 8,093 Acquisition/(disposal) of related (713) (2,763) (3,476) entities Benefits paid (2,312) (11,177) (13,489) Actuarial (gain)/loss under 2,780 2,780 profit or loss Actuarial (gain)/loss under 1,173 1,173 other comprehensive income Dec 31 2012 32,018 113,129 145,147 including: non-current 25,817 103,576 129,393 current 6,201 9,553 15,754 Obligations under length-of-service awards and post-employment 469 469 benefits at foreign companies (1) Dec 31 2012 32,487 113,129 145,616 including: non-current 26,286 103,576 129,862 current 6,201 9,553 15,754 (1) Given the different nature of pension plans operated by the Group's foreign companies – LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS and the companies of the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group – and their negligible effect on the Group's obligations under length-of-service awards and postemployment benefits, such companies' obligations are presented separately as Obligations under length-of-service awards and postemployment benefits at foreign companies. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 73 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 29.2 Present value of future employee benefit obligations Present value of future employee benefit (PLN ’000) obligations Dec 31 2013 167,260 Dec 31 2012 145,616 Dec 31 2011 131,801 Dec 31 2010 107,829 Dec 31 2009 98,694 Present value of future employee benefit obligations is equal to their carrying amount. 29.3 Total cost of future employee benefit payments charged to profit or loss for the year ended for the year ended PLN ’000 Note Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Items recognised in profit or loss: Current service cost 19,081 9,348 Cost of discount 9.6 6,138 6,544 Past service cost (945) 8,093 Effect of foreign operations 3,639 (78) Actuarial (gain)/loss 7,680 2,780 Total 35,593 26,687 Items recognised in other comprehensive income: Actuarial (gain)/loss 188 1,111 Total 35,781 27,798 29.4 Actuarial assumptions The table below presents the key assumptions adopted by the actuary as at the balance-sheet date to calculate the amount of the obligation. Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Discount rate (%) 4.30% 4.50% Expected inflation rate (%) 2.50% 2.50% Employee turnover ratio (%) 2.49% 2.60% Expected growth rate of salaries and wages (%) in the following year 0.00% 2.70% Expected growth rate of salaries and wages (%) in the following years 2.76% 2.70%  The employee attrition probability is based on the historical data on employee turnover at the Group and statistical data on employee attrition in the industry. The employee turnover ratios adopted by the actuary were determined separately for men and women and broken down into nine age categories. The employee turnover ratio is now calculated on an average basis.  The mortality and life expectancy ratios were based on the Life Expectancy Tables of Poland for 2012, published by the Polish Central Statistics Office (GUS), and assume that the Group’s employee population is representative of the average Polish population in terms of mortality (December 31st 2012: Life Expectancy Tables of Poland for 2011).  The changes resulting from amendments to the Act on Pensions and Disability Pensions from Social Security Fund (Pensions Act) were accounted for, in particular changes relating to the retirement age of women and men, including its extension over a defined period to 67 years for both women and men. The amendments to the Pensions Act resulted in a change in the operation of individual benefit plans, giving rise to additional past service costs.  It was assumed that employees would retire in accordance with the standard procedure, as prescribed by the Pensions Act, with the exception of employees who, according to the information provided by the Company, meet the conditions for early retirement entitlement.  Based on the historical data, it was assumed that in 60% of cases half of the full amount of death benefits is paid.  The data used in the assumptions did not include cases related to organisational changes.  Additionally, the provision for death benefits as at December 31st 2012 was revaluated. The effect of this revaluation is presented in Note 29.1 under Current service cost. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 74 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 29.5 Termination benefits In 2013, termination benefits and compensation payable in respect of non-compete obligation totalled PLN 3,984 thousand (2012: PLN 4,181 thousand). In 2013, provisions for termination benefits totalled PLN 74 thousand (2012: PLN 1,502 thousand). 29.6 Sensitivity analysis The table below presents results of calculations for changed key actuarial assumptions: the salaries and wages growth rate and the discount rate. Opening balance of the obligation (amount of provision) PLN ’000 Old-age and disability Salaries and Length-ofSocial benefits Discount rate retirement Death benefits Total(1) wages growth rate service awards fund severance payments base base 119,459 29,915 8,742 5,768 163,884 base + 1% base 129,304 33,309 9,580 6,749 178,942 base 1% base 110,898 27,056 8,013 4,986 150,953 base base + 0.5% 114,552 28,328 8,337 5,348 156,565 base base 0.5% 124,753 31,661 9,182 6,243 171,839 The table below presents results of calculations for changed key actuarial assumptions: the salaries and wages growth rate, medical care contributions, and the discount rate. Current service cost projected for 2014 PLN ’000 Old-age and disability Salaries and Length-ofSocial benefits Discount rate retirement Death benefits Total(1)l wages growth rate service awards fund severance payments base base 9,138 1,606 668 202 11,614 base + 1% base 10,178 1,888 757 263 13,086 base 1% base 8,253 1,380 593 157 10,383 base base + 0.5% 8,676 1,488 630 178 10,972 base base 0.5% 9,642 1,739 710 229 12,320 Cost of discount projected for 2014 PLN ’000 Old-age and disability Salaries and Length-ofSocial benefits Discount rate retirement Death benefits Total(1) wages growth rate service awards fund severance payments base base 4,651 1,126 348 238 6,363 base + 1% base 5,074 1,271 383 280 7,008 base 1% base 4,284 1,003 316 205 5,808 base base + 0.5% 4,957 1,181 369 246 6,753 base base 0.5% 4,311 1,061 324 228 5,924 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 75 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Total current service cost and cost of discount projected for 2014 PLN ’000 Old-age and disability Salaries and Length-ofSocial benefits Discount rate retirement Death benefits Total(1) wages growth rate service awards fund severance payments base base 13,789 2,732 1,016 440 17,977 base + 1% base 15,252 3,159 1,140 543 20,094 base 1% base 12,537 2,383 909 362 16,191 base base + 0.5% 13,633 2,669 999 424 17,725 base base 0.5% 13,953 2,800 1,034 457 18,244 (1) Given the different nature of pension plans operated by the Group's foreign companies – LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS and the companies of the AB LOTOS Geonafta Group – and their negligible effect on the Group's obligations under length-of-service awards and post-employment benefits, such companies' obligations are not included in analysis presented above. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 76 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 30. Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Jan 1 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) (restated) Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Other financial liabilities: 235 1,204 15,194 Investment commitments 31,1 235 13,296 Other 1,204 1,898 Total 235 1,204 15,194 Current financial liabilities Trade payables, including: 31,1 2,396,086 2,174,451 2,812,259 including to related entities 36,1 8 138 6,823 Other financial liabilities: 31,1 200,455 253,232 197,725 Investment commitments 158,385 178,074 172,706 including to related entities 36,1 32 Liabilities to insurers 3,764 3,077 3,671 Settlements under joint ventures 15,926 58,077 (Norwegian fields) Other 22,380 14,004 21,348 including to related entities 36,1 167 Total 2,596,541 2,427,683 3,009,984 Total financial liabilities 2,596,776 2,428,887 3,025,178 Non-financial liabilities Non-current non-financial liabilities Provisions 698,841 397,967 307,681 Grants 11,987 13,089 14,415 Other 782 271 Total 711,610 411,056 322,367 Current non-financial liabilities Provisions 162,938 21,256 20,790 Liabilities to the state budget other than corporate 720,199 686,520 966,530 income tax1 Grants 30,582 26,359 24,906 Settlements under joint ventures (Norwegian 721 55,092 fields) Prepaid deliveries 32,005 4,509 9,483 Other 23,039 22,020 24,893 Total 969,484 815,756 1,046,602 Total non-financial liabilities 1,681,094 1,226,812 1,368,969 Total 4,277,870 3,655,699 4,394,147 including: non-current 711,845 412,260 337,561 current: 3,566,025 3,243,439 4,056,586 trade receivables 2,396,086 2,174,451 2,812,259 other 1,169,939 1,068,988 1,244,327 (1) Including PLN 541,957 thousand in excise duty and fuel charge liabilities (December 31st 2012: PLN 629,443 thousand). Trade payables do not bear interest and are, as a rule, paid in 7-60 days. Other liabilities do not bear interest, and their average payment period is one month. Amounts resulting from the difference between value added tax receivable and value added tax payable are paid to the relevant tax authorities on a monthly basis. Interest payable is usually settled on a monthly basis during a financial year. For sensitivity analysis of trade payables and other liabilities with respect to currency risk as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, see Note 32.3.1. For maturities of trade payables and other liabilities as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, see Note 32.5. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 77 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 30.1 Provisions Provisions for decommissioning and reclamation costs Provision Provision Provision for for Provisions Baltic Sea Oil and Other for onshore offshore offshore Total for retired Gas Facility provisions oil and gas oil and gas oil and gas refinery Decommissioning facilities – facilities – facilities – installations Fund Lithuania the North the Baltic PLN ’000 Note Sea Sea Jan 1 2013 41,770 18,268 117,132 180,817 27,481 33,755 419,223 Recognised 265,709 8,373 274,082 Revaluation of 723 11,995 (1,404) 11,314 decommissioning costs Change in provisions for liabilities attributable to 9.6 263 895 5,085 9,041 15,284 approaching maturity date (discount reversal effect) Transfer to Oil and Gas Facility (1,654) 1,654 Decommissioning Fund Interest on Oil and Gas Facility 731 731 Decommissioning Fund Exchange differences on translating foreign 254 (49,975) (990) (50,711) operations Estimated costs of removal of the MOPU 281,859 281,859 from the YME field Used (828) (69,537) (8,067) (78,432) Released (5,077) (957) (5,537) (11,571) Dec 31 2013 36,128 19,183 562,268 186,800 29,866 27,534 861,779 including: non-current 35,854 19,183 419,085 186,800 29,866 8,053 698,841 current 274 143,183 19,481 162,938 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 78 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Provisions for decommissioning and reclamation costs Provision Provision Provision for Provisions for offshore for offshore Baltic Sea Oil and Other onshore oil Total for retired oil and gas oil and gas Gas Facility provisions and gas refinery facilities – facilities – Decommissioning facilities – installations the North the Baltic Fund Lithuania Sea Sea PLN ’000 Note Jan 1 2012 41,641 18,916 59,064 163,522 24,491 20,837 328,471 Recognised 140 16,581 16,721 Revaluation of 959 56,506 11,823 69,288 decommissioning costs Change in provisions for liabilities attributable to 9.6 263 1,356 3,324 7,358 43 12,344 approaching maturity date (discount reversal effect) Transfer to Oil and Gas Facility (1,886) 1,886 Decommissioning Fund Interest on Oil and Gas Facility 1,104 1,104 Decommissioning Fund Acquisition of control (AB LOTOS Geonafta 4,097 4,097 Group) (1) Exchange differences on translating foreign (1,424) (1,740) (95) (3,259) operations Used (22) (1,703) (1,725) Released (274) (3,588) (1,908) (5,770) Deconsolidation (AB LOTOS Geonafta (2,048) (2,048) Group) (1) Dec 31 2012 41,770 18,268 117,132 180,817 27,481 33,755 419,223 including: non-current 41,497 18,268 117,132 180,817 27,481 12,772 397,967 current 273 20,983 21,256 (1) Effect of the acquisition of control over UAB Manifoldas by AB LOTOS Geonafta. For more information on the transaction, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for 2012. Provisions for retired refinery installations primarily include a PLN 28,933 thousand (December 31st 2012: PLN 34,839 thousand) provision for land reclamation and the cost of disassembly and decommissioning of retired installations at LOTOS Terminale S.A. Provision for the Baltic Sea offshore oil and gas facilities is a provision for future costs of decommissioning of the oil and gas facilities in the B-3 and B-8 licences areas. Provision for the North Sea offshore oil and gas facilities is a provision for future costs of decommissioning of the offshore oil and gas facilities in the YME and Heimdal fields, the latter acquired in 2013. On March 12th 2013, the operator of the YME field, Talisman Energy Norge AS (“Talisman,” “Operator”) and the supplier of the Mobile Operating and Production Unit (MOPU) to be operated on the YME field, Single Buoy Moorings Inc. (“SBM”), announced that an agreement had been reached to remove the defective MOPU (evacuated in mid-July 2012) from the YME field and to terminate all existing contracts and agreements between the parties in connection with the YME project (see Note 35.1). As a result of the agreement, the Group recognised a provision for future costs of removal of the MOPU from the YME field, of PLN 281,859 thousand (NOK 526,151 thousand), including in current portion, which was partially used (PLN 69,527 thousand (NOK 129,787 thousand)) in 2013. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 79 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The provision referred to above disclosed in the statement of financial position as at December 31st 2013, totalling PLN 196,319 thousand, including long-term portion of PLN 53,136 thousand (NOK 107,280 thousand) and short-term portion of PLN 143.183 thousand (NOK 289.084 thousand) was calculated based on the following assumptions:  the MOPU will be removed from the YME field not later than in 2015;  the provision fully covers the unspent, as at December 31st 2013, budget for removing the MOPU, approved by the interest holders of the YME licence. In connection with the acquisition in 2013 of new production assets on the Norwegian Continental Shelf (Heimdal), a provision for future costs of decommissioning of the acquired production assets was recognised at PLN 265,709 thousand (NOK 496,004 thousand). Decommissioning of the newly acquired non-current assets of the offshore oil and gas facility at the Heimdal field and reclamation work are scheduled for 2014–2035. As at December 31st 2013, a provision of PLN 245,671 thousand (NOK 496,004 thousand; see Note 13 Acquisition of interests in Norwegian production and exploration licences – Heimdal) was presented by the Group in its statement of financial position, under Other liabilities and provisions . Other provisions As at December 31st 2013, the Group recognised a provision for contingent payments under the Heimdal assets acquisition agreement, of PLN 5,089 thousand (NOK 10,275 thousand). The Group recognised a provision for the unavoidable costs under an agreement it made earlier for collection and transport of the crude oil produced from the YME field. This provision was recognised in 2012, in the amount of PLN 12,492 thousand (i.e. NOK 22,500 thousand), and was then partly released as a result of negotiations and the shortening of the contract term. In 2013, the provision amount used was PLN 5,353 thousand (NOK 9,992 thousand) and the amount released was 4,912 thousand (NOK 9,170 thousand). As at December 31st 2013, the provision was PLN 1,653 thousand (NOK 3,338 thousand). Furthermore, as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the Group also disclosed a provision of PLN 15,318 thousand related to court proceedings instigated by WANDEKO, to which LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. is a party (see Note 35.1). 30.2 Grants Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Note Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 At beginning of the period 39,448 39,321 Received during the year 5,196 2,186 Recognised in consolidated profit or loss 9.3 (2,075) (2,059) At end of the period 42,569 39,448 including: non-current 11,987 13,089 current 30,582 26,359 The grants are primarily related to licences received free of charge and grants from the Eco Fund for the use of waste gas from an offshore oil and gas facility for heating purposes. The Group receives also government assistance within the meaning of IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure. Until April 30th 2011, the Group benefited from tax credit available to producers of bio-components under Art. 19a of the Corporate Income Tax Act of February 15th 1992 (consolidated text: Dz.U. of 2011, No. 74, item 397). The state aid awarded in line with the laws referred to above was approved by virtue of the European Commission’s Decision No. 57/08 of September 18th 2009 concerning authorisation for the grant of state operating aid for biofuels. This relief has enabled biofuel producers to deduct from their payable income tax up to 19% of the surplus value of their produced biofuels, over the value of their produced liquid fuels of the same calorific value, calculated at average prices. European Commission's approval for the tax relief expired on April 30th 2011, and the unsettled amount of the relief is accounted for in current prepayments for corporate income tax. The deferred tax associated with the biocomponent tax credit is presented in Note 10.3., and the related tax effect in Note 10.2. The Group uses a tax credit available to entities introducing new technologies pursuant to Art. 18b of the Corporate Income Tax Act of February 15th 1992 (consolidated text: Dz.U. of 2011, No. 74, item 397). The credit enables the Group to deduct up to 50% of expenditure incurred on new technologies from the tax base. The effect of the credit on these financial statements of the Group was immaterial. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 80 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 31. Financial instruments 31.1 Carrying amount Categories of financial instruments Dec 31 2013 Financial Financial assets/liabilities at fair Loans and assets (1) Financial liabilities Total Note value through profit or receivables available for at amortised cost PLN ’000 loss – held for trading sale Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 28 73,935 73,935 Trade receivables 18 1,594,746 1,594,746 Cash and cash equivalents 20 503,686 503,686 Other financial assets: 18 369,632 9,746 379,378 Total 73,935 2,468,064 9,746 2,551,745 Financial liabilities Borrowings, other debt instruments and 27 6,211,386 6,211,386 finance lease liabilities Derivative financial instruments 28 74,153 74,153 Trade payables 30 2,396,086 2,396,086 Other financial liabilities 30 200,690 200,690 Total 74,153 8,808,162 8,882,315 Categories of financial instruments Dec 31 2012 Financial Financial assets/liabilities at Total (restated) Loans and assets (1) Financial liabilities Note fair value through receivables available for at amortised cost profit or loss – held PLN ’000 sale for trading Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 28 121,334 121,334 Trade receivables 18 1,632,837 1,632,837 Cash and cash equivalents 20 268,333 268,333 Other financial assets: 18 249,917 9,756 259,673 Total 121,334 2,151,087 9,756 2,282,177 Financial liabilities Borrowings, other debt instruments and 27 6,556,700 6,556,700 finance lease liabilities Derivative financial instruments 28 179,325 179,325 Trade payables 30 2,174,451 2,174,451 Other financial liabilities 30 254,436 254,436 Total 179,325 8,985,587 9,164,912 (1) As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the Group held shares in other undertakings measured at historical cost less impairment. As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities did not materially differ from their carrying amounts. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 81 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 31.2 Fair value hierarchy Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets Commodity swap 736 45 Currency forward and spot contracts 34,924 73,452 Interest rate swap (IRS) 11,318 Currency swap 38,275 36,519 Total 73,935 121,334 Financial liabilities Commodity swap 337 Futures (CO2 emissions) 3,787 Currency forward and spot contracts 1,017 9,161 Interest rate swap (IRS) 72,263 148,007 Currency swap 873 18,033 Total 74,153 3,787 175,538 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 82 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 31.3 Items of income, expenses, gains and losses disclosed in the statements of comprehensive income by category of financial instrument Categories of financial instruments Year ended Dec 31 2013 Financial assets/ liabilities Loans Financial assets Financial liabilities at at fair value through profit and available for Total amortised cost or loss – held for trading receivables sale PLN ’000 Note Classes of financial instruments Trade receivables: 1,111 1,111 Interest income 9.5 5,995 5,995 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) recognised in cost of sales 9.1 766 766 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.6 362 362 Impairment losses 9.4 (6,012) (6,012) Cash and cash equivalents: (2,249) (2,249) Interest income 9.5 1,267 1,267 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.6 (3,516) (3,516) Other financial assets: (26,237) (26,237) Interest income 9.5 8,606 8,606 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.6 (34,843) (34,843) Derivative financial instruments (financial assets/liabilities): 112,861 112,861 Gains/(losses) on fair value measurement of derivative financial instruments 9.5 55,148 55,148 Gains/(losses) on realisation of derivative financial instruments 9.5 57,713 57,713 continued on next page (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 83 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Categories of financial instruments Year ended Dec 31 2013 Financial assets/ liabilities Financial assets Loans and Financial liabilities at at fair value through profit available for Total receivables amortised cost or loss – held for trading sale PLN ’000 Note Classes of financial instruments continued Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease liabilities (132,506) (132,506) Interest expenses 9.6 (169,005) (169,005) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.6 (84,266) (84,266) Gains/(losses) on measurement of cash flow hedges 23 120,765 120,765 Trade payables 75,800 75,800 Interest expenses 9.6 (53) (53) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) recognised in cost of sales 9.1 75,928 75,928 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.6 (75) (75) Other financial liabilities: 6,672 6,672 Interest expenses recognised in finance costs 9.6 (125) (125) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) recognised in finance costs 9.6 6,797 6,797 Total 112,861 (27,375) (50,034) 35,452 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 84 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Categories of financial instruments Year ended Dec 31 2012 Financial assets/ liabilities Financial assets Loans and Financial liabilities at at fair value through profit available for Total receivables amortised cost or loss – held for trading sale PLN '000 Note Classes of financial instruments Shares: 150 150 Gains/(losses) on sale 9.5 150 150 Trade receivables: (43,884) (43,884) Interest income 9.5 8,804 8,804 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) recognised in cost of sales 9.1 (54,471) (54,471) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.5 (3,229) (3,229) Reversal of impairment losses 9.3 5,012 5,012 Cash and cash equivalents: (28,835) (28,835) Interest income 9.5 1,309 1,309 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.5 (30,144) (30,144) Other financial assets: (99,575) (99,575) Interest income 9.5 14,879 14,879 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.5 (114,454) (114,454) Derivative financial instruments (financial assets/liabilities): 117,772 117,772 Gains/(losses) on fair value measurement of derivative financial instruments 9.5 159,096 159,096 Gains/(losses) on realisation of derivative financial instruments 9.5 (41,324) (41,324) continued on next page (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 85 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Categories of financial instruments Year ended Dec 31 2012 Financial assets/ liabilities Financial assets Loans and Financial liabilities at at fair value through profit available for Total receivables amortised cost or loss – held for trading sale PLN ’000 Note Classes of financial instruments continued Borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease liabilities 566,386 566,386 Interest expenses 9.6 (191,754) (191,754) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.5 285,943 285,943 Gains/(losses) on measurement of cash flow hedges 23 472,197 472,197 Trade payables 24,202 24,202 Interest expenses recognised in finance costs 9.6 (88) (88) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) recognised in cost of sales 9.1 23,275 23,275 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.5 1,015 1,015 Other financial liabilities: 16,601 16,601 Interest expenses 9.6 (380) (380) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 9.5 16,981 16,981 Total 117,772 (172,294) 150 607,189 552,817 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 86 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 32. Objectives and policies of financial risk management The Group is exposed to financial risks, including:  market risk (risk related to prices of raw materials and petroleum products, risk related to prices of CO2 allowances, currency risk, interest rate risk),  liquidity risk,  credit risk related to financial and trade transactions. The Parent operates a Financial Risk Management Office, which coordinates and exercises ongoing supervision of the Group's financial risk management processes. Furthermore, the Price Risk and Trading Committee, appointed by the Management Board, supervises the work on development of policies and procedures, and monitors implementation of the Group's strategy in the area of its responsibilities. Specifically, the Committee provides opinions on or initiates key price and trading risk management initiatives, makes recommendations, and submits proposals for actions that require the Management Board's approval. In addition, to ensure effective management of liquidity, debt structure and external finance raising by companies of the LOTOS Group, the Management Board has appointed the Liquidity Optimisation and Financing Coordination Team. Financial risk management seeks to achieve the following key objectives:  increase the probability that budget and strategic objectives are met,  limit volatility of cash flows,  ensure short-term financial liquidity,  maximise the result on market risk management within the assumed risk level limits,  create value in the long-term. With a view to implementing the above objectives, the Group has put in place relevant tools and developed a number of documents, which were then approved at the relevant decision-making levels and which define the framework for ensuring effectiveness and safety of the Company's financial activities, including:  methodology for quantifying exposures to particular risks,  acceptable financial instruments,  methodology of assessing financial risk management,  risk management limits,  the reporting method,  credit limits,  documentation and operating standards,  division of responsibilities in transaction execution, risk assessment and monitoring, and transaction recording and settlement between different organisational units. The Parent monitors and reports all managed market risks on an ongoing basis. Grupa LOTOS S.A. uses liquid derivatives which can be measured by applying commonly used valuation models. The valuation of the underlying position and derivatives is based on market inputs provided by reliable sources. Opening positions with respect to risks which do not arise as part of the Company’s core business is prohibited. On January 1st 2011, the Parent commenced hedge accounting with respect to cash flows (i.e. foreign-currency facilities used to finance the 10+ Programme, designated as hedges of future USD-denominated petroleum product sale transactions). In H2 2012, the scope of cash flow hedge accounting was extended to include newly established hedging relationships of the same nature. 32.1 Risk related to prices of raw materials and petroleum products The Group considers risk related to prices of raw materials and petroleum products to be particularly important. The Company identifies the following factors of this risk:  volatility of the refining margin, measured as the difference between the liquid index of a reference petroleum product basket (e.g. aviation fuel, gasoline, diesel oil, fuel oil) and the liquid index of reference feedstock (e.g. Urals crude),  volatility of prices with respect to the raw material and product inventory volumes deviating from the required levels of mandatory and operational stocks,  volatility of differentials between the reference indices and indices used in commercial contracts (e.g. Urals-Brent differential, i.e. the difference between different types of crude oil),  use of non-standard pricing formulae in commercial contracts. In order to secure fixed petroleum product prices for future deliveries to customers, the Group has implemented a system whereby the risk can be transferred from the customers onto the Group. This requires execution of appropriate price risk hedging transactions and implementation of procedures providing protection against credit and operational risks. As part of the measures discussed above, in 2012 and 2013, in connection with sales of bitumen components the Group entered into commodity swap contracts, which helped it maintain its original price risk profile. The swap contracts concluded in that period were partially settled in the year when they were entered into, and partly in the following year. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 87 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Open commodity swaps as at December 31st 2013: Amount in Fair value (PLN ‘000) Contract Average Type of Valuation tonnes in the Reference index execution weighted price Financial Financial contract period valuation period (USD/tonne) assets liabilities period Commodity 3.5 PCT Barges FOB Sep–Nov Mar–Oct 2014 20,989 572.90 736 swap Rotterdam 2013 Total 736 The above swap transactions for the total amount of 20,989 tonnes based on the 3.5 PCT Barges FOB Rotterdam liquid index during the period from March to October 2014 year were entered into to reverse the risk profile relating to the prices of raw materials and petroleum products, arising in connection with the sale of bitumen components at fixed prices. Open commodity swaps as at December 31st 2012: Amount in Fair value (PLN '000) Contract Average Type of Valuation tonnes in the Reference index execution weighted price Financial Financial contract period valuation period (USD/t) assets liabilities period Commodity 3.5 PCT Barges FOB Dec 2012 Jun–Nov 2013 14,092 591.25 (335) swap Rotterdam Commodity Gasoil .1 Cargoes CIF Dec 2012 Jun–Nov 2013 (3,000) 915.00 45 (2) swap NWE / Basis ARA Total 45 (337) The above swap transactions based on the 3.5 PCT Barges FOB Rotterdam liquid index and the Gasoil .1 Cargoes CIF NWE / Basis ARA index were also entered into to reverse the risk profile relating to the prices of raw materials and petroleum products and arising in connection with the sale of bitumen components at fixed prices. The Management Board points out that the importance of price risk management and of trading activities within the Group has been steadily growing. In connection with the need to manage new processes and to enhance the efficiency of ongoing operations in this area, and in order to improve the operational safety, the Group is implementing an ERTM IT system (Energy Trading and Risk Management). 32.1.1 Market risk sensitivity analysis: fluctuations in prices of raw materials and petroleum products An analysis of the sensitivity as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012 of financial transactions to the risk of fluctuations in prices of raw materials and petroleum products, assuming a +/10% price change is presented below: Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Carrying Carrying PLN ’000 Change Change amount amount 10% -10% 10% -10% Financial assets (1) 736 3,695 (3,695) 45 (778) 778 Financial liabilities (1) (337) 2,481 (2,481) Total 736 3,695 (3,695) (292) 1,703 (1,703) (1) Commodity swaps. The above deviations of underlying index prices have been calculated based on a hypothetical +/10% price change. This sensitivity analysis has been performed with reference to the balance of instruments held as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012. The effect of the underlying index price changes on the fair value has been examined assuming that the currency exchange rates remain unchanged. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 88 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 32.2 Risk related to prices of carbon (CO2) allowances The risk related to prices of carbon dioxide allowances is managed by the Parent in line with the Strategy for Managing the Risk Related to Prices of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Allowances by Grupa LOTOS S.A. The Group determines its underlying CO2 allowances position, which represents the difference between the number of CO2 allowances (held or estimated) and CO2 emissions (released or estimated) for each individual trading period (phase), for which emission allowances are granted. As part of risk management procedures, the Group sets a volume limit for the total position in CO2 allowances (the underlying position adjusted for the position resulting from executed contracts, i.e. transactions involving purchase/sale of emission allowances) based on the number of allowances granted for a given phase. The Group monitors the total position for a given phase, representing the aggregate of total positions for individual years within the phase. Depending on the market situation and within the set limits, the Group maintains an appropriate total position in carbon allowances by entering into financial transactions on an on-going basis. The limit reflecting the risk of loss on the transactions (maximum loss limit) is defined by reference to the Group’s equity. Below are presented underlying, contract and total position as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012. Underlying CO2 allowances position as at December 31st 2013 (tonnes): Period EUA* CER* ERU* TOTAL Phase III (2013-2020) (1,238,485) 383 29,000 (1,209,102) *Under the European Union Emissions Trading System/Scheme (EU ETS): 1 EUA (Emission Unit Allowance) represents an allowance for emission of one tonne of CO2, 1 CER (Certified Emission Reduction Unit) represents one tonne of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) effectively reduced. Certified emission reduction units are obtained in connection with investment projects implemented in developing countries where no CO2 emission limits have been defined. 1 ERU (Emission Reduction Unit) represents one tonne of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) effectively reduced. ERUs are certified emission units, obtained through investment projects implemented in countries where the CO2 reduction costs are lower. The presented above underlying position is based on the following assumptions as to the allowances and carbon dioxide emission volumes, and the fact that 993 thousand EUA, 383 CER and 29 thousand ERU were registered in the Company's account as at December 31st 2013: Phase III (20132013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 2020), tonnes Allowances allocated under the 1,521,342 1,492,657 1,462,140 1,428,944 1,396,948 1,366,559 1,335,827 10,004,417 National Allocation Plan (1) Carbon dioxide (1,676,529) (1,779,653) (1,779,653) (1,779,653) (1,661,606) (1,779,653) (1,779,653) (12,236,400) (CO2) emissions (2) Surplus/shortage (155,187) (286,996) (317,513) (350,709) (264,658) (413,094) (443,826) (2,231,983) (1) Projected volume of free CO2 emission allowances to be allocated to Grupa LOTOS in 2013–2019 under the National Allocation Plan (NAP). (2) Projected carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, calculated based on the production data for the installations covered by the emission trading scheme, and used to determine the underlying position as at December 31st 2013. In 2013, given the lack of liquidity on the futures market and the instability of the underlying position in the period until 2020 (the last year – phase III), the end of the risk management period for the risk related to the prices of CO2 emission allowances was set at the end of 2019, however, with the lapse of time, year 2020 will probably also be included in the risk management horizon. As at December 31st 2013, the Gropup. did not receive its free allocation of CO2 emission allowances for 2013, which it should have received by the end of February 2013. The Group assumes that there is little probability that these allowances will not be received before the final offsetting date, i.e. April 30th 2014, as by the by the date of publication of these financial statements, i.e. February 26th 2014, the European Commission announced its approval of the allowance limits planned for the last group of member states, including Poland. The Management Board would also like to note that the Group holds around 60% of the allowances it is required to surrender, and that the balance could be purchased without any material effect on liquidity until free credits are received. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 89 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Underlying CO2 allowances position as at December 31st 2012 (tonnes): Period EUA CER TOTAL Phase II (2008-2012) (520,169) (520,169) Phase III (2013-2020) (363,376) (363,376) In 2012, the management of Phase II, which was nearing its end, continued, and management of Phase III, covering years 2013-2020 commenced, however due to limited liquidity of the market, the management was actually limited to 2013 and 2014. Phase II covered the period to the end of 2012, and is was settled by the end of April 2013. Therefore, the two-phase division was retained in the tables containing information on the underlying position and financial instruments. As at December 31st 2012, the underlying position was based on the following assumptions as to the volume of allowances and carbon dioxide emissions in phase II and phase III: Phase II (2008-2012), tonnes 2012 Total Allowances in the account 1,458,144 1,458,144 (1) Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions (1,978,313) (1,978,313) Surplus/shortage (520,169) (520,169) (1) Projected carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, calculated based on the production data for the installations covered by the emission trading scheme. Phase III (2013-2020), tonnes 2013 2014 Total Allowances allocated under the National Allocation Plan (1) 1,610,712 1,607,843 3,218,555 (2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions (1,737,054) (1,844,877) (3,581,931) Surplus/shortage (126,342) (237,034) (363,376) (1) Projected volume of free CO2 emission allowances to be allocated to the Company in 2013–2014. (2) Projected carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, calculated based on the production data for the installations covered by the emission trading scheme. To manage risk related to carbon dioxide emission allowances, the Group evaluates the risk of deficit of free emission allowances allocated under the NAP on a case-by-case basis. If required, futures contracts to purchase carbon (CO2) allowances open as at the last day of the reporting period are settled by the Group through physical delivery, with the intention to potentially use the allowances to offset the Group's actual CO 2 emissions. Valuation of transactions to be settled through physical delivery is not disclosed under financial assets/liabilities in the financial statements. However, the Company internally monitors and performs the valuation of its open futures positions as part of an overall assessment of the effectiveness of its CO2 risk management (off balance sheet). The EUA futures transactions which were open as at December 31st 2013 will be settled through physical delivery and the Company expects to use the purchased emission allowances for its own needs. As at December 31st 2012, the Parent held open CER futures contracts which it intended to settle through physical delivery. The transactions were not disclosed in the financial statements as at the last day of the reporting period, and their fair values were recorded only as an off-balance sheet item. Further, in 2012 the Group entered into EUA/CER swaps, as that was justified by the spread between those two types of emission allowances. Open CO2 allowances contracts as at December 31st 2013: Number of Fair value (PLN ‘000)* Average Type of Contract execution Contract settlement allowances weighted price Phase Financial Financial contract period period in the (EUR/t) assets liabilities period EUA Aug 2012–Dec 2013 Dec 2014−Dec 2017 1,696,000 5.58 Phase III 1,182 (5,230) Futures Total 1,182 (5,230) *Off-balance-sheet values, used exclusively for statistical purposes and as part of monitoring in risk management. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 90 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Open CO2 allowances contracts as at December 31st 2012: Number of Fair value (PLN ‘000)* Average Type of Contract execution Contract settlement allowances weighted price Phase Financial Financial contract period period in the (EUR/t) assets liabilities period CER Dec 2012 Mar 2013 620,000 0.42 Phase II (641) Futures Total (641) Number of Fair value (PLN ‘000)** Average Type of Contract execution Contract settlement allowances weighted price Phase Financial Financial contract period period in the (EUR/t) assets liabilities period EUA Aug–Nov 2012 Dec 2013-Dec 2014 523,000 8.53 Phase III (3,787) Futures Total (3,787) ** On-balance-sheet valuation. Given the underlying position described above and the effected transactions, the Company's aggregate position (in tonnes) in emission allowances as at December 31st 2013 was as follows: EUA position CER position ERU position Period Underlying Contracts Total Underlying Contracts Total Underlying Contracts Total Phase III (1,238,485) 1,696,000 457,515 383 383 29,000 29,000 (2013-2020) Given the underlying position described above and the effected transactions, the Company's aggregate position (in tonnes) in emission allowances as at December 31st 2012 was as follows: EUA position CER position Period Underlying Contracts Total Underlying Contracts Total Phase II (2008-2012) (520,169) (520,169) 620,000 620,000 Phase III (2013-2020) (363,376) 523,000 159,624 For information on CO2 emission allowances see Note 34. 32.2.1 Market risk sensitivity analysis: fluctuations in prices of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012 the Group held futures for the purchase of carbon dioxide emission allowances. Below is presented an analysis of the sensitivity to risk of changes in prices of carbon dioxide emission allowances (+/10%) for the estimated fair value of the derivative instruments disclosed in the statement of financial position: Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Carrying Change Carrying Change amount 10% -10% amount 10% -10% Financial liabilities(1) (3,787) 1,446 (1,446) Total (3,787) 1,446 (1,446) (1) EUA Futures. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 91 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The above deviations of CO2 emission allowance prices have been calculated based on a hypothetical +/10% price change. This sensitivity analysis has been performed with reference to the balance of instruments held as at December 31st 2012. The effect of the allowance price changes on the fair value has been examined assuming that the currency exchange rates remain unchanged. The Group does not perform a sensitivity analysis for the fair value of futures contracts to purchase CO2 emission allowances held by it as at the end of the reporting period if it intends to settle the contracts through physical delivery and use them to cover allowance deficits, and therefore the table above does not present a sensitivity analysis for EUA futures held as at December 31st 2013 and CER futures held as at December 31st 2012, which were intended to settle through physical delivery to cover allowance deficits in settlement of carbon dioxide emission for the period. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 92 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 32.3 Currency risk Currency risk is managed by the Group in line with the Strategy of Currency Risk Management at Grupa LOTOS S.A. The exposure management horizon is linked with the Group’s budget horizon, which varies from three to five consecutive quarters depending on the time of the year. The four-quarter period is treated as the basis for determining the exposure management horizon. The base map of currency positions takes into account principally the volumes and price formulae for purchases of raw materials and sales of products, investments, deposits, and credit facilities denominated in foreign currencies, as well as valuation of derivatives, and may be adjusted for a ratio reflecting the volatility in the prices of raw materials and petroleum products. The strategy provides for the calculation of the following limits:  position limit (open currency contracts must not increase the Company’s underlying position and must not exceed the volume of the underlying position);  maximum loss and liquidity limits are expressed as a percentage of the Company’s equity (the liquidity limit is calculated in order to reduce the risk of excessive accumulation of financial transactions over a limited period of time, the settlement of which could result in liquidity and operating problems);  gross total and global currency position limits for the entire management period as well as for sub-periods. For the purpose of the limits calculation, equity is remeasured on a quarterly basis. Moreover, when loss on risk management exceeds a pre-defined threshold, limits are immediately revised in order to prevent any significant exceeding of the maximum loss limit set by the Management Board of the Parent. In order to optimise execution of foreign exchange transactions at the Group, the Parent offers to its subsidiaries direct quotations of such transactions based on framework agreements and applicable operational procedures. USD is used in market price quotations for crude oil and petroleum products. For this reason it was decided that USD is the most appropriate currency for contracting and repaying long-term credit facilities to finance the 10+ Programme, as this would reduce the structurally long position, and consequently also the strategic currency risk. The underlying currency position represents all material cash flows (identified during currency risk identification process) whose value, expressed in the Group's functional currency, over the risk management period depends on exchange rates, adjusted for a ratio reflecting the decreasing probability of generating such cash flows. The Group. has a structural long position in USD (it benefits from a rise in the USD/PLN exchange rate) as its cash inflows dependent on the USD exchange rate (mainly revenue from sale of petroleum products) are higher than the corresponding cash outflows (e.g. on purchase of crude oil, credit facility repayment). As at December 31st 2013, the Group projects that in 2014 it will also have a long position in EUR, driven by a change of the price formulae under biocomponent purchase agreements, which were based on EUR in the previous reporting period and now are based mainly on USD, meaning that cash flows under these transactions are part of the USD position. Underlying currency position of the Parent as at December 31st 2013: Period USD '000 EUR '000 2014 445,543 2,008 Underlying currency position of the Parent as at December 31st 2012: Period USD '000 EUR '000 2013 654,698 (173,187) The Parent actively manages its currency position within the set limits, taking into account expected market developments. The Group’s companies execute transactions to hedge their currency risk. Each currency swap comprises a pair of transactions, which in this analysis are assigned to purchase or sale under Currency swap. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 93 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Open currency contracts as at December 31st 2013: Weighted Fair value (PLN ‘000) Contract Contract settlement Currency pair Amount in base Amount in quote Type of contract Purchase/sale average Financial Financial execution period period (base/quote) currency ('000) currency ('000) exchange rate assets liabilities Currency spot Purchase Dec 2013 Jan 2014 USD/PLN 21,000 3,0178 (63,374) (125) Currency spot Purchase Dec 2013 Jan 2014 EUR/PLN 1,500 4,1500 (6,225) (4) Currency forward Purchase Dec 2013 Jan 2014 USD/PLN 20,000 3,0551 (61,102) (783) Currency forward Purchase Dec 2013 Jan 2014 EUR/PLN 4,700 4,1720 (19,608) (105) Currency forward Sale Aug–Nov 2013 Mar–Oct 2014 USD/PLN (169,000) 3,2487 549,030 34,924 Currency swap Purchase Dec 2013 Sep 2014 USD/PLN 25,000 3,0932 (77,330) (845) Currency swap Purchase Dec 2013 Jan 2014 EUR/USD 1,850 1,3800 (2,553) (18) Currency swap Sale Sep–Dec 2013 Jan–Dec 2014 USD/PLN (393,450) 3,1371 1,234,292 38,275 Currency swap Sale EUR/PLN Currency swap Sale Dec 2013 Jan 2014 EUR/USD (7,500) 1,3764 10,323 (10) Total 73,199 (1,890) Open currency contracts as at December 31st 2012: Amount in base Weighted Amount in quote Fair value (PLN ‘000) Contract Contract settlement Currency pair Type of contract Purchase/sale currency average currency Financial Financial execution period period (base/quote) ('000) exchange rate ('000) assets liabilities Currency spot Purchase Dec 2012 Jan 2013 USD/PLN 54,000 3,0951 (167,135) 234 Currency spot Purchase Dec 2012 Jan 2013 EUR/PLN 1,891 4,0925 (7,739) (9) Currency forward Purchase Sep–Dec 2012 Jan–Apr 2013 USD/PLN 110,500 3,1760 (350,948) 57 (7,436) Currency forward Purchase Aug–Dec 2012 Jan–Jul 2013 EUR/USD 146,000 1,2828 (187,289) 17,029 Currency forward Sale Aug–Dec 2012 Jan–Nov 2013 USD/PLN (324,000) 3,3091 1,072,148 56,132 (1,381) Currency forward Sale Dec 2012 Jan 2013 EUR/PLN (15,000) 4,0717 61,076 (335) Currency swap Purchase Aug–Dec 2012 Jan–Jul 2013 USD/PLN 74,000 3,2998 (244,185) (12,672) Currency swap Purchase Dec 2012 Jan 2013 EUR/PLN 15,500 4,1474 (64,285) (832) Currency swap Purchase Oct–Dec 2012 Jan–Jul 2013 EUR/USD 31,610 1,2948 (40,929) 2,478 Currency swap Sale Aug–Dec 2012 Jan–Jul 2013 USD/PLN (399,500) 3,1968 1,277,122 34,041 (4,529) Total 109,971 (27,194) (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 94 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Total currency position of the Group as at December 31st 2013: Period USD/PLN position EUR/PLN position Underlying Contracts Total Underlying Contracts Total (USD ’000) (USD ’000) (USD ’000) (EUR ’000) (EUR ’000) (EUR ’000) 2014 445,543 (422,907) 22,636 2,008 300 2,308 Total currency position of the Group as at December 31st 2012: Period USD/PLN position EUR/PLN position Underlying Contracts Total Underlying Contracts Total (USD ’000) (USD ’000) (USD ’000) (EUR ’000) (EUR ’000) (EUR ’000) 2013 654,698 (654,766) (68) (173,187) 180,001 6,814 32.3.1 Sensitivity analysis with respect to market risk related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates Currency structure of selected financial instruments as at December 31st 2013: Dec 31 2013 Carrying amount in USD EUR foreign currency USD translated EUR translated translated into PLN (PLN '000) into PLN into PLN as at the balanceNote sheet date Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Trade receivables 121,143 364,884 10,922 45,112 409,996 Other receivables 15 63 63 Notes 59,268 178,516 178,516 Cash and cash equivalents 23,339 70,280 8,492 28,635 98,915 Other financial assets: 436,078 1,313,611 9,961 41,313 1,354,924 Loans advanced to related entities 361,974 1,090,321 7,208 29,895 1,120,216 Deposits 3,105 9,352 603 2,501 11,853 Security deposit (margin) 2,150 8,917 8,917 Cash blocked 18 70,999 213.938 213.938 in bank accounts Total 639,828 1,927,291 29,390 115,123 2,042,414 Financial liabilities Borrowings 2,096,295 6,320,969 1,180 4,892 6,325,861 Trade payables 622,316 1,931,556 11,589 50,877 1,982,433 Other liabilities 9,084 27,829 3,909 16,211 44,040 Notes 6,674 377,210 377,210 Finance lease liabilities 21,259 88,164 88,164 Total 2,734,369 8,657,564 37,937 160,144 8,817,708 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 95 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Currency structure of selected financial instruments as at December 31st 2012: Carrying amount in Dec 31 2012 USD EUR foreign currency USD translated EUR translated translated into PLN (PLN ’000) into PLN into PLN as at the balancesheet date Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Trade receivables 87,225 270,367 12,697 51,922 322,289 Other receivables 13 41 154 630 671 Notes 53,119 164,647 164,647 Cash and cash equivalents 5,321 16,416 2,205 8,992 25,408 Other financial assets: 371,510 1,151,237 12,313 50,338 1,201,575 Loans advanced to related entities 359,032 1,112,561 10,099 41,287 1,153,848 Deposits 12,478 38,676 38,676 Security deposit (margin) 2,214 9,051 9,051 Total 517,188 1,602,708 27,369 111,882 1,714,590 Financial liabilities Borrowings 2,291,949 7,108,363 5,307 21,672 7,130,035 Trade payables 573,352 1,777,160 8,456 31,319 1,808,479 Other liabilities 10,070 31,200 10,085 41,172 72,372 Notes 53,119 164,162 164,162 Finance lease liabilities 39,885 163,058 163,058 Total 2,928,490 9,080,885 63,733 257,221 9,338,106 For the purposes of sensitivity analysis, the currency structure presented above also accounts for intra-Group foreign currency transactions sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates, which affect the Group’s currency risk pursuant to IAS 21 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates with respect to recognition of relevant foreign exchange gains or losses in the Group’s net profit or loss. Apart from the instruments listed above, the Group held foreign-currency derivatives, including commodity swaps, interest-rate swaps, futures, as well as spot contracts, forwards and currency swaps. Depending on the type of derivative, the Group applies the appropriate method of fair value measurement, which also determines the method of calculating the effect of changes of foreign exchange rates on the value of individual derivatives (for more detailed information on the derivative measurement methods see Note 7.21).The tables below, presenting sensitivity of financial instruments to currency risk as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, also present the effect of currency rate changes on the carrying amounts of the derivatives. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 96 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Sensitivity analysis to currency risk as at December 31st 2013, along with the effect on the net profit or loss, assuming a 4% increase or decrease in the USD/PLN and EUR/PLN exchange rates is presented below: 4% increase in exchange rate effect 4% decrease in exchange rate effect Dec 31 2013 on net profit/loss for the year on net profit/loss for the year PLN '000 USD EUR USD EUR Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Trade receivables 14,595 1,804 (14,595) (1,804) Other receivables 3 (3) Derivative financial instruments (75,226) (41) 75,226 41 Notes 7,141 (7,141) Cash and cash equivalents 2,812 1,145 (2,812) (1,145) Other financial assets: 52,544 1,653 (52,544) (1,653) Loans advanced to related entities 43,613 1,196 (43,613) (1,196) Deposits 374 100 (374) (100) Security deposits (margins) 357 (357) Cash blocked in bank accounts 8,557 (8,557) Total financial assets 1,866 4,564 (1,866) (4,564) Financial liabilities (1) (1) Borrowings 96,997 196 (96,997) (196) Trade payables 77,262 2,035 (77,262) (2,035) Derivative financial instruments (13,591) (132) 13,591 132 Other liabilities 1,113 648 (1,113) (648) Notes 15,088 (15,088) Finance lease liabilities 3,527 (3,527) Total financial liabilities 176,869 6,274 (176,869) (6,274) Total (175,003) (1,710) 175,003 1,710 (1) Calculation of the effect of an exchange rate change on the balance-sheet item takes into account the effect of cash flow hedge accounting. Assuming a 4% change of the USD/PLN exchange rate, the effect of cash flow hedge accounting would potentially lead to a change of PLN (158,436) thousand/PLN 158,436 thousand in the fair value of borrowings. Furthermore, the calculation takes into account the effect of paid front-end arrangement fees (measured at the exchange rate effective on the payment date), reducing financial liabilities under borrowings, which would potentially result in a change of PLN 2,593 thousand/PLN (2,593) thousand in the fair value of borrowings, assuming a 4% change of the USD/PLN exchange rate. The above deviations of carrying amounts in PLN which are dependent on currency exchange rates were calculated on the basis of a hypothetical +/4% change of the exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis has been performed with reference to the balance of instruments held as at December 31st 2013. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 97 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Sensitivity analysis to currency risk as at December 31st 2012, along with the effect on the net profit or loss, assuming a 4% increase or decrease in the USD/PLN and EUR/PLN exchange rates is presented below: 4% increase in exchange rate effect 4% decrease in exchange rate effect Dec 31 2012 on net profit/loss for the year on net profit/loss for the year PLN '000 USD EUR USD EUR Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Trade receivables 10,815 2,077 (10,815) (2,077) Other receivables 2 25 (2) (25) Derivative financial instruments (85,181) 29,022 85,181 (29,022) Notes 6,586 (6,586) Cash and cash equivalents 657 360 (657) (360) Other financial assets: 46,049 2,013 (46,049) (2,013) Loans advanced to related entities 44,502 1,651 (44,502) (1,651) Deposits 1,547 (1,547) Security deposits (margins) 362 (362) Total financial assets (21,072) 33,497 21,072 (33,497) Financial liabilities (1) (1) Borrowings 110,782 867 (110,782) (867) Trade payables 71,086 1,253 (71,086) (1,253) Derivative financial instruments 1,816 (240) (1,816) 240 Other liabilities 1,248 1,647 (1,248) (1,647) Notes 6,566 (6,566) Finance lease liabilities 6,522 (6,522) Total financial liabilities 191,498 10,049 (191,498) (10,049) Total (212,570) 23,448 212,570 (23,448) (1) Calculation of the effect of an exchange rate change on the balance-sheet item takes into account the effect of cash flow hedge accounting. Assuming a 4% change of the USD/PLN exchange rate, the effect of cash flow hedge accounting would potentially lead to a change of PLN (176,513) thousand/PLN 176,513 thousand in the fair value of borrowings. Furthermore, the calculation takes into account the effect of paid front-end arrangement fees (measured at the exchange rate effective on the payment date), reducing financial liabilities under borrowings, which would potentially result in a change of PLN 2,960 thousand/PLN (2,960) thousand in the fair value of borrowings, assuming a 4% change of the USD/PLN exchange rate. The above deviations of carrying amounts in PLN which are dependent on currency exchange rates were calculated on the basis of a hypothetical +/4% change of the exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis has been performed with reference to the balance of instruments held as at December 31st 2012. 32.4 Interest rate risk The underlying interest rate position is attributable to cash flows whose amounts depend on the future interest rate levels. This position is driven primarily by the expected repayment schedules under the credit facilities contracted to finance and refinance stocks and to finance an investment under the 10+ Programme, as well as the amount of interest computed by reference to the floating LIBOR USD rate. The structure of limits is based on the underlying position’s nominal value hedge ratio. In a long-term perspective, a partial risk mitigation effect was achieved through the choice of a fixed interest rate for a tranche of the term facility contracted to finance the 10+ Programme (credit facility designated in the table as 'Bank Syndicate 3'; see Note 27.1.) (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 98 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Underlying interest rate position as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012: Underlying position (USD '000) Period 2013 2012 2013 (1,757,021) 2014 (1,497,343) (1,267,629) 2015 (1,123,111) (1,143,396) 2016 (991,787) (1,012,073) 2017 (856,356) (876,641) 2018 (708,447) (728,733) 2019 (542,210) (562,495) 2020 (374,926) (395,211) Open interest rate contracts as at December 31st 2013: Notional Financial Financial Contract Company Type of contract Period amount (USD Company pays assets liabilities execution period receives '000) (PLN '000) (PLN '000) Interest rate swap Mar 2009–May Jul 2011–Jan 200,000 3.33% 4.045% 6M LIBOR (70,543) (IRS) 2009 2018 Interest rate swap Jan 2015–Jan Mar 2012 50,000 2.476% 3M LIBOR (1,720) (IRS) 2019 Total (72,263) Open interest rate contracts as at December 31st 2012: Notional Financial Financial Contract Company Type of contract Period amount (USD Company pays assets liabilities execution period receives ’000) (PLN '000) (PLN '000) Interest rate swap Sep 2008–May Oct 2008–Jan 600,000 3.33% 4.22% 6M LIBOR (141,756) (IRS) 2009 2018 Interest rate swap Jan 2015–Jan Mar 2012 50,000 2.476% 3M LIBOR (6,251) (IRS) 2019 Interest rate swap Jan 2009–Jan Sep 2008 (100,000) 6M LIBOR 4.0% 11,318 (IRS) 2013 Total 11,318 (148,007) (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 99 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Total interest rate position as at December 31st 2013: Fixed interest rate Variable interest Underlying Contract position Total position Period facilities rate deposits Hedge ratio position (USD’000) (USD’000) (USD’000) (USD’000) (USD’000) 2014 (1,497,343) 342,014 200,000 88,926 (866,403) 42% 2015 (1,123,111) 307,950 250,000 91,598 (473,563) 58% 2016 (991,787) 271,942 250,000 99,822 (370,023) 63% 2017 (856,356) 234,807 250,000 102,094 (269,455) 69% 2018 (708,447) 194,252 50,000 114,982 (349,213) 51% 2019 (542,210) 148,670 117,133 (276,407) 49% 2020 (374,926) 102,802 109,312 (162,812) 57% Total interest rate position as at December 31st 2012: Underlying Fixed interest rate Variable interest Contract position Total position Period position facilities rate deposits Hedge ratio (USD’000) (USD’000) (USD’000) (USD’000) (USD’000) 2013 (1,757,021) 376,656 200,000 72,300 (1,108,065) 37% 2014 (1,267,629) 347,576 200,000 89,935 (630,118) 50% 2015 (1,143,396) 313,512 250,000 90,750 (489,134) 57% 2016 (1,012,073) 277,504 250,000 97,926 (386,643) 62% 2017 (876,641) 240,369 250,000 98,837 (287,435) 67% 2018 (728,733) 199,814 50,000 111,556 (367,363) 50% 2019 (562,495) 154,233 114,608 (293,654) 48% 2020 (395,211) 108,364 111,076 (175,771) 56% (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 100 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 32.4.1 Market risk sensitivity analysis: fluctuations in interest rates Below is presented an analysis of the Group’s sensitivity to interest rate risk as at December 31st 2013, assuming a 0.2% change in interest rates: Dec 31 2013 Change Carrying Note amount PLN ’000 +0.2% -0.2% Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 20 503,686 1,007 (1,007) Other financial assets: 284,486 569 (569) Oil and Gas Facility Decommissioning Fund 18 29,866 60 (60) Deposits 18 29,653 59 (59) Security deposits (margins) 18 11,029 22 (22) Cash blocked in bank accounts 18 213,938 428 (428) Total 788,172 1,576 (1,576) Financial liabilities (1) (1) Borrowings 27.1 5,862,115 9,663 (9,663) Notes 27 198,240 396 (396) Finance lease liabilities 27.3 151,031 302 (302) Derivative financial instruments (1) 28 72,263 (6,017) 6,081 Total 6,283,649 4,344 (4,280) (1) Net of fixed interest borrowings and paid front-end fees reducing liabilities under borrowings. (2) Interest rate swap (IRS). The difference between the change in the valuation amount, when the interest rate curve moves up or down 0.2%, arises at the time of discounting future cash flows (relating to the contract settlement) as at the valuation date. Discounting takes place at different interest rates (in the first case the interest rate curve is moved up 0.2%, in the second case the curve is moved down 0.2%). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 101 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Below is presented an analysis of the Group’s sensitivity to interest rate risk as at December 31st 2012, assuming a 0.2% change in interest rates: Dec 31 2012 Change Carrying Note amount PLN ’000 +0.2% -0.2% Classes of financial instruments Financial assets Derivative financial instruments (1) 28 11,318 (1) 1 Cash and cash equivalents 20 268,333 537 (537) Other financial assets: 161,207 322 (322) Oil and Gas Facility Decommissioning Fund 18 27,481 55 (55) Deposits 18 122,563 245 (245) Security deposits (margins) 18 11,163 22 (22) Total 440,858 858 (858) Financial liabilities (2) (2) Borrowings 27.1 6,390,591 10,490 (10,490) Finance lease liabilities 27.3 166,109 332 (332) Derivative financial instruments (1) 28 148,007 (7,693) 7,792 Total 6,704,707 3,129 (3,030) (1) Interest rate swap (IRS). The difference between the change in the valuation amount, when the interest rate curve moves up or down 0.2%, arises at the time of discounting future cash flows (relating to the contract settlement) as at the valuation date. The cash flows are discounted at different interest rates (in the first case the interest rate curve is moved up 0.2%, in the second case the curve is moved down 0.2%). (2) Net of fixed interest borrowings and paid front-end fees reducing liabilities under borrowings. In the case of derivative financial instruments, for the purpose of interest rate sensitivity analysis the interest rate curve is moved up or down by a hypothetical change in reference interest rates (3M LIBOR, 6M LIBOR). This sensitivity analysis has been performed with reference to the balance of instruments held as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012. The effect of the interest rate changes on the fair value has been examined assuming that the currency exchange rates remain unchanged. 32.5 Liquidity risk The liquidity risk management process at the Group consists in monitoring projected cash flows and the portfolio of financial assets and liabilities, matching maturities of the assets and liabilities, analysing working capital, and optimising cash flows within the Group. This process requires that units operating in different business areas closely cooperate in activities undertaken in order to ensure safe and effective allocation of the liquidity. In 2012, the Group implemented real cash-pooling services for most of its Polish subsidiaries, whereby the Parent manages on an on-going basis the structure comprising the subsidiaries covered by the cash-pooling services to optimise liquidity and interest balances. In the period covered by the budget, liquidity is monitored on an ongoing basis across the Group as part of the financial risk management. In the midand long term, it is monitored as part of the planning process, which helps to develop a long-term financial strategy. In the area of financial risk, in addition to active management of market risk, the Group observes the following liquidity management rules:  no margins in derivatives trading on the OTC market,  limited possibility of early termination of financial transactions,  limits for low-liquidity spot financial instruments,  credit limits for counterparties in financial and trade transactions,  adequate quality and diversification of available financing sources,  internal control processes and organisational efficiency facilitating prompt contingency response. Below is presented an information on the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2013. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 102 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at December 31st 2013: Dec 31 2013 Carrying Contractual Up to 6 months 6–12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years Over 5 years amount cash flows PLN ’000 Note Borrowings (other than overdraft facilities) 27.1 5,363,201 5,674,778 969,472 462,779 501,883 1,774,901 1,965,743 Overdraft facilities 27.1 498,914 498,914 498,914 Notes 27 198,240 198,485 15,060 15,060 168,365 Finance lease liabilities 27.3 151,031 191,646 18,032 16,962 33,213 89,623 33,816 Trade payables 30 2,396,086 2,396,086 2,394,530 1,556 Other financial liabilities 30 200,690 200,690 131,576 68,879 235 Total 8,808,162 9,160,599 4,012,524 565,236 550,391 2,032,889 1,999,559 Contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at December 31st 2012: Dec 31 2012 Carrying Contractual (restated) Up to 6 months 6–12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years Over 5 years amount cash flows PLN ’000 Note Borrowings (other than overdraft facilities) 27.1 5,857,893 6,125,075 1,371,533 368,530 499,013 1,340,723 2,545,276 Overdraft facilities 27.1 532,698 532,698 532,698 Finance lease liabilities 27.3 166,109 229,246 19,342 17,452 34,325 100,488 57,639 Trade payables 30 2,174,451 2,174,451 2,173,656 795 Other financial liabilities 30 254,436 254,436 239,569 13,663 509 695 Total 8,985,587 9,315,906 4,336,798 400,440 533,847 1,441,906 2,602,915 (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 103 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Maturities of derivative financial instruments as at December 31st 2013: Carrying Contractual cash Dec 31 2013 Note Up to 6 months 6–12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years Over 5 years amount* flows PLN ’000 Commodity swap 736 736 409 327 Currency forward and spot contracts 33,907 41,180 24,229 16,951 28 Interest rate swap (IRS) (72,263) (73,301) (20,446) 1,055 (17,772) (33,866) (2,272) Currency swap 37,402 43,863 29,416 14,447 Total (218) 12,478 33,608 32,780 (17,772) (33,866) (2,272) Maturities of derivative financial instruments as at December 31st 2012: Carrying Contractual cash Dec 31 2012 Note Up to 6 months 6–12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years Over 5 years amount* flows PLN '000 Commodity swap (292) (291) (24) (267) Futures (CO2 emissions)** (3,787) (3,787) (2,494) (1,293) Currency forward and spot contracts 28 64,291 75,811 68,656 7,155 Interest rate swap (IRS) (136,689) (138,662) (51,223) 1,543 (19,147) (50,271) (19,564) Currency swap 18,486 25,463 23,790 1,673 Total (57,991) (41,466) 41,199 7,610 (20,440) (50,271) (19,564) * Carrying amount (positive fair value of derivative financial instruments less negative fair value of derivative financial instruments) represents the fair value of derivative financial instruments disclosed in the statement of financial position ** Carrying amount of futures (CO2 emissions) as at December 31st 2012 excludes open CER futures purchased to be used for the settlement through physical delivery. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 104 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 32.6 Credit risk Management of credit risk related to counterparties in financial transactions consists in the verification of creditworthiness of the current and potential counterparties and monitoring of credit exposure against the granted limits. Credit exposure includes bank deposits and derivatives measurement. The counterparties must have an appropriate credit rating assigned by leading rating agencies, or hold guarantees from institutions meeting the minimum rating requirement. The Group enters into financial transactions with reputable firms with sound credit standing, and diversifies the group of institutions with which it maintains relationship. As at December 31st 2013, the concentration of credit risk exposure to any single counterparty in financial transactions of the Group did not exceed PLN 249,010 thousand (3.49% of the Parent’s equity), while at December 31st 2012 the amount was PLN 153,189 thousand (2.17% of the Parent’s equity). For information on the structure of the Group's borrowings by lender see Note 27.1. As regards management of counterparty risk in non-financial transactions, all customers who request trading on credit terms are subject to credit assessment, whose results determine the level of possible credit limits. The Parent defines guidelines for managing counterparty risk in non-financial transactions to ensure that appropriate standards of credit analysis and operational security are observed across the entire Group. As at December 31st 2013, concentration of risk with any single business partner of the Group did not exceed PLN 161,066 thousand (2.26% of the Company's equity). Credit risk is measured by the maximum exposure to risk of individual classes of financial assets. Carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure. Maximum financial assets credit risk exposures as at the end of the reporting period: Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 PLN ’000 Note (restated) Derivative financial instruments 28 73,935 121,334 Trade receivables 18 1,594,746 1,632,837 Cash and cash equivalents 20 503,686 268,333 Other financial assets: 18 379,378 259,673 Total 2,551,745 2,282,177 In the Management Board’s opinion, the risk related to non-performing financial assets is reflected in the recognised impairment losses. For information on impairment of financial assets, see Notes 9.4 and 18.1. For information on concentrations of trade receivables credit risk, see Note 18.1. For aging analysis of receivables past due but not impaired, see Note 18.1. 33. Capital management The objective of the LOTOS Group financial policy is to maintain long-term liquidity, while using an appropriate level of financial leverage to support the achievement of the principal objective of maximising the return on equity for shareholders. This is achieved through constant effort to develop the desired capital structure at the Group level. The LOTOS Group uses the debt to equity ratio, calculated as net debt to equity, to monitor its financing structure. Net debt comprises borrowings, other debt instruments and finance lease liabilities less cash and cash equivalents. Equity includes equity attributable to owners of the Parent plus non-controlling interests. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 105 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Year ended Year ended PLN '000 Note Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Non-current borrowings 27.1 4,183,624 4,315,599 Current borrowings 27.1 1,678,491 2,074,992 Notes 27 198,240 Lease liabilities 27.3 151,031 166,109 Cash and cash equivalents 20 (503,686) (268,333) Net debt 5,707,700 6,288,367 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 9,189,307 9,065,725 Non-controlling interests 289 699 Total equity 9,189,596 9,066,424 Net debt to equity 0.62 0.69 The figures for the year ended December 31st 2012 have changed in relation to the figures contained in the financial statements published for the previous period as a result of inclusion of lease liabilities in the calculations of net debt. The Company monitors its financing structure in order to achieve the goal set in the Strategy for the LOTOS Group for the years 2011–2015, that is to reduce debt in order to achieve a debt to equity ratio of no more than 0.4 at the end of the Strategy term. 34. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission allowances The below presented amounts of CO2 emission allowances for 2013-2020 are based on the draft regulations prepared by the Ministry of the Environment. On February 26th 2014, the European Commission approved the limits of free allocations of carbon dioxide emission allowances for 2013-2020. Number of free CO2 emission allowances for 2013-2020 and actual CO2 emissions: in thousand tonnes 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total Allowances allocated under the National 1,567 1,543 1,509 1,471 1,436 1,403 1,369 1,328 11,626 Allocation Plan (1) Actual CO2 emissions(2) 1,745 1,745 (1) Projected volumes of free CO2 emission allowances for 2013–2020 under the National Allocation Plan prepared by the National Centre for Emissions Balancing and Management, taking into account the cross-sectoral correction factor referred to in the Commission Decision 2013/448/EU. The European Commission approved draft specifications prepared by Poland, including lists of installations and the initial allocation volumes, thus providing the basis for further legislation work at the national level, aimed at efficiently passing the allowances over to Polish enterprises. (2) CO2 emissions calculated on the basis of production data for installations included in the emissions trading system, in accordance with the report of January 10th 2014 presenting data as at December 31st 2013. The data will be subject to verification in accordance with Art. 59 of the Act on Trading in Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowances of April 28th 2011. In addition, some of the Group companies have unused free CO2 emission allowances allocated for 2008–2012 under the National Allocation Plan; the aggregate amount of these allowances is 143 thousand tonnes, and they may be used to cover the emissions in 2013–2020. As at December 31st 2013, considering the proposed amount of allowances to be allocated under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme for 2013 and the actual volume of emissions, the Group reported a deficit of allocated CO2 emission allowances, and therefore a PLN 1,527 thousand provision was recognised in its financial statements. Moreover, to cover the 2013 deficit, the Group acquired CO2 emission allowances valued at PLN 23,430 thousand, which were disclosed in its statement of financial position under Other intangible assets (see Note 15). As at December 31st 2012, the Company recognised a liability of PLN 954 thousand related to the purchase cost. The emissions limit for 2012 was set at 1,989 thousand tonnes (1,228 thousand tonnes under the National Allocation Plan and 761 thousand tonnes allocated by the Marshal of the Gdańsk Province), whereas the actual CO2 emissions totalled 2,033 thousand tonnes. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 106 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements The Group's total allocation of CO2 emission allowances for the years 2008–2012 was 7,781 thousand tonnes (6,126 thousand tonnes under the National Allocation Plan and 1,655 thousand tonnes allocated by the Marshal of the Gdańsk Province), whereas its actual CO2 emissions in the years 2008–2012 totalled 7,551 thousand tonnes. For information on the risk related to prices of CO2 emission allowances, see Note 32.2. 35. Contingent liabilities and assets 35.1 Material court, arbitration or administrative proceedings and other risks of the Parent or its subsidiaries Material court proceedings instigated against Grupa LOTOS S.A. Proceedings brought by PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o. seeking compensation for losses incurred as a result of monopolistic practices On February 22nd 2013, the court dismissed in its entirety an action brought by PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o. against the Company whereby it sought a court decision on the awarding of PLN 6,975 thousand, plus statutory interest from May 1st 1999, as compensation for losses incurred as a result of the Company’s monopolistic practices, which involved selling BS base oils in a manner favouring customers whose orders were filled to a disproportionately large extent than the orders of PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o. On June 26th 2013, PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o. appealed against the decision. As at the date of approval of these financial statements, the case was pending. As the risk of an unfavourable outcome of the case was limited, Grupa LOTOS S.A. did not recognise any provisions for potential liabilities related to the case. By virtue of its ruling of February 22nd 2013, the court awarded PLN 57.6 thousand to Grupa LOTOS S.A. as reimbursement of the costs of proceedings. Tax settlements Tax settlements and other regulated areas of activity (e.g. customs or foreign exchange control) are subject to inspection by competent authorities, which may impose high penalties and sanctions. As the legislation regulating such matters in Poland is relatively new, it is often ambiguous and inconsistent. Differing interpretations of tax legislation are common, both among governmental authorities and government and business, leading to uncertainty and conflicts. Tax settlements may be subject to tax inspection for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year in which the tax payment was made. As a result of such inspections, additional tax liabilities may be assessed with respect to the tax settlements made by the Company. Court proceedings instigated by or against Group companies WANDEKO vs. LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. Court proceedings are pending against LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o., instigated by Mr Andrzej Wójcik conducting business as WANDEKO. On October 28th 2009, the Regional Court of Gdańsk, 9th Commercial Division, issued a default judgment awarding PLN 1,921 thousand plus contractual interest from the company to the plaintiff. In 2009, LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. recognised a PLN 15,318 thousand provision for the court-awarded amount plus interest. The company appealed against the judgment by lodging an objection to the default judgment with the Regional Court of Gdańsk on November 10th 2009. By virtue of its decision of December 28th 2010, the Court of Appeals dismissed Mr Andrzej Wójcik’s complaint against the decision issued by the Regional Court of Gdańsk refusing to reverse the decision to lift the court order making the default judgment immediately enforceable, and awarded reimbursement of the cost of the proceedings to LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. In the reporting period ended December 31st 2013, following earlier decisions rendered in the case by the Regional Court in Gdańsk and the Court of Appeals in Gdańsk, the Court Enforcement Officer issued a decision reversing the earlier seizure of receivables from LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o.’s bank account in the amount of PLN 18,320 thousand, which had been established to secure the plaintiff’s claims in 2009. Accordingly, the Group ceased to disclose that amount as Cash blocked in bank accounts under Current financial assets, as it had done in the 2012 financial statements (see Note 18). The most recent hearing in the case was held on November 13th 2013. The court decided that the next hearing would take place after an expert opinion is obtained on the quality of work performed by WANDEKO for LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o. o. As at the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements, the case was pending. As at December 31st 2013, LOTOS Paliwa Sp. z o.o. recognised a provision (see Note 30.1) for the court-awarded amount plus interest, as specified above. Proceedings involving LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) On July 23rd 2009, the District Court for Kraków-Śródmieście in Kraków declared KRAK-GAZ Sp. z o.o.'s bankruptcy by liquidation of assets. The company’s estate is managed by a bankruptcy administrator. On September 24th 2009, LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) lodged its claims in the proceedings. On March 13th 2012, the judge commissioner conducting the bankruptcy proceedings of KRAK-GAZ Sp. z o.o. issued a decision recognising the claims of LOTOS Gaz S.A. w likwidacji (in liquidation) for a total amount of PLN 23,695 thousand, including a principal of PLN 21,435 thousand, and acknowledged that claims of PLN 21,132 thousand were secured with mortgages. The decision is final. The bankruptcy administrator submitted a separate plan of distribution of the proceeds from sale of real property, but due to objections and contentions raised by the parties, the plan has not yet been approved by the judge commissioner. As at the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements, the bankruptcy proceedings were pending and did not affect the current consolidated financial statements. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 107 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Proceedings involving a LOTOS Petrobaltic Group company Agreement signed by LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS (“LOTOS E&P Norge AS”) was a party to proceedings held before an arbitration court in Norway in connection with claims filed by Single Buoy Moorings Inc. (“SBM”), the supplier of a MOPU (Mobile Offshore Production Unit) for the operation of the YME field, against Talisman Energy Norge AS, the operator of the YME field (“Talisman”, the “Operator”) and the other YME licence holders. The share of SBM's claims attributable to LOTOS E&P Norge AS was 20%. On March 12th 2013, Talisman (the YME field operator) and SBM (the owner of the MOPU) announced that an agreement was reached to terminate all existing contracts and agreements executed by the parties in connection with the YME project and remove the MOPU from the YME field. Under the agreement, SBM paid USD 470m to the joint venture partners. On behalf of the licence holders, Talisman agreed to make the necessary preparations, remove the MOPU from the field and transport it to the handover point. SBM agreed to be responsible for towing and scrapping the unit onshore. Following completion of certain works, the ownership of elements of the YME field in situ subsea infrastructure delivered by SBM will be transferred to the consortium members, who will be required to perform reclamation (and disassembly) activities related to the infrastructure after the end of the production phase. The parties will cover the costs of decommissioning work as set out in the agreement. The agreement was approved by all partners in the YME licence, including LOTOS E&P Norge AS. It includes an arrangement concerning termination of all pending arbitration proceedings (between SBM and Talisman and the other YME licence holders). In accordance with the provisions of the agreement with SBM, USD 12.22m has been paid to LOTOS E&P Norge AS’s bank account by March 31st 2013. The payment represented a part of LOTOS E&P Norge AS’s 20% interest in the amount of USD 470m, paid by SBM to the consortium members. The balance of the Group’s share in the amount due to the consortium members under the agreement, that is USD 81.78m, was transferred to the escrow account of the YME project, and will be gradually released to finance works connected with the removal of the MOPU and infrastructure from the field, as defined in the agreement. As at December 31st 2013, the cash deposited in the escrow account, denominated in the presentation currency, was recognised in the statement of financial position as Cash blocked in bank accounts under Other non-current/current financial assets in the amounts of PLN 110,378 thousand / PLN 103,559 thousand, respectively (see Note 18). Also, the Group recognised a provision for future costs of the MOPU removal and disassembly of the installed assets under non-current and current portions of Other liabilities and provisions in non-current portion in amount of PLN 53,136 thousand and in current portion in the amount of PLN 143,183 thousand(see Note 30.1, Estimated costs of removal of the MOPU from the YME field ). On December 4th 2013, Talisman and Excalibur Maritime Contractors („EMC”) entered into an agreement to remove the Mobile Offshore Production Unit (MOPU) from the YME field. On February 5th 2014, Talisman notified LOTOS E&P Norge AS of the execution of an agreement between EMC and Single Buoy Moorings Inc. ( SBM ) for the transport of the MOPU. The abovespecified provisions comprise the liabilities under the agreement to remove the MOPU, which are attributable to LOTOS E&P Norge AS. Proceedings involving LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. On March 11th 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. received the final pre-court payment notice for approximately GBP 6.5m from AGR Subsea Ltd. (“AGR”). The claim concerns AGR’s remuneration for performance of an agreement to unearth the legs of the Baltic Beta platform. LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. questioned the amount demanded by AGR as remuneration for the services. In the course of negotiations, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. has proposed to pay PLN 16m (the equivalent of GBP 3.2m, translated at the mid rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland for December 31st 2012) to AGR under the claim. The dispute concerns the nature of the contract, the reasons behind its delayed and incomplete performance, as well as whether LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. had grounds to terminate the contract and demand reimbursement of costs incurred for replacement contractors hired by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. to complete the work. AGR Subsea Ltd. did not accept the settlement and brought the case to court. On November 4th 2013, the company received a claim brought by AGR for payment of GBP 6.5m. Moreover, on October 31st 2013, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. filed a claim against AGR to the Regional Court of Gdańsk for payment of GBP 5.6m to cover the costs of hiring the replacement contractors. Given the complex nature of the dispute, it is difficult to assess the risk arising in relation to the court proceedings, as if the judgment is unfavourable to a given party, that party may have to incur additional expenses related to the proceedings, including costs of legal representation and costs of enforcement. As at December 31st 2013, no liability towards AGR Subsea Ltd. was recognised by the Group in these consolidated financial statements. 35.2 Other contingent liabilities  As at December 31st 2013, the Parent had a PLN 240,000 thousand blank promissory note deposited at the Customs Office in Gdańsk as lump-sum security for excise duty of PLN 800,000 thousand. The security is valid until August 19th 2014.  An unconditional and irrevocable guarantee issued by LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. for the benefit of the government of Norway on June 17th 2008, concerning the activities of LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS related to its exploration and production operations on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, was effective as at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012. In the guarantee, LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A. undertook to assume any financial liabilities which may arise in connection with the operations of LOTOS Exploration and Production Norge AS on the Norwegian (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 108 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements Continental Shelf, consisting in the exploration for and extraction of natural resources from the sea bottom, including their storage and transport using means of transport other than ships. 36. Related parties 36.1 Related-party transactions Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Jointly-controlled entities Sale 19,983 6,831 Purchases 516 35,702 (1) In-kind contribution 51,700 (1) LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A., as the other limited partner in Baltic Gas Sp. z o.o. i wspólnicy sp. k., increased its equity interest in the partnership in exchange for contributions, including an in-kind contribution in the form of non-current assets related to B-4 and B-6 fields, see Note 2. In 2013, the Group made sale transactions primarily with LOTOS Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. (executed subsequently to the loss of control over the company, see Note 2). The transactions involved sales of aviation fuel. The value of the sales stood at PLN 19,533 thousand. In 2012, the Group mainly purchased crude oil from UAB Manifoldas (transactions executed prior to the acquisition of control over UAB Manifoldas on November 28th 2012, as discussed in Note 2 to the 2012 consolidated financial statements). The value of the purchases stood at PLN 34,651 thousand. PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Note Jointly-controlled entities Receivables 18 16,657 2,507 Payables 30 207 138 As at December 31st 2013, the Group disclosed mainly receivables from LOTOS Air BP Polska Sp. z o.o. in the amount of PLN 16,321 thousand (December 31st 2012: UAB Minijos Nafta). 36.2 Group's controlling entity As at December 31st 2013 and December 31st 2012, the State Treasury held a 53.19% interest in Grupa LOTOS S.A. In 2013 and 2012, no transactions were concluded between Grupa LOTOS S.A. and the State Treasury. 36.2.1 Transactions with related entities over which the State Treasury has control, joint control or significant influence In 2013, the Group executed transactions with parties related to it through the State Treasury. The aggregate value of the transactions was material. They were concluded at arm’s length in the course of the Group’s day-to-day business and involved mainly sale of fuels, sale and purchase of storage services, purchase of transport services, energy, natural gas and other fuels. In 2013, the value of sales generated under the transactions totalled PLN 353,978 thousand (2012: PLN 797,327 thousand), with the value of purchases standing at PLN 1,649,885 thousand (2012: PLN 1,337,438 thousand). (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 109 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 36.3 Remuneration of members of the Management and Supervisory Boards, along with information on loans and other similar benefits granted to members of the management and supervisory staff The remuneration paid to members of the Company’s Management and Supervisory Boards was as follows: Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Management Board Short-term employee benefits (salaries and wages), including: 1,580 1,404 (1) (2) annual bonus paid 249 249 length-of-service awards (jubilee benefits) 41 (3) Management Board – subsidiaries Short-term employee benefits (salaries) 3,562 3,104 Supervisory Board Short-term employee benefits (salaries and wages) 246 242 Total (4) 5,388 4,750 (1) Remuneration paid in 2013 on account of annual bonus for 2012. (2) Remuneration paid in 2012 on account of annual bonus for 2011. (3) Remuneration paid to members of the Company’s Management Board for serving in corporate bodies of direct and indirect subsidiaries. (4) The amount reflects changes in the composition of the Company's Management Board (increased number of members) and Supervisory Board. Other employee benefits PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Management Board Post-employment benefits, length-of-service awards 522 570 and other benefits Current liabilities under annual bonus (1) 311 249 Total 833 819 (1) Pursuant to the Act on Remunerating Persons Who Manage Certain Legal Entities (the Public Sector Salary Cap Act). Taking into account changes in the composition of the Company's Management Board (increased number of members). In 2013 and 2012, the Company did not grant any loans or similar benefits to members of its management and supervisory staff. No other material transactions were concluded with members of the Company’s Management and Supervisory Boards. Grupa LOTOS S.A. did not become aware of any transactions concluded with the Company or a company of the LOTOS Group by the spouses, relatives by blood or marriage in the direct line up to the second degree, of members of the Management and Supervisory Boards, or persons related to them through guardianship or adoption or other persons with whom they have personal relationships. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 110 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 36.4 Remuneration paid or payable to other members of key management staff Remuneration paid to members of key management staff (other than members of the Management Board of Grupa LOTOS S.A.) Year ended Year ended PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Short-term employee benefits (salaries and wages), including: 30,187 30,205 (1) (2) annual bonus paid 5,606 7,045 (1) Remuneration paid in 2013 on account of annual bonus for 2012. (2) Remuneration paid in 2012 on account of annual bonus for 2011. Other employee benefits: PLN ’000 Dec 31 2013 Dec 31 2012 Post-employment benefits, length-of-service awards 8,886 7,457 and other benefits Current liabilities under annual bonus 7,163 7,339 Loans and other similar benefits 6 16 Total 16,055 14,812 In 2013 and 2012, the Group did not provide any loans or similar benefits to members of its key management staff. 37. Material events after the reporting period  On February 3rd 2014, the ownership of a new rig was transferred onto SPV Baltic Sp. z o.o. (a company of the LOTOS Petrobaltic Group), following the fulfilment of the conditions stipulated in the agreement of December 20th 2013, including the full payment of the price. The offshore rig may perform drilling in waters with a depth of up to 105 metres (350 feet); it will be used in the execution of LOTOS Petrobaltic S.A.'s exploratory projects in the Baltic Sea. As at December 31st 2013, the value of the contract was disclosed as the Group’s future commitments under agreements related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment (see Note 13). The offshore rig reached Poland on February 26th 2014. (This is a translation of a document originally issued in Polish) 111 THE LOTOS GROUP Consolidated financial statements for 2013 Notes to the financial statements 38. Approval of the consolidated financial statements These consolidated financial statements were approved for publication by the Management Board on March 3rd 2014. Signatures of the Management Board members and the person responsible for keeping the accounting books of Grupa LOTOS S.A. President of the Management Board, Chief Executive Officer Paweł Olechnowicz Vice-President of the Management Board, Chief Financial Officer Mariusz Machajewski Vice-President of the Management Board, Chief Exploration and Production Officer Zbigniew Paszkowicz Vice-President of the Management Board, Chief Operation Officer Marek Sokołowski Vice-President of the Management Board, Chief Commercial Officer Maciej Szozda Chief Accountant Tomasz Południewski Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Useful information 420 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Glossary of industry terms A ACEA European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association; it establishes quality criteria for engine oils, applicable across Europe. ACEA European Oil Sequences 2008 are the published quality criteria for all engine oils on the European market, including the requirements to be met by engine oils for new cars. The document categorises oils and specifies all physical and chemical parameters, as well as engine tests for each quality category. ACEA requires that any claims for oil performance to meet the ACEA standards must be based on credible data and controlled tests in accredited test laboratories. APC (Advanced Process Control) is a computerized manufacturing process control system in place in the Gdańsk Refinery since 2001. APC simultaneously controls a large number of technological process parameters at the industrial plant. With the help of this system, one can optimize the plant operations, increasing the yield of the desired products and keep the plant working safely. ARA the market with its territory delineated by the ports of Antwerp – Rotterdam – Amsterdam. Atmospheric distillation a physicochemical process used to separate component products of a mixture, using differences in the boiling point temperatures of individual components. In the process of atmospheric distillation, individual fractions of gases, benzene, paraffin and diesel oils become separated. Heavier hydrocarbons constitute so-called atmospheric remnants. Atmospheric distillation is a process carried out at a pressure close to atmospheric pressure. Audit recertifying the Integrated Management System (renewal) an audit aimed at assessing the compliance of the management system with the requirements of the standards. A recertifying audit is carried out in the period determined by the certifying entity to extend the validity or issue a new IMS certificate. 421 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future B B3 Oil Field a marine natural gas and oil field located about 73 km north of Rozewie. In operation since 1992, it hosts the Marine Oil Mine (Morska Kopalnia Ropy). It is the main source of crude oil produced by LOTOS Petrobaltic. B8 Oil Field a marine natural gas and oil field located about 68 km northeast of Rozewie. B100 B100 (fuels) a determination of fuels produced solely from a biocomponent. Barrel (of crude oil) a primary unit of measure used in crude oil production. One barrel encompasses around 159 litres. Base oil unrefined oil, without improvers, obtained in the processing of crude oil. It represents the base raw material in the manufacture of lubricant oils. BAT Best Available Technique is, within the meaning of the definition contained in Directive 96/61/EC, the most effective and advanced stage in the development of activities and their methods of operation which indicate the practical suitability of particular techniques for providing in principle the basis for emission limit values designed to prevent, and where that is not practicable, generally to reduce emissions and their impact on the environment as a whole. Biocomponent an additive used in fuel production made in biomass processing of e.g. oil plants or corn. Biofuel fuel manufactured by adding more than 7% biocomponents to gasoline or diesel oil. BREF (BAT Reference Notes) BAT guidelines developed by the European IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) Bureau in Seville, Spain. They are not binding legal regulations, but guidelines to be followed in the assessment of applications for integrated permits and issuance of integrated permits. 422 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future C CD Process (Continuous Deglycerolization Process) a manufacturing process of fatty acid methyl esters used at the installation located in Czechowice-Dziedzice. CDU/VDU (installation) a basic installation system used for crude oil processing comprising a Crude Distillation Unit (CDU) and Vacuum Distillation Unit (VDU). Ceresin product of deoiling of heavy slack waxes. Ceresin is a complex mixture of n-paraffin hydrocarbons with a solidification point of approximately 73°C. It may be used as feedstock in the production of lubricants, proofing and protective products in the chemical industry and, after a purifying process, in the cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. CLP Regulation Classification, Labelling and Packaging Regulation regulation under which a new system for the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures has been implemented in the European Union, based on the Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals created by the United Nations in 2003. The CLP Regulation supplements the REACH Regulation and replaces the system provided for in Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC. The Regulation took effect on January 20th 2009 and is binding directly, without the need to be implemented into Polish law. CODO stations (company-owned, dealer-operated) stations owned by LOTOS Paliwa and managed by external companies. Component for bitumen production usually a heavy vacuum distillate fraction obtained from crude oil, which can be further processed on the installation for bitumen manufacture. Confirmed resources the volume of oil production that may be estimated based on geological analyses and engineering data with reasonable certainty as commercially available for production since a specific date, from the known deposit horizons and in specific economic conditions, using the defined operational methods and based on determined administrative regulations. Conversion conversion processes usually involve technological cracking processes. In such processes, components with high boiling temperatures (heavy distillates) are used to manufacture light products used for fuel production. The most common conversion processes are thermal cracking, catalytic cracking and hydrocracking. Crude oil naturally occurring liquid, recovered from beneath Earth’s surface. I consists mainly of hydrocarbons with various molecular weights and various chemical structure with minor quantities of organic 423 compounds of nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur and some other elements. Crude oil is a main feedstock for oil Conversion conversion processes usually involve technological cracking processes. In such processes, components with high boiling temperatures Integrated (heavy Annual Report 2013 -distillates) Grupa LOTOS are S.A. fuel used to manufacture light products used forWin the Future production. The most common conversion processes are thermal cracking, catalytic cracking and hydrocracking. Crude oil naturally occurring liquid, recovered from beneath Earth’s surface. I consists mainly of hydrocarbons with various molecular weights and various chemical structure with minor quantities of organic compounds of nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur and some other elements. Crude oil is a main feedstock for oil refineries and is processed towards fuels and other hydrocarbon based products. D DAO (De-Asphalted Oil) oil produced with an SDA installation used as a raw material for further refining. It may be the basis for producing base oils or an input for a cracking process. DODO stations (dealer-owned, dealer-operated) stations operating under the logo of the Gdańsk Refinery under patronage contracts. DOFO stations (dealer-owned, franchise-operated) stations operating under the LOTOS brand within trading partnership under long-term franchise agreements. E ETBE (Ethyl Tert-Butyl Ether) the name of a high-octane biocomponent used in gasoline production. It is manufactured in petrochemical complexes with ethanol and isobutylene. Ethanol ethyl alcohol used e.g. as a biocomponent for producing fuels and biofuels used in cars with ignition engines. European Chemical Agency the EC agency responsible for the implementation of the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals) Regulation as regards the establishment and administration of a registration system, assessment of, issuance of authorisations for, and imposition of restrictions in the use of, chemical substances at the EU level. Its main task is to manage the database of chemicals submitted for registration: initial registration of a substance (the process already completed) and proper registration of a substance. Under the European Council’s decision of 2004, the registered office of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is located in Helsinki, Finland. 424 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future F FAME (Fatty Acid Methyl Ester) such esters are biocomponents used to manufacture fuels and biofuels for diesel engine vehicles. FAME is manufactured by the transesterification of oil with methanol in the presence of a catalyst. Forties Blend a type of crude oil from the North Sea. Forties Blend is light petroleum with a low content of sulphur and a high potential in gasoline production. Furfurol extraction a technology applied to increase the quality of base mineral oils. During the process unfavourable aromatic hydrocarbons are separated, which increases the so-called viscosity index. G Gasoline isomerisation a refining process that creates a higher octane number of the gasoline fraction by changing the chemical structure of particles. Gasoline natural gas natural gas that contains, apart from methane and ethane, a certain quantity of heavier hydrocarbons. Gasoline reforming a refining process that involves a reaction with a catalyst creating high-octane aromatic hydrocarbons and hydrogen. General nitrogen the content of nitrogen for nitrogen bound in all possible chemical forms. 425 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future H HDS (Hydrodesuplhurisation Diesel Unit) a system for the hydrodesulphurization of diesel oils. Heavy fuel oil an oily liquid representing a residue from the distillation of crude oil. Heavy fuel oil finds its use in industrial installations of large manufacturing or processing facilities, as well as in combined power plants. It is also used as bunker fuel for ships. HGU (Hydrogen Generation Unit) a system for hydrogen production. Hydrocracking a refining process used to produce high quality fuel components during the reaction of vacuum distillates with hydrogen with a catalyst. Hydrocracking processes usually take place at a very high pressure and provide components that are free of sulphur and contaminations. Hydrorefining (of slack wax) a process of purifying paraffin during the reaction with hydrogen in a catalyst. I ISO International Organization for Standardization. J Jet A1 aviation fuel for jet and turbine engines. K KAS (installation) an amine-sulphur complex of installations for purifying refining gases of hydrogen sulphide and for the production of liquid sulphur. 426 Jet A1 aviation fuelIntegrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. for jet and turbine engines. Win the Future K KAS (installation) an amine-sulphur complex of installations for purifying refining gases of hydrogen sulphide and for the production of liquid sulphur. L LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) the assessment of a product life aimed at determining the environmental impact (emission of greenhouse gases during individual stages of production, processing and transport). LCA also determines the environmental impact resulting from obtaining biomass, transport and its processing into biofuels vs. the impacts that occur in the life cycle of fossil fuels. Light fuel oil a product obtained in crude oil processing characterized by a lower sulphur content and density than heavy heating oil. The light fuel oil is mainly used in household boiler rooms, in SMEs and institutions. It is also successfully used as the heating fuel in the boiler rooms of residential estates. LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) a liquefied gas, being a mixture of propane and butane, obtained in the processing of crude oil. Among its other applications, LPG is used as engine fuel or as fuel for household gas stoves. LPG amine washing installation a system for removing hydrogen sulphide from the liquid gas fractions. Lubricant oils a composition of base oil and improvers. The quantity, type and relative proportions of these components are decisive for the class of the oil manufactured. Their main task is to reduce friction between the surfaces of the movable parts of mechanical devices that touch each other and work together. Lubricant oils are used in the automotive industry and for industrial applications. 427 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future M Mechanical Completion (MC) completing building-assembly work by signing a protocol between the ordering party and the contractor, which confirms that all work has been completed in compliance with the design and applicable regulations. MHC (Mild Hydrocracking) a hydrocracking installation that operates in slightly milder conditions than a standard hydrocracking system. Modified asphalts asphalts characterized by improved quality parameters, thanks to the interaction between asphalt and an applied modifier. MTBE (Methyl Tert-Butyl Ether) a high-octane component used for gasoline production. Unlike ETBE, it is not a biocomponent. N Naphtha a fluid fraction of crude oil composed of hydrocarbons whose particles contain 9-16 atoms of carbon. Naphtha can be processed into aviation fuel and diesel oils. National Index Target a minimum share of biocomponents in the total volume of liquid fuels and liquid biofuels used during a calendar year in transport, calculated according to the caloric value. O Oil transesterification a chemical reaction resulting in the formation of fatty acid methyl esters. The transesterification reaction of oils is a reaction of oil with methanol in the presence of a catalyst. 428 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future P Paraffin a mixture of solid saturated hydrocarbons, separated from the fractions of crude oil. It is used, among others, to manufacture candles, as a floor polish and as an insulation material. Paraffin fraction unreacted oil from hydrocracking of a mixture of vacuum distillates and oil from the solvent deasphalting process of heavy residue. Paraffin fraction is a mixture of n-paraffin, iso-paraffin and cyclic saturated hydrocarbons. It has a low sulphur content (below 100 mg/kg) and may be used as feedstock in the production of oil bases, or in catalytic cracking or hydrocracking yielding additional volumes of fuels. Plasticizers plasticizing improvers added to polymer products. Grupa LOTOS manufactures hydrocarbon plasticizers for the rubber industry. Ppm (parts per million) a popular measuring method used to express the concentration of extremely diluted solutions of chemical compounds. This measure tells how many particles of a chemical compound are to be found among one million particles of the solution. 429 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future R REACH Regulation of the European Parliament and Council concerning the safe application of chemicals through their registration and assessment and in some cases granting commercial permits and restrictions as regards the application. It came into force on 1 June 2007 and replaces several dozen previous community legal acts, both regulations and directives introduced into Polish legislation with the Act of 11 January 2001 on chemical substances and preparations. Ready For Start Up (RFSU) the condition of readiness for start-up achieved by the system (introduction of production media). REBCO (Russian Export Blend Crude Oil) a commercial name of Russian crude oil from the Ural. Red chemicals are those which have pollution category Y and are on the list of chapter 17 of the IBC Code or on MEPC.2/Circ. currrently in force.These chemicals deemed to present a hazard to marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or legitimate uses of the sea. Reformate high-octane number component, with octane number of 96–100, used in the manufacture of engine gasolines. Reformate is a product of catalytic reforming of desulphurised naphta. ROSE (Residual Oil Supercritical Extraction) a technology used at the Gdańsk Refinery in the SDA installation. 430 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future S SDA (Solvent Deasphalting) an installation used to separate vacuum remnants after crude oil processing into lighter fractions, i.e. deasphalted oil (DAO) and heavier fractions, namely a bitumen component. Shale gas refers to natural gas that is trapped within shale formations. Shales are fine-grained sedimentary rocks that can be rich resources of petroleum and natural gas. Sedimentary rocks are rocks formed by the accumulation of sediments at the Earth's surface and within bodies of water. Common sedimentary rocks include sandstone, limestone, and shale. Slack wax a semi-product received in crude oil processing. It is used to produce wax. Stakeholder A person or entity interested in the operation of a firm and incurring various types of risks related to its business or the persons or entities that are affected by a firm through its activities. Unlike shareholders, who are primarily interested in the profits of the company, stakeholders include a much wider group, e.g. employees, customers, creditors, suppliers, government administration and, in a wider context, local communities, the natural environment and public opinion. The term was first introduced by the Stanford Research Institute in 1963. Stock ticket service service consisting in the creation and maintenance of mandatory reserves of fuels on behalf of customers. A customer using the service meets the legal requirements without stocking its own fuels. T Troll Blend a type of crude oil from the North Sea. The Troll Blend is an average crude oil with a low sulphur content and a high potential within the production of diesel oils. 431 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future V Vacuum distillate a fraction of hydrocarbons separated from a more complex mixture with distillation under a reduced atmospheric pressure. Vacuum distillates produced from crude oil are usually used to produce base oil, and also as input for cracking processes. Vacuum distillation a process analogical to the process of atmospheric distillation, conducted, however, at a reduced ambient pressure. It uses a physical property, whereby the boiling point decreases as the ambient pressure is reduced. It makes it possible to separate vacuum distillates in the atmospheric residuals. Heavy remnants of the distillation process are so-called vacuum residuals. 432 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Glossary of social terms B Business ethics Taking account of the moral aspect in business, i.e. applying solutions that combine moral requirements with the strategic interests of a firm. Business ethics determines ethical standards of behaviour, norms and values as well as conduct in a business. C Code of ethics A set of rules that regulate moral life. A code of ethics in business indicates specific ‘behaviours’ of an organization, in addition to general guidelines concerning reliability and integrity required in business and actions that are conducive to social development and not contradictory to moral standards and collective customs. Corporate community involvement Involvement of a firm in social issues and participating in solutions of social problems. This concept is narrower than corporate social responsibility and it refers to different activities of a company in a community. It includes various forms of involvement, such as financial support, material assistance and voluntary work of employees. Community involvement makes a firm more reliable in the eyes of the general public and builds a positive image. Corporate social responsibility The strategy that provides for a firm to take account voluntarily of social interests while trying to achieve its economic aims, taking decisions and actions. CSR includes the consideration for ethical rules, rights of employees and human rights as well as the social and natural environment. It is assumed that the corporate social responsibility should be an integral part of the business policy, together with its economic objectives. Corporate volunteering This involves employees of a firm in voluntary work for social organizations. Employees (volunteers) perform various types of work for those in need, by using their skills and abilities and developing their talents in such areas. A firm supports its employees in such actions and, depending on its organizational culture, appoints employees to work as a volunteers during working time or provides material assistance or logistic and financial support. 433 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future D Donation A form of an agreement by which a donor undertakes to provide free-of-charge performance with its assets. A donation may be granted by individuals or corporations. The subject matter of the donation may include real properties, movables, money as well as rights or may involve free provision of services. G Global Compact The world's largest initiative of the Secretary General of the United Nations for corporate responsibility and sustainable development. The Polish Global Compact Local Network is coordinated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Project Office. Since it was launched in 2000, over 9,000 members from 135 countries have joined the initiative. Global Compact calls on companies to embrace in their activities ten principles in the areas of: human rights, labor rights, environmental protection, counteracting corruption and promoting corporate social responsibility. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent institution with its seat in the Netherlands that develops and promotes so-called Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GRI Guidelines are applied all over the world. They may be used by all companies that are ready to submit comprehensive reports on their economic, environmental and social activity. Since 2006, the third version of the GRI Guidelines applies, so-called G3. The organization has introduced a three-level system of applications: from the highest that includes the largest scope of revealed information, i.e. about 80 reporting indexes (A, A+), to the smallest, with less than 40 indexes (C, C+). A plus before each level means the external verification of the report by an independent certifying authority. H Human capital Employees of a firm who contribute to its operation and development and have specific knowledge, skills and talents. L Local community The group of people who live in the area and are connected by social bonds, common tradition and 434 culture. A local community is formed by inhabitants of villages, towns, cities or municipalities. Human capital Employees of a firm who contribute to its operation and development and have specific knowledge, Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future skills and talents. L Local community The group of people who live in the area and are connected by social bonds, common tradition and culture. A local community is formed by inhabitants of villages, towns, cities or municipalities. M Mission A set of fixed aims and targets of a firm. It contains values that are upheld by the management board and are the basis for determining its actions. The mission determines the identity of a firm and its organizational culture. N Non-governmental organization (NGO) A voluntary organization that operates independently of state or political structures and whose operation is not profit oriented. It works for social issues and development. Its operation is based mostly on voluntary work. O Organizational culture Organizational cultureA set of standards, values, forms of behaviour, attitudes, premises and symbols that determine the mode of thinking and acting in a company and define standards of communication and conduct. 435 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future S Social dialogue The exchange of information and presentation of positions concerning social problems and issues between parties that may be public institutions, entrepreneurs or NGOs. It is a form of representing the interests of parties. The source of success is reliable information exchanged between the parties and cooperation. Social programme Planned actions aimed at solving or counteracting a specific social problem. They may be implemented jointly or independently by public institutions, businesses or social organizations. Social report A report issued by a firm that presents its whole strategy and social policy. It takes account of economic, social and ecological aspects of its operations. Sponsoring Joint obligations of two parties – a sponsor and a sponsoree. A sponsor provides funds, material assistance or services to the sponsoree in return for promotion. Sponsoring is a planned and conscious act aimed at creating a positive image of a firm. It is often a part of the long-term marketing strategy of a business. Sustainable development The path of social and economic development that is in harmony with the natural environment. The idea of sustainability provides for the skilful use of resources (social, human and natural), so that they can be used in the future. 436 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Table of Content of the GRI Performance Indicators and Global Compact Principles The Table below can prove helpful in finding the exact place where specific information or result data required by the Global Reporting Initiative as well as resulting from the adoption and implementation of ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact by Grupa LOTOS has been published in the Report. Reporting application level indicators: ! full ! / partial none Reporting Un Global Global Reporting Application Chapter of The 2013 Compact Initiative (GRI) Indicator Level Annual Report Comments Principles Assurance Strategy and Analysis 1.1. Statement from the ! The Organization most senior decisionand its Report [1] maker of the Value growth organization about the strategy [2] relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2. Description of key ! Risks and impacts, risks, and opportunities [1] opportunities. Value growth strategy [2] Organizational Profile 2.1. Name of the ! The Organization organization. and its Report [1] 2.2. Primary brands, ! The Organization products, and/or and its Report [1] services. Value growth strategy [2] [3] 436 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 2.3. Operational ! The Organization structure of the and its Report [1] organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4. Location of ! The Organization organization’s and its Report [1] headquarters. Useful information [2] 2.5. Number of countries ! The Organization where the organization and its Report [1] operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6. Nature of ownership ! The Organization and legal form. and its Report [1] [2] 2.7. Markets served ! The Organization (including geographic and its Report [1] breakdown, sectors Value growth served, and types of strategy [2] customers/beneficiaries. 2.8. Scale of the ! The Organization reporting organization. and its Report [1] [2] 2.9. Significant changes ! The Organization during the reporting and its Report [1] period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10. Awards received in ! The Organization the reporting period. and its Report [1] Useful information [2] Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1. Reporting period. ! The Organization and its Report [1] 3.2. Date of most recent ! The Organization previous report. and its Report [1] 3.3. Reporting cycle. ! The Organization and its Report [1] 3.4. Contact point for ! Useful information questions regarding the [1] 437 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future report or its contents. 3.5. Process for defining The Organization report content, and its Report including: [1] [2] Determining materiality; Prioritizing topics within the report; and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6. Boundary of the ! The Organization report (e.g. countries, and its Report [1] divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7. State any specific ! The Organization limitations on the scope and its Report [1] or boundary of the report. 3.8. Basis for reporting ! The Organization on joint ventures, and its Report [1] subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9. Data measurement ! The Organization techniques and the and its Report [1] bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10. Explanation of the ! The Organization effect of any reand its Report [1] statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11. Significant changes ! The Organization from previous reporting and its Report [1] 438 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12. Table identifying ! Table of GRI the location of the Content and Global Standard Disclosures in Compact Principles the report. Assurance 3.13. Policy and current ! The Organization practice with regard to and its Report [1] seeking external [2] assurance for the report. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1. Governance ! Corporate structure of the governance organization, including [1] [2] [3] committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2. Indicate whether ! Corporate the Chair of the highest governance [1] governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3. For organizations ! Corporate that have a unitary governance [1] [2] board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4. Mechanisms for ! Corporate shareholders and governance [1] employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5. Linkage between ! Corporate compensation for governance [1] [2] members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 439 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6. Processes in place ! Corporate for the highest governance [1] [2] governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7. Process for ! Corporate determining the governance [1] composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8. Internally developed ! Value growth statements of mission or strategy [1] values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9. Procedures of the ! Corporate highest governance governance [1] body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10. Processes for ! Corporate evaluating the highest governance [1] governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments To External Initiatives 440 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future 4.11. Explanation of ! Risks and whether and how the opportunities [1] [2] precautionary approach [3] or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12. Externally ! Value growth developed economic, strategy [1] environmental,and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13. Memberships in ! Value growth associations (such as strategy [1] industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14. List of stakeholder ! Value growth groups engaged by the strategy [1] organization. 4.15. Basis for ! Value growth identification and strategy [1] selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16. Approaches to ! Value growth stakeholder strategy [1] engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17. Key topics and ! Value growth concerns that have been strategy [1] [2] raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its 441 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future reporting. Management Approach and Performance Indicators ! Value growth Economy strategy [1] Environment ! Value growth strategy [1] Labor Practices & ! Value growth Decent Work strategy [1] [2] Human Rights ! Value growth strategy [1] [2] Society ! Value growth strategy [1] Product Responsiblity ! Value growth strategy [1] Performance Indicators Economic Aspect: Economic Performance EC1. Direct economic ! Table of GRI In 2013, Grupa value generated and Content and LOTOS paid PLN distributed, including Global Compact 12,116,635 revenues, operating Principles Value thousand in taxes to costs, employee growth strategy the Polish state compensation, [1] Statement of (including corporate donations and other comprehensive income tax, value community Investments, income [2] added tax, excise retained earnings, and tax, fuel charge and payments to capital property tax), as providers and compared to PLN governments. 10,867,600 thousand in 2012. In 2013, taxes (including corporate income tax, value added tax, excise tax, fuel charge and property tax) for the LOTOS Group paid to the states in which it operates amounted to PLN 12,572,829 thousand, against 11,362,086 thousand in 2012. EC2. Financial ! Risks and 442 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future implications and other opportunities [1] [2] risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3. Coverage of the ! Value growth organization’s defined strategy [1] benefit plan obligations. EC4. Significant financial ! Table of GRI (link) assistance received from Content and Global government. Compact Principles Consolidated financial statements [1] [2] [3] Aspect: Market presence including local content EC5. Range of ratios of ! Value growth standard entry level strategy [1] wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6. Policy, practices, ! Value growth and proportion of strategy [1] spending on locallybased suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7. Procedures for local ! Value growth hiring and proportion of strategy [1] senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts EC8. Development and ! Value growth impact of infrastructure strategy [1] investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9. Understanding and ! Value growth describing significant strategy [1] [2] indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Aspect: Reserves OG1. Volume and type ! Value growth of estimated proved strategy [1] reserves and production. 443 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Environment Aspect: Materials EN1. Materials used by ! Value growth 8 weight or volume. strategy [1] EN2. Percentage of Table of GRI The specific 8 materials used that are Content and Global operations of Grupa recycled input materials. Compact Principles LOTOS allow us to use recycled products to only a marginal degree. Each LOTOS Group entity involved in the production business is required by law to submit used materials for recycling, through third-party Recovery Organizations. However, even under this framework, the potential for reuse of recycled products is negligible. The related GRI indicator is therefore not reported. Aspect: Energy EN3. Direct energy Value growth 8 consumption by primary strategy [1] energy source. OG2. Total amount Table of GRI LOTOS Group did invested in renewable Content and Global not invest in energy. Compact Principles renewable energies in 2013. This indicator is therefore not reported. OG3. Total amount of Table of GRI LOTOS Group does renewable energy Content and Global not generate generated by source. Compact Principles energy from renewable sources. This indicator is therefore not reported. EN4. Indirect energy Value growth 8 consumption by primary strategy [1] source. 444 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future EN5. Energy saved due ! Value growth 9 to conservation and / strategy [1] efficiency improvements. EN6. Initiatives to ! Value growth 9 provide energy-efficient strategy [1] or renewable energybased products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7. Initiatives to reduce ! Table of GRI In 2013, technical 8 indirect energy Content and Global services of Grupa consumption and Compact Principles LOTOS conducted reductions achieved. an upgrade of lowvoltage switch panels which was connected with installing frequency inverters on the supplying cables for the fan engines of all mechanical draft cooling towers in one cooling water unit. This has helped optimize the efficiency of the cooling process and save electricity by enabling smooth regulation of the rotational speed of the engines in each cooling tower. As the new system was put into operation in late-2013, it is currently not possible to report the savings it has delivered. Additionally, the trial operation of LED lighting was continued in 2013. Aspect: Water EN8. Total water ! Value growth 8 withdrawal by source. strategy [1] EN9. Water sources ! Value growth significantly affected by strategy [1] withdrawal of water. EN10. Percentage and ! Value growth total volume of water strategy [1] recycled and reused. Aspect: Ecosystem services, including biodiversity 445 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future EN11. Location and size ! Value growth 8 of land owned, leased, strategy [1] managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12. Description of ! Value growth 8 significant impacts of strategy [1] activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13. Habitats ! Value growth 8 protected or restored. strategy [1] EN14. Strategies, current ! Value growth 8 actions, and future plans strategy [1] for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15.Number of IUCN ! Value growth Red List species and strategy [1] national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. OG4. Number and ! Value growth 8 percentage of significant strategy [1] operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waste EN16.Total direct and ! Value growth 8 indirect greenhouse gas strategy [1] emissions by weight. EN17. Other relevant ! Value growth 8 indirect greenhouse gas strategy [1] emissions by weight. EN18. Initiatives to ! Value growth 8 reduce greenhouse gas strategy [1] emissions and reductions achieved. EN19. Emissions of ! Value growth 8 ozone-depleting strategy [1] substances by weight. EN20. NOx, SOx, and ! Value growth 8 other significant air strategy [1] emissions by type and 446 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future weight. EN21. Total water ! Value growth 8 discharge by quality and strategy [1] destination. OG5. Volume of ! Value growth formation or produced strategy [1] water. EN22. Total weight of ! Value growth 8 waste by type and strategy [1] [2] disposal method. EN23. Total number and ! Value growth 8 volume of significant strategy [1] spills. OG6. Volume of flared ! Value growth 8 and vented strategy [1] hydrocarbon. OG7. Amount of drilling ! Value growth 8 waste (drill mud and strategy [1] cuttings) and strategies for treatment and disposal. EN24. Weight of ! Value growth 8 transported, imported, strategy [1] exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25. Identity, size, ! Value growth 8 protected status, and strategy [1] biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and services EN26. Initiatives to ! Value growth 7, 8, 9 mitigate environmental strategy [1] impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. OG8. Benzene, lead and ! Value growth sulfur content in fuels. strategy [1] 447 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future EN27. Percentage of ! Value growth 8 products sold and their strategy [1] packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Aspect: Compliance EN28. Monetary value of ! Table of GRI In 2013, no 8 significant fines and Content and Global significant fines or total number of nonCompact Principles non-monetary monetary sanctions for sanctions were noncompliance with imposed on any of environmental laws and the LOTOS Group regulations. companies for legal or regulatory noncompliance regarding environmental protection. Aspect: Transport EN29. Significant ! Value growth 8 environmental impacts strategy [1] of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: Overall EN30. Total ! Value growth 8 environmental strategy [1] protection expenditures and investments by type. Social Performance Indicators LABOR PRACTISES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Employment LA1. Total workforce by ! Value growth 6 employment type, strategy [1] employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2. Total number and ! Value growth 6 rate of new employee strategy [1] hires and employee turnover by age group, 448 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future gender, and region. LA3. Benefits provided ! Value growth 6 to full-time employees strategy [1] that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA15. Return to work ! Value growth and retention rates after strategy [1] parental leave, by gender. Aspect: Labor/management relations LA4. Percentage of ! Value growth 3 employees covered by strategy [1] collective bargaining agreements. LA5. Minimum notice ! Table of GRI A minimum 3 period(s) regarding Content and Global notification period operational changes, Compact Principles defined by labor law including whether it is regulations within specified in collective which information agreements. regarding any essential operational changes should be passed to the trade union representatives in the company is 30 days. The 30-day notification period was inscribed in the agreement executed in 2010 which set out the terms of cooperation with the Employee Council. At Grupa LOTOS, the meetings with the Employee Council are held once a month. Aspect: Occupational health and safety LA6. Percentage of total ! Value growth 6 workforce represented strategy [1] in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7. Rates of injury, ! Value growth 6 occupational diseases, strategy [1] 449 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. LA8. Education, training, ! Value growth 6 counseling, prevention, strategy [1] and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9. Health and safety ! Value growth 3 topics covered in formal strategy [1] agreements with trade unions. Aspect: Training and education LA10. Average hours of ! Value growth 6 training per year per strategy [1] employee by gender, and by employee category. LA11. Programs for skills ! Value growth 6 management and strategy [1] lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12. Percentage of ! Value growth 6 employees receiving strategy [1] regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity LA13. Composition of ! Corporate 6 governance bodies and governance [1] breakdown of Value growth employees per employee strategy [2] category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men LA14. Ratio of basic ! Value growth 6 salary and remuneration strategy [1] of women to men by employee category. 450 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Investment and procurement practices HR1. Percentage and ! Value growth 1, 2 total number of strategy [1] significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2. Percentage of ! Value growth 1, 2, 3, 4, significant suppliers, strategy [1] 5, 6 contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3. Total hours of ! Value growth 1, 2, 3, 4, employee training on strategy [1] 5, 6 policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination HR4. Total number of ! Table of GRI In 2013, there were 6 incidents of Content and Global no instances of discrimination and Compact Principles discrimination corrective actions taken. against employees of the LOTOS Group on account of their race, colour, sex, religion, political leanings, national origins or social background. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5. Operations and Table of GRI Grupa LOTOS has no significant suppliers Content and Global tools with which to identified in which the Compact Principles review suppliers in right to exercise freedom terms of risks posed of association and to the right to collective bargaining exercise freedom may be violated or at significant risk, and 451 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future actions taken to support of association, and these rights. does not identify any such risks in its environment. This indicator is therefore not reported. Aspect: Child labor HR6. Operations and Table of GRI Grupa LOTOS 5 significant suppliers Content and Global supports identified as having Compact Principles elimination of child significant risk for labor worldwide. incidents of child labor, The Company does and measures taken to not report this GRI contribute to the indicator because it effective abolition of does not face this child labor. problem. In 2013, just as in previous years, no events were recorded at the LOTOS Group which would be identified as carrying with them a material risk of benefiting from child labor. Aspect: Forced and compulsory labor HR7. Operations and Table of GRI Grupa LOTOS 4 significant suppliers Content and Global supports identified as having Compact Principles elimination of all significant risk for forms of forced or incidents of forced or compulsory labor. compulsory labor, and The Company does measures to contribute not report this GRI to the elimination of all indicator because it forms of forced or does not face this compulsory labor. problem. In 2013, just as in previous years, no incidents of forced or compulsory labor 452 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future took place within the LOTOS Group. Aspect: Security practices HR8. Percentage of ! Value growth 1, 2 security personnel strategy [1] trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous rights HR9. Total number of Table of GRI LOTOS Group 1, 2 incidents of violations Content and Global supports and involving rights of Compact Principles observes human indigenous people and rights. We do not actions taken. report this GRI indicator because it does not face the problem of violating the rights of indigenous populations. OG9. Operations where Table of GRI LOTOS Group has indigenous communities Content and Global not identified any are present or affected Compact Principles groups in its by activities and where operating territory specific engagement whose identity strategies are in place. differs from the mainstream society's. This indicator is therefore not reported. Aspect: Assessment HR10. Percentage and Table of GRI LOTOS Group does total number of Content and Global not consider operations that have Compact Principles observance of been subject to human human rights as a rights reviews and/or criterion in locating impact assessments. its facilities, because it does not operate in areas where increased risk of human 453 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future rights violations is present. The indicator is therefore not reported. Aspect: Remediation HR11. Number of Table of GRI In 2013, LOTOS grievances related to Content and Global Group did not human rights filed, Compact Principles identify any risk of addressed and resolved grievances through formal concerning the grievance mechanisms. impact of its operations and decisions on human rights. This indicator is therefore not reported. SOCIETY Aspect: Local communities SO1. Percentage of ! Value growth operations with strategy [1] implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9. Operations with ! Value growth significant potential or strategy [1] actual negative impacts on local communities SO10. Prevention and ! Value growth mitigation measures strategy [1] implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. OG10. Number and Table of GRI In 2013, description of significant Content and Global Energobaltic was disputes with local Compact Principles the only LOTOS communities and Group's company indigenous peoples. which was involved in a dispute with a member of the local community. The dispute concerned a civil lawsuit of a perpetual lessee of one of the lands through which the 454 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future company's heating pipelines run. The plaintiff demanded that the heating installations be removed from his land. Upon the request of Energobaltic, evidence in form of the building permit for the heating system was gathered. The case is pending. The dispute has been classified as significant because of the potential high costs which the company would have to incur in case of an unfavourable verdict and because of the inconvenience potential alterations to the installation might cause to the local community. OG11. Number of sites ! Table of GRI In 2013, no that have been Content and Global decomissioning decommissioned and Compact Principles plans for our sites that are in the upstream sites were process of being prepared at the decommissioned. LOTOS Group, and no such sites were decommissioned nor in the process of being decommissioned. Aspect: Corruption SO2. Percentage and ! Risks and 10 total number of business opportunities [1] units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3. Percentage of ! Risks and 10 employees trained in opportunities [1] organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures. SO4. Actions taken in ! Risks and 10 response to incidents of opportunities [1] corruption. 455 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Aspect: Public policy SO5. Public policy ! Risks and 10 positions and opportunities [1] [2] participation in public Value growth policy development and strategy [1] lobbying. SO6. Total value of ! Table of GRI In accordance with 10 financial and in-kind Content and Global the LOTOS Group's contributions to political Compact Principles Code of Ethics, we parties, politicians, and are apolitical, related institutions by which is evidenced country. by the fact that we do not support any political groups. Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior SO7. Total number of ! Table of GRI n 2013, Grupa 10 legal actions for Content and Global LOTOS was a party anticompetitive Compact Principles to proceedings behavior, anti-trust, and described in greater monopoly practices and detail in the 2010 their outcomes. Annual Report (link), initiated following a petition filed in 2001 by PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o., in which PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o. sought to be awarded PLN 6,975 thousand, together with statutory interest from May 1st 1999, as compensation for damage it had allegedly suffered as a result of the Company's monopolistic practices, which involved selling BS base oils in a manner favouring some customers, whose orders were executed to a disproportionately higher extent than the orders of PETROECCO JV Sp. z o.o. On February 22nd 2013, PETROECCO JV's action was dismissed entirely. On June 26th 2013, PETROECCO JV Sp. z 456 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future o.o. lodged an appeal against this sentence. The case is pending. Aspect: Compliance SO8. Monetary value of ! Table of GRI In 2013, Grupa significant fines and Content and Global LOTOS and the total number of nonCompact Principles companies of the monetary sanctions for LOTOS Group did noncompliance with not pay any laws and regulations. significant fines and no significant nonmonetary sanctions were imposed on any of them for legal or regulatory non-compliance. Aspect: Involuntary resettlement OG12. Operations where Table of GRI No involuntary involuntary resettlement Content and Global resettlement took took place, the number Compact Principles place in 2013 as a of households resettled result of operations in each and how their carried out by the livelihoods were affected LOTOS Group. in the process. Aspect: Asset integrity and process safety OG13. Number of ! Risks and process safety events, by opportunities [1] [2] business activity. Value growth strategy [3] PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Customer health and safety PR1. Life cycle stages in ! Value growth which health and safety strategy [1] [2] [3] impacts of products and [4] [5] [6] services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2. Total number of ! Value growth 1 incidents of nonstrategy [1] [2] [3] compliance with [4] [5] regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 457 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Aspect: Product and service labelling PR3. Type of product and ! Value growth 10 service information strategy [1] [2] [3] required by procedures, [4] [5] and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4. Total number of ! Value growth incidents of nonstrategy [1] [2] [3] compliance with [4] regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5. Practices related to ! Value growth customer satisfaction, strategy [1] including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing communications PR6. Programs for ! Value growth adherence to laws, strategy [1] standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7. Total number of ! Value growth incidents of nonstrategy [1] compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer privacy PR8. Total number of ! Table of GRI In 2013, no substantiated Content and Global complaints complaints regarding Compact Principles regarding breaches breaches of customer of customer privacy privacy and losses of and no leak, theft customer data. or loss of customer data 458 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future were reported in the LOTOS Group. Aspect: Compliance PR9. Monetary value of ! Value growth significant fines for strategy [1] [2] [3] noncompliance with [4] laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Aspect: Fossil fuel substitutes OG14. Volume of ! Table of GRI Grupa LOTOS biofuels produced and Content and Global applies the purchased meeting Compact Principles definition of sustainability criteria. biocomponents as authorised by the Act of August 25th 2006 on Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels. All biocomponents purchased by Grupa LOTOS and produced in a LOTOS Group's facility meet sustainable development criteria. It should be noted that Poland has not implemented Directive 2009/28/EC yet, which means that under the current legal framework Poland has no systems for certification of biocomponents taking into account sustainable development criteria. Due to the trade secret implications, it is not possible to disclose the volume of purchased and produced biocomponents. 459 Integrated Annual Report 2013 Grupa LOTOS S.A. Win the Future Contact Additional information about the economic activity as well as the social and environmental aspects of the LOTOS Group's activities are available on the Grupa LOTOS website:  www.lotos.pl/en/ Please contact the Company at its main office under the following address: Grupa LOTOS S.A. ul. Elbląska 135 PL 80-718 Gdańsk Please direct your questions concerning Please direct your questions about the CSR of the Company to Grupa LOTOS investor relations of the Company to to: Grupa LOTOS to: CSR Team Investor Relations Office e-mail: csr@grupalotos.pl e-mail: ir@grupalotos.pl Please send your questions concerning media relations of the Company to Grupa LOTOS to: Information Office e-mail: informacje@grupalotos.pl 461 Grupa LOTOS S.A. ul. Elbląska 135 PL 80-718 Gdańsk www.lotos.pl
