07 August 2014 ACI LIMITED United Nation Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Message from Chairman Inside this issue: Dear Global Compact Stakeholders, ACI is firmly committed in its endeavors in upholding the alignment be2 tween the organization’s business strategy and its CSR activities. In orObserved World der to facilitate the synchronicity between these twin objectives, ACI Heart Day fully utilizes its business competencies to bring about sustainable develWinter Clothes opment in the community. We believe that being a socially responsible citizen is not being limited to Drive 2013 engaging in mere philanthropic gestures. Rather, integrated community development initiatives should be undertaken which will raise the genCo-Managed Nature 3 eral welfare of a particular community or area, by helping them to be self Interpretation Cenreliant. ACI’s “Adopt-A-Village” initiative has been modeled on the above tre (CONIC) mentioned premise. At present, the project coverage has been expanded to include twenty villages. ACI has also addressed environmental related issues by creating and raising awareness for environmental conservaEmployment Gen4 tion. In 2013, ACI has taken wide ranging initiatives in undertaking collective action for generating eration solutions in order to solve common problems faced by the community. I hope that in the not so distant future, ACI will create a milestone through its unwavering commitment and unique approach to CSR and help in translating the UN Global Compact’s Vision into reality. Best Wishes, Support for Rana 5 M. Anis Ud Dowla Plaza Tragedy Victims Chairman, ACI Limited Hygiene Awareness Initiative Scope of COP 2013 For the year 2013, the scope of the Communication on Progress is intended to the improvement of the living standard of Community and enlightens the knowledge regarding healthcare and the surrounding environment. Adopt-A-Village 6 In 2013 ACI carried following activities: Activities Global Compact Principle Observed World Heart Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the proDay tection of internationally proclaimed human rights Effective safety 9 Co-Managed Nature Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary apTraining in FacInterpretation Centre proach to environmental challenges tory (CONIC) No to Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the proEmployment GeneraNon10 tion tection of internationally proclaimed human rights Discrimination in Adopt-A-Village Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environthe Workplace mental responsibility No to Corruption Principle10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Non-Discrimination in Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of the Workplace employment and occupation. Page 2 United Nation Global Compact Observed World Heart Day Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights World Heart Day is the largest as a part of worldwide obserseminar, general awareness global awareness and advovance by World Heart Federaseminar & distributing posters cacy campaign on heart distion (WHF) on 29 September and brochures. ease and stroke, reaching al2013. The motto and theme of Outcome most 2 billion people in over year 2013 were Take the road This ceremony highlights the 120 countries through organto a healthy heart & To focus actions that can be taken ized events and media outon: a life-course approach to through a person's life to rereach. the prevention and control of duce their risk of CVD because cardiovascular disease (CVD) healthy children lead to ACI Limited with the collabowith a focus on women and healthy adults and healthy ration of National Heart Founchildren respectively. Obseradults lead to healthy families dation of Bangladesh (NHFB) vation of WHD 2013 included and communities in Banglaobserved the World Heart Day press conference, scientific desh. Winter Clothes Drive 2013 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ACI, as like every year, with a comfort to the deprived sociview to making a difference in ety. the lives of the impoverished Outcome people, stressed its hand durA good number of winter ing recent cold winter times. cloths have been distributed The recently undertaken winamong the orphan boys as ter clothes drive is another exwell as poor and helpless ample of ACI's unending enpeople of Khan Bahadur Md. deavor to help the distressed Ismail orphanage of Ghonapara, a village from southern humanity. part of Bangladesh. The keen response from the entire ACI family showed their concern for the poor society. A little help from us was a huge Page 3 Co-Managed Nature Interpretation Centre (CONIC) Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Bangladesh has rich biodivercontributors in building this havior by visitors to nature sity in terrestrial and aquatic observatory at Srimongal area. and surrounding villages as ecosystems of forest and wetOutcome they will be guided by local eco lands. Lawachara National -guide. It is estimated that The nature interpretation cenpark, a declared protected area CONIC will generate total pritre will benefit the community that is a part of national netmary and secondary economic and the park. As all visitors benefit for the community and work of natural forest sites unhave to pass through this entry the Srimongal are of nearly 25 der the responsibility of the point, so there will be better Lakh Taka annually. Forest Department. An innovacontrol and tive, nature friendly and comtracking of visitors, and ease of As all visitors have to pass through this entry point, munity focused Co-Managed Nature Interpretation Centre enforcing visitor so there will be better control and tracking of (CONIC) has established at Lacapacity limits. visitors, and ease of enforcing visitor capacity limits. wachara National Park There will be better and more through Public Private Partresponsible benership (PPP), ACI is one of the Page 4 United Nation Global Compact Employment Generation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights By many metrics, Bangladesh’s development trajectory is a unique success story, since its independence. Over the past few years, the economy has grown at the rate of 6-7% per annum. The growth potential of the economy has led to Bangladesh's inclusion in the Next Eleven (N-11) of Goldman Sachs and the Global Growth ness. It directly generates emfor agricultural sector of BangGenerators countries. A numployment opportunity in headladesh. It helps farmers to inber of statistics bear this out, office, factory, depot and fieldcrease the productivity and to including the poverty rate force etc. It also indirectly inreduce the cost. which fell from 56.6% in 1991fluence the employment genOutcome: 92 to 31.5% in 2010. The eration in distribution level, growing economy is being conretailer level and supplier level The number of employees insidered as major reasons for creased from 4948 in year and among the mass people. poverty alleviation. 2008 to 8427 in year 2013, Agriculture plays an important clearly indicating the tremenrole in Bangladesh’s economy Development of business is the dous growth in employment locomotive for economic and the country’s employment. that has been achieved in the growth for any country. ACI, The agricultural sector prolast six years. since its investiture, focused duces staple foods and crops on growth that is diversificamainly for domestic contion of business. It has been contributing in employment sumption and generation by spreading busiinputs for ness across the country. ACI processing in has diversified its business in the nondifferent sectors like pharmaagricultural ceuticals, consumer brands, sector. ACI agricultural and retail busiprovides complete solution Page 5 SUPPORT FOR RANA PLAZA TRAGEDY VICTIMS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights On the 24th of April, 2013, the well as the general civic. The people of Bangladesh witvictims who were alive but nessed one of the worst human trapped needed food and watragedies in history when Rana ter and so did the rescuers. ACI extended its hand Plaza, an eight-story building ACI extended its hand immediimmediately for the victims. housing several garment factoately for the victims. Different Different businesses ries, situated in Savar, was rebusinesses immediately reduced to rubble. The accident sponded to the needs of these immediately responded to the claimed over 1100 lives of garunfortunate ones as well as the needs of these unfortunate ones ments workers and left apbrave hearts. ACI provided as well as the brave hearts. . medicine, medical staffs, food proximately 2500 alive but and water supply was delivcritically injured. The rescue ered to the victims trapped unefforts started and went on for der the rubbles. 20 days by both the officials as HYGIENE AWARENESS INITIATIVE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Health and hygiene are still ganization “Save the Children” growing concern in Banglawith the objective to spread desh where like most develophygiene awareness among the ing countries these issues are much deprived commoners closely linked to poverty and living in the remote areas of illiteracy. It is very crucial to the country. improve their knowledge on personal health and hygiene. In this regard, ACI Consumer brands supplied 40,000 pieces of SAVLON Antiseptic Bar Soap to the non-governmental orPage 6 United Nation Global Compact Adopt-A-Village Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Poverty is the focal problem of aligning with business stratfor homestead gardenour country and influencing all egy, ACI has been working in ing. other problems which are desome specific areas under this Most of the villagers of Gopalterring the development of our project for community develgonj district do not enjoy safe country. Poverty is the proopment. ACI has taken many drinking waterfacilities. Salinnounced deprivation of wellsmall and large initiatives to ity in ground and surface wabeing i.e. the state of severe solve different types of comter, arsenic contamination of deprivation of basic human munity problems by using its shallow aquifer, lack of aquifer needs, which commonly incore competencies. As ACI diand difficulties in extracting cludes food, water, sanitation, versified its business in pharsaline free water are some of clothing, shelter, healthcare, maceuticals, agribusiness, conthe causes. The effects are education and information. So sumer brands and retail chain negative health, social and ecoit is imperative to eliminate so it uses its expertise from nomic outcomes for the local poverty. Adopt-A-Village is an these sectors to serve the compopulation. In an effort to alinitiative undertaken by ACI munity. ACI ltd has been worklow villagers to get access to that work on development traing in Adopt-A-Village project safe drinking water, ACI also jectory of rural community of since year 2010 and till now it installed at least 31 Deep Tube Bangladesh. has repeated the project in 11 Wells (DTW) in the villages of villages of Gopalgonj district of Gopalgonj district where peoThe primary focus of this iniBagladesh. In due course ACI ple were facing acute shortage tiative is to create awareness has performed several activiof pure drinking water. Deep among villagers in improving ties like Tube well helps to prevent their standard of living on a  Providing access to safe many water generated disself-help basis. ACI, works as a drinking water eases. Villagers are now less catalyst for change, in bringing Health care services for prone to the water generated about quantitative as well as villagers diseases. qualitative improvements, in Providing support to the As ACI diversified its business in the day to day life of these peofarmers for increasing pharmaceuticals, agribusiness, ple. crop yield consumer brands and retail chain so it Motivational activities for uses its expertise from these sectors Through strategic planning, using fallow lands and to serve the community. Page 7 ACI selected those villages No of patients received No of patients received SI Venue/ VilGeneral treatment Eye treatment that are mostly underpriviN Male Female Total Male FeTotal lage leged and deprived that they o male do not have proper medical 1 Baborgati 68 62 130 14 19 33 2 Shibpur 52 91 143 11 9 20 services. Health camps are 3 Dalnia 89 181 270 28 57 85 staffed by specialist doctors 4 Golabaria 90 193 283 31 69 100 from urban areas. Different 5 Nilokhee 55 217 272 19 71 90 medical camps were con6 Modhupur 84 235 319 18 71 89 7 Gopalpur 84 189 273 18 39 57 ducted with different agenda 8 CharSareshpur 23 52 75 6 18 24 and for different diseases. 9 Bijoypasha 102 155 257 29 30 59 Free medical camps there10 Tebaria 106 182 288 30 43 73 Total 753 1557 2310 62 426 630 fore create an opportunity for medical camps. Free eye cataFarmers faced various probpeople to avail quality serract surgery to underprivilems in their field in terms of vices, get educated on health leged people is another health cultivation. ACI’s community issues and seek health advises. care initiative undertaken by officers, under Adopt-A-Village Through these medical camps ACI. ACI sort out some eye project, provide support and villagers acquire specialized cataract patients and facilitate suggestion on regular basis. consultation and counseling them to get back their vision. They recommended different about health care and get method of modern agronomic Farmers from remote areas health education also. In year practice to which villagers had lack of knowledge about 2013, more than 3000 people were not aware off. modern agronomic practice. took medical service from our Page 8 United Nation Global Compact ACI supports farmers by proACI invested Tk 18,975 only tention of villagers to create viding training, distributing which helped villagers to get interest in cultivating vegetasprayer, articulating crops Tk 190,130 worth of vegetables to supplement of their exdemonstration plot with pestibles. This has attracted the atisting income. cide, herbicide and crops vitamins etc. A comparative survey has been conducted on adopted villages where it is found that farmers from 11 adopted villages produce about 5198 mounds surplus rice in year 2013 comparing to year 2012 which worth about Tk 2,858,900 against the invested amount Tk 1,20,000. This positive change becomes possible only by intensive motivational program to build awareness and eagerness among farmers. ACI has encouraged villagers for homestead gardening and using fallow lands to cultivate vegetables. ACI provided seeds to some families and they are cultivating gourd, tomato, brinjal and many other vegetables in their homestead gardening. About 342 household are engaged in vegetable cultivation in their homestead premises and fallow land. Total 19013 kilogram (about 475 mounds) vegetables have been produced in 4 month of period. Page 9 Effective safety Training in Factory Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Safety is an essential issue in Written and oral assessment workplace for employees. As on fire and safety awareness ACI always prioritize the safety and first aid treatment was of its employees so it has conconducted among all workers ducted many training proof marketing and packing degrams in the factory to enpartment in March 13. hance the knowledge regarding the same. Factories are visACI sanitary napkin factory ited repeatedly to observe the successfully completed a fireproduction process, quality fighting training to create fire control and safety activities. and safety awareness among On 2 January 2013, a half day the employees in April 13. The training program on program covered the usage of Supervisory skill and fire extinguisher and its placeWorkplace safety was organment identification, possible ized for the management staffs sources of fire and safety and workers respectively of measures during fire. the ACI Napkin plant. No to Corruption Principle: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Transparency and fairness obtain significance in the business strategy as ACI operates its business in an ethical way. ACI has integrated anti-corruption efforts in the company’s values, management and operations to ensure compliance with the codes of conduct of the company. ACI tries to create awareness among the employees by providing the code of conduct at the beginning of their journey in the workplace. Each business and function has to report to the management committee about their activities. Frequent audits have been conducted in the depot and warehouse to create transparency and there is zero tolerance to any discrepancy. ACI tries to establish accountability in all level of action. Corruption distorts market, ruins the environment of fair business and undermines the development. It is the major obstacle to the sustainable development. Therefore, ACI always says no to corruption and operates business ethically as a conscious corporate entity. Contact Point: Prodip Kar Chowdhury About ACI Executive Director, Advanced Chemical Industries (ACI) Limited is a conACI Limited glomerate that has diversified into four major strate245,Tejgaon I/A, gic business divisions which include Health Care, ConDhaka, Bangladesh sumer Brands, Agribusinesses and Retail Chain. E-mail: ananna@aci-bd.com With twenty SBUs and eight functions, it has a employee strength of around eight thousand. The yearly revenue of the company is around USD 285 million. Advancing Possibilities Non-Discrimination in the Workplace Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Discrimination is the unequal treatment of people based on identifiable characteristics. It is totally unlawful in the workplace to discriminate employees on the basis of any attributes of a person. Keeping this in mind, ACI recruits, hires, trains, pays, promotes, and disciplines employees irrespective of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, national origin, marital status, family status, age or physical disability. For an example, ACI Sanitary Napkin Factory organized a Performance Award program for the employees to recognize the best performers on a periodical basis. Employees get recognized for their performance regardless any discriminatory factor.
