Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles in Kantech International 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Sun LeQun Managing Director Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. In the coming years we will work with our significant supply chain partners to see if they are signatories to the Global Compact and if they are not to actively encourage them to support and join the Compact  Implementation Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff at work as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Where there are changes within the organization extensive consultation exercises are run to ensure staffs are involved in the process. We are an equal opportunity employer and very committed to follow all the applicable statutory requirements like employee insurance, maternity leave etc.,  Measurement of outcomes In the past year, Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. There have been statutory audits by local statutory bodies with no non-comformances. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd supports the labor conventions and will not do business with any organization who uses forced labor or child labor. All our employees are issued with an employment letter which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All the social security & insurance benefits due as per regulations are paid to the necessary authorities  Implementation Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd consults with staff on a continuous basis each year we hold a review day which everyone attends and where the MD does a re-cap on the past year, appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. We value being an equal opportunity employer  Measurement of outcomes At all levels we have a god mix of female and male. Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd works in areas which are by their nature quite male dominated, but this in no way reflects our approach to encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. We run annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are implemented as quickly as possible. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd meets all the necessary statutory requirements on pollution and environment protection.  Implementation At Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd we promote environmental initiatives to the extent possible.  Measurement of outcomes Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd senior management team is committed not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and we will not operate in countries or with organizations who are corrupt.  Implementation Briefing has been limited to senior management , finance team, purchase team and our Sales Business Development team at the current time.  Measurement of outcomes Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Kantech International (Jiangxi) Co. Ltd has an external audit company to do 4 internal audits every year and the report directly submitted to the Managing Director. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported in the period --------------------------------------------The end -----------------------------------------------
