Sustainability Report 2013 Company The companies of ALTANA AG develop, manufacture, and Corporate performance indicators distribute high-quality, specialty chemical products and pro2013 2012 vide the associated services. ALTANA is a globally active corporation headquartered in Wesel, Germany, with an interNumber of employees 5,741 5,363 national sales share of approximately 85 percent. Its four Sales € million 1,765 1,705 divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Effect PigEBITDA € million 336 323 ments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and ACTEGA CoatEBITDA margin % 19.0 19.0 ings & Sealants, occupy a leading position in their target marResearch and development expenses € million 109 102 kets with respect to quality, product solution expertise, Investments € million 94 90 innovation, and service. Total production t 533,770 518,172 ALTANA offers innovative and environmentally compatGross value added € million 633 601 ible solutions with the matching specialty products for Final products t 418,450 407,876 coatings manufacturers, paint and plastics processors, for the WAI 1 1 6.02 7.29 printing and cosmetics industries, as well as for the electriWAI 3 2 67 76 cal and electronics industry. The product range includes addiTotal CO2 tives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigments, seal(Scope 1 + Scope 2) 3 t 147,602 144,305 Drinking water m3 565,080 634,344 ants and compounds, impregnating resins and varnishes, and Non-hazardous waste t 6,286 7,347 testing and measuring instruments. Hazardous waste t 18,487 19,075 The ALTANA Group, which belongs to SKion GmbH, an 1 Work Accident Indicator 1 (number of occupational accidents with one or more days of lost investment company owned by Susanne Klatten, who is work time per million working hours) also the Deputy Chairwoman of ALTANA ’s Supervisory Board, 2 Work Accident Indicator 3 (number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working hours) currently includes 46 production sites and more than 50 3 Scope 1: direct emissions; Scope 2: indirect emissions service and research laboratories worldwide. With a workforce of more than 5,700 employees throughout the group, ALTANA generated sales of about € 1.8 billion in the 2013 fiscal year. Its impressive earning power and high growth rate make ALTANA one of the most successful and innovative chemical groups worldwide. About this report The Sustainability Report 2013 was written by ALTANA AG to provide the statements apply to all divisions and worldwide subsidiaries that were public, the company’s employees and business partners, authorities, part of the ALTANA Group in 2013. The report follows the international non-governmental organizations, and all other stakeholders with inforG3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) . We performed mation about the implementation of sustainability in the strategy of an in-house assessment of our compliance with GRI indicators and have ALTANA in terms of ecology and corporate social responsibility. The comconcluded that the report meets the requirements of application level A. pany’s economic development is discussed in detail in its 2013 Annual Report. For further information on the topics presented in this report, on further performance indicators, and concerning the GRI index, please visit The facts and key figures presented in this report refer to fiscal year www.altana.com / sustainability. The annually published report also serves 2013; environmental performance indicators refer to the period from Octoas COP on ALTANA ’s implementation of the principles of the Global ber 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013. Unless otherwise noted, our Compact. The report is available in both German and English. At a glance ALTANA ’s divisions Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines Paint additives Coatings Primary insulation Converting specialties Plastic additives Graphic arts Secondary insulation Graphic arts Industrial applications Cosmetics and personal care Electronic and engineering materials Gas & oilfield Plastics industry Measuring and testing instruments Functional applications Sales by division Sales by region 1 39.2 % 19.0 % 2 1 42.2 % 24.8 % 2 4 18.4 % 23.4 % 3 4 2.0 % 31.0 % 3 in € million 2013 in € million 2013 1 BYK Additives & Instruments 691.5 1 Europe 745.2 2 ECKART Effect Pigments 334.6 2 Americas 438.4 3 ELANTAS Electrical Insulation 414.6 3 Asia 547.4 4 ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants 324.7 4 Other regions 34.3 Total 1,765.4 Total 1,765.4 At a glance ALTANA ’s divisions Management 1 Preface 35 Environment 5 36 WE ARE DISCOVERERS + RESOURCE 5 Management PROTECTORS Products 6 WE ARE ENTREPRENEURS + 40 ALTANA Reaches Its Environmental Targets 17 ENVIRONMENTALISTS Worldwide 10 Company 41 Less Waste, Lower Water Consumption Safety 10 Acquisitions Strengthen Our Sustainability 41 Fine Paid in the U.S. 25 Profile 42 Plant Construction Helps the Environment Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines 10 Efficiency Thanks to Environmental and Energy 42 Biodiversity Measures Environment Paint additives Coatings Primary insulation Converting specialties Management 42 Further Reduction of Environmental Effects 35 Plastic additives Graphic arts Secondary insulation Graphic arts 11 Compliance 43 Minimizing Dust Emissions Industrial applications Cosmetics and personal care Electronic and engineering 12 Guiding Principles 43 Progress in Water Treatment Human Resources materials 12 ALTANA X : Excellent and Sustainable at Once 43 Further Reduction of VOC Emissions 45 Gas & oilfield Plastics industry 12 Battery of the Future Initiative 43 Improved Logistics Measuring and testing instruments Functional applications 13 Paving the Way for Sustainability with Research Social Commitment 53 13 Equipped for an Emergency 45 Human Resources 13 Awards 46 WE ARE FUTURE SHAPERS + VALUE UPHOLDERS 14 Memberships 50 Employees: Our Most Important Capital 14 Global Compact in the Supply Chain 50 Diverse Recruitment of Young Talent 14 Responsible Care 50 Encouraging Young Talent in a Targeted Manner Sales by division Sales by region 15 Stakeholders 50 Campaign to Make Specialty Chemistry More 15 ALTANA Materiality Matrix Tangible 51 Exemplary Recruiting 17 Products 51 Awards 1 1 39.2 % 18 19.0 % 2 WE ARE COATINGS DEVELOPERS + CLIMATE 5142.2 % Career Development: 24.8 % 2 Identifying Potential PROTECTORS 52 Strengthening Diversity 22 Sustainability Is Multifaceted 22 Reducing Emissions 53 Social Commitment 4 18.4 % 23.4 % 3 4 2.0 % 31.0 % 3 22 Resource Conservation and Climate Protection 54 WE ARE RESEARCHERS + TALENT SCOUTS 23 Alternatives to Hazardous Substances 58 Our Commitment as a Good Corporate Citizen 24 Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA 58 Promoting Young Talent: From Preschool to in € million 2013 in € million 2013 University 1 BYK Additives & Instruments 691.5 1 Europe 745.2 25 Safety 58 Increase in the Company’s Value Heightens 2 ECKART Effect Pigments 334.6 2 Americas 438.4 26 WE ARE PIONEERS + SAFETY EXPERTS Commitment 3 ELANTAS Electrical Insulation 414.6 3 Asia 547.4 30 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide 58 Support for Private Educational Initiatives 4 ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants 324.7 4 Other regions 34.3 30 Occupational Safety Indicators 59 Volunteer Commitment Total 1,765.4 Total 1,765.4 31 Low Number of Incidents 60 Natural Disaster Relief 32 Self-Evaluation as a Basis for Improvement 32 Averting Concrete Dangers 62 Highlights and Lowlights 32 Organizational Measures 64 Programs / Goals 33 Prevention Through Sports and Fitness 66 Global Compact: Communication on Progress Contact More detailed information, further key performance indicators, and the GRI index can be found in the Notes to the Sustainability Report 2013 on the Internet at www.altana.com / sustainability Preface Ladies and Gentlemen, Opposites attract. And sometimes something new emerges from a connection between seeming contradictions. This is the case with sustainability. And that’s why we support the objectives of the UN Global Compact initiative. For in our society we still hear much too often that economy and ecology are irreconcilable. In point of fact, these two issues go hand in hand, particularly in our core business, specialty chemicals. Innovative products from ALTANA help our customers manufacture with low emissions and in an energy-efficient way. And not seldom, our solutions contribute to considerable cost savings. This is an important success factor for ALTANA . Ultimately, we give our customers a competitive edge with this and at the same time can be successful on the market ourselves. At ALTANA , such synergies are forged in all of our business divisions. Behind these synergies are individuals who advocate sustainable developments in their work environment and create added value out of seeming opposites. Thus, we are devoting this year’s Sustainability Report to the entrepreneurs and environmentalists, the coatings developers and climate protectors, the discoverers and resource protectors, the pioneers and safety experts, the future shapers and value upholders, the researchers and talent scouts in our group of companies worldwide. I would like to thank all of the employees for their commitment, which has made ALTANA a sustainable employer, business partner, and neighbor. Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber Chief Executive Officer 2 Preface Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, Chief Executive Officer Dr. Andreas Diez, Vice President Environment, Health and Safety Preface 3 Preface Ladies and Gentlemen, Chemistry to the third power. That is the name of a sustainability initiative launched by the German chemical industry. In my view, it expresses the gist of the matter in an extremely concise way: The three dimensions economy, ecology, and social involvement are mutually reinforcing and cannot be viewed separately from one another. Put a different way: Any measure that does not contribute to economic success is not sustainable. This fact is still often overlooked. That’s why our industry embraces a comprehensive understanding of sustainability. ALTANA has taken up the cause of sharpening awareness of sustainability even more, both within the company and in our business environment. That’s why, in this report, we’re viewing the acquisitions ALTANA made last year from the perspective of sustainability. For these takeovers have not only accelerated the growth of our group of companies, but have also strengthened our portfolio of environmentally friendly products. Another example is the introduction of a long-term bonus last year. Because we are convinced that future-oriented management that does justice to business, the environment, and society also has to be worthwhile for the individual. This year ALTANA ’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report have the same design and general idea for the first time. Thus, it is apparent at first glance that they are two sides of the same coin. I wish you pleasurable reading. Dr. Andreas Diez Vice President Environment, Health and Safety 4 Management ALTANA stands for sustainable profitable growth. The environmental management system we introduced, the excellence program ALTANA X, acquisitions, and research investments in future technologies support our growth path. 6 We Are Entrepreneurs + Environmentalists 10 Company 10 Acquisitions Strengthen Our Sustainability Profile 10 Efficiency Thanks to Environmental and Energy Management 11 Compliance 12 Guiding Principles 12 ALTANA X : Excellent and Sustainable at Once 12 Battery of the Future Initiative 13 Paving the Way for Sustainability with Research 13 Equipped for an Emergency 13 Awards 14 Memberships 14 Global Compact in the Supply Chain 14 Responsible Care 15 Stakeholders 15 ALTANA Materiality Matrix We Are Entrepreneurs Environ­ mentalists We are ALTANA ALTANA is growing – based on its own efforts and through acquisitions – but not at all costs. When we purchase new businesses, we make sure our high environmental and safety standards are upheld. Our specialists at ACTEGA show how aesthetics and ecology can be reconciled economically. Last year, the division expanded its portfolio of environmentally friendly coatings by making two strategic acquisitions – to the benefit of our customers. Dr. Roland Peter, President Division ACTEGA Carina Pack, M&A, ALTANA 8 We are ALTANA ALTANA consistently concentrates on achieving sustainable, profitable growth. This includes expanding our offer of environ­ mentally friendly specialty chemical solutions through targeted acquisitions. We Are Entrepreneurs + Environmentalists Finishing with Water and UV Light excellent position on the European and ting alternatives to hot foil stamping withFolding boxes for consumer goods as well North American markets. “By making two out losing gloss. as catalogs and magazines remain attractargeted acquisitions, we systematicaltive due to overprint varnishes and effect ly expanded our offer last year within the Since very precise visual effects can be coatings. ACTEGA provides particularly framework of our defined growth stratachieved with them, they also reduce the environmentally friendly coatings for prodegy,” says the division president. “This has amount of waste of our customers – uct finishing. They are water based or brought our customers numerous advananother ecological advantage. The North dry in split seconds under ultraviolet light. tages.” American markets particularly appreciate Thanks to these methods, ACTEGA efthese coatings, and our subsidiary ACTEGA fect coatings consume less energy during In August 2013, ALTANA acquired the speKelstar continues to sell them there unprocessing. cialty coatings business of Henkel, includder the established brand names. ing effect coatings and overprint varnish“Our sustainabilityand innovation-ories that harden under UV and electron In October, the water-based and UV overented portfolio convinces our customers,” radiation. The coatings, known under the print varnishes of Valspar were added to says Dr. Roland Peter, President Division brand names Miracure and Mirafoil, ofthe division’s portfolio. Since then, ACTEGA ACTEGA . As a result, the division has an fer environmentally compatible, cost-cutTerra has marketed them primarily in EuWe are ALTANA 9 rope. “With this business we took over the right businesses. “In the process, it is highly innovative, sustainable technologies important to perform a thorough analythat complement our range and expand sis of the candidates regarding various facour knowhow,” says Dr. Peter. Thanks to tors,” says M&A manager Carina Pack. these additions, the division has consider“They should fit our business strategy to ably improved its profile in France, Russia, a tee.” and Poland. In those countries, too, our customers now have access to additional The business should also strengthen our individualized product solutions. sustainability profile. Additionally, it has to open up new technological perspectives Strategic Growth and new regions for ALTANA . For only Our Corporate Development / Mergers & then can it open new doors in the market Acquisitions (M&A) department plans, preand thus ensure sustainable, profitable pares, and implements suitable acquisigrowth. tions. It continually analyzes developments on the international markets to identify 10 Sustainability Report 2013 Company are available for restoring the areas to their natural state after the mining is completed. We expect the renaturation to ALTANA AG is a globally active group of companies. It develincrease the biodiversity in the regions in question compared ops, produces, and sells high-quality specialty chemicals, to the period before the strip mining was initiated. including additives, special coatings, and adhesives, effect pigSome of the new rheology additives we acquired can ments, sealants and compounds, impregnating resins, as be used for natural gas production with the help of sowell as testing and measuring instruments. The company is called fracking. ALTANA is in favor of responsible utilization based in Wesel, Germany. of this technology under precisely defined conditions. In 2013, the ALTANA Group achieved 85 percent of its To ensure that no danger is posed to people or the environsales on international markets. More information about ment, we advocate precautionary risk management. A more the Group and its management, responsibility, and complidetailed discussion of our view on fracking can be found at ance structures can be found at www.altana.com / sustainwww.altana.com / sustainability. ability. Efficiency Thanks to Environmental and Energy Acquisitions Strengthen Our Sustainability Management Profile ALTANA regularly records the effects on the environment In 2013, ALTANA acquired three new businesses: the rheof activities connected with its business at all of its sites. The ology business of Rockwood, the overprint varnishes business goal is to steadily reduce these effects. To achieve this obof Valspar, and the specialty coatings business of Henkel. jective, all of the managing directors of the ALTANA Group The three acquisitions strengthen the sustainability profile of have committed themselves to ensuring that systematic our group, because they considerably expand our portfolio improvements are made in their companies. To this end, we of environmentally friendly additives and coatings, for which implement internationally recognized environmental and there is a growing demand. energy management systems, especially ISO 50001 and ISO In economic terms, the most important acquisition was 14001. the takeover of Rockwood’s rheology business, which is On the one hand, the effects on the environment conbeing integrated into the BYK division of ALTANA . The addicern raw material and water consumption, VOC and CO ² tives acquired are based on natural minerals, particularly emissions, as well as quantities of waste that arise during proclay. They are suitable for controlling viscosity and are used duction. On the other, we determine the effects that transin water-based coatings, among other things. ports of raw materials and finished products have on the enviAs these additives largely are not based on fossil raw ronment based on tonnage and modes of transport. At materials, fewer CO ² emissions arise when they are disposed some sites, we also measure chemical emissions in the wasteof. This has a positive influence on the ecobalance. water. They are below the permitted levels. With the rheology business, we took over the operation ECKART , headquartered in Güntersthal, Germany, was of seven mines, including mines in the U.S. and Spain. The the first company in the ALTANA Group to introduce energy raw materials are extracted from open-pit mines. Budgets management, back in 2012, and became ISO 50001 certiManagement Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 11 fied. In 2013, nearly all of the company’s German sites also sible to reduce CO ² emissions. Second, it will reduce VOC began to set up an energy management system. ACTEGA DS emissions. The company’s focus is on the completely VOC received certification in December 2013. free products marketed under the brand name Kelstar Green Our first experiences with the management system Line. Third, it will decrease the amount of special waste show that it superbly supports the systematic enhancement with the help of technological measures. And fourth, it will of energy efficiency. And for energy intensive sectors such introduce a program for corrective and preventative measas the chemical industry, it has additional advantages in Gerures designed to ensure that the improvement measures are many. It is a prerequisite for being able to decrease taxes successful. or the apportionment under the German Renewable Energy Of the four sites acquired, two are already certified in Act, EEG . accordance with ISO 14001: the former Rockwood plants in In 2013, ALTANA was able to take advantage of this Widnes, Great Britain, and the facility in Moosburg, Gershare of the cost – at least partially – as the apportionment many. The two sites in the U.S. are preparing for ISO 14001 was granted for some of its operations at the Güntersthal certification. site. In view of the ever-fiercer competition in the industry, ALTANA believes it is imperative to retain this cost-cutting possibility. The low energy prices in the U.S. , in particular, are Compliance: E-Learning Makes It Easier to putting the European chemical sector under pressure. Impart Knowledge The internationally accepted environmental guideline ISO 14001 has been used at ALTANA for some time. In 2013, In 2013, ALTANA ’s Compliance Committee dealt intensely a total of four sites successfully underwent the certification with the auditing standard PS 980, developed by the Institute process: ACTEGA WIT , ACTEGA Rhenacoat, ACTEGA Kelstar, of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW) , for compliance manand ECKART America based in Louisville, Kentucky. As a agement systems. As a result, possible optimizations in orgarepresentative example, we will now discuss the achievements nization, control, and communications were identified and of ACTEGA Kelstar. will now be implemented. The objective of the certification was to gather exact Our Code of Conduct contains binding rules regarding data on water and energy consumption, as well as waste and issues such as antitrust law, corruption, and discrimination. emissions, and on this basis to implement measures that The e-learning program that belongs to the Code is now availwill improve the situation in the future. The company did not able in German, English, and Chinese, and an Italian verhave an environmental management system hitherto. But sion will be introduced in 2014. We will also implement a new due to regional and local environmental programs that the e-learning tool on corruption in 2014. It is geared to the manufacturer of coatings and inks for the printing industry Group’s some 300 managers. was already observing, the Kelstar environmental managers In 2013, employees reported irregularities in business were able to collect the data swiftly and complete the cerprocesses at ACTEGA in Foshan, China, and at ACTEGA tification process – including staff training – in seven months. Colorchemie in France. Both cases involved compliance vioOn the basis of the data, the environmental managers lations, which were being investigated. One case may launched four improvement programs. First, the company entail corruption. There was no fine for violations of legal will implement more efficient technology wherever posstandards relevant for society. 12 Sustainability Report 2013 In internal audits, we regularly examine external contracts of waste created. Thus, ALTANA X is also a program for susand provision agreements, among other things, in cases where tainability. there is suspicion of corruption. In 2013, 20 audits were We opted for a mix of the proven Six Sigma and Lean carried out. Management methods. We tailored both models to the needs of our industry and our group. Depending on the project and site, the teams can decide Guiding Principles autonomously which method to apply to reach the respective target. Independent of this, all projects are geared The Guiding Principles for the entire ALTANA Group, develto a concrete key performance indicator on whose basis oped around two years ago with the participation of all we analyze unnecessarily high resource consumption (time, of the company’s employees worldwide, were taken up again raw materials, energy) and continually measure improvein 2013. Together with the ambassadors charged to comments. municate the content of the Guiding Principles during the During the pilot phase in 2013, we successfully completintroductory phase, ALTANA Corporate Communications ed a total of 35 projects at four sites in Germany. The projdeveloped a film project in which staff from different divisions ects were designed, among other things, to make work proand countries, and in different capacities and hierarchies, cesses more efficient, to optimize boiler cleaning and raw talked in front of the camera. The objective is to understand materials storage, and to shorten changeover times between where ALTANA stands today with respect to the Guiding different products. The program will be rolled out interPrinciples and where there is room for improvement. In addinationally in 2014. tion, the montage of interviews that will be shown to all of our employees at the different sites worldwide aims at illustrating both the diversity and common ground within the Battery of the Future Initiative ALTANA Group. During the shooting, which began in the fall of 2013, short sequences showing the film being made were Due to the steady increase in energy consumption worldelaborated at every site. wide, efficient, innovative storage media are becoming more important. For the energy turnaround sought in Germany, such media play a crucial role for economic utilization of wind ALTANA X: Excellent and Sustainable at Once and solar energy. Following a systematic group-wide investigation, we We want to be leading in everything we do. This is our goal. know that with their knowledge and their products, all Therefore, we launched the ALTANA X program internally. ALTANA companies can contribute to this promising business. It helps us to make our processes more efficient and to optiWith our knowhow, we expect to be able to support espemize our productivity so that the quality of our products cially sustainable storage media. will continue to improve. With this goal in mind, we launched a group-wide iniIn our view, business improvements should have positiative in 2013. For the project, BYK is providing laboratories tive effects on the environment. Cost-cutting measures can and experts for two years at its Wesel site. In a feasibility also mean reducing energy consumption or the amount study, they are examining which technologies and products Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 13 can help ALTANA improve the performance of batteries and In 2013, BYK introduced such a management system at its reduce their manufacturing costs. This concerns, for examWesel site and concluded a company agreement on it. ple, printed variants of old-established zinc manganese, new In an emergency, a precisely defined crisis unit assembles, zinc air, and particularly lithium-ion batteries. consisting of various specialized staff members and the Zinc flakes developed by ECKART and UV -curable adhecrisis manager on duty. All of the employees who assume spesives from ACTEGA are two possibilities. But due to their cial tasks in the crisis management system receive training. variety and versatility, BYK ’s additives will play a more promAn emergency exercise rounds out the training. An English inent role. In cooperation with the German start-up comtranslation of the handbook on which the crisis managepany Custom Cells Itzehoe, co-financed by ALTANA , the batment is based is provided to all ALTANA companies as a besttery team also has access to technologies that are still in practice example. the development stage. Awards Paving the Way for Sustainability with Research Striving for excellence is more than just an aspiration at It is particularly important for ALTANA to develop sustainable ALTANA . In 2013, we received several awards documenting products. So it makes sense to prepare the way in the develour successes as a family-owned company and specialty opment phase. BYK was the first company in the Group to chemicals manufacturer. add systematic sustainability analysis to its innovation manFirst place in the chemical industry rankings: In the ratagement. With this step, the additives manufacturer is coning of chemical companies within the framework of the tinuing to expand its Greenability strategy. Career’s Best Recruiters employer study, ALTANA secured the In the so-called laboratory phase, during which the team top position. Career’s Best Recruiters is an initiative launched works on the concrete formulation of the future product, by the Vienna-based communication agency GPK Eventthe developers have to test the raw materials to be used, as und Kommunikationsmanagement GmbH in cooperation well as the future product, based on ten ecological criteria. with Koblenz University of Applied Sciences for Human If the product is expected to produce, say, VOC emissions Resources and Education and, by its own account, is the largor other health or environmental hazards, the developers est recruitment study in German-speaking countries. have to change their plans and find alternatives. Award for trainee programs: The Initiative for CareerPromoting and Fair Trainee Programs rewarded our efforts in this area. The focus was on the Cross Divisional DevelopEquipped for an Emergency ment Program Innovation (CDDPI) , in which young talents work on innovations across divisions. The initiative was Major incidents such as fires or chemical accidents endanlaunched by the Absolventa job fair in cooperation with the ger people and the environment. They can also substantially Institute for Human Resources Management of the Ludwig impair the business activity of a company. Social, ecoloMaximilian University of Munich. gical, and economic damage can be limited with systematic Fifth place in the “Private Public Award”: This accolade crisis management, including detailed emergency plans. honors the best annual reports of German family-owned 14 Sustainability Report 2013 companies. In 2013, ALTANA finished in fifth place among Global Compact in the Supply Chain 250 companies, both in the overall evaluation and in the “Clear Course” prize category. The award is an initiative of ALTANA ’s voluntary commitment within the framework of the German consulting company ergo Kommunikation. Global Compact requires that we shape our supply chain The Philadelphia Society for Coatings Technology (PSCT) accordingly. We communicate our Supplier Code of Conduct gave John Du, Technical Product Manager Paint Additives internally on our Intranet and externally during presentaat BYK USA, the Wayne Kraus Award for his ongoing committions and visits to suppliers, and, since November 2011, on ment and contributions to the field of coatings. the website of the ALTANA purchasing network. So far, 319 suppliers have contacted us via the purchasing website and committed themselves to the principles Internal Awards of Global Compact. We check to see whether they adhere to these principles with audits. In 2013, we visited 40 busiWithin the Group, we granted the ALTANA Innovation ness partners in India, China, Poland, and the U.S. for this Award for the fifth time. The prizewinner was a team from purpose. ACTEGA Terra. It received the distinction for the developIn 2013, we established a new risk management system ment of special in-mold labels (IML) used for labeling plastic for raw materials and preliminary raw materials that is containers. The team succeeded in identifying new raw available to all ALTANA companies. An important part of this materials and developing innovative formulation strategies. system are criteria that can be used to evaluate the extent In 2013, BYK gave its internal BYK advance award to which the supply sources uphold human rights and susto a team that developed a new modifier for wood-plastic tainability and have integrated anti-corruption measures composites (WPC) based on polyethylene (PE) . The addiinto the company structure. In addition, we defined concrete tive, distinguished by its improved compatibility, optimizes the alternatives that we can resort to if necessary. These inmechanical properties of the end product. clude alternative supply sources and the development of products using alternative raw materials. Memberships Responsible Care As a member of the United Nations Global Compact program, ALTANA has made a commitment to improving human The basis of our activities is the chemical industry’s worldwide rights, labor standards, and environmental protection, and to initiative, called Responsible Care. The managing directors fighting corruption. This sustainability report also serves of the ALTANA Group personally signed this voluntary comas Communication on Progress (COP) on ALTANA ’s implemenmitment. They submit an annual report consisting of infortation of the principles of the Global Compact. mation about ALTANA ’s sustainability efforts to the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) , which uses the data for its annual Responsible Care progress report. In Germany, we have supported the sustainability initiative “Chemie3” since 2013. It was called into being by the Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 15 VCI , the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industries annual sustainability reports, through participation in assoUnion (IGBCE) , and the German Federation of Chemical ciation meetings, and open house activities held every three Employers (BAVC) . Its goal is to anchor sustainable manageyears. ment principles in the industry. These principles correspond The essential stakeholders are determined on the basis to our Guiding Principles. of many years of experience and the recognizable need for communication. But they are also defined based on knowledge regarding expectations and concerns vis-à-vis the chemStakeholders ical industry. In this report, we display the results of our continuous dialogue in a so-called materiality matrix (see graphic To strengthen public trust in the safety of our plants and below). It lists the most important sustainability topics and products, ALTANA maintains close dialogue with neighbors, their significance for ALTANA , on the one hand, and for our local politicians and media, associations, investors, customstakeholders on the other. The same topics are the focal ers, suppliers, authorities, and all other interest groups that points of this sustainability report. Although we deem all acare directly or indirectly affected by our activities. This is tion areas important, we focus particularly on the topics achieved in direct exchange, with our annual reports and the in the right field of the matrix. ALTANA Materiality Matrix Innovative and sustainable product solutions Social commitment Sustainable value creation for company and society Significance for our stakeholders Climate protection in production Resource efficiency / waste / Human rights substitution of fossil resources Biodiversity VOC reduction Sustainability in the Occupational safety supply chain Health protection Employer attractiveness Staff development Staff satisfaction Significance for ALTANA 16 Products We want to be leading in everything we do. This particularly concerns our innovative products, which conserve resources and protect the climate. We help our customers manufacture with low emissions and energy-efficiently, for example with our water-based coatings and ecological insulating materials. 18 We Are Coatings Developers + Climate Protectors 22 Sustainability Is Multifaceted 22 Reducing Emissions 22 Resource Conservation and Climate Protection 23 Alternatives to Hazardous Substances 24 Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA We Are Coatings Developers Climate Protectors We are ALTANA Sustainability is a loose concept. But we have very specific sustainability requirements when we develop our products. For example, we try to ensure that emissions are as low as possible during processing and to keep energy consumption to a minimum. An example: monomer-free impregnating resins from ELANTAS . These unique insulating materials are almost emission free and require less energy than comparable products. They not only protect the environment, but also our customers’ budgets. Dr. Klaus-Wilhelm Lienert, Research and Development, ELANTAS Beck 20 We are ALTANA All divisions of ALTANA develop special solutions to ensure that coatings have the right consistency, brilliance, and functionality. At the same time, our products help our customers reduce emissions and energy consumption. We Are Coatings Developers + Climate Protectors Insulation with Monomer-Free Resins hardening process generates emissions considerably. In addition, less energy was Whether it’s for a wind turbine or a conthat have to be filtered out using special needed, since the resins hardened at veyor system, a drill or a hairdryer – motors exhaust air purification systems. This lower temperatures and in a shorter time in small electrical devices and in large is particularly the case with solvent-based than conventional coatings. plants need insulation for their electrical impregnating resins used in conventional coils. The insulation is applied in the last procedures. Dobeckan MF – A Breakthrough in manufacturing step. In an impregnating Climate Protection plant, the motors are dipped in the insuFor many years now, researchers at ELANTAS But the decisive breakthrough in climate lating material, which has to harden in a Beck have been working to reduce the protection was made with Dobeckan MF , special oven. energy consumption and emissions of their where MF stands for monomer free. “This insulating materials. To this end, they product family is the result of our targetTraditionally, the hardening phase has initially developed so-called impregnating ed research,” explains Dr. Klaus-Wilhelm required a great deal of energy and proresins under the brand name Dobeckan. Lienert, head of R&D at ELANTAS Beck. duced substantial emissions. The oven These products contain unsaturated polyThe special challenge was to develop envicontinually needs fresh air, which has to ester resins instead of solvent-based forronmentally friendly resins that could be be warmed up. At the same time, the mulations. This alone reduced emissions integrated smoothly into customers’ manWe are ALTANA 21 ufacturing processes. The formulations emissions are produced when the materipatible, but, due to the energy savings, had to ensure that the insulating materials are processed and there is no need for more economic to boot. als could resist the diverse mechanical, waste air purification. That saves energy. thermal, and chemical loads they were subFurthermore, monomer-free resins are toxjected to. icologically safer than other resins, as they dispense with harmful substances such The result is unique worldwide. “Our monoas styrene. mer-free products are the only ones that combine ecological advantages with ecoToday, a fifth of the impregnating resins nomic efficiency to this extent. They enproduced by ELANTAS Beck are monomerable our customers to reduce their producfree products. Manufacturers in Europe tion costs considerably,” says Lienert. are more than happy to take these products on board. Although they first have The monomer-free insulating materials are to invest in new impregnating plants, insubased on polyester resins that harden lation of motors with monomer-free reswithout monomers. As a result, virtually no ins is not only more environmentally com22 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Is Multifaceted In secondary insulation, too, water-based systems are increasingly playing a role. Our ELANTAS companies are working As a manufacturing company, we believe it is our responsibilon important innovations in this area. For example, ELANTAS ity to ensure that our products are as sustainable as posChina has developed an epoxy resin-based emulsifier that sible and couple this with our objective of reconciling enviserves as the basis for water-based insulation of small motors ronmental protection and economic viability. and transformers. This insulation hardens at low temperaThree aspects are particularly important to us. First, we tures and thus reduces energy consumption. ELANTAS PDG work on launching products that produce a minimal amount in the U.S. is working on water-based emulsion on the baof emissions. Second, we develop products that conserve sis of unsaturated polyester resins. They have a high flash resources or protect the climate. And third, we keep our eye point and are therefore less flammable. out for possible alternatives to substances that are harmful to human health. All of these efforts enable our customers, in turn, to manufacture more environmentally friendly prodResource Conservation and Climate Protection ucts and thus gain a competitive edge. In 2013, we made considerable progress here. There are many ways to conserve resources. For example, the function of a product can make a contribution. ECKART has launched a number of innovations along these lines. Reducing Emissions The most recent example is Energysafe pigments, which were developed expressly for plastic applications. These pigAbove all, we concentrate on reducing emissions from volments reflect sunlight, thus preventing plastics from heating atile organic compounds (VOC) . They arise during procup. This can reduce the energy consumption, say, of airessing of substances that contain carbon, including solvents. conditioning systems in cars or homes. Scientists from Arizona With paints and coatings, these emissions can be reduced State University found that in hot, arid regions, so-called if water is used instead of solvent. A positive side effect: Fos“cool roofs” have a more positive effect on the climate than sil raw materials become superfluous. green roofs. Many of our customers from the paint and coatings Likewise, ECKART ’s IReflex pigments, especially develindustry are relying increasingly on water-based systems. BYK ’s oped for wall paints, improve the energy management of multifaceted innovations for solvent-free systems offer a buildings because they reflect sunlight. This was confirmed number of approaches for continued improvement of waterby a study conducted by Bauhaus University in Weimar. In based paints and coatings and their processing. For exam2013, a textile covering coated with IReflex was put on the ple, BYK has developed two defoamers expressly for waterwooden roof construction of the ice rink in Landsberg, Babased spray applications for furniture or buildings and for varia, reducing the energy needed for the ice surface significorrosion protection in industry. They ensure that bubbles do cantly. not form in layers of paint or varnish. Other additives imWhen BYK develops additives that make surfaces more prove the distribution of particularly fine black and blue pigscratch resistant, this prolongs their lifespan. Thus, we view ments used, for example, in solvent-free powder coatings, new surface additives such as Ceraflour 925, BYK TS 3200, inks for inkjet printers, and other printing inks. and the Nanobyk products 3620 and 3630 as contributing Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 23 to sustainability. The adhesion promoter BYK 4510 also meets form has set itself the task of examining alternatives to this requirement, as it improves the corrosion protection harmful substances such as styrene and cobalt. of baking systems. The ACTEGA division can already boast a number of Another way to save resources is to conserve materials successes concerning the replacement of plasticizers such as during the manufacture of products. This especially applies Bisphenol A (BPA) . Their use in food packaging is being disto the new Platalux pigments from ECKART . They consist of cussed due to potentially harmful effects on people’s health. flakes of glass coated with silver. The division, based in With Artiseal and Provalin, the companies ACTEGA Güntersthal in southern Germany, developed a method that Artística and ACTEGA DS brought two sealants for twist-off uses the precious metal especially efficiently during the tops onto the market that do not contain any PVC and manufacture of flakes. therefore no plasticizer and are especially suitable for packagA composite material developed by ACTEGA DS helps ing of antipasti and other fat-containing foods. The develcrown cork manufacturers reduce the amount of raw mateopers are currently working on adapting Provalin to the rial they need. The new material enables them to save 0.4 even more stringent requirements for baby-food packaging. grams of steel per bottle top without making concessions to At the same time, ACTEGA Rhenania had Actebond patquality. With four billion crown corks a year, this correented. This BPA -free adhesive is designed expressly for alusponds to savings of 1,600 tons of steel. minum foils that are used as closures for flexible plastic food The third possibility of conserving resources is to repackaging, such as milk bottles. Additionally, the company duce the amount of energy needed to process our products. developed three BPA -free polyester resin-based adhesion proThe patented cure indicator that ELANTAS has started ofmoters. These formulations serve as the basis for coatings fering recently with its impregnating varnishes shows users for food and pet-food packaging. exactly when the insulating layer has hardened, saving NMP – N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone – is a component of time, energy, and money. The rapidly hardening impregnating coatings that serve as inner layers of aluminum spray cans. varnishes that ELANTAS Beck India developed to insulate More than six billion of these cans are sold worldwide evelow-voltage motors also serves this purpose. ry year, among other things, for hairspray and air freshener. Finally, renewable materials save precious resources, Since 2011, NMP has been a substance of very high conas BYK ’s “Greenability” portfolio shows. Last year, two new cern, and users are seeking alternatives. ACTEGA Rhenacoat products were added to it, the defoamer BYK A-505 and has developed a new coating formulation devoid of NMP the styrene emissions reducer BYK S-760, both of which conbased on polyesterimide (PEI) and has already tested the first sist chiefly of renewable raw materials. applications in cooperation with French customers. Worldwide tests are planned for 2014. Benzophenone is used as a so-called photoinitiator in Alternatives to Hazardous Substances printing inks and coatings to regulate hardening under UV light. But the material is controversial due to its health and As our knowledge about hazardous substances grows, environmental hazards. In Europe, limits have been placed ALTANA is stepping up its efforts to find alternatives. One poson the migration of this substance when it is used in food sibility is to use enzymes as catalysts in manufacturing propackaging. In the U.S., its use in food packaging is prohibited. cesses. ALTANA ’s cross-divisional industrial biotechnology platACTEGA Kelstar has therefore started developing a series 24 Sustainability Report 2013 of coatings and varnishes for printing that are free of benzoIn 2013, three new guidelines or laws played an important phenone. They are suitable for digital, web offset, and role for ALTANA . At issue are the implementation of the screen printing, among others. EU industry emission guideline and the ambitious climate proDemand for chromium-free corrosion protection for tection plan in the German state of North Rhine-Westphametals is steadily increasing. This applies to general industrial lia, where we have three manufacturing sites. A third issue coatings as well as coil coatings. The primers used need was the reform of the German Renewable Energies Act special additives that act as adhesion promoters with the met(EEG) . Here we continue to believe that a lower burden on al. BYK brought them onto the market under the name the energy-intensive industry is imperative. BYK 4512 in 2013. We welcome the implementation of the United Nations Globally Harmonized System (GHS) with open arms. Unfortunately, we cannot make use of the preliminary work that Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA we have done in the EU in the U.S. because the safety information and labeling are different. Therefore, the data have National laws and international guidelines are the legal frameto be reentered into the corresponding programs in the work of our business activities. ALTANA participates in pubU.S. This delays the worldwide harmonization. In ALTANA ’s lic debates about new laws within the framework of associaview, this is disappointing. We hope to be able to comtion memberships. We regard the online surveys that are plete the GHS implementation in the U.S. by the end of 2014. being initiated increasingly by legislators as a sensible instruDetailed explanations of the laws can be found ment and we take part in them if they concern us. in the notes to the ALTANA Sustainability Report 2013 at When we assume that planned laws will have a disadwww.altana.com / sustainability. vantageous effect on our business activities or products, we provide expert contributions to generate understanding for our position. In 2013, we did so with respect to two EU guidelines that we feared would have negative consequences for ALTANA . An example is the revision of the REACH guideline. It now calls for expanded safety data sheets for mixtures of chemical substances. In the form currently planned, we consider the effort needed to create such data sheets to be extremely great. More efficient processes would be desirable. Regarding the EU ’s plans for regulation of nanomaterials and for the related nanoregister, we see the danger that the definition of the term “nano” will be too broad. In the current version of the regulation, most powdered materials are considered nanomaterials. We would therefore welcome a more differentiated definition. Safety ALTANA relies on a uniform safety culture. Technical and organizational measures contribute to enhancing work safety and anchoring the issue firmly in our employees’ minds. Our top priority is to reduce the number of accidents. We are constantly working on minimizing dangers and improving the protection of our employees’ health. 26 W e Are Pioneers + Safety Experts 30 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide 30 Occupational Safety Indicators 31 Low Number of Incidents 32 Self-Evaluation as a Basis for Improvement 32 Averting Concrete Dangers 32 Organizational Measures 33 Prevention Through Sports and Fitness We Are Pioneers Safety Experts We are ALTANA Dealing with risks is part of everyday work in the chemical industry. It is therefore all the more important for a chemical company to develop a well-functioning safety culture. Even then, it is normally not possible to rule out minor incidents completely, which makes the safety record at ELANTAS Beck India even more impressive. For more than ten years now, the company has been free of occupational accidents at both of its production sites thanks to a sophisticated safety culture that has set benchmarks. Sharadkumar Shetye, Director Manufacturing, ELANTAS Beck India 28 We are ALTANA We want to be leading in everything we do. This aspiration includes manufacturing products in such a way that no harm is done to people or the environment. The number of occupational accidents at ALTANA has decreased continu­ ously since 2006. We Are Pioneers + Safety Experts Risk-Aware Behavior as Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S ). knowledge is refreshed on a regular basis Last year, ELANTAS Beck India produced His credo can be summed up in five words: in special training sessions. around 18,000 tons of materials for prima“Safety is a management task.” As simry and secondary insulation at its Ankleple as that might sound, the actual impleThe second tier is the systematic safety shwar and Pimpri sites. Of the 191 employmentation is complex. In the course of management system based on the interees at these two sites, 95 work in prothe decades, Shetye has built a three-tier nationally recognized OHSAS 18001 certiduction and 44 in production-related areas. safety culture. fication. With it, ELANTAS Beck India significantly goes beyond the locally appliRisk-aware behavior has become second Diverse technical measures in the procable legal regulations. The result is ocnature to them. Sharadkumar Shetye has duction process form the basis. They aim cupational safety at an international level. personally seen to this. He has been with to rule out dangers to people and the the company since 1971, and has held a environment. When employees begin work Objective: Zero Accidents management position as Director of Manin Ankleshwar and Pimpri, they receive The third tier involves a goal: zero accidents ufacturing since 1999. In this capacity, safety training enabling them to effectivein everyday work. Foremen and supervihe is simultaneously responsible for engily implement these measures, and their sors make sure that everyone in the team neering, quality control / assurance, as well consistently observes the safety regulaWe are ALTANA 29 tions. Everywhere in the company, there The final goal is a safety culture embracare posters and instructions about how ing the entire company that all staff memto behave safely. They are written in the bers have internalized. Much has been regional languages Gujarati and Marathi. achieved already, further steps need to follow. Particularly in a society like the The company has set up a safety committee Indian one, where everyday life involves in which management and staff jointly countless risks, the employees accept formulate targets and review the situation. the offer of a safe work environment with Once a quarter, a member of manageopen arms, says Shetye. “German thinkment meets with a safety manager for an ing and discipline are deeply rooted here,” internal audit in production. And every says the director with a smile. year there is a special safety week in March during which staff can make personal contributions to safety, providing slogans, poems, or short sketches. 30 Sustainability Report 2013 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide WAI 1 In the 2013 fiscal year, ALTANA employed 5,741 people worldwide. As an employer, it is our duty to protect our staff 2013 Target for 2013: 3 6.02 members from dangers and to offer them safety at the 2012 7.29 workplace. The technical and organizational measures our 2011 7.43 companies have implemented to enhance occupational 2010 7.73 safety are not oriented solely to the legislation of the respec2009 8.15 2008 11.68 tive region. In addition, we seek to create a uniform safety 2007 12.26 culture applicable in all ALTANA companies whose content 2006 14.92 and goals are firmly anchored in the minds of all of our Achieved in 2006 – 2013: 59.65 % (Target for 2016: 3) staff members. WAI 2 Occupational Safety Indicators Target for 2013: 2.1 The main aim of all of these measures is to reduce the num2013 3.98 ber of accidents. We measure occupational safety based 2012 4.67 2011 4.92 on the Work Accident Indicator (WAI) , which applies to all 2010 6.23 ALTANA sites. We differentiate between the following cat2009 5.57 egories: 2008 7.52 –W  AI 1: Number of occupational accidents with lost work 2007 8.00 time of one or more days per million working hours 2006 10.33 – WAI 2: Number of occupational accidents with more than Achieved in 2006 – 2013: 61.47 % (Target for 2016: 2.1) three days of lost work time per million working hours – WAI 3: Number of lost work days due to occupational acciWAI 3 dents per million working hours As the graphics show, we have improved all three of the Target for 2013: 50 2013 67.09 indicators significantly since we began recording this data in 2012 76.25 2006. 2011 68.83 2010 98.56 2009 103.62 2008 158.81 2007 176.29 2006 185.68 Achieved in 2006 – 2013: 63.87 % (Target for 2016: 50) Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 31 Unfortunately, we did not reach the target we set for 2013. – The amount of substances released – depending on their The reason, we believe, is that we underestimated the effort categorization in the globally valid GHS classification – is needed to create lasting awareness of the importance of above 5, 100 or 2,000 kg. occupational safety in all of our employees. Therefore, we extended the timeframe to 2016, by which time the following In 2013, we recorded six incidents: five involving released key indicators should be achieved: WAI 1 ≥ 3.0; WAI 2 ≥ 2.1 chemicals and one fire. Setting this number in relation to one and WAI 3 ≥ 50. million working hours, as specified by the VCI definition, On the other hand, the successes of individual compathe resulting key indicator is 0.68. It is significantly lower than nies show that coordinated on-site organizational measures the VCI average of 1.46. can lead to decisive progress in the behavior of employees. Examples are special safety committees and monthly safety talks. Thanks to such initiatives, ECKART America did not Number of incidents according to process safety incident (PSI) have any accident-related lost work days at its Schererville for 2013 / 2012 / 2011 related to one million working hours site for 10 years; ACTEGA Kelstar and ACTEGA Rhenacoat did not have any accident-related lost work days in 2012 or 2013 0.68 2013. These are important milestones in our safety culture. 2012 0.46 An evaluation of the accidents shows that most of them 2011 0.72 are caused by employee behavior. The technical measures are now at such a high level that we see very little room for improvement here. Therefore, we are concentrating our Number of incidents in absolute terms for 2013 / 2012 / 2011 safety strategy increasingly on influencing employees’ behavdifferentiated according to fire and release of chemicals ior and sharpening their safety awareness. 1 5 2013 Low Number of Incidents 2012 2 2 4 2 2011 2 2 Fire, explosions, and releases of chemicals pose dangers to the 2010 company and its neighbors. Worldwide, ALTANA records Fire Release of chemicals such incidents based on the definition of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) , according to which an incident is a process safety incident (PSI) if one or more of the Three incidents involving releases of chemicals occurred following criteria are fulfilled: at the ECKART site in Güntersthal, one at the ECKART site – Injuries leading to a hospital stay of more than 24 hours or in Schererville, and one at ELANTAS Zhuhai. The four incilost work days of employees or third parties dents at the ECKART sites had no effects on people or the – Damages exceeding 25,000 euros environment. The solvents released (isopropyl alcohol and 32 Sustainability Report 2013 acetone) were caught in permanently installed basins, sumps, Averting Concrete Dangers or tanks provided for this purpose and disposed of as waste. In spite of the general high level of the technical safety At ELANTAS Zhuhai, an employee suffered injuries when equipment, many companies see the possibility of making pina small amount of hot heat-transfer oil leaked out during point improvements for concrete situations. An example maintenance of the oil duct. are the so-called cooling vests that ACTEGA Kelstar acquired The sixth incident involved the deflagration in a motor in 2013. Production workers can wear the vests, which are of the combined heat and power plant (CHP) installed at cooled with ice, under their work clothes on very hot days. ELANTAS Italia’s Ascoli site the year before. No one was inThis makes it easier for them to work and prevents heat jured. The deflagration caused a jet flame and the motor strokes. was destroyed. The cause of the deflagration could not be In other companies, too, there are examples of how ascertained; we assume it was due to a defect in the motor. occupational safety can be improved in certain areas with tarThe motor is being replaced. geted investments. For instance, the risk of employees’ falling or suffering burns from chemicals can be reduced, and fire protection measures and ergonomic features can be Self-Evaluation as a Basis for Improvement improved. Important progress has been made with the installation of closed systems. Raw materials are stored in tanks To push forward a shift in awareness in the Group, we conand fed directly to production from them. The advantage: tinued our “safety on the job” management project in 2013, Employees no longer come in direct contact with the hazasking all companies to evaluate their safety culture themardous substances. selves during everyday work. They were given a uniform questionnaire that focused on four issues: leadership and employee participation; workplace analysis; danger prevention Organizational Measures and control, and training. A new Management Board guideline stipulates that Among the organizational measures that have been implein the future every company should carry out this self-evaluamented to improve safety is the introduction of certified tion each year to document its progress. Companies achievmanagement systems. In recent years, our Chinese compaing good results may perform the evaluation every two years. nies have made considerable progress in this area. At our Companies whose WAI indicators fail to reach ALTANA ’s Zhuhai site, ECKART and ELANTAS each developed a safety targets have to prove that they have implemented at least one standard consisting of twelve elements based on national measure derived from the self-evaluation. If this does not and regional guidelines. In the details, it far exceeds the regbring about progress, these companies have to hire external ulations of the internationally recognized guideline OHSAS consultants to make lasting improvements to their safety 18001. In addition, both companies possess a corresponding culture. safety certificate, which has to be renewed in 2015. The introduction of efficiency programs, such as the 5S program based on Japanese management techniques, also Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 33 contributes to occupational safety. Experience shows that will offer special relaxation and back classes at its Güntersthal there are fewer accidents in an orderly working environment. site. A room was set up for this purpose in 2013. A number of our U.S. companies have now adopted this Psychological problems can also make employees ill. approach, which is also applied in the framework of ALTANA X They can detract from their performance at work or lead to (see page 12). physical illnesses, which can result in lost work time. For Occupational safety also means being prepared for this reason, BYK -Chemie introduced a psychological counselemergencies. Crisis exercises serve these purposes. ECKART ing service at its Wesel site in cooperation with the healthdoes not only train its own site fire department on a regucare provider pro homine. It was the first ALTANA company to lar basis. It has 86 voluntary members, divided into five groups, take this step. Each employee is entitled to up to five hours of which 36 were trained as respiratory equipment carriers of counseling a year, regardless of whether their psychologiand 30 as carriers of chemical protection suits. They work in cal problems result from private or professional issues. A various departments and are always ready to respond if total of 44 employees took advantage of the counseling offer the alarm sounds. Additionally, the company holds regular in 2012, and 42 in 2013. Most of them sought advice due so-called fire protection days at its Güntersthal site, where to private problems. 1,300 people work in 195 buildings. Internal experts teach the employees how to use hand-held fire extinguishers. The employees should be able to extinguish an emerging fire. Prevention Through Sports and Fitness Preventive measures to protect employees’ health are playing an ever-greater role in our companies’ occupational health management. The goal of these activities is to reduce lost work time due to illness. Many of our companies help their employees lead healthy lives by offering them sports and fitness options financed fully or partially by the companies. The BYK division, for example, has provided a comprehensive sports and health offer at its Wesel site over the years, and ELANTAS in China has recently also started offering its employees health promoting activities. At the Zhuhai site, staff members have been able to take advantage of a free soccer, badminton, and swimming offer since 2013. Some of the activities take place on the factory grounds, and some externally. In the future, ECKART 34 Environment Energy-efficient management is a key component of ALTANA ’s corporate strategy. Our goal is to steadily reduce the energy consumption at all sites and in all areas. We also implement this objective in other environmentally relevant areas, for example water consumption. 36 We Are Discoverers + Resource Protectors 40 ALTANA Reaches Its Environmental Targets Worldwide 41 Less Waste, Lower Water Consumption 41 Fine Paid in the U.S. 42 Plant Construction Helps the Environment 42 Biodiversity Measures 42 Further Reduction of Environmental Effects 43 Minimizing Dust Emissions 43 Progress in Water Treatment 43 Further Reduction of VOC Emissions 43 Improved Logistics We Are Discoverers Resource Protectors We are ALTANA Those who view crises as opportunities can overcome them. And that is exactly what ECKART America did. In 2009, when the financial crisis was wreaking havoc on the global economy, the company launched a comprehensive austerity program. The objective was to reduce expenditure for energy and at the same time cut CO ² emissions. Four years later, the engineers in charge had far surpassed their targets, curtailing carbon-dioxide emissions by 15 percent. Gregory Super, Engineering, ECKART America 38 We are ALTANA In terms of gross value added, ALTANA seeks to reduce, by 2020, CO ² emissions by 30 percent compared to 2007. To achieve this objective, the company employs specialists at all of its sites who discover savings potential and thus conserve resources. We Are Discoverers + Resource Protectors Efficient Technology Reduces Energy While more efficient technology requires ductions to 7 percent. With these results, Consumption investments, thanks to the savings, he ECKART America far exceeded the targets From an entrepreneurial point of view, cutcalculated, these costs would be amortized it had set itself. ting costs always makes sense. For Gregory in just a few years. And that is exactly Super, Head of Engineering of ECKART what has happened. What exactly does more efficient technolAmerica Corporation, it was clear from the ogy mean? “We thoroughly analyzed our very outset that such an austerity proAt its site in Painesville, Ohio, the comproduction equipment and our overall gram was perfectly in line with ALTANA ’s pany invested around 400,000 U.S. dollars energy consumption,” says Super. “Subseenvironmental goals. His recipe for sucin environmentally friendly technology. quently, we introduced a wide range of cess was to implement more efficient techAs a result, it will save more than 120,000 measures.” Among other things, the comnology because it uses less energy. By U.S. dollars a year in energy costs and pany invested in better ventilation, light, 2012, CO ² emissions were to be reduced reduce CO ² emissions by 15 percent. At and control systems for individual buildby 5 percent annually compared to the site in Louisville, Kentucky, investings, renewed motors and fans, and up2007; by 2020 they were to be reduced by ments totaled 270,000 U.S. dollars. Angraded pumps. Some measures will bring as much as 20 percent. nual savings amounted to more than costs savings of a few hundred U.S. 200,000 U.S. dollars and annual CO ² redollars, while others will save more than We are ALTANA 39 40,000 U.S. dollars, with positive effects “In the future, we will have the systems 2020, he seeks to reduce CO ² emissions on the environment to boot. maintained on a regular basis,” says not by 20 percent, but by 25 percent, visSuper. And it is well worth it. Sealing air à-vis 2007. Tiny Leaks in Compressed Air Systems compressor systems has reduced the Repaired energy consumption at the two sites by a The strongest benefits were provided by total of 700,000 kWh a year, meaning repairs to compressed air systems used 400,000 kg lower CO ² emissions comat both sites to distribute pulverized metals pared to 2007. for further processing. “We suspected there were tiny leaks in the systems which This is a resounding success and simultasquandered energy,” explains Super. neously provided motivation for new “But to prove this, a specialist had to be measures. In 2014, Super intends to imcalled in.” The expert inspected the sysprove the energy efficiency of the atomtems with an ultrasound device, found that izer in Painesville, and in 2015 to install a leaks indeed existed, and repaired them. new melting furnace in Louisville. In addition, he has set himself a new target: By 40 Sustainability Report 2013 ALTANA Reaches Its Environmental Targets ALTANA: CO from electricity consumption (Scope 2) ² Worldwide in g / € Energy-efficient management is a key component of ALTANA ’s 2013 0.150 corporate strategy. Rising energy prices pose a risk to 2012 0.153 ALTANA in the face of climate change. We are continually 2009 0.170 2007 0.203 working on reducing the energy consumption at all of our sites and in all areas. This not only concerns production, but also laboratory and administrative activities. Since 2007, we have measured our energy consumption based on the Our goal is to reduce our CO ² emissions by 30 percent by guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a standard 2020 compared to 2007. The corresponding target is 0.21. that defines how companies should determine their climateWe have specified detailed sub-targets for each year. The relevant emissions. target for 2013 was 0.24. With a value of 0.23, we even exWe differentiate between CO ² emissions from direct and ceeded this goal, as the graphic shows. indirect energy consumption (oil and gas, Scope 1; and purchased electricity, Scope 2). In determining CO ² emissions, we work with data from the respective national electricity netALTANA: Total CO ² work and not from the respective supplier. We take the values for national grids from publications of the Internationin kg / € Target for 2013: 0.24 al Energy Agency. We set these data in relation to the gross 2013 0.23 value added and derive a key performance indicator from 2012 0.24 this. 2009 0.26 2007 0.30 Target for 2020: 0.21 ALTANA: CO from oil and gas consumption (Scope 1) ² in g / € The change ECKART made at its Güntersthal site in 2013 2013 0.080 has played a key role in reducing CO ² emissions. Since then, 2012 0.087 we have used gas as a source of energy instead of oil. We 2009 0.086 laid a gas pipeline in the plant that supplies 18 boilers (and 2007 0.095 will supply 21 in the future). This cuts the CO ² emissions at the site by 16 percent, or 959 metric tons, vis-à-vis oil-based emissions. The optimization of a machine park can also lead to a better energy yield and thus to improved energy efficiency. This is shown by examples from the U.S. and China. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 41 At its Tongling site, ELANTAS installed a new oven that uses ALTANA: Groundwater consumption less gas than its predecessor. ECKART can now produce pigments more efficiently in Zhuhai thanks to new filter techin g / € nology. The motors for the nine new sieves require less energy 2013 1.16 than the old ones. Each year, around 110,000 kWh can 2012 1.07 be saved. In addition, the new plants are quieter, improving 2009 1.07 2007 0.87 health protection. In the U.S. , ACTEGA Kelstar is now using new, energysaving electric motors. They replace the ecologically inefALTANA: Hazardous waste ficient compressed air motors that have been used traditionally to ensure explosion protection in chemical plants. in g / € Target for 2013: 31.38 2013 29.19 2012 31.75 Less Waste, Lower Water Consumption 2009 34.05 2007 37.33 The positive development regarding energy consumption Target for 2017: 29.89 is also reflected in other environmentally relevant areas, as our key performance indicators for waste and water consumption show. All of the results are significantly lower than ALTANA: Non-hazardous waste the targets in 2013. Thus, we see ALTANA as being on the right track to achieving the water and waste targets it set for in g / € Target for 2013: 12.05 2017. 2013 9.92 In 2013, ALTANA manufactured 418,000 tons of fin2012 12.23 2009 13.54 ished goods. To this end, approximately 390,000 tons of fos2007 18.09 sil, mineral, and metallic raw materials were used. In addiTarget for 2017: 11.33 tion, water was used as a raw material. ALTANA : Drinking water consumption Fine Paid in the U.S. in g / € Target for 2013: 1.04 2013 0.89 This positive development was marred slightly by a fine of 2012 1.06 330,000 U.S. dollars that ECKART America had to pay in 2009 1.59 the U.S. in 2013. The background was incorrect reporting to 2007 1.53 the environmental authorities responsible in the U.S. state Target for 2017: 0.9796 42 Sustainability Report 2013 of Kentucky. In the meantime, ECKART America is reporting Biodiversity Measures in accordance with licensing requirements. Generally, ALTANA sites have been located in industrial or commercial areas and therefore have not had any effect Plant Construction Helps the Environment on nature conservation or landscape protection in the respective region. With the acquisition of the rheology business of When we build new manufacturing facilities, our primary Rockwood, ALTANA took over clay pits in the U.S. and Spain. objective is to increase capacities. At the same time, we can As a result, it has an obligation to restore the land to its normally improve the companies’ safety and environmennatural state when the strip mining comes to an end. The nectal records. The two investment projects that ALTANA impleessary budgets have already been earmarked. mented in the U.S. and China in 2013 are the best proof The seven clay pits in the U.S. used to primarily serve of the ecological progress that can be made when state-ofagricultural purposes. Consequently, the mining has no effect the-art technology is coupled with experiences from existon nature protection. If ALTANA is the owner of the pits, ing manufacturing. the biodiversity of the area will be greater after renaturing ELANTAS ’s new manufacturing plant in Tongling, China, than before the mining operations began. If the grounds is more energy efficient because it uses thermal oil rather are leased, the land will be renatured based on the guidelines than steam and, moreover, utilizes waste heat from waste of the leaser. incineration. Raw materials and finished products are stored The Spanish clay pit is located in the Andalusian nature in tanks and transported in closed systems. This cuts VOC park Cabo de Gata. The park was established in 1988 – emissions. In addition, less effort is needed for cleaning and, several decades after strip mining began there. Due to the as a result, less waste accumulates than with the precedvery hot and dry climate, unique, desert-like vegetation ing plant, as in the new facility more tanks are assigned to has developed in the region, giving the nature park the status certain products or product groups. of a biosphere reserve. The improvements made at the BYK manufacturing The pit is around 700 meters long and up to 80 meters facility in Wallingford relate to environmental and safety asdeep. As the clay is excavated, chemicals are not needed. pects, such as explosion protection and leakage sensors. The strip mining activities will be finished at the end of 2014. Among the most important measures implemented was the Subsequently, the land will serve as a stockpile for another installation of 18 new raw material tanks, two tanks for five to seven years. Then the renaturation process can begin. rainwater, and special catch tanks for released chemicals. A ventilation system and an automated fire extinguishing system round out the environmental profile of the new plant. Further Reduction of Environmental Effects The expansion of a plant can also help reduce its environmental effects. At its Ascoli site, ELANTAS Italia acquired Aside from using energy sources as efficiently as possible, we property bordering directly on the existing grounds. On make sure that in other areas, too, the effects of our operathe new property, new laboratory capacities and additional tions on the environment are steadily reduced. Our comparaw material storage facilities, including tanks for liquid nies implement individualized measures, depending on the raw materials, are being set up. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 43 conditions of the site. Below we discuss the most important duction. The facility replaces four smaller ones that did not actions taken last year. meet the more stringent legal requirements. With the new unit, the company reduced its VOC emissions by four fifths. In a first step, the steam is cooled down until it condenses Minimizing Dust Emissions into water. In a second step, the mineral traces from the airstream condense. When copper is processed, copper dust arises. At ECKART At its Collecchio site, ELANTAS Italia consumes less America’s Painesville site, it can be washed by rainwater acetone, which is used as a cleaning agent, thanks to a new into the nearby Grand River and pollute the waterway. To production boiler cleaning facility. This also reduces VOC improve the situation, the company set up new mills and a emissions. The new facility cleans the boilers with brushes sequence of closed systems in 2013. As a result, copper-dust under high pressure. Also, not as much manual cleaning emissions were reduced by 70 percent compared to the work is needed, and so the employees are subjected to less previous year. The goal is to cut them to one pound a year in solvent vapors. the long run. In view of these positive experiences, ECKART ACTEGA Kelstar also reduced its VOC emissions, thanks engineers at the Louisville site are working on decreasing the to three new tanks. Raw materials are now transported zinc-dust emissions there, too. through pipelines from the tanks directly to production. In conjunction with the steel catchment basins that completely encircle the manufacturing and storage facilities, the Progress in Water Treatment new facility improves the safety of the plant. If chemicals were to leak out, they would not reach the ground and could At its Pimpri site, ELANTAS Beck India operates a wastewater be collected. The third advantage of the tanks: They retreatment facility that is akin to an in-house sewage treatduce the amount of waste. ment plant. The water is treated aerobically with the help of Raw materials categorized as ozone-depleting substancmicroorganisms. In 2013, osmosis treatment was added. es are not processed at ALTANA . Now the quality of the treated water is so good that it can be reused, saving fresh water at the site. At its Painesville site, ECKART America began operatImproved Logistics ing a new wastewater treatment plant. The facility ensures that waste particles flake together in the water and can Well-planned logistics also have a positive influence on a subsequently be filtered out. As a consequence, the site has company’s effects on the environment. By transferring its less waste to dispose of. additives manufacture for the North American market increasingly to the U.S. , BYK is reducing its logistics outlay. This primarily concerns the waxes of BYK -Cera. Some of them Further Reduction of VOC Emissions have been manufactured at the U.S. site in Chester since 2013. At the Louisville site, a new central facility reduces 80 percent Daily transports and deliveries can pose a burden to of the emissions from white spirit, used as a solvent in proneighbors. At its Wesel site, BYK has therefore used a new 44 Sustainability Report 2013 ALTANA distribution channels for finished products Water Road Air Rail in t 2013 106,618 308,907 1,583 2,224 2012 101,439 304,218 3,693 1,724 2009 70,387 208,170 2,125 3,627 2007 83,742 291,193 9,687 2,723 road for transports and deliveries of its own products. The road was built by the town of Wesel specifically for heavy trucks. For this purpose, BYK had to rebuild the access road to the factory grounds. In Quattordio, Italy, a new access road at ELANTAS Italia is also improving procedures and, in particular, safety in the event of a fire. Among other things, it serves as a waiting area for trucks that transport contaminated water from the site. Human Resources Our employees are our most important resource. Therefore, ALTANA promotes their professional development, prepares them for positions of leadership, and enables its staff to participate in the company’s success to motivate them to stay with the company on a long-term basis. We put particular emphasis on recruitment of young talent, specialists, and managers. 46 We Are Future Shapers + Value Upholders 50 Employees: Our Most Important Capital 50 Diverse Recruitment of Young Talent 50 Encouraging Young Talent in a Targeted Manner 50 Campaign to Make Specialty Chemistry More Tangible 51 Exemplary Recruiting 51 Awards 51 Career Development: Identifying Potential 52 Strengthening Diversity We Are Future Shapers Value Upholders We are ALTANA How can sustainable, future-oriented action pay off for decision makers in companies? People around the world have dealt with this question since the financial crisis in 2008 at the latest. In 2013, ALTANA developed a tailor-made response to this question with a new system of variable compensation for its top management. If the ALTANA value added (AVA) indicator rises, so does the long-term bonus for decision makers. Martin Babilas, Chief Financial Officer, ALTANA, Jörg Bauer, Human Resources, ALTANA, Vera Schieferecke, Corporate Affairs HR, ALTANA 48 We are ALTANA ALTANA is oriented to sustainable value growth, not to short-term profit maximization. That’s why we invest in our employees and in a cor­ porate culture that preserves and creates values. We Are Future Shapers + Value Upholders Thinking in Long Time Periods rewards the success of our top manageto look beyond their own division and The compensation for decision makers at ment’s strategic thinking and action for consistently take account of the overall sucALTANA is composed of fixed and varithe entire group over a period of six years,” cess of the group in all decisions. able components, as is usual in the chemexplains Martin Babilas, Chief Financial ical industry. The bonus payments used Officer at ALTANA . How does one develop a calculation basis to be geared only to the financial indicators that considers long-term effects groupof the division in which the executive Group-Wide Value Indicator wide? “The benchmark is the internal value works. The basis were the earnings before The long-term bonus system permits around creation indicator, the so-called ALTANA interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti110 managers worldwide to participate Value Added, or AVA for short,” answers zation (EBITDA) and the return on capital in the value development of the ALTANA Vera Schieferecke, Head of Corporate employed (ROCE) in the previous fiscal Group. The key difference to the bonus Affairs HR . This indicator is determined by year. system so far: “With the LTB , the developsubtracting the cost of capital employed ment of the Group as a whole plays a in the Group from the operating earnings. That changed in 2013. “With the new central role,” says Jörg Bauer, Vice PresiLong-Term Bonus (LTB) scheme, we have dent Human Resources at ALTANA . Thus, The calculation of the long-term bonus is created an instrument that evaluates and the long-term bonus motivates executives based on the average development of the We are ALTANA 49 AVA in the three previous fiscal years, AVA increases by less than ten percent, the the so-called performance period. This AVA bonus is reduced proportionally. But if development is compared with the averthe AVA performance is above the target, age AVA in the three years before the perthe bonus increases. For 2013, incidenformance period. tally, the AVA was above the challenging target, and the top managers involved “Our goal is to increase the average AVA received an above-average bonus payment. by ten percent vis-à-vis the comparison period,” explains Babilas. “It is based on the expectations we have defined for the return on capital employed.” AVA Performance Determines Bonus For the compensation system that means: If the AVA reaches the target, the longterm bonus is paid out completely. If the 50 Sustainability Report 2013 Employees: Our Most Important Capital Encouraging Young Talent in a Targeted Manner In 2013, more than 5,700 women and men worked for Since 2009, ALTANA has participated in the Germany ScholALTANA companies. With their higher than average qualificaarship financed by the German Federal Government and tions and their commitment, they are the most important partners from industry. Scholarship holders not only have to capital for us as a technology company. Many of them have perform well, but are also expected to be willing to take been with the respective company for many years. The responsibility. The students receive a monthly stipend of extremely low fluctuation rate demonstrates our employees’ 150 euros from the companies for at least two semesters. attachment to ALTANA . The scholarship is paid regardless of level of income. The corporate culture in our companies is characterized In this framework, ALTANA supports ten Bachelor’s and by ALTANA ’s Guiding Principles, in which openness and Master’s students at the Hochschule Niederrhein University honesty, respect and tolerance, play a key role. We assume of Applied Sciences, located in the Lower Rhine region, and responsibility for our staff by offering them further educathree students at the Technical University Munich (TUM) . In tion and training possibilities and promote and support their addition to financial support, ALTANA offers scholarship holdprofessional development in a targeted way. Moreover, the ers the opportunity to do internships or to write their final preventive health promotion measures discussed in the “Safepapers at one of our companies. An accompanying program ty” chapter reflect our understanding of employer responwith excursions to group sites rounds off the scholarship sibility. program. Diverse Recruitment of Young Talent Campaign to Make Specialty Chemistry More Tangible Beginning with our choice of employees, we make a concerted effort to hire people whose knowledge and abilities, as We view university marketing as an important means of well as technical and social skills, fit our group. Our human recruiting young talent. Therefore, we launched a new career resource management makes use of various recruitment campaign in Germany in 2013. It is geared to students and instruments, including regional education fairs at which our graduates with degrees in chemistry and industrial chemistry, companies introduce themselves and their apprenticed proas well as paint, plastics, and chemical engineering. The ads fessions. In 2013, BYK and ECKART took part in such events. were put in selected print media for a period of eight months University fairs are suitable forums for informing stu(daily and weekly newspapers, specialist journals, and unidents about the opportunities ALTANA offers. In 2013, we versity magazines). Online marketing and social media activivisited a total of 14 university fairs, some of them regional, ties completed our advertising campaign. including the Akademika in Nuremberg and the job fair of the The objective of the campaign was to enable people to Association of German Chemists (GDCh). These events are get more insight into ALTANA as a specialty chemicals comregularly attended by so-called university ambassadors who pany. Based on appealing picture motifs, it shows the contriwork in various fields in our group of companies. Their task butions our companies’ products make to people’s everyis to convey a personal image of ALTANA . day life. In the online communication, the ads were linked to Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 51 the ALTANA job portal and additionally offered people the The “Initiative for Career-promoting & Fair Trainee Programs” opportunity to submit unsolicited applications. Thus, intergave an award to our Cross-Divisional Development Proested people could contact us easily. gram Innovation (CDDPI) . The initiative was launched by the Absolventa GmbH job fair. The scientific partner is the Institute for Human Resources Management of the Ludwig Exemplary Recruiting Maximilian University of Munich. Ten companies from the private sector were also partners. The award is based on the An independent study conducted by Koblenz University of “Charter of Career-promoting and Fair Trainee Programs”, Applied Sciences for Human Resources and Education in which ALTANA also signed. The charter defines standards recooperation with the Vienna-based communications agency garding the character, structure, and remuneration of the GPK shows how good our recruiting is. ALTANA finished in trainee program. first place in the rating of chemical companies and was rated The initiative examined our program CDDPI , with which as one of the top ten employers in Germany. We are parwe purposefully promote cooperation across our divisions. ticularly proud of this award, as the tests and analyses for the Over a period of two years, the participants in the program study were carried out anonymously and without our prior complete a strategic project in each division and take part knowledge. In their summary, the authors of the Career’s Best in a cross-divisional project. Recruiters study extolled the swift and efficient application process at ALTANA as well as the company’s appreciative, fair, and open dealings with applicants. Distinction for Our Job Portal For the study, the scientists not only examine the company’s online job ads and online presence, including its career Our job portal Career@ALTANA offers comprehensive informapages and activities in the social web. They also test the tion on employment and career possibilities in our group. In employers’ online recruiting: How do they react to unsolicited the job portal, we provide a list of available positions worldapplications and what is the personal contact with the apwide and offer interested people the opportunity to apply plicants like? The test applicants are expressly asked to prodirectly online. In addition, people can set up a user account vide feedback with their impressions of the contact with and subscribe to receive our “jobletter,” providing the latthe employer. est information on job postings. In a study on the “Top Career Websites” conducted by the market research institute Potentialpark in 2013, our job portal finished in 29th place Award for Our Trainee Program CDDPI among 142 companies. The institute had surveyed 2,000 students in Germany. The second pillar of our activities to promote young talent are our trainee programs for university graduates, which we gear to the individual qualifications and needs of the young Identifying Potential people. In this area, too, independent third parties were convinced of the quality of the measures we adopted in 2013. Our human resources department has developed a number of instruments for analyzing the expertise and leadership 52 Sustainability Report 2013 potential of our employees with an eye to their career develtry. We are working on obtaining data that we can use as opment. As a supplement to the annual progress dialogs, we the basis for a key performance indicator to which our meahave offered a “Talent Evaluation Process” (TEP) in Gersures will be oriented in the future. many since 2010. It is a prerequisite for participation in our The situation in Germany inspired us to launch the comprehensive human resource development programs. initiative LEADING WOMEN @ALTANA , which was instigated TEP helps employees who want to make career changes by staff members. The aim of the initiative is to promote objectively assess their abilities. It is based on a structured ALTANA ’s objective of transferring more management posievaluation that the employee’s superior makes together with tions to women. For we are convinced that mixed teams other managers. Around 60 staff members have taken part promote diversity, which we need to continue to be successin the process thus far, receiving important impetus for their ful in our highly specialized industry. further professional development. With concrete measures, LEADING WOMEN @ALTANA The leadership examination, which we initially introduced will contribute to creating an awareness of the added value only in Germany, serves to prepare employees for manageof diversity. The initiative started with a kick-off event in June ment positions. In the years to come, we will also launch it in 2013 at our Wesel site, attended by more than 70 particiour companies in the U.S. and China. In a one-day, strucpants. This was followed in the fall by a seminar devoted to tured procedure, candidates are examined individually to see gender-specific communication, which was also held in the where their capabilities lie and how suitable they are for Rhineland. It will be repeated in southern Germany in 2014. the future position. A women’s mentoring network is also planned. Independent of these activities, several ALTANA companies, including BYK -Chemie, ELANTAS Beck, ACTEGA Strengthening Diversity Colorchemie, and ACTEGA DS , take part as partners in the Germany-wide Girls’ Day, and did so in 2013. The event In 2013, women occupied just below 20 percent of the aims to inform female pupils about technical professions and management positions at ALTANA in Germany. This is signifiarouse their interest in technology by enabling them to cantly lower than the share of female employees in Gertake part in experiments and explaining technical devices. many on the whole, which amounted to 29 percent. A more detailed analysis reveals the following picture: Eight percent of the managerial staff and 22 percent of the staff who are exempt from wage agreements were female. 20.1 percent of the disciplinary management positions were held by women. There are no women in ALTANA ’s Management Board. However, 25 percent of the members of the Supervisory Board are female. We cannot currently make any statements about the gender balance in our other companies because no data have been compiled thus far. The reason is that the definition of what a management position is differs from country to counSocial Commitment As a good corporate citizen, ALTANA supports and sponsors social projects focusing on education, science, and research. To strengthen our local environments and to be a good neighbor, we especially promote initiatives near our sites in Germany and abroad. 54 WE ARE RESEARCHERS + TALENT SCOUTS 58 Our Commitment as a Good Corporate Citizen 58 Promoting Young Talent: From Preschool to University 58 Increase in the Company’s Value Heightens Commitment 58 Support for Private Educational Initiatives 59 Volunteer Commitment 60 Natural Disaster Relief We Are Researchers Talent Scouts We are ALTANA Corporate responsibility does not end at the factory gate. As a good corporate citizen, we maintain dialog with all social groups and sponsor educational initiatives, including the House of Junior Researchers project. Successful event series like the latter in preschools and elementary schools are only possible thanks to the personal commitment of our staff. With imagination, patience, and passion, ALTANA employees get children interested in nature and technology. Alfred Dallarosa, Coatings Additives Training and Education, BYK 56 We are ALTANA Education and training are the main focus of our social activities. Not only do our employees offer their services, but we also sponsor schools and universities to help spawn future researchers. We Are Researchers + Talent Scouts With Imagination and Inquiring the room to illustrate the principle of re“Our projects don’t focus on imparting Minds coil. knowledge or facts, on right or wrong,” Children ask a lot of questions because they says Dallarosa, discussing the educahave a thirst for knowledge. How can What began as the project of an inditional approach. “It’s much more imporit be slaked? “By taking up the questions vidual excited others in the company and tant to open children’s eyes to everyday and helping the children find an answer became established as a volunteer prophenomena and to spark their interest in themselves,” says Alfred Dallarosa, Head gram. There are now ten “school ambasresearch. In their normal school classes, of Coatings Additives Training and Educasadors” at BYK . They spend up to 40 they learn how scientists and engineers tion at BYK . Since 2006, the trained chemhours a year in preschools and elementary work.” ical engineer has spent half a day each schools giving girls and boys initial inmonth at the German Red Cross preschool sight into the natural sciences. The House The children formulate their own hyAbenteuerland, where he conducts exof Junior Researchers foundation coorpotheses and check them in experiments, periments together with threeto six-yeardinates their activities. The foundation supdeveloping new hypotheses if the first olds. They try to find out why pieces of ports science education at preschools ones were wrong. The ambassadors have wood float on water and don’t sink. They and grade schools throughout Germany. to react creatively to the conjectures of prick balloons so that they hiss through the young scientists. “Children understand We are ALTANA 57 much more than we adults suppose,” Additionally, BYK supports special scisays Dallarosa. “They often surprise us with ence projects or project weeks at secondastute insights into scientific phenomary schools. The company even received ena.” an award for this in the 2012 / 2013 school year. In the “Mein Engagement macht Award for Commitment Schule” competition, initiated by the GerThe seeds that Dallarosa and his coworkers man-wide “Arbeitsgemeinschaft Schulesew in childhood education are cultivatWirtschaft,” BYK finished in third place. ed further by BYK . At its headquarters in Wesel, the company maintains contacts with a number of secondary schools. For example, it offers around 30 young people the opportunity to get an impression of work in a chemical company in a twoweek practical training program for students. 58 Sustainability Report 2013 Our Commitment as a Good Corporate Citizen Increase in the Company’s Value Heightens Commitment Our commitment as a good corporate citizen is part of our entrepreneurial self-image. We focus on promoting educaWe purposefully promote entrepreneurial thinking in section, science, and research. Our goal is to spark a lasting ondary schools. In 2013, we profitably linked the internal furinterest in young people around the globe for mathematics, ther education of our staff with our social commitment. the natural sciences, and technology. In the name of good In the worldwide training programs to introduce our corneighborliness, we give preference to projects near our sites. porate key performance indicator AVA (ALTANA Value AddWe have supported a number of initiatives for several years ed), employees in selected management capacities were givnow. en the task of simulating in a virtual business game three business years in a fictive company to find out how the AVA can be increased based on concrete measures. The execuFrom Preschool to University tive management agreed to contribute ten euros to a nonprofit campaign for each AVA unit achieved in training. A People who want to become scientists need to get an early total of 18,500 euros was generated, and the Management start. With this in mind, our activities begin in kindergarten Board increased it to 20,000 euros. and elementary school. In 2013, for example, we gave elSome of the money was donated to the Germanyementary school students in the Wesel district, home to the wide competition “Jugend gründet” (Youth Startups). The worldwide headquarters of our group of companies, the online virtual business game, initiated by the German Fedopportunity to win one of eight chemistry sets worth 1,000 eral Ministry of Education and Research, is geared to students euros each for their school. The sets contain ample mateand trainees. Awards are given to the best ideas and busirial that children can use for experiments. ness plans for innovative company startups. The participants In advance, we had asked the students via local press have the opportunity to simulate their business idea in virto make a creative contribution to a competition called “Chemtual fashion – similar to what the ALTANA employees did in istry in Everyday Life.” The children and their teachers were the AVA training. We also support real company foundfree to decide on the kind of project. We were impressed by ings, for example, by participating in high-tech startup funds. the results. There was a tremendous response and the students’ creativity was outstanding. This shows the keen interest children have in chemistry. They sent us posters they Support for Private Educational Initiatives painted themselves, poems, videos of dances, and their own rap songs. Due to the high quality of the submissions, we Other educational initiatives sponsored by ALTANA include increased the number of chemistry sets from eight to fourthe Watoto Wema Center in Kenya, the Howard Park Center teen. The best projects from the competition can be found in Ellisville, Missouri, the Kreaktiv community foundation at www.altana.de / chemiebaukaesten. in Wesel, the Passo Fundo association, and the children’s aid association Kinderhilfe Nepal. The Watoto Wema Center, which supports an eponymous orphanage in Nairobi, used some of the profits genManagement Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 59 erated in the AVA training program to build two new brick The Volunteer Day is part of the ALTANA Development Proclassrooms and an office for the school social worker. gram Germany, or DP for short, in which especially talented The Howard Park Center provides educational and therstaff from all of our German companies is prepared for apy services for children with developmental delays, includfuture management tasks. In September 2013, 16 DP particing autism. Our employee Tom Murray from ELANTAS PDG ipants worked in Peace Village Oberhausen, where they works there on a volunteer basis. We have offered the cenwinterized the green areas of the facility. In addition, some of ter financial support for several years. In 2013, ALTANA donatthe participants prepared 500 aid packages for transport to ed 14,500 U.S. dollars to promote the children’s education. Armenia. Peace Village Oberhausen is a private initiative that The Kreaktiv community foundation promotes creative has existed for decades. It provides therapy and care to activities for children in the Rhine-Lippe region. In 2013, injured children from war and crisis areas who cannot receive ALTANA provided rooms and catering for the foundation’s adequate treatment in their home country. “Light Tower” event for the third time, donating a total of Volunteer work also promotes teambuilding. For instance, 6,000 euros in kind. the participants in the management meeting of ECKART Passo Fundo e.V. is a German nonprofit organization America have traditionally selected an appropriate task for based in Münster. It aims to enhance social justice in Brazil by their annual meeting. In 2013, the managers faced the promoting talented young people. In the Latin American challenge of cooking 40 portions of lasagna in eight teams country, only a minority of people has access to higher eduwithin a period of four hours, including the choice of recication. To improve the situation, the organization regularly pe. After four hours, there was only one team left, but there gives university grants on the condition that the recipients get were 85 portions of lasagna. They were brought to the involved in social projects in their country. ALTANA has supRonald McDonald House in Columbus, Ohio, where families ported the organization for several years. In 2013, we doof severely ill children live while their kids are being treated. nated 7,500 euros, enabling four scholarships to be given. The Charitable Giving Committee of BYK Gardner USA , Via Kinderhilfe Nepal e.V. Mainz, ALTANA supports the Columbia, Maryland, also called a Volunteer Day into being. Parizat Nestling Home, a home and educational center for The committee plans and coordinates all of the company’s children of parents imprisoned in Kathmandu. The associaCSR activities. The focus is on educational partnerships with tion received 6,000 euros to build a photovoltaic unit and local schools and help for the homeless. a thermal solar facility. During the 2013 Volunteer Day, employees cooked meals for homeless people cared for in the Route One Day Resource Center, just a ten-minute drive from the BYK Gardner Volunteer Commitment Promotes a Sense of site. While the center is run by the municipal administraResponsibility tion, it relies on private support. The employees also helped organize clothing and food donations. Within the frameLike the ALTANA Group as a whole, many employees and work of educational partnerships, BYK Gardner USA additionmanagers take social responsibility. They get personally inally takes part in regional information workshops devoted volved, for example, in so-called Volunteer Days, when they to scientific professions, organizes company tours, and supwork for a day for a nonprofit organization. ports students who are doing their own projects in this area. 60 Sustainability Report 2013 Natural Disaster Relief In exceptional cases, ALTANA ’s sponsoring and donation activities go beyond the focal points of education, science, and research. Following the flooding in southern and eastern Germany in 2013, ALTANA supported the “Deutschland hilft” campaign, contributing 30,000 euros. Personal donations made by employees accounted for half of the amount. The company doubled this sum. In addition, ALTANA provided emergency aid of 20,000 euros to the I.S.A.F. Germany foundation, which assisted people in the Philippines victimized by Typhoon Haiyan. Many of our companies also promote social organizations in their region in a targeted way. At both of ECKART ’s German sites, employees collect donations during the Christmas season, which are added to by the management. In 2013, the Güntersthal site donated 10,000 euros to “Café Vergissmeinnicht” in the Velden Network. People suffering from Alzheimer’s or dementia regularly meet up at the café, which is run by volunteers. The Wackersdorf site helped the Regensburg-based VKKK , an association for helping children suffering from cancer or physical handicaps. The association used the contribution of 10,000 euros to buy new furniture for the parents’ house of the Children’s Hospital Regensburg. 62 Highlights and Lowlights 64 Programs / Goals 66 Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) 62 Highlights and Lowlights Highlights and Lowlights Highlights – A LTANA increased its gross value added by 5.4 percent in 2013. It amounted to 663 million euros. – A LTANA increased its portfolio of environmentally friendly products and products for water-based coatings significantly in 2013. This was due to the acquisitions of the overprint varnishes business of Valspar, Henkel’s specialty coatings business, and the rheology business of Rockwood. – T he number of our suppliers that have committed themselves to the principles of the Global Compact initiative rose to 319. – In 2013, ALTANA exceeded its environmental targets. This relates to CO emissions, water consump­ ² tion, and amount of waste. – At its Güntersthal site, ECKART reduced its CO emissions by 959 tons. This was made possible by ² a switch from oil to gas as an energy source. –A  CTEGA WIT, ACTEGA Kelstar, ACTEGA Rhenacoat, and ECKART America in Louisville were all certified according to ISO 14001. As a result, a total of 29 ALTANA companies now possess this certification. – E CKART Zhuhai and ELANTAS Zhuhai were certified based on the national safety management system in China. – 2013 was ELANTAS Beck India’s tenth accident-free year in a row. – At its Schererville site, ECKART America has not recorded any lost work time in ten years, and ACTEGA Kelstar in two. – We reached important milestones in our efforts to develop alternatives to hazardous substances. These include benzophenone-free coatings and varnishes of ACTEGA Kelstar, the monomer-free coatings of ELANTAS Beck, the NMP -free coatings of ACTEGA Rhenania, and BYK ’s additives for chrome-free corrosion protection. –A  LTANA ’s personnel recruitment and the ALTANA trainee program CDDPI each received an award. Highlights and Lowlights 63 Lowlights – A LTANA did not reach the targets it set for itself for 2013 with regard to the Work Accident Indicator (WAI) . The timeframe has been extended to 2016. – Due to violations of environmental laws, ALTANA paid a fine equivalent to 238,000 euros in the U.S. Other fines amounting to 2,000 euros and 5,000 euros concerned products and services. – A LTANA recorded two compliance violations in 2013. – In 2013, ALTANA had to register six incidents. One employee suffered slight injuries. – Women are still underrepresented in management positions relative to the number of women employees. – A LTANA did not achieve the goal it set itself of defining a key performance indicator for sick leave. The timeframe is now 2014. 64 Programs / Goals Programs / Goals Core management tools for increasing performance include the measurement of performance indicators, the definition of goals, the development and implementation of action plans, and the review of goal attainment. The latter is part of the target evaluation that determines the variable income components of executive managers. The list below shows our goals for performance indicators and important measures. The individual ALTANA companies also have detailed action plans in the context of their respective management systems. Management Certification of additional non-certified companies in accordance with ISO 14001 or similar standards Ongoing Certification of BYK’s energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001 End of 2014 Certification of further companies in Germany in accordance with ISO 50001 End of 2015 Open House event at all German companies Sept. 2014 Safety summaries for the substances to be registered in 2013 to support the Global Product Strategy End of 2014 Continued communication of ALTANA requirements for cooperation with suppliers in the context of supplier visits and audits (Global Compact) Ongoing Implementation of further core indicators according to GRI: total number > 23 End of 2014 Products Expanded development of water-based coatings, especially at ACTEGA Ongoing Use of renewable raw materials (without quantification) Ongoing Additional lifecycle assessments (LCA) Ongoing Development of further additives and pigments for waterborne coatings Ongoing Development of further VOC-reduced and / or water-based coatings Ongoing Development of products for resource efficiency Ongoing Development of products for energy efficiency Ongoing Development of additional products with FoodSafe seal Ongoing Safety WAI 1 below 3 or WAI 2 below 2.1 occupational accidents per million working hours By 2016 WAI 3 below 50 lost work days per million working hours End of 2016 Reduction of significant incidents; no significant incidents in the long run Ongoing Safety improvement measures from best practice examples End of 2014 Guideline to improve occupational safety End of 2014 Programs / Goals 65 Environment Reduction of specific environmental impact (in terms of gross value added): CO emissions 30 % 2007 – 2020 ² CO emissions -9% 2012 – 2020 ² Drinking water -5% 2012 – 2017 Hazardous waste -5% 2012 – 2017 Non-hazardous waste -5% 2012 – 2017 Hazardous waste for disposal -5% 2012 – 2017 Non-hazardous waste for disposal -5% 2012 – 2017 Various measures to conserve water Ongoing Various measures to reduce waste Ongoing Various measures for energy efficiency and using renewable energies Ongoing Replacement of combined heat and power plant at ELANTAS Italia in Ascoli End of 2014 Result of the finished-product logistics project in Germany End of 2014 Reduction of zinc-dust emissions at ECKART America in Louisville End of 2015 Reduction of copper-dust emissions at ECKART America in Painesville End of 2015 Human Resources Increase in percentage of women managers Ongoing Sickness absence recording for preventive health care End of 2014 Additional measures to further establish new Guiding Principles Ongoing Compliance seminars in Italy End of 2014 Audits on compliance-relevant topics around the world Ongoing 66 Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) By participating in the U.N. initiative Global Compact, we commit to respecting human rights, creating socially compatible working conditions, promoting environmental protection, and fighting corruption. Principle Page Measure taken Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and 28 – 31, 33 Health management, respect the protection of internationally occupational safety proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit 14 Search for suppliers, supplier agreements, in human rights abuses audits, Global Compact on the Internet Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 14 Supplier agreements association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 11 Compliance management system compulsory labor Principle 5 The abolition of child labor 11, 58 – 59 Compliance management system, support of education initiatives Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect 11 – 12 Fair treatment, compliance manageof employment and occupation ment system, training, investigations, surveys, diversity Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 10 – 11, Energy and environmental approach to environmental challenges 64 – 65 management system, goals Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater 36 – 43, Process optimizations, technical environmental responsibility 64 – 65 updates, programs and goals Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 7 – 9, 12 – 13, Management, product innovations, environmentally friendly technologies 17 – 24 use of renewable sources and water Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in 11 – 12 Training, audits all its forms, including extortion and bribery Overview of ALTANA locations Contact ALTANA Group Locations Andrea Neumann Head of Corporate Communications Tel + 49 281 670 10900 U.S. Fax + 49 281 670 10999 BYK Additives Inc., press@altana.com Gonzales, TX 100 % Dr. Andreas Diez BYK USA Inc., Wallingford, CT Health and Safety Vice President Environment, 100 % Tel + 49 281 670 10600 BYK-Gardner Fax + 49 281 670 10649USA , Columbia, MD Andreas.Diez@altana.com 100 % ECKART America Corp., Painesville, OH 100 % ELANTAS PDG Inc., St. Louis, MO 100 % ACTEGA Kelstar Inc., Cinnaminson, NJ 100 % Europe ACTEGA WIT Inc., Lincolnton, NC BYK Additives Ltd., ECKART UK Ltd., 100 % Widnes (GB) Ampthill, Bedfordshire (GB) 100 % 100 % BYK -Cera B.V. , ELANTAS Italia s.r.l., Central America Deventer (NL) Collecchio (I) BYK Chemie de México, 100 % 100 % Imprint S. de R.L. de C.V. , Cuautitlán Izcalli (MX) ECKART Benelux B.V. , ACTEGA Artística S.A.U. , 100 % Uden (NL) Vigo (E) Publisher Design 100 % 100 % ALTANA AG ECKART de México Industries, Heisters & Partner S. de R.L. de C.V. , ECKART France SAS , ACTEGA Colorchemie Abelstr. 43, 46483 Wesel Cuautitlán Izcalli (MX) Büro für Kommunikationsdesign, MainzSaint-Ouen Cedex (F) France Sarl, Henriville (F) 100 % 100 % 100 % Germany Tel + 49 281 670 8 Photography ECKART Italia Srl ACTEGA Colorchemie a Socio unico, Österreich GesmbH, Fax + 49 281 670 10999 South America Robert Brembeck, Munich Rivanazzano (I) Neuhofen a. d. Krems (A) info@altana.com ACTEGA Terra Chile Ltda., Nishant Shukla, Mumbai (pp. 26 – 29) 100 % 100 % Santiago de Chile (CL) www.altana.com100 % ECKART Pigments KY , ACTEGA Colorchemie Polska Printing Pori (FI) Sp. z o.o., Prochowice (PL) ELANTAS Isolantes Elétricos 100 % 100 % Cover coated with TerraWet Matt do Brasil Ltda., Cerquilho, Eberl Print GmbH, Immenstadt Coating G 9 / 84 Magic Estado Touch, de São Paulo inside (BR) ECKART Suisse SA , ACTEGA Rhenacoat SAS , 100 % Vétroz (CH) Sedan (F) pages coated with TerraGreen Matt Printed on Igepa Profisilk, FSC -certified 100 % 100 % Coating G 5 / 75 matt based on renewpaper, which was also used for ALTANA ’s able as of resources, both water-based December 31, 2013 Annual Report 2013. coatings made by ACTEGA Terra / formulated with additives from BYK . Overview of ALTANA locations ALTANA Group Locations U.S. BYK Additives Inc., Gonzales, TX 100 % BYK USA Inc., Wallingford, CT 100 % BYK Gardner USA , Columbia, MD 100 % ECKART America Corp., Painesville, OH 100 % ELANTAS PDG Inc., St. Louis, MO 100 % ACTEGA Kelstar Inc., Cinnaminson, NJ 100 % Europe ACTEGA WIT Inc., Lincolnton, NC BYK Additives Ltd., ECKART UK Ltd., 100 % Widnes (GB) Ampthill, Bedfordshire (GB) 100 % 100 % BYK -Cera B.V. , ELANTAS Italia s.r.l., Central America Deventer (NL) Collecchio (I) BYK Chemie de México, 100 % 100 % S. de R.L. de C.V. , Cuautitlán Izcalli (MX) ECKART Benelux B.V. , ACTEGA Artística S.A.U. , 100 % Uden (NL) Vigo (E) 100 % 100 % ECKART de México Industries, S. de R.L. de C.V. , ECKART France SAS , ACTEGA Colorchemie Cuautitlán Izcalli (MX) Saint-Ouen Cedex (F) France Sarl, Henriville (F) 100 % 100 % 100 % ECKART Italia Srl ACTEGA Colorchemie a Socio unico, Österreich GesmbH, South America Rivanazzano (I) Neuhofen a. d. Krems (A) ACTEGA Terra Chile Ltda., 100 % 100 % Santiago de Chile (CL) 100 % ECKART Pigments KY , ACTEGA Colorchemie Polska Pori (FI) Sp. z o.o., Prochowice (PL) ELANTAS Isolantes Elétricos 100 % 100 % do Brasil Ltda., Cerquilho, Estado de São Paulo (BR) ECKART Suisse SA , ACTEGA Rhenacoat SAS , 100 % Vétroz (CH) Sedan (F) 100 % 100 % as of December 31, 2013 Asia BYK Asia Pacific Pte Ltd., Singapore (SGP) 100 % BYK Japan KK , Tokyo (J) 100 % BYK Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai (CN) 100 % BYK (Tongling) Co., Ltd., Tongling (CN) 100 % ECKART Asia Ltd., Hong Kong (CN) 100 % ECKART Zhuhai Co., Ltd., Zhuhai (CN) 100 % Germany ELANTAS Beck India Ltd., ALTANA AG , Wesel BYK -Gardner GmbH, Pune (IND) Geretsried 78 % ALTANA Chemie GmbH, 100 % Wesel ELANTAS (Tongling) Co., Ltd., 100 % BYK Kometra GmbH, Tongling (CN) Schkopau 100 % BYK -Chemie GmbH, 100 % Wesel ELANTAS (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd., 100 % ELANTAS Beck GmbH, Zhuhai (CN) Hamburg 100 % ECKART GmbH, 100 % Hartenstein ACTEGA Foshan Co., Ltd., 100 % ACTEGA Colorchemie GmbH, Foshan (CN) Büdingen 100 % ELANTAS GmbH, 100 % Wesel 100 % ACTEGA DS GmbH, Bremen ACTEGA GmbH, 100 % Wesel 100 % ACTEGA Rhenania GmbH, Grevenbroich BYK Additives GmbH, 100 % Moosburg 100 % ACTEGA Terra GmbH, Lehrte 100 % Sales Production ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel, Germany Tel + 49 281 670 10900 Fax + 49 281 670 10999 www.altana.com
