MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH Through innovative research, CORPORATE groundbreaking partnerships and smarter processes, we are always working RESPONSIBILITY to advance our performance in four priority areas. AT MERCK ACCESS TO HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Corporate Responsibility at Merck We are committed to discovering is a commitment to discovering smart, sustainable ways to expand We are committed to discovering innovative solutions to the world’s global access to healthcare. environmentally sustainable ways to meet the world’s health needs, greatest health challenges now and in the future. while growing our business in a sustainable way. Responsibility is embedded in all that we ETHICS & TRANSPARENCY EMPLOYEES do. It informs our decisions and focuses the daily effort of thousands of Merck We are committed to discovering We are committed to discovering colleagues around the world as we strive better ways to build and strengthen more ways to create a workplace to make a difference. trusted relationships by where our employees and demonstrating the highest ethical business can thrive. It is demonstrated as we apply our standards and communicating scientific and operational expertise, with greater transparency. resources and diverse talents to addressing some of the world’s biggest health, social, environmental and economic challenges. And it allows us to deliver greater value to both shareholders and society. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 1 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Approach Integrated into our approach to corporate We have used several external guidelines responsibility is also a commitment and measurement frameworks to inform We are committed to improving to constructive engagement with the scope of our reporting. These include health and well-being around stakeholders. We recognize that issues the Global Reporting Initiative (G4), that matter to key stakeholders can very the Access to Medicine Index, the the world. From developing new quickly become material issues for our Millennium Development Goals, therapies that treat and prevent shareholders. So, we seek to balance and the 10 principles of the UN Global disease to helping people in need, our responsibilities in ways that support Compact. This report has been prepared we are guided by a rich legacy and our fiduciary duty to generate long-term in keeping with the GRI’s Sustainability inspired by a shared vision. shareholder value, while also considering Reporting Guidelines. the needs of other stakeholders. At Merck, our core values are driven by Learn more about our stakeholder We have also published an executive a desire to improve life, achieve scientific engagement process. summary that is available to view or excellence, operate with the highest download from www.merckcr.com. standards of integrity, expand access About This Report to our products and employ a diverse In this report, we define where we do workforce that values collaboration. As part of our commitment to not report metrics as follows: N/A = being transparent about our not available; N/D = no data; N/R = not Our corporate responsibility approach is reported. Data in this report relate to corporate responsibility initiatives, aligned with the company’s mission and worldwide operations for the calendar including our business activities year 2013, except where stated. We values and articulates how we see our responsibilities in the areas of access to and operations, we report on plan to publish our next comprehensive health, ethical and transparent business our performance annually on corporate responsibility report in 2015. practices, environmentally sustainable this website. operations, scientific advancement, There have been no significant changes employee wellness, and value creation for This report covers Merck’s corporate from previous reporting periods in our shareholders. responsibility activities and progress as of the scope, boundary or measurement December 31, 2013, with some additional methods applied in this report. In short, corporate responsibility at Merck information relating to 2014, and updates Acquisitions and divestitures are is a daily commitment and a simple the 2012 report published in July 2013. discussed in the company’s 2013 Merck promise that is embedded in our business Form 10–K. and informs all of our individual actions. We have sought to provide a comprehensive view of how Merck Since successfully managing social, works, and have focused on what is ethical and environmental issues involves most important. As much as possible, everyone at Merck, we have established we have guided readers to where they a companywide corporate responsibility can go for more information, including framework, as well as a list of key www.merck.com and our annual performance indicators to measure the financial reports. company’s performance and progress in our areas of strategic focus. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 2 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT By focusing our efforts in areas where Despite this challenging and fastunmet medical need and scientific changing global healthcare environment, opportunities intersect, Merck intends Merck remains deeply committed to our to remain one of the world’s leading mission. So we can continue to save research-intensive biopharmaceutical and improve lives far into the future, in companies. We continue to apply cuttingOctober 2013 we announced a strategic edge science to developing medicines initiative to sharpen our research and and vaccines that make a meaningful development and our commercial focus, difference to patients, healthcare redesign our operating model and further providers and payers. reduce our cost structure. Corporate responsibility is embedded As CEO, the decisions I most regret in all we do at Merck. It guides our having to make are those that affect behaviors and actions as we strive to the jobs of Merck people. While these address some of the world’s greatest decisions are painful, I believe they are KENNETH C. FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, health challenges while growing our absolutely essential to ensuring that PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER business in a sustainable way. Merck is here in the future, bringing lifesaving innovations to the patients who As my Merck colleagues and I travel desperately need them. around the world and meet with a wide MESSAGE FROM range of healthcare industry stakeholders, it is clear that three fundamental forces are now at play: During 2013, Merck delivered on our mission and continued our commitment to corporate responsibility in the THE CEO • First, there are significant advances following ways: that are illuminating the fundamental • Gained momentum in our pipeline, At Merck, corporate responsibility mechanism of disease. with the U.S. Food and Drug is at the heart of the company’s Administration granting breakthrough • Second, while there is much to therapy designation to two Merck mission to discover, develop and be hopeful about in terms of possible investigational drugs—one for the provide innovative products and new treatments, at the same time treatment of advanced malignant our industry is dealing with familiar services that save and improve melanoma and the other a combination and new challenges. As just a few lives around the world. Because examples, cancer, type 2 diabetes medicine for the treatment of chronic we feel tremendous responsibility and Alzheimer’s disease affect tens of hepatitis C. for helping to reduce the burden millions of people around the world. of disease, our mission inspires us • Third, there is what most people to optimize our performance for and most governments regard society and shareholders alike. as unsustainable growth in healthcare costs. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 3 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Helped ensure that infants and girls in As we focus on the future, Merck the poorest countries have access to believes it is imperative to have the right rotavirus and human papillomavirus strategy as well as the right scientific and (HPV) vaccines through our ongoing technical capabilities so we can continue partnership with the Global Alliance to save, improve and extend lives for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) throughout the world. and other Alliance partners. Also, received a significant portion of the At the same time, we realize that first UNICEF HPV vaccine tender for the fundamentals of good corporate GAVI countries and a second UNICEF/ governance, ethical business practices GAVI award to supply RotaTeq® for and transparency have never been the treatment of rotavirus to three more important. For that reason, since additional African countries. 2009 Merck has been committed to the 10 universally accepted principles • Increased transparency around our of the United Nations Global Compact clinical trials through the development in the areas of human rights, labor of a new website that helps standards, environmental protection and healthcare providers and patients anticorruption. These principles continue find the information they seek, while to guide our corporate responsibility strengthening Merck’s leadership in strategy and objectives. clinical trials and disclosure. • Initiated more than 50 projects in Those of us who work at Merck 30 countries through Merck for believe it is a great privilege and a great Mothers, our 10-year, $500 million responsibility, because lives are at stake. initiative focused on creating a We share a long-standing, profound and world where no woman has to die unwavering commitment to our mission, from complications of pregnancy to our values, and to upholding the and childbirth. highest standards of ethics and integrity • Leveraged the scientific and business in all we do. skills of our employees to build and support humanitarian organizations’ Be well, efforts to answer the health needs of the underserved through the Richard T. Clark Fellowship for World Health. Kenneth C. Frazier • Advanced our environmental Merck Chairman and sustainability efforts with a new, Chief Executive Officer streamlined environmental strategy July 2014 that focuses on the issues that are most important to our business and our stakeholders, such as water use, climate change and waste. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 4 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Like Merck employees, my colleagues on As Merck’s Lead Director and Chair of the the company’s Board of Directors and I Governance, Public Policy and Corporate hold ourselves to the highest standards Responsibility Committee, I can assure of conduct and performance that reflect you that Merck’s Board shares with our values. These standards are grounded Merck employees a sincere, deep and in a robust governance framework and continuing commitment to improving the a steadfast commitment to corporate quality of life around the world, and to responsibility across the company and in doing so in a way that honors the trust every facet of our work. placed in us. Merck regularly engages with its Sincerely, shareholders to better understand their perspectives. During 2013, Merck executives held multiple discussions with many shareholders focused on William B. Harrison, Jr. WILLIAM B. HARRISON, JR. governance and other matters. These Lead Director conversations provided valuable insights Chair, Committee on Governance, for the Board of Directors. Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility MESSAGE FROM Also in 2013, the company launched an initiative to redesign its operating model, reduce the cost base, sharpen THE BOARD commercial focus and reprioritize R&D. The Board of Directors believes these actions will lead to a more competitive company, and one that is Merck’s vision is to help better positioned to drive innovation lead the world to a healthier and create value for patients, customers future. Through our continuing and shareholders. commitment to scientific excellence and innovation in all Among its responsibilities, the aspects of our business, we aspire Governance, Public Policy and Corporate to create long-term value for Responsibility Committee advises the Board of Directors and senior leadership society and all our shareholders. on public policy positions that pertain to our responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. In the policy sphere, the company focuses on two key advocacy objectives: advancing public policies that encourage innovation and improving patient access to quality healthcare. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 5 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In preparing Merck’s disclosures REPORTING INDICES ACCESS TO relating to access to medicines performance, we have referred Since the release of our first corporate responsibility report in MEDICINES INDEX to the Access to Medicine Index (ATMI). 2005, Merck has been committed to using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines to report our performance on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. Except in 2009, due to data collection challenges and the harmonization process following the merger with ScheringPlough, Merck has utilized the GRI as well as the Access to Medicines Index (ATMI), the United Nations Global Compact, and the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDG) as our overall framework for corporate responsibility reporting. Our 2013 corporate responsibility report once again reflects our commitment to the GRI as well as to the other indices in our report. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 6 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT This index is a first step toward a useful framework for transparent reporting about access to medicines performance, which will help inform our stakeholders and also enable us to compare our performance with that of peers on relevant metrics. We believe that this will help us focus on continuously improving the things that matter most. The table below summarizes where Merck disclosures can be found on the Merck website in relation to the ATMI criteria. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 7 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI INDEX We are reporting on our corporate responsibility efforts in alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines. This 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The guidelines offer a useful framework for transparent reporting about environmental, social and governance performance. Greater transparency on such matters is beneficial to our business because it helps to inform our stakeholders and also enables us to compare performance with that of peers on relevant metrics. We believe that this will help us focus on continuously improving the things that matter most. The table below summarizes where the disclosures can be found. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 8 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 9 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 10 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS The private sector, including the research-based pharmaceutical industry, has an important role to play in contributing to the achievement of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). At the 2008 Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum, in Davos, Switzerland, Merck joined UN Secretary General Dr. Ban Ki-moon, U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown and leaders from other private and public sector organizations to endorse a “Call to Action on the Millennium Development Goals,” pledging to work together to accelerate progress toward the MDGs. The table below summarizes where information can be found on our website in relation to how Merck is contributing to the MDGs. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 012 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S UN GLOBAL COMPACT In January 2009, Merck signed on to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest and most widely embraced corporate citizenship initiative. By signing on, the company confirms its commitment to support the Compact’s 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Signatories to the Compact are required to annually report their activities in support of their commitment to instill accountability, drive continuous improvement, safeguard the integrity of the UN Global Compact as a whole, and contribute to the development of a repository of corporate practices. The table below summarizes where Merck disclosures can be found on the Merck website in relation to UN Global Compact principles. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT leveraged our survey submissions to CR framework: access to healthcare, MATERIALITY the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI), and the Access to Medicine environmental sustainability, ethics and transparency, and employees. We asked our stakeholders to consider which Index, in addition to the most current issues were important to their group or Merck regularly conducts sustainability and CR research reports, community and where action from the materiality assessments to to select and refine a list of CR issues for private sector, and Merck in particular, understand our economic, further analysis. is critical. environmental, and social impacts and surface stakeholder As part of the process, we engaged Each business leader or stakeholder was expectations regarding our more than 20 Merck executives from asked to rank a list of priority CR issues, key functional areas and business assess Merck’s performance on performance. We use the Global units including Ethics & Compliance, these priority issues, and share his or Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting Global Clinical Development, Scientific her expectations related to strategy, framework to inform our definition Affairs, Global Health Innovation, Global reporting, and stakeholder engagement. of corporate responsibility (CR) Medical Affairs, Global Public Policy, We then produced a CR materiality map materiality and selection of Human Resources, Manufacturing, and analysis to highlight our findings. The material issues. Market Access, Philanthropy, Safety and resulting map provided us with an initial Environment, Vaccines, and others. Our understanding of which CR issues are of Our Objective goal was to understand which of the primary importance today and which ones CR issues we selected are most linked Merck should consider as an opportunity We last conducted a CR materiality to Merck’s business strategy. We used and a core responsibility. analysis in 2010, which helped us to the following criteria to help business develop our corporate responsibility leaders select which issues are of highest Taking CR Materiality Forward framework and to ensure that our CR importance in terms of impact on: strategy was linked to our core business. Merck will continue to engage In 2013, we initiated an effort to refresh • financial value and revenue stakeholders from organizations relevant this analysis to understand how our CR • operational excellence to our mission and business and priorities have shifted and how they can integrate their perspectives into a final, • compliance with regulations comprehensive materiality map. Our continue to serve as a value driver for the business. The 2013 analysis gave • corporate reputation Public Policy and Responsibility Council us an opportunity also to reengage will review the results of the materiality • shareholders several stakeholder groups globally assessment and discuss how to make • employees and their level our priority issues more actionable. The and understand their views on Merck’s of engagement map will also serve as a tool to refresh our CR performance. CR commitments and KPIs and engage Additionally, we engaged more than business leaders on how to link CR to Our Process 20 stakeholder groups that represented their respective business areas. We see a cross section of advocacy interests, great value in this assessment to identify The 2013 assessment followed a tailored including on-the-ground implementation our most critical CR issues and advance process that included desktop research, partners, socially responsible investors, our daily commitment to delivering consultative interviews with stakeholders environmental NGOs, public health greater value to both shareholders both inside and outside the business, and advocates, and health providers. and society. intensive workshops and socialization These stakeholder groups represented sessions across the business. We several perspectives that link to our MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Office of Corporate Responsibility, within their respective areas. In addition, GOVERNANCE which supports the company’s business strategy, is accountable for producing an annual corporate responsibility report. the members of the working group, a diverse selection of employees from all divisions of the company, serve as To contact members of the Office of content experts in their respective Merck aspires to being open and Corporate Responsibility, please click here. areas and work with the Office of transparent about how we operate, Corporate Responsibility to help set in order to earn and retain the trust The Public Policy and goals and develop metrics that support and confidence of our customers, Responsibility Council and measure Merck’s overall corporate employees, shareholders and other responsibility strategy and objectives. important stakeholders. Our reporting The Public Policy and Responsibility Council is a senior-level decisionBoard Committee on Governance, and governance structure is an making governance body responsible Public Policy & Corporate Responsibility integral part of this commitment. for developing and monitoring Merck’s corporate responsibility approach, Six independent directors constitute The Office of Corporate Responsibility commitments and progress against key Merck’s Board Committee on performance indicators. Membership Governance, Public Policy & Corporate Merck’s corporate responsibility includes senior Merck leaders across Responsibility. Chaired by William B. performance is dependent on all Merck all divisions and major functions. Harrison, Jr., the committee is responsible employees—from Merck’s Chairman The council’s responsibilities include for advising the Board of Directors and and CEO to staff in each business unit, reviewing external issues that may management on company policies and subsidiary, manufacturing plant and affect Merck’s business and reputation; practices that pertain to the company’s research laboratory. All of us at Merck are providing high-level guidance on responsibilities as a global corporate aware of our corporate responsibilities Merck’s overall approach to corporate citizen; its special obligations as a through the Merck Code of Conduct, responsibility, such as deciding on priority healthcare company whose products and but we also recognize that a central issues; developing policies and position services affect health and quality of life coordinating function is necessary statements; identifying key external around the world; and its commitment in order to ensure a comprehensive stakeholders and engaging in outreach; to the highest standards of ethics and approach to corporate responsibility. providing input into Merck’s annual integrity in all its dealings. corporate responsibility report; and The Office of Corporate Responsibility providing ongoing counsel and guidance Additionally, the committee is responsible coordinates the development, to the Office of Corporate Responsibility. for taking a leadership role in shaping the implementation and communication of corporate governance of the company, Merck’s global corporate responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Report including the development of a set of approach and, with the strategic guidance of Working Group corporate governance guidelines for the Public Policy and Responsibility Council, Board approval. is responsible for reporting on Merck’s Each member of the Corporate corporate responsibility performance. Responsibility Report Working Group In addition to the Board Committee on The Office of Corporate Responsibility works directly with a member of the Governance, Public Policy & Corporate works with business units and functional Public Policy and Responsibility Council to Responsibility, other Board committees areas to integrate Merck’s corporate promote further integration of corporate oversee issues related to corporate responsibility principles into business responsibility into the business. Individual responsibility, such as audit and policies, strategies and practices, and members have been chosen to be active compliance, executive compensation brings the voice of external stakeholders advocates for corporate responsibility and research. into decision-making processes. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT own unique expertise to the table. Our intention is to build lasting STAKEHOLDER This understanding forms the core of Merck’s approach and commitment to relationships with our stakeholders from the outset, to understand their objectives, ENGAGEMENT stakeholder engagement. their expectations of Merck and the potential for collaboration, and to enhance Merck conducts stakeholder engagement their understanding of—and trust in— at both the corporate and the local level, us. We strive to exchange information, At Merck, we understand that depending on the issue. We engage with views and recommendations; share we must rise to the challenge of industry, governments, policy makers, activities and progress against key greater stakeholder expectations. nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), goals; and work in partnership toward opinion leaders, patient groups, academic common objectives. We also recognize that we can’t solve organizations, our employees and others major health, environmental and to inform our policies, our practices and Engagement may take the form of oneeconomic challenges alone, but must the development of our products. on-one meetings, expert input forums collaborate with others who share or roundtable discussions, industry our commitment and who bring their coalitions, or formal partnerships. STAKEHOLDER REVIEW OF OUR REPORTING Throughout 2013, we sought feedback on our corporate responsibility performance and reporting through various engagement mechanisms, including surveying stakeholders and visitors to www.merckresponsibility. com about their views on the company’s corporate responsibility efforts and reporting. We also engaged in one-on-one discussions with stakeholders about our reporting and disclosures, including with the Interfaith Center for Corporate Responsibility, the Access to Medicine Foundation, and the Center for Political Accountability. In the spring of 2013, we invited corporate responsibility experts from around the world into a one-week virtual dialogue to provide feedback on our corporate responsibility reporting. This was the first time we used an online platform to conduct outreach and found that it allowed stakeholders to exchange views across multiple time zones at their convenience. Stakeholders were asked to share their impressions of Merck’s corporate responsibility reporting and key performance indicators, and of how our reporting and disclosures could be made more useful to their work. We were pleased with the substantive exchange and candid feedback. Our goal during these discussions is to listen to our stakeholders’ perspectives and recommendations and to use the insights gained through these and ongoing discussions to inform future reporting. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Payers parameters—honestly and accurately, STAKEHOLDER We are aware of payers’ concerns and we work hard to protect and retain our assets, including our intellectual GROUPS over rising healthcare costs and limited property rights, our resources, our top budgets, and of the debates on how employees and our reputation. to make medicines and vaccines more affordable and accessible. We work Merck also reports on environmental, Patients and Their Families with payers worldwide to make sure social and governance indicators that are they understand that the prices of our relevant to our business and long-term We embrace opportunities to engage products reflect their true value. We also performance—and we support efforts patient organizations, and to actively listen develop programs with payers to make to standardize nonfinancial reporting. For to patients to better understand their sure our products can reach the people information related to investing in Merck, healthcare journeys, expected outcomes who need them most. Learn more about please click here. and decision-making, particularly as our access initiatives. it relates to how they take medication Issue Experts and the challenges they may encounter Governments, Multilateral when taking several medications or Organizations and Regulators We work hard to identify the best treating multiple conditions. Listening organizations and individuals to work with to patients, we feel, is critical to further We are committed to conducting our in order to address societal challenges inspire effective and relevant medical business according to the letter and spirit and to inform debates on pressing issues. and scientific innovation. For more of the law and regulations, as well as the Merck has decades of experience in information on our work with patient various standards of business practice developing partnerships, especially those groups, please click here. that we endorse. focused on improving global health. Such partnerships are driving the evolution of Doctors, Healthcare Professionals We work with policy makers, private-sector involvement in meeting and Scientists legislators, multilateral organizations societal challenges. and governments worldwide to ensure Doctors and patients look to us to provide that policy and regulatory environments Our partnerships include a variety of accurate and balanced information globally, nationally and locally foster ventures, with a range of participants about our products. We are therefore patient access to medicines and and priorities—from small collaborations committed to providing appropriate vaccines, and that they are conducive to focused on distributing one type of and balanced information to physicians ethical business practices, science and medicine to larger entities fighting and other healthcare providers about innovation. Learn more about our public a disease. Our objectives for health our medicines, vaccines and ongoing policy and advocacy positions. partnerships might include developing research. And we interact continually a medicine or vaccine, distributing with physicians, healthcare professionals Shareholders a donated or subsidized product, or and researchers to conduct research and strengthening health services. For clinical trials, to share information and We strive to create shareholder value more information on our public-private to gain new perspectives on needs and by identifying opportunities to meet partnerships, please click here. opportunities. For more information on customer needs and by managing our our interactions with these stakeholders, business responsibly to achieve superior please click here. financial results over the long term. To this end, we measure and report our performance—on financial and other MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Communities Where We Operate where they live. For more information We strive to make a positive contribution on Merck’s employee relations, please click here. ENGAGEMENT MECHANISMS to local communities through responsible and safe operations and through our Suppliers and Business Partners philanthropy and employee volunteer efforts. Our objective is to develop We seek out the best suppliers and culturally appropriate mechanisms to partners with whom to research, develop, Throughout 2013, Merck* used engage and build relationships with produce and distribute our medicines, various mechanisms to engage our local community stakeholders. For vaccines and consumer products and to stakeholders, ranging from onemore information on our contributions to perform commercial services. We strive on-one discussions, surveys and communities, please click here. to engage a diverse supplier base and expert input forums to informal foster responsible approaches on the part Environmental Stakeholders of suppliers regarding labor, employment, discussions during conferences health and safety, ethics, diversity, and meetings. We work to reduce the environmental and protection of the environment. For effects of our operations and products more information on Merck’s approach The engagement helped to inform our and to promote sustainable environmental to supply chain management, please strategy and actions on a number of practices within the company, among click here. issues as well as those of others within our partners and throughout our supply the broader health community. The chain. For more information on our Industry Associations following examples illustrate the types of environmental performance, please engagements in which we participate. click here. Merck engages with stakeholders through membership in numerous Access to Health Employees organizations. Within these groups, we aim to inform relevant debates in ways • In 2013, Merck launched a new Because the talent, diversity and integrity that are constructive and that ultimately approach to our engagement with of our people drive our success, we foster improved patient access to key external stakeholders, including are committed to discovering more medicines and vaccines globally. For a list international funding organizations ways to create a workplace where of our memberships, please click here. (IFOs), nongovernmental organizations our employees—and our business— (NGOs) and government aid agencies, can thrive. which in many cases play an active We welcome your comments, role in expanding access to medicines We recognize the challenge of questions and feedback to help for patients through direct operational balancing professional achievement guide the development of our activities or through advocacy on and personal well-being. To this end, programs, our reporting efforts, issues related to access. Our objective we work hard every day to foster a and our corporate responsibility is to enhance our engagement in a positive working environment for our website. To provide feedback, way that is consistent with Merck’s employees by providing resources to email us at merck_responsibility@ sustainable access objectives by improve their health and that of their merck.com. having a Merck representative who families, opportunities for professional is accountable for the relationship development, and more opportunities and who develops and leads the to get involved in the communities implementation of a strategic plan for constructive engagement. Through MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT this new approach, Merck will have ensuing technical event brought contributing to the development an opportunity to gain a better together key stakeholders including and implementation of regional and understanding of our stakeholders, government leaders and the local national vaccination programs. their objectives and their needs, and global health community to discuss • Through active engagement of the can work toward developing mutually the role of the new partnerships GAVI Alliance, Merck helped to beneficial solutions. in reducing India’s high number of foster an environment that led to the maternal deaths. The event’s special mobilization of funding and partner • In 2013, Merck continued its guest was Mrs. Mamta Sharma, the technical support for new vaccines’ involvement in the Gates/CEO Global head of India’s National Commission introduction in the world’s poorest Health Roundtable, a joint initiative by for Women. countries. This engagement included the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the biopharmaceutical industry • Merck for Mothers was invited to the sharing of best practices that that seeks new ways to collaborate join in the National Maternal Health had been gleaned from several of to improve global health, specifically Initiative (NMHI)—an effort led by the our vaccine-access initiatives in by combating infectious diseases U.S. Department of Health and Human GAVI-eligible countries. Focusing in developing countries. Since the Services to develop a comprehensive on the anticipated need for our HPV inception of the Roundtable in 2009, strategy for improving maternal health and rotavirus vaccines, GARDASIL® Merck has been an active participant in the U.S. The sole private-sector [Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent in a number of Roundtable projects, representative, Merck for Mothers (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, including efforts to help reduce the worked with the U.S. government and Recombinant] and ROTATEQ ® global burden of neglected tropical leading health organizations to find (rotavirus vaccine, live, oral, diseases (NTDs) in line with the World new ways of strengthening maternal pentavalent), Merck collaborated Health Organization’s 2020 goals to mortality surveillance, of ensuring with GAVI and other members of discover and develop new combination quality and safety in maternity care and the Alliance, including UNICEF, drugs for tuberculosis, and to of improving access to care. Merck for to understand estimated country strengthen immunization systems Mothers was also asked to co-chair demand for the vaccines over time, and vaccine delivery, as well as the NMHI’s Awareness to Action and to determine the lowest possible other initiatives to improve access to Working Group, tasked with informing access prices that could be sustainably medicines and vaccines. In April 2014, policy makers, providers and the offered to GAVI and UNICEF for the Merck chief executive officer Kenneth general public about critical maternal vaccine volumes to be delivered to C. Frazier assumed the position of health issues across the country. these poorest countries. co-chair, along with Bill Gates, of the In 2013, Merck was awarded a Gates/CEO Roundtable. Merck Vaccines significant portion of the first UNICEF HPV vaccines tender for GAVI Merck for Mothers • Merck collaborates with a broad set countries. Then, in early 2014, GAVI of global stakeholders to improve approved 12 additional countries for • In 2013, Merck formally announced access to vaccines. We help inform HPV-vaccine support; nine of these MSD for Mothers in India, launching the vaccine policy environment countries selected GARDASIL for four unique maternal health through stakeholder engagement their programs. Additionally, from May partnerships at a series of high-profile with important international 2012 to February 2014, four African events in Delhi. The official media organizations such as the World Health countries (Rwanda, Burkina Faso, launch convened MSD representatives Organization (WHO), the GAVI Alliance The Gambia and Mali) were the first and MSD for Mothers’ partners in Board and UNICEF. Additionally, to introduce ROTATEQ with GAVI what became a national story reaching Merck engages stakeholders from support. Merck’s partnership with hundreds of millions of people. The regional and national organizations, GAVI and other Alliance partners is MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT helping to ensure that infants and girls information indicates that in this are active members in two of the four in the poorest countries have access country, where some women had to FP2020 working groups: to rotavirus and HPV vaccines. travel more than 500 miles to access The Country Engagement Working a diagnostic and treatment center, the • In 2013, Merck partnered with Group, which provides support creation of this Centre of Excellence, Susan G. Komen to support the to countries as they develop, and the training of health providers in establishment of the African Centre implement and monitor progress cervical and breast cancer, is already of Excellence for Women’s Cancer against their transformational familymaking a huge difference, in Zambia Control in Lusaka, Zambia. With seed planning plans and neighboring countries. money ($200,000) from Merck, Susan The Market Dynamics Working G. Komen was able to leverage the Women’s Health Group, which is addressing tensions support of several partners including and information gaps in the market the University of North Carolina (UNC) • Merck engages with key global that can unlock new and important at Chapel Hill, University Teaching donors and funding organizations, opportunities to ensure that access Hospital (UTH) of Lusaka, Zambia including the Bill & Melinda Gates to contraceptive supplies and to initiate and consolidate a nucleus Foundation, The U.S. Agency for services is expanded to new users of highly skilled Zambian medical personnel specialized in breast and International Development (USAID), • Representatives from Merck’s cervical cancer control, including John Snow, Inc. (JSI), the Department Women’s Health team participate surgeons, oncologists, radiologists and for International Development in the Bellagio Group, a group of pathologists. To date, several activities (DFID), the Swedish International international experts on family have already been conducted or are Development Cooperation Agency planning and reproductive health that well underway: (Sida), the Norwegian Agency for strives to find innovative solutions Development Cooperation (Norad), the that expand contraceptive choice Training curricula for the diagnosis, Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), and accelerate universal access treatment and palliative care of the Children’s Investment Fund to reproductive health services by breast and cervical cancer Foundation (CIFF), and the United increasing the availability of long-acting Full-time clinical licentiate to Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) reversible contraceptives (LARCs). The support ultrasound-guided breast through the Merck-Gates Oversight group convened in November 2013 at cancer diagnosis Board, which serves to ensure the the International Conference on Family success of the IMPLANON® Access Planning in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Three clinical licentiates, involving Program. The Board meets formally where it reached a consensus on a two radiographers, five surgeons, three times per year to discuss issues statement and recommendations two histo-technicians and two related to product production and for action. pathologists during a three-week capacity-building activities. In 2013, on-site training program in Zambia • In January 2014 during the Seventh through discussions with the Board, Asia Pacific Conference on Sexual and Ongoing clinical mentoring and Merck agreed to develop a new fiveReproductive Health Rights in Manila, support by a dedicated clinical, pack of the contraceptive product to Merck held a forum with key public, Zambia-based UNC faculty member better meet the needs of community private and civil society partners to and a Zambian UTH faculty member health workers who provide family discuss ways to work together to A status report with more details on planning care and counseling in many accelerate the rollout of contraceptive the impact of the Centre of Excellence developing countries. supplies and methods following the will be provided by Susan G. Komen by As a supporter of Family Planning 2020 passage of the Philippines’ historic the end of the year. However, available (FP2020)**, Merck representatives reproductive health law. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Infectious Disease— support programs), and participates in HIV and Viral Hepatitis the Viral Hepatitis Action Coalition, a public-private partnership developed WORKING WITH PATIENT GROUPS Merck engages in multiple ways with by the CDC Foundation to help community representatives and other make meaningful advances in the external stakeholders working in prevention, screening and treatment of infectious disease, with an emphasis on viral hepatitis. HIV and viral hepatitis, to address issues Our Commitment to Patient • Merck also works with HIV in Europe, related to care and treatment both in the Engagement and a pan-European initiative that provides developed and the developing worlds. Patient Organizations a platform for exchange and activities to improve early diagnosis and earlier • Merck meets regularly with national, Merck’s mission is to continue to care of HIV across Europe, and with regional and global community improve the health of people through the the International AIDS Society’s (IAS) advisory boards to discuss issues of discovery, development and marketing of Industry Liaison Forum, a mechanism treatment and treatment access with innovative products that contribute to the to inform and support collaboration community representatives. Over the quality of life. and partnership between the past year, Merck has met with the pharmaceutical industry and the IAS. European AIDS Treatment Group’s Merck is committed to learning from the Merck is also a long-standing member European Community Advisory Board patient perspective and empowering of the Private Sector Delegation to discuss both HIV and HIV-HCV patients, caregivers and healthcare to the Global Fund for HIV, TB and coinfection, with the European Liver professionals by making public the Malaria, the largest multilateral funder Patients Association community results of clinical trials in a timely of HIV, TB and malaria prevention, advisory board; with the U.S.-based manner, whether or not the outcomes care and treatment in the developing Health Care Advisory Board (HCAB), are positive or negative. As a company, world. The Private Sector Delegation with the Eastern European and Central we have a strong commitment to health represents the private sector in Asian Community Advisory Board; and literacy, and we believe that clear, simple the multi-stakeholder governance with the World Community Advisory information about clinical trials, diseases structure of the Global Fund, alongside Board meeting on the hepatitis C virus and medicine should be available and donor and implementer government, (HCV); among others. accessible to people across a range civil society, community and private of health-literacy levels. We embrace • Merck is also actively engaged in foundation delegations. the opportunities to engage patient multi-stakeholder–based organizations *Merck is known as MSD outside of the United organizations, and to actively listen to address treatment issues in HIV and States and Canada. to patients to better understand their viral hepatitis. These engagements ** An outcome of the London Summit was the healthcare journeys, expected outcomes include participation in international formation of Family Planning 2020 (FP2020) to track progress and report on the financial and and decision-making, particularly as it and national coalitions such as the policy commitments made at the Summit, identify relates to how they take medication and National Viral Hepatitis Roundtable, obstacles and barriers to their achievement and challenges they may encounter when the National Hepatitis Corrections recommend solutions. taking several medications or treating Network and the World Hepatitis multiple conditions. We feel that listening Alliance. Moreover, Merck is actively to patients is critical to further inspire engaged with the American Liver effective and relevant medical and Foundation (implementing patient scientific innovation. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 18 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Despite significant medical advances Practices and share quality medical, scientific in many therapeutic areas, some and pharmacoeconomic information, countries have made limited progress Merck has a long history of collaboration consistent with legal and regulatory in their level of patient treatment and in with patient groups and health-related obligations, and with respect for providing broad-based access to available charities, including work related to their independence. therapies. This situation arises in part improving knowledge and understanding from the tension between the best of diseases and treatment options, as Decisions to contribute funding to patient clinical practices (as defined by evidencewell as information and decision-making societies are dependent on: based medicine) and the pressures of among consumers in healthcare. cost containment in publicly financed • A written proposal on the project, health systems. Because we recognize the legal and including the ways in which the reputational risks of inappropriate funding will advance educational and In this context, we believe that our donations or sponsorships, we have disease-awareness objectives contributions to organizations, such as guidance documents, policies and • An internal review by relevant patient groups, health-related charities management systems in place to Merck groups and nongovernmental organizations ensure the integrity of our practices. (NGOs), are fundamental to our goals We also comply with all applicable laws • The consistent application of Merck and corporate responsibility. Because of and regulations. policies and procedures, including the gaps in patient care and changes to those related to contributions; health policy in such areas as vaccination, Principles advertising and promotion; sales and heart disease, HIV, hepatitis C infection marketing; and to our ethical business and other chronic conditions, there is a Because patients are at the core practices as outlined in Our Values compelling need for the pharmaceutical of health systems, it is especially and Standards industry to work more closely with patient important to support patient societies organizations and key stakeholders and associations. Working with patient Decisions to understand outcomes from the groups, we develop appropriate programs patients’ point of view, improve access and projects to support their important We adhere to all guidelines and to therapies, validate measurement tools efforts. We believe in collaborating with regulations that are relevant to and increase awareness of diseases. healthcare stakeholders—including relationships with patient organizations government and other payers, healthcare and to the provision of information providers and patient organizations— about diseases and available therapies to engage in programs that aim to in individual countries. Merck will improve patient education and patient continue to explore ways to expand our care in therapeutic areas where we stakeholder engagement processes, have expertise. build trust with stakeholders, and identify opportunities to gain and share insights That’s why we support and participate in with key stakeholders on relevant programs that help patient organizations corporate responsibility issues. We increase disease awareness and welcome stakeholder feedback. improve access to medicines and better healthcare. We work with patient organizations to disseminate MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 19 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We recognize that our outreach activities Merck’s Executive Committee has PUBLIC POLICY can help highlight and address important issues, leveraging the expertise of all our stakeholders to develop sustainable overall governing responsibility for the company’s public policy strategy, as guided by the Governance, Public Policy solutions to such challenges as disease, and Corporate Responsibility Committee We believe it is our responsibility lack of education, environmental of the Board of Directors. Merck’s Global to work with policy makers and challenges and corruption. Merck has Public Policy Leadership Team, headed by other stakeholders to explain our pioneered far-reaching programs and the senior vice president of Global Public views ethically and transparently. partnerships, the results of which Policy and Corporate Responsibility, leads demonstrate that more can be achieved the development and communication We are committed to participating by working together than by individual of policy positions on major issues. constructively and responsibly in the stakeholders working alone—and can Statements summarizing our position on political process, and to providing make a sustainable difference. key public policy issues are posted on the clarifying analysis and information on public policy page of our corporate site. the issues that affect our business and Engaging Responsibly patient care. How Merck Engages Government proposals to regulate the A major element of our corporate healthcare system may directly affect Merck engages in public policy debates responsibility approach is our public the company’s business and incentives primarily by communicating information to policy advocacy work and our outreach for pharmaceutical innovation. Important government officials and policy makers. to stakeholders. In this section, we policy initiatives can also increase patient describe how we inform and advocate access to medicines and vaccines and Our Federal Policy and Government for public policies that foster research to healthcare insurance coverage— Relations office in Washington, D.C., is into innovative medicines and that particularly for patients in disadvantaged responsible for advocacy activities with improve access to medicines, vaccines communities and regions. the U.S. Congress and other bodies of and healthcare. the federal government. Advocacy at That is why it is appropriate for the the state level is managed by our State In this section, we also describe our company to help inform the debate on Government Affairs & Policy organization. approach to engaging with stakeholders. these issues in the United States and Outside the U.S., advocacy activities are We believe this engagement is other countries. Our participation in managed at the regional, country or local fundamental to our understanding of— the political process is guided by the level, with support from regional and and response to—society’s expectations following principles: corporate policy staff. of our company. From drug discovery and development to distribution, our • Improving patient access to To assist with our advocacy and engagement with stakeholders guides healthcare, including to medicines policy analysis work, Merck and its our business strategy and decisions, and and vaccines affiliates contract with a range of strengthens stakeholders’ understanding private firms specializing in government • Encouraging innovation by protecting of—and trust in—our business. affairs advocacy. These firms employ intellectual property rights, advocating government affairs consultants with for government support of basic particular expertise on issues important research, and supporting efficient and to the company. The Merck Action effective regulatory systems, among Network also informs our U.S.-based other issues MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 20 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT employees and retirees about important party official or candidate of any other legislative issues, and serves as a vehicle nation; or officials of public international through which they can communicate organizations; at any time or under with their representatives in Congress. In any circumstances. 2013, the Merck Action Network engaged Merck employees on the following To improve access to information federal legislative issue: about Merck’s advocacy activities, we disclose costs associated with lobbying • Urging Congress to protect the in the European Union and the United Medicare Part D program from the States. Click here for Merck’s 2013 imposition of Medicaid-style rebates EU lobbying report. Costs are based on that would have had a stifling effect on the pro rata salary costs of MSD staff pharmaceutical innovation and on the proportion of employee time and outsourcing spent on initiatives All Merck employees and external involving interest-representation to business partners must abide by our European institutions. global corporate Code of Conduct, Our Values and Standards, which applies In the United States, in compliance with to our interactions with government the Lobbying Disclosure Act, Merck officials and to advocacy activities files quarterly reports with the U.S. on public policy issues. This code is Congress describing the issues we are intended to ensure that all information lobbying about and the amount of money provided to governmental entities is we spend each quarter. These reports complete and accurate to the best of an incorporate the expenses associated employee’s knowledge and belief. In the with lobbying the federal government, United States, there are also important including those incurred by our Office of federal and state lobbying-registration U.S. Policy and Government Relations, and -disclosure laws with which and the portion of our trade association Merck complies. dues associated with federal lobbying. Our corporate policy on ethical business practices includes guidelines on the U.S. anti-kickback laws and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, making clear that no illegal payments of any kind (monetary or otherwise) are to be offered or made to an individual or entity—including a local, state or federal government or political party official or candidate in the United States; a government or political MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 21 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OUR TOP LOBBYING ISSUES POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS Where permitted by law in In the United States in 2013, the top five issues at the federal level for which Merck lobbied were: the United States, Canada and Australia, the company • Federal deficit reduction provides corporate political • Defense of Medicare Part D contributions, primarily to • Implementation of the Affordable Care Act the electoral campaigns of • The 340B Drug Pricing Program individual candidates. • Comprehensive tax reform. Merck employees can also participate In the United States in 2013, the top five issues at the state level for which in the political process by joining a Merck lobbied were: nonpartisan political action committee (PAC), through which they can pool • State implementation of the health benefit exchange component of the their financial resources to support federal Affordable Care Act federal and state candidates. Except • Budget support to help ensure patient access to medicines in state for administrative expenses, the Merck Medicaid and AIDS Drug Assistance Programs Employees Political Action Committee • Continued funding for programs providing coverage for and access (Merck PAC) is completely funded by to immunizations voluntarily contributions from eligible Merck employees. The PAC supports • Initiatives to address pharmaceuticals in the environment legislators from both major parties who • Proposals affecting patient access to specific over-the-counter medicines understand and appreciate the work Merck does to discover and develop In Europe in 2013, our advocacy focused on: medicines and to make them available to the patients who need them. • Fostering a framework for a sound pricing regime in and across diverse EU member state economies Merck’s corporate policy governing • Support for government vaccination, hepatitis and diabetes programs its corporate and PAC contributions • Standards for health technology assessment and health literacy can be found here. In addition, we have developed the Merck Principles • Continuation of the Clinical Trial Directive, the Transparency Directive and Governing Corporate and Political the Directive on Disclosure of Non-Financial Information Action Committee Spending. These • Implementation of the Cross-Border Healthcare Directive and the principles are modeled on provisions in Pharmacovigilance Directive the Model Code for Political Spending, established by the Center for Political Merck’s senior vice president of Global Public Policy and Corporate Accountability, and are intended to Responsibility presents the company’s advocacy priorities to members promote corporate accountability. of Merck’s Executive Committee and the Governance, Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors annually, and provides periodic updates throughout the year. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 22 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck has been ranked No. 1 for three annual report on the company’s corporate organizations representing elected consecutive years (2011, 2012 and 2013) political contributions for the previous state officials. The latter groups meet on the Center for Political Accountability year to the Merck Board of Directors. periodically to discuss policy issues. (CPA)—Zicklin Index of Corporate Political The report discloses contributions in the Examples are the Republican Governors Accountability and Disclosure, released United States, Australia and Canada, Association and the Democratic by the CPA in conjunction with the Carol including the name of each candidate, Governors Association. Information on all and Lawrence Zicklin Center for Business committee or event and the amount contributions can be accessed through Ethics Research at the Wharton School of disbursed. It also reports on trade the above link. Merck representatives the University of Pennsylvania. association dues spent on lobbying and involved in state-government-affairs political activity in the United States for activities made the recommendations Merck has a formal PAC Contributions dues greater than $25,000. Merck’s for specific contributions. These Committee that makes decisions senior vice president of Public Policy and recommendations were reviewed and on spending for the Merck PAC. This Corporate Responsibility also submits approved by the Corporate Political committee also makes decisions on a midyear report on corporate political Contributions Committee, which mirrors the company’s corporate political contributions to the Board for its review. the Merck PAC Contributions Committee contributions. The committee is chaired In addition, Merck’s contributions, in membership and oversight procedures. by our executive vice president and policies and practices are reviewed and Outside legal counsel conducted general counsel and includes senior overseen by the Governance, Public a thorough review of all proposed managers representing different Policy and Corporate Responsibility contributions to ensure that they were divisions and corporate functions. The Board Committee. For both reports, permitted under state law. Final approval general counsel approves contribution which also describe any changes in was provided by the general counsel recommendations, following review and our policies, we invite comments of Merck. approval by the committee. and questions. To view a full listing of Merck’s corporate To ensure compliance with Merck policy To improve access to information about and PAC contributions made within the and federal and state law, outside legal Merck’s corporate political and PAC United States in 2013, please click here. experts provide periodic guidance to contributions in the United States, the company on required disclosure of the company semiannually posts its Merck also provides grants to its political activities. We also perform contributions, categorized by state, organizations that represent elected periodic audits to assess and enforce candidate and amount. We also disclose officials to support public policy advocacy. compliance with Merck’s policy governing any contributions to committees known Merck State Government Affairs reviews its corporate and PAC contributions, as “527 organizations.” its grants and corporate memberships and we require those individuals on an annual basis to decide which will who recommend corporate political Our Corporate Political Contributions be retained for the upcoming calendar contributions in the United States to year based on budget constraints and certify their knowledge of and adherence In 2013, Merck spent a total of $606,850 policy priorities. Groups that received to our corporate Policy and Principles in U.S. corporate political contributions. Merck support in 2013 included, but are Governing Corporate Political and Political These contributions supported the not limited to, the National Governors Action Committee Contributions. campaigns of candidates for state-level Association, the Council of State offices in 29 states plus the District Governments and the National Black As required by Merck policy and of Columbia. They also were used to Caucus of State Legislators. We disclose procedures, Merck’s executive vice support state legislative leadership all public policy grants as part of our president and general counsel sends an committees of both parties, industrygeneral grants disclosure. affiliated PACs, and a number of national MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 23 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The only other countries in which we For a list of industry and trade groups of I N D U S T RY A S S O C I AT I O N S provide corporate contributions to which we are members and our dues candidates or political parties are Canada (dues that are greater than $25,000) and Australia. These contributions Merck is a member of numerous to trade associations that are used for are subject to the same policies and industry and trade groups. political purposes, please click here. governance procedures discussed above. To view Merck’s contributions made We work with these groups because they Through our top-three trade associations in Canada for 2013, please click here. represent the pharmaceutical industry (listed below), we engaged on the To view Merck’s contributions made in and business community in debates led following policy issues in 2013: Australia for 2013, please click here. by governments and other stakeholders, and because they help the industry reach Pharmaceutical Research and Archived corporate political contribution consensus on policy issues. Manufacturers of America (PhRMA): reports are available here. Federal deficit reduction; defense of When our trade associations actively Medicare Part D; and implementation of Merck’s vice president of State lobby on our core business issues, the Affordable Care Act Government Affairs was co-chair of the outlined above, we seek to align their Conference Board Committee on positions with our own. There are times, U.S. Chamber of Commerce: Federal Corporate Political Spending in 2013, however, when we may not share the deficit reduction; the reauthorization which is dedicated to accountability, views of our peers or associations— of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act; disclosure, education and engagement on both issues that are central to our defense of Medicare Part D; corporate tax on issues of corporate political activity. business and those that, while important, reform; and the Trans-Pacific Partnership In 2012, the committee released a are not directly material to our mission. report,“Corporate Political Spending: With Merck representatives on the Biotechnology Industry Organization Policies and Practices, Accountability boards and committees of industry (BIO): Federal deficit reduction; and Disclosure.” Merck also has groups and trade associations, we can protecting incentives for innovation; and previously supported the development voice questions or concerns we may have defense of Medicare Part D of the Handbook on Corporate about policy or related activities. We may Political Activity: Emerging Corporate even recuse ourselves from related trade Governance Issues, which grew out association or industry group activities of discussions held at two roundtables when appropriate. organized by The Conference Board Governance Center in 2010. Merck’s executive vice president and general counsel sends an annual report to the Merck Board of Directors on trade association dues spent the previous year on lobbying and political activity in the United States for dues greater than $25,000. The Governance, Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors has ongoing oversight of the company’s membership in trade associations and grassroots lobbying activities. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 24 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT passionate about: improving health and complete range of fertility management OUR BUSINESS improving lives. Prescription Products products, pharmaceutical specialty products, innovative delivery solutions, performance technologies, and & Prescribing Information value-added programs, such as pet From developing new therapies recovery services and livestock data that treat and prevent disease Our core business is the discovery and management tools. to helping people in need, we’re development of prescription medicines committed to improving health for diseases and conditions that impact To learn more about our Animal and well-being around the world. millions of people. Health business, please visit Merck Animal Health*. Our vision is to make a difference in We invest billions of research dollars * Note: The website listed above may refer to the lives of people globally through our to find medicines that can help products that either are not available in your innovative medicines, vaccines, biologic improve lives. Today, Merck has more country or are marketed under a different trade than 50 prescription products in key name. In addition, the safety and efficacy data and therapies, and consumer health and the withholding periods for a specific product may animal products. We aspire to being the therapeutic areas such as cardiovascular be different depending on local regulations. Please best healthcare company in the world, disease, respiratory disease, oncology, consult your veterinarian for more information. and are dedicated to providing leading neuroscience, infectious disease, innovations and solutions for tomorrow. immunology and women’s health. Consumer Products We have made it our mission to provide To learn more, click here. Merck Consumer Care strives to enhance innovative, distinctive products and the quality of life for people and their services that save and improve lives Vaccines families around the world. and satisfy customer needs; to achieve recognition as a great place to work; and Vaccines are one of the greatest public Everyday ailments sometimes mean you to provide investors with a superior rate health success stories in history, and are simply not yourself. That’s why, each of return. Merck has played its part in that story. day, millions of families count on the industry-leading Merck Consumer Care We continue to focus our research on We are dedicated to the complex brands to help them be able to live life the conditions that affect millions of people business of researching and producing way they love. around the world—such as Alzheimer’s vaccines. Our unique vaccines have and cancer—while expanding our helped prevent a number of diseases, To learn more, click here. strengths in such areas as vaccines including ones never thought preventable. and biologics. To learn more, click here. Products We also devote extensive time and Animal Health Merck is a global healthcare company energy to increasing access to medicines that delivers innovative health solutions and vaccines, through far-reaching Through Merck’s animal health business, through its prescription medicines, programs that donate and deliver our we are a global leader in the research, vaccines, biologic therapies and products to the people who need them. development, manufacturing and sale of consumer and animal health products. veterinary medicines. At Merck, we’re applying our global Visit a list of products marketed in reach, financial strength and scientific We offer a broad choice of vaccines, the U.S. excellence to doing more of what we’re anti-infective and antiparasitic drugs, a MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 25 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Pipeline can provide us with new opportunities to We are already seeing strong progress create shared value. with candidates like MK-3475, our Merck has a robust pipeline, with anti-PD-1 immunotherapy for oncology, a wide range of product candidates Our principal economic contribution to which has received Breakthrough across each phase of development. society is made through the discovery, Therapy designation from the FDA. We View our pipeline. development, manufacturing and also initiated Phase 3 trials for our BACE marketing of our products, which directly inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer’s Name improve and maintain the health of disease and received Breakthrough individuals and communities around Therapy designation for our combination The company is known as Merck in the world, helping them to lead more regimen for the treatment of chronic the United States and Canada. productive lives. hepatitis C. Everywhere else, we are known as MSD. Merck & Co., Inc., is the legal In 2013, we took decisive action to For additional information about our name and is listed on the New York Stock revitalize our research and development business and economic impact, please Exchange under the symbol “MRK.” and strengthen our pipeline of medically see our Form 10-K for the year ended important products. We are allocating December 31, 2013. resources to our most promising clinical * Number of employees at December 31, 2013, does candidates and are focusing on the E C O N O M I C I M PAC T not reflect 1,300 employees of the company’s joint markets, customers and therapeutic areas ventures in China and Brazil, which are included in that provide the best opportunities for the consolidated results of Merck. Sustainable business success our business while delivering the greatest depends on making quality value to our customers. products that people value through sound financial stewardship and responsible governance that ensures we are meeting 2013 REVENUES BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION (IN BILLIONS) customers’ needs ethically and transparently. $18.2 United States Globalization and the expanding reach of firms during the past decade have 41% escalated expectations for multinational $13.1 Europe, Middle East enterprises to create more social value, 30% and Africa beyond compliance with regulations and philanthropy. Corporate responsibility has emerged as an important element of the private sector’s response to these $4.0 Japan expectations and demands. While it can be seen as a way to improve one’s 9% $3.8 Asia Pacific reputation, or simply as a response to a 9% $3.2 Latin America moral imperative to do good, at Merck we believe that corporate responsibility 4% 7% $1.6 Other is critical to our business success and MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 26 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Underlying our community approach Financial Information 2010 2011 2012 2013 is our commitment to respecting Sales ($USM) 45,987 48,047 47,267 44,033 human rights. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are Research and development 11,111 8,467 8,168 7,503 committed to protecting and promoting expenses($USM) fundamental human rights not only within Number of employees 94,000 86,000 83,000 76,000* our immediate workforce but also within our broader sphere of influence, including Number of stockholders of record 171,000 166,100 157,400 149,400 within our local communities. Learn more Annual cash dividend paid per 1.52 1.56 1.69 1.73 about our commitment to protecting and share ($US) promoting fundamental human rights. Global tax expense as reported on 671 942 2,440 1,028 income statement ($USM) WORKING WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES * Number of employees at December 31, 2013, does not reflect 1,300 employees of the company’s joint ventures in China and Brazil, which are included in the consolidated results of Merck. Our signature Neighbor of Choice our responsibility toward those affected community program supports SUPPORTING OUR the work of local nonprofit directly or indirectly by our operations and COMMUNITIES organizations that strive to activities. We rely on local communities not only for our workforce but also improve the quality of life of the Merck contributes substantial for some of our suppliers and for our residents in communities where economic and social value to the ability to do business. Through ongoing Merck has a presence. countries and communities in engagement and dialogue, we work to which we operate. understand the concerns and needs Established by Merck in the of our communities, and we seek to 1990s, the Neighbor of Choice As of December 31, 2013, Merck respond by addressing local challenges in (NOC) program helps to build (including its Banyu subsidiary in Japan) ways that build stronger communities and relationships of trust and support had a physical presence in 78 countries, support the sustainability of our business. with local nonprofit organizations with 428 active (occupied) research, and residents of the communities manufacturing, sales and administrative We contribute to our communities in in which we operate by sites. In all of these locations, we three key ways: responding to needs identified recognize that our success depends by the communities themselves. in large part on our relationships and • Direct and indirect economic Merck takes seriously the shared interactions with local communities, contributions, such as employment, responsibility of helping to including elected officials, business training, support of local suppliers and improve the quality of life of and community leaders, charitable local R&D, and paying taxes neighbors in need. Learn more. organizations, neighbors, educators, local • Managing our community impact—for media and our employees. example, by ensuring confidence in environmental and safety performance At Merck, we aspire to having a positive and respecting human rights impact on the communities in which we • Addressing community needs operate worldwide, and we recognize through philanthropy and community involvement MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 27 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Calvert ranking was based on 324 data elements AWARDS & Merck received a perfect 100 score from Calvert for the company’s records on across seven categories: climate change, employee relations, environment, RECOGNITION including women, minorities and people financial performance, governance, with diverse sexual orientation in our human rights and philanthropy. Only workforce. Calvert Investments, a mutual publicly disclosed data on companies’ fund firm that invests in companies that websites was taken into account for the Over the years, Merck has engage in sustainable and responsible ranking. (October 2013) received numerous awards and practices, put together the survey, a recognition for our comprehensive new ranking of diversity among S&P 100 NCPA 2013 Corporate companies. (March 2013) Recognition Award approach to corporate Merck was honored with the National responsibility. The following The Chronicle of Philanthropy Community Pharmacists Association is a selection of awards and In its annual survey of philanthropic (NCPA) 2013 Corporate Recognition recognition that we have received giving by U.S. corporations,The Chronicle Award. Presented during NCPA’s 115th throughout 2013 and 2014. of Philanthropy ranked Merck No. 3 Annual Convention and Trade Exposition, in Corporate Donations of Cash and this award recognizes a company Global Recognition Products from among some of the for its support and work on behalf of country’s largest corporations. (July 2014) independent community pharmacies. FTSE4Good Index (October 2013) Merck is a FTSE4Good constituent Fortune member. The FTSE4Good Index Series Fortune magazine ranked Merck the Responsible Care Performance Award measures the performance of companies 2nd Most Admired Company within the Merck was recognized by the American that meet globally recognized corporate Pharmaceutical Industry on its 2013 list Chemistry Council with the Responsible responsibility standards. (October 2013) of the World’s Most Admired Companies. Care Performance Award. Responsible (March 2013) Care companies are industry leaders Access to Medicine Index that play a vital part in ensuring that the Merck ranked No. 4 on the most recent Corporate Responsibility Magazine business of chemistry is safe, secure and Access to Medicine Index (2012), which Corporate Responsibility Magazine sustainable. (May 2013) assessed and ranked pharmaceutical named Merck to its fifteenth annual companies on various criteria related ranking of the 100 Best Corporate Access to Health to global access to medicines. Citizens among leading public companies (November 2012) in the U.S., placing Merck in the No. Prix Galien Award 23 spot. The 2014 list is based on 298 Merck was awarded the Prix Galien VV-Good Index disclosure and performance measures, USA Award for the Best Biotechnology Merck ranked No. 1 on the Vertigo which are gathered from publicly Product of 2013, ZOSTAVAX® (Zoster Ventures VV-Good Index. This index, available information in seven categories: Vaccine Live), the company’s vaccine to which is reported out of the U.K., environment, climate change, human help prevent shingles. The Prix Galien evaluates companies on social, financial rights, employee relations, governance, Award recognizes the pharmaceutical and environmental performance as well philanthropy and finance. (March 2014) industry’s outstanding achievement in as on disclosure. (May 2013) the development of new medicines. The magazine also ranked Merck No. 2 on This latest award for ZOSTAVAX is its 2013 “Industry Sector Best Corporate Merck’s sixth Prix Galien USA award Citizens” list in the healthcare sector. The in seven years. The company was MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 28 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT previously recognized for VICTRELIS® published in 2009. The 2014 Newsweek like to work or the companies that they (2012), ROTATEQ ® (2010), ISENTRESS ® rankings measure the environmental believed would provide a positive working (2008), and JANUVIA® and GARDASIL® performance of large public companies environment for women engineers. (2007). In total, around the world, Merck using eight key performance indicators, (April 2014) has won the Prix Galien more than including energy use, greenhouse 30 times, making Merck one of the two gas emissions, water use and waste Másfamilia Foundation most-awarded companies of all time. generation. (2014) MSD in Spain was re-awarded its Work(October 2013) Life Balance (EFR) Certificate, promoted CDP (formerly know as Carbon by the Másfamilia Foundation and AmeriCares Disclosure Project) supported by the Ministry of Health and AmeriCares presented its 2013 Power CDP is an international not-for-profit Social Policy. The certificate recognizes of Partnership Award to Merck in organization that provides a global organizations that are involved in creating recognition of the company’s outstanding system with which companies and cities a new work culture by adding an allcommitment to helping disaster survivors can measure, disclose, manage and inclusive management system, that and improving health in the developing share vital environmental information. brings balance to the work, family and world. Merck provides both product and Companies voluntarily submit annual personal spheres, through commitment, financial support for global health and reports, and CDP scores the reports respect and flexibility. (June 2014) disaster relief. (June 2013) based on transparency in disclosure and performance. Merck’s CDP scores have Ministry of Economy, Trade and Environmental Sustainability improved every year since 2009. Our Industry (METI) of Japan 2013 disclosure score was 87 out of 100, MSD in Japan was recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and our performance score was “B”. Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (EPA) ENERGY STAR (2013) (METI) of Japan for the company’s Merck received an ENERGY STAR 2014 commitment to diversity and inclusion Partner of Year—Sustained Excellence Employees as part of its strategic business plan, Award from the U.S. EPA for the the creation of a dedicated Diversity and company’s continued improvement in DiversityInc Inclusion team within Human Resources, energy performance and leadership Merck was recognized for the twelfth and the establishment of the MSD Japan in energy management in both the consecutive year as one of the Top 50 Female Leaders Network. (May 2014) pharmaceutical and industrial sectors. Companies for Diversity by DiversityInc, ranking as No. 14 in 2014. Merck also CAREERS & the disABLED Magazine Merck has been an ENERGY STAR ranked 2nd for Employee Resource Merck was named a “Top 50 Employer” Partner since 1995 and recognized by Groups, 6th for Recruitment and 7th for by CAREERS & the disABLED magazine, the EPA for nine consecutive years— Global Diversity. (April 2014) the nation’s first and only career-guidance twice as Partner of the Year and, now, a and recruitment magazine for people with seventh time for Sustained Excellence. Woman Engineer Magazine disabilities. The list honors corporations (April 2014) Merck was ranked No. 19 by Woman for creating a progressive environment Engineer magazine, the most widely for people with disabilities, as reported by Newsweek Green Ranking read recruitment magazine for female readers of the magazine. (March 2014) Merck was ranked No. 351 on engineers, on its list of the Top 50 Newsweek’s 2014 Global 500 list and Employers for Female Engineers. Merck Equal Opportunity Magazine No. 261 on the 2014 U.S. 500 list. Merck was selected by readers of the magazine, Merck ranked No. 6 in the 21st has appeared on Newsweek ’s Green who indicated the top companies in Annual “Top 50 Employers” in Equal Rankings list ever since it was first the U.S. for which they would most Opportunity magazine. The readers of MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 29 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Equal Opportunity magazine selected APA programs, as well as on the results for our efforts to support veterans and the top companies in the country for of their employee surveys, which explore their families in the return to civilian life. which they would most prefer to work or the many facets of the APA employee (June 2013) believe would provide a positive working experience. (June 2013) environment for members of minority U.S. Veterans Magazine groups. This list is the result of an American Indian Science and Merck was recognized as a Top Veteranannual reader survey mailed to randomly Engineering Society Friendly Company for its outreach selected readers of Equal Opportunity Merck was recognized for diversity and accessibility to veterans, African magazine. (2014) recruitment efforts by Winds of Change, Americans, Hispanics, Latinos and the premier journal of the American Indian women in a special “Best of the Best” Working Mother Magazine Science and Engineering Society. Merck issue of U.S. Veterans Magazine. In 2013, Merck was named to Working was listed as one of the Top 50 STEM (August 2013) Mother’s list of the100 Best Companies (Science, Technology, Engineering and for working moms for the twentyMath) employers for Native Americans Ethics & Transparency sixth straight year. This list recognizes and Alaskan Natives. (June 2013) companies dedicated to providing The CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate employees with benefits, including career U.S. Hispanic Advocacy Association Political Accountability and Disclosure advancement, childcare, flexible work The U.S. Hispanic Advocacy Association Merck was ranked No. 1 on the 2013 arrangements and leave for new parents. honored Merck with one of only four CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political (September 2013) Bravo awards presented for Vision, Accountability and Disclosure, which Leadership and Commitment to benchmarks the top 200 companies in National Association for Diversity and Inclusion Best Practices. the S&P 500 on their political-spending Female Executives (January 2013) disclosure and oversight. 2013 marks Merck was named as one of the Top Merck’s third consecutive year in this 50 Companies for Executive Women Girls, Inc. spot, since the index was first published by the National Association for Female Merck was honored by Girls, Inc., with in 2011. (September 2013) Executives (NAFE). (March 2013) the Corporate Vision Award for our * Merck is known as MSD outside of the U.S. sustained contributions to girls in the and Canada. Professional Woman’s Magazine Science, Technology, Engineering and Professional Woman’s Magazine named Mathematics (STEM) fields. (March 2013) Merck to its 2014 Best of the Best List of Top STEM Companies (March 2014) The Human Rights Campaign and to its 2013 Best of the Best List of Merck received a score of 100 percent Top Diversity Employers for Women in the Human Rights Campaign’s 2013 (September 2013). Corporate Equality Index, recognizing the company’s commitment to global The Asia Society diversity and inclusion for lesbian, gay, The Asia Society recognized Merck bisexual and transgender employees. as a 2013 Best in Class Company, (March 2013). acknowledging the company’s commitment to promoting Asian-Pacific Families and Work Institute (FWI) American (APA) leadership and global Merck was recognized with one of four diversity. Winning companies were 2013 Work Life Legacy Military Awards selected based on the quality of their by the Families and Work Institute (FWI) MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 30 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH K E Y P E R F O R M A N C E I N D I C AT O R S Millions of people in both developed and developing countries are living longer, more productive lives due, in part, to better healthcare and easier access to innovative medicines and vaccines. Better healthcare, in combination with a myriad of technological advances, is also helping to improve the economic circumstances of many individuals and countries. Some people are still excluded as a result of poverty, lack of education, discrimination and other complex factors. For more information on our approach to access, click here. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 1 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 2 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT role to play through our public policy and Community Investment OUR APPROACH outreach efforts, to advocate for changes that will improve access. Learn more. We recognize that we cannot address complex public health challenges on TO ACCESS our own; therefore, we will engage in Merck’s access to health strategy community investment to address the supports the company’s overall mission barriers to access where we believe we to discover, develop and produce can make the strongest contribution. It is unacceptable that the vast innovative products and services that Learn more. majority of people around the save and improve lives around the world are unable to benefit world. Our mission to improve the These Guiding Principles help us to health and wellness of people around embed policies and practices into our from advances in medicines the world by expanding access to operations and business strategies that and healthcare. medicines and vaccines is one of Merck’s expand access in innovative ways and five core values and part of Merck’s on an ongoing basis. Our Principles As a global healthcare company, Merck corporate strategy. significantly contributed to an industrybelieves it has an important role and wide effort through the Business for responsibility in improving access To guide our efforts, we follow our Social Responsibility (BSR) Healthcare to medicines, vaccines and quality companywide Guiding Principles, which Working Group to develop the Guiding healthcare worldwide, thereby helping articulate and guide our approach. Principles on Access to Healthcare to reduce the burden of disease in the (GPAH). In 2013, Merck was one of parts of the world that need it most. Research & Development 13 pharmaceutical companies to sign We also believe that expanding access We will engage in R&D to provide on to the GPAH that provide a common is a business imperative for optimizing medicines and vaccines that address vital framework to shape global health goals and sustaining our business over the global health needs. Learn more. through multisector partnerships. In long term. addition, because of our leadership Manufacturing & Supply in this area, our Principles and key Barriers to quality care and medical We are committed to providing patients performance indicators informed the treatment—such as a lack of trained and customers with high-quality products global health work of the Interfaith Center healthcare professionals, weak and a reliable supply of safe and effective on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) and infrastructure, civil strife and a shortage of medicines and vaccines. Learn more. the recent development of its Statement safe water in many parts of the world— of Principles and Recommended make even basic healthcare delivery Registration Corporate Practices to Promote difficult at best, and these challenges We will register our products in a timely Global Health. go well beyond what Merck can directly fashion in markets where they are address alone. needed. Learn more. As we strive for continuous improvement in our access approach, we reevaluate We believe our role is to work in Commercialization our policies, practices and programs, partnership with others—local We will commercialize our products in a as well as the metrics we employ to communities, governments, donors, way that develops Merck’s business and measure our progress, on an ongoing patient organizations, healthcare meets local needs in a responsible and basis. Toward this end, in December professionals, nongovernmental efficient manner. Learn more. 2012 and May 2013, we held internal organizations (NGOs), multilateral access workshops to review our current organizations and others in the private access programs and strategies, sector—to contribute our expertise and share best practices, identify gaps knowledge. We also have an important MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 3 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT and opportunities in our capabilities In addition to these internal mechanisms, the impact of access strategies and and our approach, brainstorm more we also recognized the need to initiatives, as well as evidence of how innovative mechanisms and models, engage more effectively with external access strategies are integrated into an and reevaluate our targets and metrics. stakeholders to better understand their overall business strategy. In response, Discussions at the workshops led to needs in order to expand access to we developed and report annually on the creation of the Emerging Markets our products and sustain our business key performance indicators and Access Committee to help embed our over the long term. In 2013, building articulate the business case for our overall Access to Health Guiding Principles more on discussions during internal Access approach, as reflected in our Access to fully into the business. This committee, workshops, Merck launched a new Health Statement of Guiding Principles. which brings together various internal approach to our engagement with functions, is responsible for driving key external stakeholders, including There is also a need for relevant industryour access strategy by identifying and international funding organizations, specific indicators that will allow pursuing new opportunities to reach nongovernmental organizations, and comparisons across the industry. One more patients and grow Merck’s government aid agencies that in many example is the Access to Medicines business with nontraditional customers cases play active roles in expanding Index (ATMI), which ranked Merck No. 4 and in countries in the middle to lower access to medicines for patients through in its 2012 Index, which is issued every range of the economic pyramid. The direct operational activities, or through two years. Merck believes that the ATMI committee is also responsible for advocacy on issues related to access. Our represents an important first step in aligning various stakeholders within objective is to enhance our engagement this process, but more work is needed the organization on Merck’s access in a way that is consistent with Merck’s to ensure that all indicators are relevant vision and strategy. Merck also has a sustainable access objectives. and provide true measures of corporate group dedicated to ensuring access responsibility. Toward that end, we to essential medicines in Africa called Our goal is to develop a more consistent remain committed to working with the the Institutional Business Africa (IBA) and cohesive approach utilizing effective ATMI and other organizations to develop unit. IBA consists of a dedicated team internal mechanisms and innovative meaningful measurements for Merck and of public health and medical specialists partnerships that help to make our our industry. based across sub-Saharan Africa that medicines and vaccines available to more fosters strategic partnerships and people in more places, while at the same provides policy and technical guidance time building a sustainable business. to countries in the areas of family planning, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and Measuring how we’re doing is a vaccines to achieve sustainable benefits challenging but important component for lives and communities across the of our access strategy, as it enables African continent. us, through relevant quantitative indicators, to demonstrate our progress in implementing our Principles and to measure the effectiveness of our efforts. Various stakeholders are also calling on the global pharmaceutical industry to provide greater transparency about MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 4 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck is committed to addressing RESEARCH & unmet medical needs through innovative PEDIATRIC R&D research and development: R&D DEVELOPMENT expenses were $7.5 billion in 2013. The We are including pediatric clinical talent of our scientists, combined with trials in the company’s new the dramatic scientific and technological drug and vaccine development advances of the past decade, is leading strategies worldwide, where Our passion is improving health. to an exciting period for research as we relevant, in response to unmet That is what keeps us at the seek new and more-effective ways to clinical needs. forefront of scientific discovery treat diseases. and innovation. Further, where appropriate, we Pipeline will seek approval for pediatric indications and develop ageMerck focuses on advancing specific formulations. Merck OUR COMMITMENTS developmental candidates that it believes utilizes an internal Pediatric represent breakthrough science that will Development Advisory Committee • We will evaluate and reflect, make a difference for patients and payers. to review and provide input into all where appropriate, the needs of This focus includes candidates such as pediatric development strategies emerging markets in the R&D of the company’s investigational anti-PD-1 across various therapeutic areas. our products. immunotherapy in oncology (MK-3475); The committee serves as a Center • We will conduct our clinical a BACE inhibitor for Alzheimer’s disease of Excellence within Merck to trials, including trials in Low (MK-8931); its next-generation HCV consult on pediatric development Income and Middle Income programs; and V503, the company’s issues and key pediatric policy countries, in accordance with 9-valent HPV vaccine candidate. questions. For a listing of all of our the global standards of Good We pursue therapies in a variety of pediatric clinical trials, click here. Clinical Practices, applicable modalities, including small molecules, local regulatory requirements vaccines and biologics. and following the ethical Merck’s R&D model is designed to principles that have their origin Our products and research priorities are increase productivity and improve the in the Declaration of Helsinki. aligned with the current and projected probability of success by prioritizing global burden of disease as defined by resources based on scientific • We will collaborate with the World Health Organization (WHO), as opportunity and commercial potential. diverse partners to expand well as with the increasing need for new We are committed to advancing our our R&D capacity to address therapies targeted to treatment-resistant most promising research and clinical unmet needs, including those diseases such as hepatitis C. development to bring forward new in emerging markets and least medicines and vaccines that will make a developed countries. Merck’s research pipeline illustrates meaningful difference in patients’ lives. • We will pursue opportunities the progress of our R&D efforts. We Learn more. to provide access to compound currently have a number of candidates libraries and molecules to spur under regulatory review in the U.S. and Faced with the complex challenges of development of new products. internationally. An update on our R&D bringing important new therapies to activities can be found in the company’s patients while simultaneously controlling 10-K Report. the rising costs of innovation, Merck is also using important new preclinical, MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 5 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT clinical and quantitative tools to help we believe we can bring innovative provision of drugs and vaccines and/ us rapidly differentiate between products to patients faster, while still or total or partial funding, high-quality developmental candidates that will clearly maintaining a rigorous focus on scientific research that is initiated, designed, meet patient needs and those that will excellence and safety. implemented and sponsored by external not. A focus on genetics, genomics and investigators. Results will be documented translational medicine is also critical We also recognize that individuals or and properly disseminated in peerto these efforts, for instance, enabling companies cannot successfully develop reviewed publications. us to develop biomarkers—those drugs single-handedly. Most cases of true characteristics that can be objectively innovation come from robust and honest We believe in broader disclosure of measured and evaluated as indicators (or collaboration among individuals with financial relationships between physicians markers) of normal biologic processes, diverse backgrounds and capabilities, and the pharmaceutical industry. In 2008, disease or responses to therapy. Since brought together by the idea of changing Merck endorsed the Physician Payment biomarkers provide critical information the course of human health. As part of Sunshine Act, mandating disclosure of in the drug-discovery and -development our R&D strategy, therefore, we pursue certain financial relationships. Even in processes, our intent is to apply opportunities to establish external the absence of a legislative requirement, them very early in the development alliances to complement our substantial in October 2009, we began voluntarily of novel therapeutic candidates to internal research capabilities, including disclosing all payments to U.S.-based provide preliminary evidence of their research collaborations, as well as license healthcare professionals who speak on potential benefit before proceeding with agreements for preclinical and clinical behalf of Merck about our products and further development. compounds that have the potential to other healthcare issues. As of June 2012, drive both nearand long-term growth. In reports are posted quarterly reflecting In addition, Merck is using novel this regard, Merck Research Laboratories payments and transfers of value to quantitative approaches to analyzing (MRL) establishes significant external U.S.-based physicians, including those preclinical experiments to inform our alliances to advance drug discovery and engaged in clinical research activities. clinical trials and to develop models based development, improve R&D productivity, We include both direct payments to on published literature. By integrating and successfully commercialize novel individual physicians as well as “indirect” our knowledge from these sources, we therapeutics and vaccines. Learn more. payments to the research entity/ can develop mathematical models that institution associated with the principal allow us to explore possible clinical trial investigator(s). The latter does not imply scenarios. We now have the capability to PA R T N E R S H I P S a direct payment to the individuals but first simulate a trial thousands of times, rather support for the work that he or she exploring the impact of different factors Merck supports academic and is doing in the context of the research that influence a specific disease and/ community-based physicians on behalf of the entity/institution. Later, or patient population, and the related Merck will be implementing the Physician and researchers in expanding efficacy and safety responses. Payments Sunshine Act provisions of the clinical and scientific knowledge U.S. Affordable Care Act, which require With this integrated approach we can and improving understanding pharmaceutical manufacturers to annually optimize the next phase of clinical trials of the appropriate use of disclose information on certain additional and, importantly, make pivotal decisions Merck products. payments and other transfer of value earlier and more confidently, increasing furnished to U.S.-licensed physicians and productivity and improving the probability The Merck Investigator Studies U.S. teaching hospitals to the Department of success. By eliminating likely Program is an example of our effort of Health and Human Services. Click failures sooner and focusing on those to advance science and improve here for more information and a list mechanisms that appear more promising, patient care by supporting, through the of disclosures. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 6 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck is a member of and supports by patients with psoriasis. This effort GE Healthcare and Luminex— numerous professional associations, will focus on evaluating the impact Alzheimer’s Disease including the American Association for of psoriasis on affected patients Merck is aggressively driving forward the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the and informing a novel approach to research on Alzheimer’s disease through U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), improving outcomes. projects with imaging and diagnostic the U.S. National Science Foundation companies to help determine which (NSF), the World Medical Association PLM is the world’s leading online healthpatients may benefit most from novel (WMA) and the Institute of Medicine data-sharing platform. PLM creates new treatments in development. (IOM). In addition to promoting dialogue knowledge by charting the real-world and the exchange of ideas in research, course of disease through the shared Merck and GE Healthcare have a clinical Merck sponsors research conferences— experiences of patients. While patients study collaboration, license and supply such as selected Gordon Research share information to help improve agreement for use of Flutemetamol, Conferences, an international forum in their outcomes, the data they provide an investigational positron emission which researchers discuss advances in allows researchers to learn how these tomography (PET) imaging agent, biologic, chemical and physical science— diseases act in the real world and helps to support Merck’s development of that cover areas in which Merck is accelerate the discovery of new, more MK-8931, a novel oral beta amyloid conducting research. effective treatments. precursor protein site cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor and Merck’s lead Merck also collaborates with external Regenstrief Institute (RI)— investigational candidate for Alzheimer’s researchers and other members of the Personalized Delivery of Healthcare disease (AD). pharmaceutical industry by participating The Regenstrief Institute (RI) and Merck in selected scientific consortiums. have signed a five-year agreement Accumulation of beta amyloid in the brain Consortiums are an important to collaborate on a range of projects is a pathological characteristic related mechanism by which researchers can that will use clinical data to inform to Alzheimer’s disease. Currently, AD is work together in a precompetitive personalized delivery of healthcare. diagnosed by clinical examination (i.e., manner to address complex scientific The work will explore novel methods medical history, physical, neurological, challenges common to all parties. These for studying diseases and interventions psychiatric and neuropsychological consortiums are typically in the form of for chronic conditions such as diabetes, exams; laboratory tests and magnetic public-private partnerships. cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis. resonance imaging [MRI] or computed tomography [CT] scans). An AD Public-Private Research Partnerships The RI is an internationally respected diagnosis can only be confirmed through informatics and healthcare research histopathological identification of PatientsLikeMe (PLM) and Merck organization, recognized for its role in characteristic features, including beta have established a health-information improving quality of care, increasing amyloid plaques, in post-mortem brain collaboration focused on patient-based the efficiency of healthcare delivery, samples. There is a serious unmet need research into psoriasis and aimed preventing medical errors and enhancing for a reliable method for measuring beta at producing new insights into this patient safety. Ultimately, the RI-Merck amyloid deposits to help physicians common autoimmune disease in the collaboration seeks to improve the diagnose Alzheimer’s disease. U.S. (estimated by the National Psoriasis health of patients through data analytics, Foundation to affect over 7.5 million healthcare innovation, education, and Luminex Corporation and Merck are also Americans). Under the agreement, research that supports evidencecollaborating to develop a companion PLM will work directly with Merck’s based healthcare. diagnostic device that will be evaluated to clinical researchers and epidemiologists help screen patients for recruitment into to analyze and interpret data reported Merck’s clinical development program for MK-8931. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 7 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Luminex technology is being used small-molecule therapies directed against and Drug Administration (FDA) and the to measure concentrations of two three novel targets to treat metabolic European Medicines Agency (EMA). candidate biomarkers (Aβ42 and t-tau) diseases, with a focus on type 2 diabetes. in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples The 18 corporate members of the from patients with mild cognitive Merck and Samsung Bioepis also have consortium share internal experiences impairment (MCI). The candidate device entered into a recent agreement to with preclinical and clinical safety will be evaluated as a means to identify develop, manufacture and commercialize biomarkers in kidney, liver, skeletal subjects with MCI who have a higher MK-1293, an insulin glargine candidate muscle, testicular toxicity, vascular injury risk of developing AD to support patient for the treatment of patients with type and cardiac hypertrophy. All biomarker selection for Merck’s therapeutic BACE 1 and type 2 diabetes. Under the terms research programs have a strong inhibitor clinical program. of the agreement, the companies will translational focus to select new safety collaborate on clinical development, tools that are applicable across the drugPfizer, Abide Therapeutics, and regulatory filings and manufacturing. development spectrum. Advancing the Samsung Bioepis—Diabetes science and use of biomarkers in drug In 2013, Merck also announced Adimab—Biologics development is a critical area of focus early-stage diabetes and metabolic Merck continues to expand our biologics for Merck. The following are notable research partnerships as well as clinical footprint through discovery, development PSTC achievements: collaborations that we hope will bring and commercialization partnerships. forward the next wave of oral therapies. • The FDA and EMA qualified Adimab, a technology leader in the seven new urine tests that signal Merck and Pfizer entered into a discovery of fully human antibodies, kidney injury worldwide (except Japan) collaboration expanded its existing research • The PSTC opened a biomarkeragreement for the development and collaborations with Merck and Lilly. qualification process with the FDA for commercialization of Pfizer’s ertugliflozin The latest agreement provides Merck new biomarkers of drug-induced liver (PF-04971729). This compound is an expanded access to Adimab’s technology and skeletal muscle injury investigational oral sodium glucose to discover and optimize fully human cotransporter (SGLT-2) inhibitor being antibody candidates, including potentially • The Japanese Pharmaceuticals and evaluated for the treatment of type 2 bispecific antibody candidates, across Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) diabetes. A Phase IIb study has been all disease areas. Adimab scientists will qualified new biomarker laboratory completed on ertugliflozin. Under the discover therapeutic antibody candidates tests that signal kidney injury terms of the agreement, Merck and to multiple targets nominated by Merck Pfizer will collaborate on the clinical over a three-year period. Biomarkers Consortium— development and commercialization of Biomarker-Based Technologies ertugliflozin and ertugliflozin-containing Predictive Safety Testing The Biomarkers Consortium, in which fixed-dose combinations with metformin Consortium—Safety-Testing Methods Merck participates, is a public-private and JANUVIA® (sitagliptin) tablets. Merck is a member of the Predictive biomedical research partnership Safety Testing Consortium (PSTC), managed by the Foundation for the Abide Therapeutics, a biopharmaceutical a unique public-private partnership led National Institutes of Health (FNIH). company pioneering innovative by the nonprofit Critical Path Institute Its goal is to combine the forces of the approaches to selectively target a (C-Path). The PSTC brings together public and private sectors to accelerate group of enzymes known as serine pharmaceutical companies to share and development of biomarker-based hydrolases, has entered into a validate their safety-testing methods technologies, medicines and therapies collaboration agreement with Merck to under the advisement of the U.S. Food for the prevention, early detection, discover, develop and commercialize diagnosis and treatment of disease. Working together, the members of the MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 8 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Biomarkers Consortium are building the current model for developing new G OV E R N A N C E uniquely powerful collaborations that diagnostics and treatments by jointly are accelerating the development of identifying and validating promising At Merck, our governance biomarker-based technologies, medicines biological targets of disease. The and therapies. ultimate goal is to increase the number structure is as vital to our success of new diagnostics and therapies for as the life-changing products To date, the Biomarkers Consortium has patients and reduce the time and cost of we bring to market. Governance launched 10 projects in areas as diverse developing them. defines who makes investment as Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular and portfolio decisions, what we disease and breast cancer; a number AMP will begin with three-to-fiveinvest in, and how we’ll stay on of other promising projects are also year pilot projects in the three disease moving toward implementation. Merck areas of Alzheimer’s disease, type 2 track to deliver on our goals. contributes to a number of FNIH projects diabetes, and autoimmune disorders The Research Leadership Team, within this consortium. of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic headed by the president of Merck lupus erythematosus (lupus). Merck is Research Laboratories (MRL), develops National Institutes of Health contributing to the type 2 diabetes and the divisional strategy, allocates Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging rheumatoid arthritis/lupus projects. resources,and manages the R&D Initiative (ADNI) portfolio. The team comprises the heads Merck has continued its participation Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI)— of functional areas within MRL, and each in the National Institutes of Health Accelerating Research area provides expert, efficient support Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Within Europe, Merck participates in a of our drug candidates—ushering them Initiative (ADNI), the largest publicnumber of Innovative Medicines Initiative from drug discovery through product-​ private partnership in Alzheimer’s disease (IMI) projects aligned with its areas of life-cycle management. research. This study, which is designed interest, namely: “RAPP-ID,” which to gain new insights into the onset and works on the development of rapid Code of Conduct progression of Alzheimer’s disease, has point-of-care platforms for infectious now expanded to ADNI2, with the goal of diseases; “ORBITO,” which aims to All Merck employees must abide by improving clinical trial design and aiding enhance our understanding of how orally our Code of Conduct, which applies drug development. ADNI2 will seek to administered drugs are taken up from the to the way we work with external identify and track early changes in the gastrointestinal tract into the body and researchers, doctors and academics. brain before the onset of Alzheimer’s to apply this knowledge to create new According to Merck’s Guiding Principles symptoms by using imaging techniques laboratory tests and computer models for Business Practices Involving the and biomarker measures in blood and that will better predict the performance Medical and Scientific Community, cerebrospinal fluid. of these drugs in patients; “UBIOPRED,” all activities involving the medical and which aims to speed up the development scientific community that are sponsored Accelerating Medicines Partnership of better treatments for patients with or supported by Merck, including our (AMP)—New Diagnostics severe asthma; and “Get Real,” which subsidiaries, are to have a legitimate, and Therapies addresses clinical effectiveness in drug well-articulated business purpose. Merck has also recently joined the development. Each of these consortia In addition, all activities are to be Accelerating Medicines Partnership builds on expertise from partners in implemented in accordance with the (AMP), a bold new venture between the academia, the pharmaceutical and highest standards of ethics and integrity, National Institutes of Health (NIH), 10 biotechnology sectors as well as certain having the utmost regard for patient biopharmaceutical companies and several public bodies, to ensure a cohesive health and safety. nonprofit organizations to transform approach to these challenging areas of research. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 9 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Research Misconduct Merck’s Compliance Program is based on MRL business areas through appropriate Chapter 8 of the U.S. Federal Sentencing management structure, processes and In accordance with MRL policy, Merck Guidelines, Sentencing of Organizations, training.” To manage compliance in MRL, does not tolerate fraud or misconduct as amended, which set forth the the committee includes a core crossin our research activities—whether by elements of an effective compliance functional team representing the key an employee or an external business program, as well as more specific functional areas within MRL. In this way, partner. Merck deals promptly, directly guidance for the pharmaceutical industry compliance efforts encompass the entire and appropriately with all reported cases. issued by the Office of the Inspector division and go beyond simply addressing MRL policy is aligned with Merck’s policy General in 2001. Learn more about the conduct of clinical trials. on Reporting and Responding to Merck’s compliance programs. Potential Company Violations. The MRL Compliance Committee also The company’s Compliance Charter has promotes ethical science and provides Compliance allocated responsibility and accountability guidance to MRL employees on Merck for compliance to the divisional level. standards and corporate policies, as To help ensure compliance, Merck Therefore, each division has established well as necessary education related to has clear policies in place to provide its own compliance committee to specific requirements applicable to the guidance to employees on ethical and tackle specific divisional issues research community. lawful conduct. It is each employee’s and requirements. responsibility to conduct himself or herself ethically and lawfully. The stated objective of the MRL Compliance Committee Charter is “to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable laws and requirements in all PERFORMANCE MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 10 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck Global Safety manages a global PRODUCT SAFETY PATIENT SAFETY system for the collection, management and reporting of adverse experience (AE) reports received by Merck worldwide. Learn more. Safety is our highest priority. We recognize that when people take our medicines and vaccines, Monitoring & Compliance We rigorously study our products, and they must have confidence in their work with regulators and healthcare efficacy and safety. Ensuring that The Global Clinical and Pharmacovigilance professionals over many years to characterize their safety profiles. confidence is crucial to us. Compliance (GC&PVC) function at Merck is part of the Merck Research Initially, test compounds are evaluated Merck medicines and vaccines are widely Laboratories (MRL) Compliance in the laboratory. If they pass stringent tested before they are approved for organization, which in turn is part of laboratory tests, the compounds move marketing. This testing is governed by a the Global Compliance Organization into next-stage testing in animals. comprehensive regulatory scheme and (GCO). This group is responsible for Only a few compounds ever make it that by our research policies. We assess the conducting independent, periodic far. If the compound makes it through safety of our products in rigorous clinical audits of the processes, computerized the animal-testing stage, we then begin trials before they are approved. Merck is systems, technology and collaborative clinical development, during which committed to the timely registration of partners supporting the Merck Human multiple studies are conducted over clinical trial information and disclosure of Health, Merck Animal Health and Merck several years. trial results—regardless of the outcome. Consumer Care divisions within Merck. Learn more about our clinical trials. MRL has a comprehensive, risk-based Clinical testing begins in Phase I in a small audit and compliance oversight program number of people and progresses through that encompasses a broad range of Phase III, in which the safety and efficacy REPORTING AN ADVERSE GC&PVC audits and assessments of of a medicine is rigorously evaluated. If EXPERIENCE IN THE U.S. the following: the clinical studies are successful, we submit extensive documentation and • Clinical investigator sites: Audits to data to regulators in a product-licensing To speak with a Merck healthcare assess compliance with the protocol application. Before approving a medicine professional about Merck and with GC&PVC regulations or vaccine for use, regulators scrutinize products, or to report an adverse and guidelines these extensive data and analyses. experience with a specific Merck Even after a product is approved, we product, please call the Merck • Collaborative partners: Precontinue to actively monitor the safety National Service Center at contractual assessments and selected of our medicines and vaccines in various 800-444-2080. The center can post-contractual audits of contracted ways, including post-marketing studies. assist you Monday through Friday research organizations (CROs), central If we identify safety issues following a from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m., eastern laboratories and other third-party product’s approval, we work closely with time. Adverse experiences and business partners and vendors the regulatory authorities to communicate product-related emergencies can • Computerized systems promptly and appropriately with be reported at any time by dialing and technology: Audits and healthcare professionals and patients. 800-444-2080. assessments of the computerized systems and technology supporting clinical development MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Internal process/systems Phase IIb through the end of the product licensed by Merck. As of March 15, 2014, audits: Systematic evaluations of life cycle. CSRM is responsible for the the Merck Pharmacoepidemiology and compliance of clinical and animal formation of a proactive clinical safety Database Research Unit has successfully health development processes with risk-management strategy, including created and utilized 29 SafetyMatters standard operating procedures, Global the Risk Management Plan, which is a Disease Cohorts in 17 productDevelopment Procedures (ICH-GCP) regulatory requirement in many countries specific areas. and other applicable regulations for marketed drugs and vaccines. and guidances Product Label Reviews • Country operations audits: Periodic Development of the overall riskand systematic assessments of management strategy incorporates all The ongoing oversight and monitoring Merck’s clinical trial and animal health available internal information (e.g., basic of our product labels are a major focus of operations and activities carried out by research data and animal and human our safety efforts. Our label review teams our subsidiaries worldwide studies with the product and/or related monitor information on our products products) and external information (e.g., and work with our product safety teams • Business partner audits: Audits literature and public data related to the to develop or update product labeling. of companies external to Merck class of drugs and/or therapeutic target) We communicate relevant information where a licensing or development that contributes to the overall risk-benefit regularly to regulatory agencies worldwide. agreement exists in which compliance assessment of the product. The strategy with contractual and regulatory focuses on activities needed to identify, Observational Medical Outcomes requirements is assessed evaluate and manage potential patientPartnership (OMOP) • Verification audits: Audits to verify safety risks. The Risk Management & that the corrective actions that have Safety teams assess patient safety using The Observational Medical Outcomes been implemented are effective at product labeling, physician and patient Partnership (OMOP) initiative was a remediating the noncompliance educational programs, and other riskpartnership between PhRMA, academia minimization strategies, as appropriate. and the FDA. During 2013, Merck Through the oversight and The Risk Management & Safety teams continued to support OMOP’s activities implementation of this comprehensive also implement strategies to determine in distributed database systems and audit program, GC&PVC provides the effectiveness of these interventions, methods. In late 2013, OMOP moved independent assurance to Merck senior as appropriate. under the Innovative Medical Evidence management that the operations, Development and Surveillance (IMEDS) processes and computerized systems SafetyMatters Initiative program under the Reagan-Udall and technology supporting Merck Foundation. The IMEDS program is Human Health, Animal Health and Merck The goal of SafetyMatters is to explore a public-private partnership created to Consumer Care development activities and implement the appropriate use of build upon the significant progress made comply with applicable global regulations emerging technologies and methods on research methodology by the FDA’s and guidelines as well as internal for health outcomes of interest (HOIs) Sentinel Initiative, including its Minicompany policies and procedures. identification and evaluation, and to Sentinel pilot and the OMOP. further improve post-licensure monitoring Risk Management and evaluation of our marketed products. IMEDS’s primary objective is to advance A cornerstone of SafetyMatters is the the science and tools necessary to Merck Clinical Safety and Risk proactive development and utilization, support post-marketing evidence Management (CSRM) leads the Risk as needed, of Disease Cohorts based on generation on regulated products, Management & Safety teams for data contained in large medical claims including safety surveillance and all products, from the beginning of and electronic-health-record databases evaluations, and to facilitate utilization MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT of a robust electronic healthcare experience, an identifiable patient and data platform for generating better evidence on regulated products in postADVERSE EVENT an identifiable reporter. In addition to submission of individual AE reports to REPORTING marketing settings. regulatory authorities, either within 15 calendar days or periodically, we also Merck continues to support IMEDS file aggregate reports either quarterly, through participation in both the IMEDS twice a year, or annually for as long as we Steering Committee and the Scientific Merck Global Safety manages a market a product. Advisory Committee. We are exploring global system for the collection, synergies and linkages between IMEDS evaluation and reporting of Our Risk Management & Safety teams and SafetyMatters to establish standards review adverse experience information adverse experience (AE) reports for the use of modern epidemiology received from all sources (foreign, received by Merck worldwide. data sources and analytic techniques for domestic, clinical trials, published evaluating product safety in observational literature, post-marketing) for our Although regulations vary by claims and electronic-health-record products and determine what actions country, most countries require drug databases. may need to be taken with reference manufacturers to promptly review AE to the evolving safety profile of our information they receive from any source, Communicating About Product Risks products. These teams include physicians both domestic and foreign, relating to the and epidemiologists who are trained to use of their products. Manufacturers are Our information leaflets in our product review this type of data. also required to have written procedures packaging contain information on in place for evaluating and reporting possible side effects and, if appropriate, It can be difficult to determine the exact adverse experiences. how to avoid some potential problems. cause of an adverse experience because We include contact details on our many patients have more than one In accordance with global regulatory corporate website for patients, condition and may be taking multiple reporting requirements, Merck has caregivers and health professionals to products. Our Global Safety staff takes developed a written procedure to report adverse experiences in the United great care to make sure that AE reporting provide personnel worldwide—including States. Outside the United States, is as accurate as possible. We review all contractors—with a consistent adverse events are reported according the data to determine if there are any and thorough process for identifying, to local laws and practices. patterns or emerging trends that need evaluating and reporting AEs occurring in additional surveillance. association with the use of our products. Depending on label changes and These procedures cover the reporting their context, we may determine, in Another major safety focus is the ongoing of AEs originating in clinical studies consultation with regulatory agencies, oversight and monitoring of our product and those associated with the use of that more extensive communications labels. Our Label Review teams monitor marketed products. Adherence to these may be appropriate. In such cases, information on our products and work procedures ensures the timely and we work with regulatory authorities with our Product Safety teams to develop accurate monitoring of the safety profile to contact healthcare professionals or update product labeling. Information of Merck’s investigational and marketed in a timely manner, so that they can is then communicated to regulatory products globally. communicate these findings to patients agencies worldwide. through appropriate mechanisms. To report an adverse experience to Contacting healthcare professionals Employees responsible for monitoring regulatory authorities, we need at least might include “Dear Doctor” letters and and reporting adverse experiences minimal information: the name of the media releases. undergo rigorous training every other Merck product involved, the adverse MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT year. New Merck Research Laboratories The OCMO collaborates with external Pharmacokinetics refers to what employees—including all contract physicians and scientists, organizations, the body does to the drug, while personnel—working in areas related academic leaders and governments, pharmacodynamics refers to what the to clinical research and global safety in order to share ideas and exchange drug does to the body. If these initial tests undergo training on Merck’s AE policies fresh insights so that Merck can better are favorable, additional, larger Phase II and procedures when they join the address global health challenges. studies are initiated to determine the company. All other employees are trained Inside Merck, Dr. Rosenblatt and his effectiveness of the compound in the in AE reporting procedures as part of Our team provide medical and scientific affected population, to define appropriate Values and Standards training. perspective to inform R&D, commercial dosing for the compound, and to identify and manufacturing strategies while at any adverse effects that could limit the the same time providing input on the compound’s usefulness. company’s social responsibilities. The CHIEF MEDICAL team also plays a direct role in fostering health literacy and healthcare equities If data from the Phase II trials are satisfactory, companies will invest in OFFICER standards, establishing publication large-scale Phase III trials to rigorously guidelines, providing medical reference evaluate the compound’s safety and information, educating physicians and efficacy. Upon satisfactory completion of other health professionals and patients, those trials, companies submit regulatory The Office of the Chief Medical and enhancing employee wellness. Most filings for marketing approval with the Officer (OCMO) collaborates recently, the OCMO has helped pioneer appropriate regulatory agencies around with colleagues throughout the the use of health information technology the world to have the product candidate company to ensure that the and partnerships to enhance clinical approved for marketing. data science, improve clinical care, and patient remains the focal point of support patient engagement. Merck conducts clinical trials worldwide the healthcare ecosystem, as is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of our consistent with our commitment The CMO and his team play a unique role products. These trials are fundamental to patient safety and well-being. in helping Merck and our employees keep to the development of innovative a sharp focus on patients in everything medicines and vaccines that treat and Dr. Michael Rosenblatt, Executive Vice we do, building on our long-standing prevent illness in humans. It is Merck’s President and Chief Medical Officer, leads commitment to helping the world be well. policy that all investigational studies in this effort, representing the independent human subjects must be conducted in a voice of patients and medicine within manner consistent with laws, regulations Merck at the highest levels and serving as and guidelines for the protection of the primary voice of Merck to the global scientific and medical community. He advises senior leadership and the Merck CLINICAL RESEARCH human subjects, including those issued by the International Conference on Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice Board of Directors on key medical and (ICH GCP). However, individual country Clinical testing begins with Phase I patient safety matters, and also serves regulations and guidelines should as the company’s medical spokesperson, studies, which are designed to remain the primary determinant of communicating with global health assess the safety, tolerability, specific requirements for the conduct of stakeholders, including the media and pharmacokinetics and preliminary medical research. policy makers, about our medicines and pharmacodynamic activity of the vaccines, our policy positions, and other compound in humans. matters affecting patients. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Clinical Trial Registration Merck believes that clinical trial registries serve an important function for patients and their healthcare providers by enabling them to learn about and gain access to relevant clinical trials of experimental treatments or preventive agents. We Consistent with the trend in the continually assess changing global CLINICAL TRIALS pharmaceutical industry, significantly requirements for clinical trial registration more than half of the patients and update our clinical processes and Merck is committed to the participating in our clinical trials are practices to make sure the company is enrolled outside the U.S., in more than timely registration of clinical trial compliant with them. 50 countries. We have a commitment to information and the disclosure the study of diverse patient populations of trial results—regardless of For those who analyze, report or publish including minorities, women and children their outcome. the results of clinical trials, a clinical trial in our clinical trials in all regions of the registry also provides information on trials world. As a result, we strive to obtain In response to physician and patient in progress and the ability to track such information among diverse populations, requests for improved information, Merck trials over the course of development. ensuring a thorough evaluation of the registers clinical trials at ClinicalTrials.gov Beginning in 2005, Merck registered safety and efficacy of our medicines and and has been posting results of clinical clinical trials that began or were completed vaccines. These efforts allow us to seek trials at the site since October 2008. Prior in 2002 or later and posted results for regulatory approvals throughout the world to October 2008, Merck posted results of marketed products. Since February 2007, and thereby offer our medicines globally clinical trials at the ClinicalStudyResults. Merck’s policy has been to register at to patients who need them. org database sponsored by PhRMA. As initiation clinical trials (Phases I–V in of December 2011, the study results patients of investigational and marketed On September 20, 2013, Merck received maintained in that database were products in which treatment is assigned) a Complete Response Letter from the transferred to www.merck.com because that it sponsors and conducts worldwide Food and Drug Administration (FDA) PhRMA announced that the database on ClinicalTrials.gov. for the resubmission of the New Drug would be discontinued by the end of Application (NDA) for Sugammadex. The 2011. Registration provides patients In December 2013, Merck launched letter cited Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and physicians with information about a new clinical trials site for patients inspection deficiencies with respect clinical trials that are open and recruiting searching for a Merck clinical trial to a clinical study conducted to assess patients. Registration of trials and posting that features accessible content, hypersensitivity. Following discussions of results after trials are completed provides information on each study with the FDA, Merck is conducting a enable researchers who analyze, report or that’s enrolling patients and addresses confirmatory hypersensitivity study. publish the results of clinical trials to have anticipated questions and concerns. While not resulting in significant fines, timely information about our medicines Contact information is provided, penalties, warning letters or product and vaccines. including the telephone number for seizures, this information is provided for the Merck National Service Center full disclosure. or for the local subsidiary for patients and caregivers. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Disclosure of Clinical Trial Results • Make substantial contributions to in their evaluation of the manuscript study conception and design, or for publication. Further, if the journal Merck has long been committed to acquisition of data, or analysis and accepts the manuscript, Merck allows publishing the results of our clinical trials, interpretation of data the journal—at its sole discretion— regardless of their outcome, in a timely • Draft the article or revise it critically for to post key sections of the protocol manner. In keeping with our publication important intellectual content on its website when the manuscript guidelines, Merck discloses balanced is published. and accurate information about our • Give final approval of the version to registered clinical trials. In addition, in be published Merck complies with all applicable the United States, we disclose clinical • Are accountable for all aspects of laws and regulations associated with trial results of marketed products on the work in ensuring that questions registration of clinical trials and posting websites designed for this purpose. Until related to the accuracy or integrity of results. If a clinical trial of a marketed January 2009, we posted study results on any part of the work are appropriately product is terminated early for safety ClinicalStudyResults.org. Since then we investigated and resolved reasons, we will promptly disclose have posted results at ClinicalTrials.gov. medically important information to We adhere to the authorship criteria A synopsis of the study is posted 30 days regulatory authorities and the public, of respected biomedical journals if after the product is first marketed in the update the status on ClinicalTrials.gov their criteria differ from those of the United States or within 12 months after within 30 days, and submit a manuscript ICMJE. In addition, individuals who do the last patient’s final visit for the primary to a journal (or post a summary not meet the criteria for authorship but outcome occurs, whichever is later. online) within 12 months after the last who provide support are recognized in patient’s last visit occurs. If the trial acknowledgments when the manuscript For many years, Merck has been was terminated for efficacy reasons, is published. Merck staff or contract committed to publishing results of the results will be disclosed within writers that we hire may facilitate the hypothesis-testing trials, predating recent 12 months after the last patient’s last development of a manuscript when questions about the publication of such visit occurs. Summaries of terminated the lead author provides oversight and data. We expanded our commitment in trials will provide information about direction; the efforts of the writers will 2007 by disclosing results from registered patient disposition, safety and adverse then be acknowledged in the publication. trials of marketed products, as noted experiences, as well as an explanation above in the introduction to this section. as to why the trial was terminated early. We adhere to ICMJE or journal-specific Merck’s Guidelines for Publication For our position on clinical trial registries, guidelines for disclosure of potential of Clinical Trials and Related Works click here. conflicts of interest for the full author are posted online. These guidelines team. Reported potential conflicts contain additional information about how Access to Merck Clinical of interest include both financial and Merck works with external authors and Trial Databases nonfinancial ones. contributing writers. We also adhere to the International Committee of In addition to disclosing results of clinical In July 2011, Merck introduced its Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) trials, we respond to requests from latest transparency policy for its clinical guidelines for authorship, requiring external researchers to share Merck trials. Called the Protocol Transparency that authors meet all four of the clinical trial data. We have multiple Initiative, this voluntary practice involves following criteria: clinical trial databases that are of high providing the clinical study protocol to value to the external clinical research biomedical journals upon submission community. We evaluate each request of a manuscript reporting clinical trial based on criteria that balance the need to results, allowing journal editors and advance science with the need to protect peer reviewers to use this protocol MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT intellectual property and confidential For example, the design of a study Design, Conduct, Oversight information. Our evaluations comply with to assess the efficacy of a medicine and Monitoring applicable privacy and data-protection in treating a particular condition is laws, rules and regulations. different from that of one seeking All of our clinical trials are designed, to determine the optimal dose of conducted and monitored in accordance Clinical Trial Data Sharing a medicine in a particular group with the same set of Merck global of people. standards, whether the trials take place Merck is committed to the PhRMA/ • Statistical appropriateness and in the United States or elsewhere around EFPIA Principles for Responsible Clinical feasibility of conducting the the world. In addition to following Merck Trial Data Sharing. study: To make sure trial results are global standards, the conduct of our statistically meaningful, it is necessary clinical trials adheres to the ICH GCP Learn more about our policies before the trial begins to determine standards and to the principles that have and perspectives: the number of patients needed to their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. participate. It is also necessary to Learn more about our new policy on • Merck Procedure on Access to assess the feasibility of successfully clinical trial ethics. Clinical Trial Data conducting the trial. We seek input from local clinical • Merck Procedure on CSR • Acceptability of the trial design investigators and external consultants Synopsis Posting by regulatory agencies: When with specific, relevant experience when • Merck External Scientific Review necessary, Merck Research designing our clinical trials. For early Board (ESRB) Charter Laboratories (MRL) consults with clinical trials in Phase II, studies are regulatory agencies on design issues. monitored on an ongoing basis by the Scientific and medical researchers who wish to submit a proposal for access • Ethical perspectives clinical director and study team; when to Merck data may send an inquiry by appropriate, an internal standing dataclicking here. All Merck studies, regardless of the study monitoring committee of Merck Research design, use a standard format: Laboratories senior managers reviews unblinded data from ongoing trials in a • The study objectives and endpoints prespecified, scientifically acceptable CLINICAL TRIAL DESIGN manner. The goals of the committee are (i.e., measurements) must be clearly stated before the study begins to protect the safety of trial participants All of Merck’s clinical trials and assess whether the risk-benefit • The hypothesis or scientific question are designed, conducted and being asked by the study must be profile is favorable. The committee’s monitored in accordance with the clearly defined recommendations are communicated same Merck global standards, internally to relevant scientists and • A plan for the analysis of the data can be distributed externally to clinical whether they take place in must be developed before the trial investigators, review boards or regulatory the U.S. or elsewhere around begins and is finalized before the trial agencies, as appropriate. the world. is completed For all Phase III and other clinical trials We consider many factors when we The benefits of this format include intended to support registration, studies design a clinical trial: strengthening the scientific credibility are monitored by the clinical director and regulatory acceptability of the results and study team. In addition, if unblinded • Our questions and objectives: and ensuring timely data analysis and data will need to be monitored to ensure Clinical study designs vary according publication of results. patient safety or to make decisions about to the specific objectives of the study. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continuing a study, a data-monitoring solely to determine eligibility for that monitor clinical trials on behalf committee (DMC) composed of external participation in the trial. In circumstances of Merck. experts independent of Merck is where patients receive payment or assembled to provide review and make reimbursement for trial participation, CRAs monitoring on behalf of Merck recommendations to Merck about the this compensation is appropriate for will visit sites throughout the study to further conduct of the study. In addition, the cost and inconvenience incurred ensure that: it is Merck’s policy to establish scientific and is clearly outlined in the consent advisory committees composed of form for full transparency. The consent • The principal investigator and site external scientific leaders and Merck procedures conform to all legal staff are qualified and have adequate scientists. With the participation of statutes and government regulations facilities and equipment to conduct these committees, Merck can obtain concerning research in human subjects clinical research throughout the expert advice on the design of the trial, and the privacy and security of medical duration of the study provide for transparent review and information. If a prospective study • Site staff are adequately trained on the discussion of the data, and foster a participant cannot read the form, a protocol, procedures and equipment collaborative approach to the publication patient advocate may read the consent and presentation of findings. Merck also form, with consent documented • Site staff adhere to protocol has established a companywide, global and witnessed. requirements, sponsor’s development approach for assessing clinical safety procedures (DPs) and ICH guidelines by implementing internal organ-specific Protecting Personal • Clinical supplies are stored and safety boards to support the evaluation Health Information dispensed per protocol and management of organ-specific • Regulatory file documents are safety issues. Merck is a member of the International accurate and maintained per ICH Pharmaceutical Privacy Consortium guidelines and sponsor’s DPs All protocols and related documents (IPPC), an association of research-based are reviewed and approved by external pharmaceutical companies formed in • Source documentation, including drug and independent Institutional Review 2002 that has worldwide responsibility accountability logs, is maintained Boards (IRBs) or Ethical Review for the protection of personal health per ALCOA (attributable, legible, Committees (ERCs). information and other types of personal contemporaneous, original and data. Merck has been actively involved in accurate) guidelines Merck requires assurance that patients the IPPC since 2006 in order to engage • Subject safety is maintained through involved in trials, and/or their legal in a constructive dialogue with European review of source documentation, representatives, understand the data-protection authorities and other including drug accountability logs procedures ad to the use and disclosure regulators on privacy standards for • Data reported to the sponsor of personal health information, the use biomedical research. are accurate and reported per of biological samples, and the risks/ sponsor requirements benefits involved in a clinical study. A Monitoring consent form, approved by both Merck Contract Research Organizations and the IRB/ERC and translated into a In accordance with ICH GCP guidelines, language familiar to the study subject, trial sponsors should appoint clinical trial Approximately 40 percent of our latemust be carefully reviewed and signed monitors who are trained to monitor the stage development trials are currently by all participants to document that their trial adequately. Accordingly, ICH GCP outsourced to contract research participation in the study is voluntary and training is a mandatory course for all organizations (CROs) for the execution informed. Informed consent is obtained Merck clinical research associates (CRAs) of studies. Before agreeing to work with prior to initiation of any clinical study who monitor clinical trials, as well as for each CRO, Merck performs rigorous procedures, including those performed all contract research organizations (CROs) capability assessments to ensure that MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 18 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT the CRO has adequate procedures, studies after the product is approved. also work closely with external experts infrastructure and expertise to ensure A study could be required for multiple in pharmacoepidemiology and drug compliance with Good Clinical Practice reasons, such as obtaining further utilization to examine the utilization and (GCP) standards and is aligned with information on the safety of the safety of our marketed products as they Merck’s own Code of Conduct. Merck product. Merck works closely with are used in healthcare systems based in clinical trial teams oversee the studies regulatory authorities to design a study several populations. These include Kaiser being run by CROs, and periodic audits that will fulfill the specific requirement. Permanente (KP) Southern California, KP are performed on CROs with which we Northern California, United Healthcare, • Epidemiological studies: Merck do business. If and when we identify Pennsylvania and New Jersey Medicare, has a long history of working violations of the contract or GCP Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Nordic closely with external experts in standards, Merck works with the CRO on Country Registries, the Clinical Practice pharmacoepidemiology to understand a corrective action plan. If improvements Research Database, and Mayo Clinic the types of patients utilizing our are not made within a defined period of Olmsted County, Minnesota. products, as well as to examine the time, or if repeat violations are noted and effectiveness and safety profiles of unsatisfactorily remediated, Merck will Regulatory Agency Training many of our marketed products as limit and possibly cease future award they are used in clinical practice in opportunities with a CRO until the issues In 2013, Merck Research Laboratories healthcare systems based in several have been fully remediated. (MRL) Compliance and MRL Clinical different populations. Quality Management supported two • Pregnancy registries: For some Good Clinical Practice (GCP) educational products, Merck has systems of training events. These efforts aim to P O S TM A R K E T I N G AC T I V I T I E S active data collection that can facilitate enhance regulatory agency knowledge the early detection of teratogenicity, and capabilities in their GCP-compliance Merck continues to research substances or agents that can interfere inspection and oversight role. The regularly the effectiveness and with normal embryonic development, two venues supported in 2013 were and other serious adverse experiences safety profiles of our products. as follows: in patients who, inadvertently or purposefully, use a particular drug • July 2013: MRL Compliance was We conduct several types of studies after during pregnancy. Useful information invited to present on the topic of approval, as appropriate: about the effects of exposure in “GCP Audits & Inspections” to the pregnancy can best be obtained by the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE), • Post-approval studies on new careful collection and analysis of postTaiwan. Meeting attendees included indications: Some drugs may be marketing surveillance data. Reports Taiwanese regulators & inspectorates. effective for more than one indication. of the aggregate data in each registry For example, an oncology product can • September 2013: MRL Clinical are updated annually and shared with be developed to treat several types Quality Management was invited regulatory authorities. of cancer. In such cases, a clinical to present as a panelist to support trial generally must be conducted to a discussion on the topic of Post-Marketing Safety Studies evaluate the safety and efficacy of the “Quality Management” at the drug in each new patient population. “Clinical Research Coordinator & Merck monitors the use and safety of • Commitments to regulatory its products. We have a long history of Clinical Trial Conference” in Japan. authorities: For some products, conducting post-marketing safety studies Meeting attendees included regulatory authorities require to examine our products as they are used Japanese regulators. companies to conduct additional in clinical practice. Learn more about interventional or non-interventional our post-marketing activities below. We MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 19 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Select Post-Marketing Safety Studies Product Study Type Population Status ARCOXIATM (etoricoxib) Safety ARCOXIA-prescribing patterns and safety Ongoing in 6,000 patients in the U.K. ARCOXIA Safety 6,439 patients prescribed ARCOXIA in the Ongoing U.K., France, Germany ARCOXIA Safety 22,283 patients in Sweden with Ongoing ankylosing spondylitis ARCOXIA Safety Prescribing of etoricoxib by dentists Ongoing and oral surgeons in Nordic countries (Registry-based study in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden) FOSAMAX® (alendronate) Safety General practice research database Completed 2012 in the U.K. GARDASIL® [Human Papillomavirus Safety 189,629 female adolescents and women Completed 2010 Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) in the U.S. Vaccine, Recombinant] GARDASIL Safety and 56,000 in Nordic countries Ongoing effectiveness GARDASIL Safety Up to 135,000 males in the U.S. Ongoing ISENTRESS® (raltegravir potassium) Safety in HIV U.S. cohort of 1,000 Ongoing population ISENTRESS Safety HAART Consortium for Safety Studies Ongoing (HIV antivirals) ISENTRESS Safety EU cohort Ongoing NEXPLANON® (contraceptive device) Safety 7,100 women in the U.S. with insertions Ongoing and removals of NEXPLANON NOMAC/E2 (contraceptive) Safety Long-term safety study in 61,500 women Ongoing prescribed NOMAC/E2 NUVARING® (contraceptive device) Safety ~35,000 women worldwide Completed 2012 PROSCAR®/PROPECIA® (finasteride) Safety Registry study based in four Nordic Ongoing countries ROTATEQ® (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Safety and 85,150 infants in the U.S. vaccinated with Completed 2010 Oral, Pentavalent) effectiveness ROTATEQ MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 20 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Product Study Type Population Status SAPHRIS®/SYCREST® (asenapine) Safety 3,000 patients in the U.K. prescribed Ongoing SAPHRIS/SYCREST SAPHRIS/SYCREST Safety Four safety utilization studies in the U.K. Ongoing SAPHRIS/SYCREST Safety 1,000 patients in the U.K. prescribed Ongoing SAPHRIS/SYCREST SAPHRIS/SYCREST Safety 3,000 patients in the U.K. with bipolar Ongoing disorder VARIVAX® (varicella) Safety and ~7,600 children in the U.S. Completed 2010 effectiveness over 15 years VARIVAX Effectiveness ~43,000 children and adolescents Completed 2010 over 15 years location TBD Vernakalant hydrochloride Safety Registry study to characterize use, dosing Completed 2013 and safety following administration of vernakalant IV in 2,000 patients VICTRELIS® (boceprevir) Safety Drug utilization of boceprevir and clinical Ongoing management of health outcomes of interest in 1,000 chronic hepatitis C patients in Europe VYTORIN® (ezetemibe + simvastatin) Safety Follow-up of SEAS patients using Nordic Ongoing and U.K. cancer registries ZOSTAVAX® (zoster vaccine live) Safety ~29,000 people 60 years of age or older Completed 2010 in U.S. ZOSTAVAX Effectiveness At least 30,000 subjects 50 years or older Ongoing in U.S. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 21 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Compassionate Use PERFORMANCE Merck has a procedure for early access to non-registered products for named patient programs and country-specific authorizations. This procedure recognizes the importance of providing access for certain patients to new treatments under development. Merck may also decide to conduct an expanded access program for a limited number of qualified patients according to a clinical protocol. Merck may conduct these compassionate-use programs if all the following circumstances apply: • The disease is life-threatening or severely debilitating • No effective alternative treatments are available for patients, or a patient has failed to respond to available treatments • A patient is not eligible for a clinical trial • A marketing authorization application is planned in the future. Learn more about expanding patient access to Merck’s investigational medicines. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 22 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) or of the role of the IACUCs/ERCs, and ANIMAL RESEARCH Ethical Review Committees (ERCs) that review, approve and monitor research studies. The committee membership training on how to raise concerns about misconduct. Qualified veterinarians work with the scientific staff to consult on and includes veterinarians and scientists assist with all animal-related research Laboratory animal research is knowledgeable in animal-based research projects. Merck places high value on its indispensable to the discovery, and often includes nonscientists and animal welfare stewardship responsibility; development, manufacture and community members. Committees violation of these policies is grounds for marketing of innovative medicines review proposed animal studies and employee disciplinary action, up to and that treat and prevent disease. animal care facilities and investigate, including dismissal. as appropriate, any research animal Merck is dedicated to the ethical and welfare concerns. The IACUCs/ERCs Research Animals responsible treatment of all animals regularly communicate with and provide used in the development of medicines status reports to the IO regarding animal Merck is dedicated to the ethical and and vaccines. Merck does not perform welfare compliance. responsible treatment of all animals animal testing for its cosmetic products. involved in the development of medicines Decisions regarding animal care, use and Global policies and guidelines governing and vaccines. Decisions regarding animal welfare are made by balancing scientific appropriate animal research practices are use and welfare are made by balancing knowledge and regulatory requirements in place and maintained current. These scientific and regulatory requirements with consideration of ethical and standards for the care and use of animals with consideration of ethical, welfare societal values. in studies meet or exceed applicable and societal values. Additionally, any local, national and international laws and investigator proposing a study that may Animal Research Oversight regulations. U.S. regulations and annual involve discomfort or distress, even if it inspection results can be found at http:// is relieved by analgesics or anesthetics, Animal research is highly regulated www.aphis.usda.gov/animal welfare/ must perform a literature search to assure and monitored by the government. At index.shtml. As further evidence of that there is no other viable alternative Merck, it is also internally monitored our commitment to the highest level methodology. It is important to note that by an animal welfare oversight group. of animal care, MRL research sites a large variety of nonanimal (in vitro, or A veterinarian with expertise in animal voluntarily seek and secure a third-party test tube) studies are performed at Merck welfare and laboratory animal medicine review and accreditation of our animal prior to or instead of animal studies. manages the oversight group and works research programs and facilities by the Research animals are used only to answer closely with Merck’s Institutional Official Association for Assessment and important scientific questions or fulfill a (IO) for Merck Research Laboratories Accreditation of Laboratory Animal regulatory requirement. Animals involved (MRL) and Merck Manufacturing Care International (AAALAC), an in research within MRL are all specifically Division (MMD), as well as the IO for external, independent organization. In bred for research purposes. Animal Health, to provide independent fact, all MRL facilities are accredited monitoring of animal research globally. by AAALAC. In MRL, more than 97 percent of the The IO regularly communicates with research animals are rodents. The senior management and Merck’s Merck scientists whose work involves care and use of laboratory animals in internal compliance committees, as research animals must be trained to biomedical research is highly regulated. In required, to address animal welfare perform the duties required. Training general, the regulations govern housing, issues. Additionally, all Merck sites includes review of regulations and feeding, veterinary care and research hosting animal-based research have policies, instruction on how to search for project review by the IACUC/ERC as well active and engaged Institutional Animal animal research alternatives, explanation as unannounced government inspections. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 23 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our animal facilities are staffed with Replacement, Reduction and sharing systems, Merck has veterinarians and professional animal and Refinement statisticians on staff who advise on care technicians trained and certified as study design and analysis in order research animal experts. Merck is committed to the philosophy of to minimize the number of animals using the best scientific methodologies included in a study. Contract Research and animal alternatives whenever • Refinement—minimizing distress possible or permissible by law. or discomfort. Merck scientists Merck holds similar expectations for To promote this commitment, we conduct extensive literature reviews standards of animal care and use at subscribe to the “3 Rs”—replacement, to choose the best scientific models our contract laboratories and animal reduction and refinement—for animaland design the most effective vendors. Merck performs due diligence based research. studies. When animals are required on and monitors external laboratories for a study, anesthetics, analgesics that perform animal studies on our • Replacement—using nonanimal and tranquilizers are used whenever behalf, and holds them accountable for systems or less-sentient species possible to minimize or eliminate the same regulations and standards (for example, cell cultures, computer potential pain or distress. that govern our internal animal research. modeling, bacterial assays and fly Animal studies may not begin until a or worm models). Merck scientists Merck’s Animal Welfare group collects, site has been approved by the Animal have access to specialized software promotes and internally disseminates Welfare Compliance Assurance that searches the scientific literature information on the principles and practice Group. All agreements with contract for viable alternatives to animal of the 3 Rs. Training on the 3 Rs is part laboratories include terms regarding research. In addition, the company of staff orientation for animal research. Merck’s expectations for animal care and employs information specialists in It is our responsibility to use the most use as well as regulatory compliance. our research library, trained by the appropriate methodology and to Additionally, animal research conducted Animal Welfare Information Center of aggressively seek scientifically valid 3-R at third-party laboratories is subject the U.S. National Agricultural Library, approaches to animal research. Merck to protocol review by a Merck IACUC/ to assist our scientists in identifying provided funding to support 3-R research ERC or an equivalent committee. potential animal alternatives. Merck at external organizations such as the Noncompliance with regulations or also has extensive in vitro expertise Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to standards can lead to termination of and investments, including an in Animal Testing (CAAT) and the European the relationship. vitro department that develops and Partnership for Alternative Approaches to utilizes nonanimal research methods Animal Testing (EPAA). As an example of Support for Animal Science and (cell cultures) in the discovery and the third R, Refinement, we have created Research Animal Well-Being development of new medicines and a world-class imaging department that therapies, and experts in computer allows scientists to view cancers and Merck also advocates for the modeling and simulation. other pathologic diseases in animals and development of best practices and • Reduction—using the minimum monitor the long-term effectiveness of dissemination of information by number of research animals necessary new treatments in a noninvasive manner. supporting and participating with to obtain valid scientific data. In addition, Merck has voluntarily made nongovernmental organizations such as Sophisticated animal models that the decision not to use chimpanzees the Scientist Center for Animal Welfare, yield precise data, such as telemetric (or to fund their use directly or indirectly the Institute for Laboratory Animal monitoring models that monitor in studies by external research Research at the National Academy of ECG and blood pressure, reduce the partners) in biomedical research in the Sciences, and the American College of number of animals needed. In addition foreseeable future. Recent scientific Laboratory Animal Medicine Foundation. to state-of-the-art data collection advances now allow researchers to use MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 24 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT alternative methodologies that in many medical needs. Such conditions may The rapid development of new circumstances replace the need for include Parkinson’s disease, cancer, technologies that interrogate variability chimpanzees in biomedical research. cardiovascular disease, diabetes, in human DNA, combined with powerful osteoarthritis and trauma. Merck has computing hardware and software, has Internal Merck Animal been conducting research into the biology made it practical to investigate genetic Alternative Award of stem cells for more than a decade. This determinants for risk of human disease or research has involved the use of animal predictors of human response to drugs. To support the 3-R philosophy, since and human stem cells as well as induced 1994 Merck has presented an Animal pluripotent stem cells. Merck scientists have a strong Alternative Award annually to the team or commitment to understanding how teams of Merck scientists that develop The company conducts research using genetic variation is associated with new techniques to support the alternative stem cells in full accordance with all disease and response to drug treatments. principle and publish their work to share applicable laws and regulations and our This commitment includes understanding innovations with the greater scientific own research policies. Merck research variation in human genes to identify new community. Awards have been given for policy involving stem cells is guided by drug targets, as well as investigating reducing the number of animals used the USA National Academy of Sciences human genetic variation that might by utilizing sophisticated telemetric as well as the International Society of predict which patients are most likely to monitoring, replacing a canine model Stem Cell Research guidelines. The respond efficaciously or with adverse with a guinea pig model, and applying Merck Regenerative Medicine Oversight reactions to a specific drug. imaging techniques such as MRI to Committee, which comprises both reduce the number of animals needed for internal and external experts, oversees Merck conducts genetic research using tumor studies. Merck-sponsored research involving stem approaches that include 1) collaboration cells, including highly targeted research with external organizations that have using human embryonic stem cells, stem collected human genetic samples and cells developed through somatic cell health data, and 2) our own clinical trials. REGENERATIVE nuclear transfer, and induced pluripotent stem cells. The committee is responsible The collection of samples represents the critical foundation of all clinical MEDICINE for ensuring that all projects involving genetic research strategies. We collect stem cells adhere to Merck policies. genetic samples in Merck clinical trials primarily to understand how variable genetics impact patient response to the Many of the most advanced drugs. This enables us to communicate scientific technologies in regenerative medicine involve GENETIC RESEARCH information to regulatory authorities and prescribers that will improve the use of our medicines. During clinical trials, we animal or human embryonic Genetic research examines how obtain appropriate subject consent for stem cells. use of the genetic samples in accordance variability in DNA affects the with the ethical principles that have their Merck, along with the scientific system of human biomolecules— origin in the Declaration of Helsinki, community, believes that research such as RNA and proteins—to U.S. FDA requirements (21 CFR 50.20, using stem cells has the potential to affect, for example, disease or 50.25 and 50.27), the International help identify medicines, therapies and vaccines that will treat, cure or prevent an individual patient’s response Conference on Harmonization (ICH) to drugs. E6 Good Clinical Practices guidelines, diseases and alleviate the suffering and the 1997 UNESCO Declaration of patients with significant unmet MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 25 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT on the Human Genome and Human 2010 Mean Rank (95% UI)* Rights. When collaborating with external organizations, we ensure that consent GLOBAL BURDEN 1 Ischemic heart disease 2 Stroke OF DISEASE has been obtained by individuals who 3 COPD have contributed DNA and/or health4 Lower respiratory infections related data to the organization via these 5 Lung cancer same standards. 6 HIV/AIDS Through a systematic and critical 7 Diarrhea diseases evaluation of our capabilities and 8 Road injury an analysis of unmet medical 9 Diabetes needs, Merck has focused its 10 Tuberculosis research efforts on several priority 11 Malaria disease areas. 12 Cirrhosis 13 Self-harm Focusing our research in this direct 14 Hypertensive heart disease manner ensures that Merck continues to 15 Preterm birth complications develop drugs and vaccines to address 16 Liver cancer unmet medical needs. Merck’s current 17 Stomach cancer pipeline and list of marketed products 18 Chronic kidney disease are aligned with major global burdens of 19 Colorectal cancer disease, based on the Global Burden of 20 Other cardio & circulatory Disease 2010 Study. Noncommunicable disease Using the GBD2010 Visualization tools Infectious disease developed by the Institute for Health Accident/injury Metrics and Evaluation, the diseases that Merck is addressing rank high on *Source of table: GBD2010 Visualization tool, the list of worldwide causes of death. Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) Our research into vaccines and infectious diseases addresses major burdens of disease that are prevalent in all countries, and our preventative treatments could have the greatest immediate impact in the developing world, where healthcare infrastructure is weak or nonexistent. Considering Merck’s pipeline and the list of products we currently market, we estimate that Merck addresses 88 percent of the top 20 causes of death as defined by the IHME, excluding road injury, self-harm, and preterm birth complications. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 26 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our product quality and safety processes we announced the opening of a new MANUFACTURING & and procedures are broad in scope and include stringent standards, compliance manufacturing facility in Hangzhou, China. The facility will package Merck medicines SUPPLY CHAIN education and training. We also support for China and the Asia Pacific region and industry and regulatory efforts to develop will become a critical part of Merck’s and optimize quality and manufacturing global supply chain. standards worldwide, including Merck is committed to providing alignment with those of the International Merck remains committed to providing patients and customers with highConference on Harmonization (ICH). our patients and customers with highquality products and a reliable These commitments are unequivocal in quality products and a reliable supply our role as a global healthcare leader. of safe and effective medicines and supply of safe and effective vaccines. In 2013, we revised our key medicines and vaccines. Merck seeks to develop the capacity and performance indicator (KPI) to capture capability to serve an ever-increasing only manufacturing partnerships that OUR COMMITMENTS proportion of the world’s population. are in place to enable access, which Our Merck Manufacturing Division resulted in a decrease in the number (MMD) has undertaken an ambitious of partnerships reported. In addition, • We will maintain strict quality program to reduce the cost of production the number of products available standards and effective supplyby reducing underutilized capacity, has increased substantially and now chain management to ensure increasing efficiency through Lean and includes all products that are sold or the efficacy, safety and supply Six Sigma projects at manufacturing sites, distributed through a partnership, of our products no matter reducing procurement spending, and regardless of where the products are where they are manufactured improving supply performance, including manufactured. In addition, the number of on-time deliveries and reduction of products available by local and regional • We will sustain an supply shortages. partnerships has increased substantially interdependent, flexible supply in 2013. Previously, we reported products chain to take into account As part of this program, we have available through specific agreements global and local market executed manufacturing and supply but have now expanded our reporting to supply needs agreements with local manufacturers all of our products including the various to broaden access to our products in strengths and presentations that are sold • We will engage and invest in local markets, including in Russia, China or distributed through a partnership in local and regional partnerships and Saudi Arabia and in Latin American local markets to more accurately reflect to enable market access countries. In addition, the company is our efforts to address local needs. investing in its manufacturing capabilities to meet local market needs. In 2013, Merck manufactures medicines and vaccines that are sold in more than 140 countries. We maintain strict product-quality standards and multiple supply-chain safeguards to ensure the efficacy, safety and supply of our products—no matter where our medicines and vaccines are manufactured. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 27 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT primary goals: securing the supply chain; the continued acceptability of the facility QUALITY & SAFETY deterring, rapidly detecting and responding to counterfeit activity; and raising public from a quality assurance and regulatory compliance perspective. STANDARDS awareness about the risks posed by counterfeits. To learn more about Merck’s The frequency of quality auditing depends anti-counterfeiting program, click here. on a number of factors, including: From research and development Supplier Selection • The nature and complexity of the to the manufacturing and product produced (e.g., whether it is distribution of our medicines, Merck maintains strict quality standards a formulated pharmaceutical, active no matter where in the world our ingredient or sterile product) and how vaccines and other products— products are manufactured. Once we it is used by Merck efficacy, safety and quality are our have made a decision to engage an • Reliance on supplier test results and primary considerations. external manufacturer, that manufacturer previous audit results is required to comply with Merck’s We apply and adhere to a strict set of business requirements set forth in the Quality tests are performed on all active quality standards, and we have policies contract, regardless of geography. pharmaceutical ingredients that Merck and procedures in place to identify, purchases as part of our overall suppliermeasure, control and sustain productWe conduct audits of every potential qualification process, and further tests quality excellence. We continuously new supplier of active pharmaceutical are performed during subsequent strive to improve these standards in ingredients or formulated products stages of manufacturing. Quality order to enhance procedures and ensure and sterile products to determine its tests are performed on all formulated ongoing compliance with current Good acceptability and compliance with products before we release them to Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). cGMP. Merck reviews the systems that the marketplace. the potential supplier uses to purchase All manufacturing facilities that Merck materials in order to ensure the quality Testing of chemicals used in the owns and operates, and any company of the products the supplier hopes to manufacturing of our drug products from which we purchase formulated provide to Merck. Only if a supplier meets is conducted in accordance with our pharmaceuticals, active ingredients and Merck’s stringent criteria, which include specifications, which in many cases sterile products, must comply with cGMP. a review of the company’s regulatory include the applicable Pharmacopeia These standards include requirements inspection and outcome history, will we standards (i.e., the United States for verifying the sources of incoming then negotiate a commercial agreement. Pharmacopeia [USP], the European materials, and for the manufacturing, These agreements include detailed Pharmacopeia [EUP] and the Japanese storage, handling and distribution provisions relating to the quality standards Pharmacopeia [JP]). The USP is the of products. we require suppliers to uphold in order official standard for all prescription and for them to manufacture a product for our over-the-counter medicines, dietary Counterfeit products are a growing use. To learn more about how we work supplements and other healthcare global problem and a serious threat with external suppliers, click here. products manufactured and sold in the to public health. We at Merck believe U.S. These standards are also recognized that maintaining the integrity of Audits and Inspections and used in more than 130 countries. our supply chain is of paramount importance. Merck’s corporate global We conduct periodic audits to further anti-counterfeiting program has three ensure that suppliers continue to meet cGMP. Through such audits, we evaluate MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 28 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Education and Training PERFORMANCE We provide appropriate and ongoing training on quality and cGMP for our employees to ensure that they are prepared to perform their duties effectively. These systems not only ensure that all applicable employees are trained, but also monitor the effectiveness of training. In 2013, Merck initiated a total of two product recalls in the U.S. These were voluntary actions undertaken by the company as part of our commitment to ensuring product quality. These recalls specifically included two vaccine product Class II recalls. The recall classifications were determined by the FDA, after consultation with Merck.2 2 Definition of recall classifications: http://www. fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ ucm049070.htm#RecallClassifications Vaccine Supply Our goal is to have sufficient PRODUCT SUPPLY In 2013, we received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and EU manufacturing capacity for all our vaccines, including, as appropriate, redundancy in our supply chain for certain approval to manufacture bulk varicella vaccines, so that we eliminate supply Merck’s global supply strategy at the company’s site in Durham, North disruptions when temporary issues arise leverages both our internal Carolina, for use in Merck’s vaccines in manufacturing. manufacturing capabilities and to protect against chickenpox and those of external manufacturers shingles. The approval will enable the Other Product Supply that provide specialized skills, site to produce bulk varicella supply for expertise and various types of the U.S. and will help boost our overall In 2013, the company restored global supply capabilities. The Durham unconstrained supply of our women’s manufacturing services. facility is part of our more than $1 billion health products. investment in our vaccine manufacturing This strategy is designed to ensure that capabilities over the past nine years. As part of our efforts to continuously we are operating a lean and efficient The company has also modernized improve our manufacturing, we have network while maintaining compliance and expanded vaccine operations at its implemented enhancements to our with rigorous quality, safety and facilities in West Point, Pennsylvania, and manufacturing processes. Our goal is environmental standards. Elkton, Virginia, and built a new facility in to ensure consistent manufacturing and Carlow, Ireland, which is scheduled to be quality standards at all facilities, to drive licensed in 2014. sustainable compliance excellence and MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 29 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT long-term performance at the sites, and conducting business ethically and strive Managing External Manufacturers to minimize manufacturing issues in to conduct business with organizations the future. that share our commitment and values. Merck maintains strict quality All suppliers and service providers standards—no matter where our Merck remains committed to the are expected to comply with industry products are manufactured in the world. development and commercialization of standards in a number of key areas, Once we have made a decision to our products and to ensuring that we including quality; labor and human rights; engage an external manufacturer, that are a reliable global supplier of quality health, safety & environment; and manufacturer is required to comply with vaccines and medicines. ethical business practices; as described Merck’s business requirements set forth in the Merck Business Partner Code in the contract, regardless of geography. of Conduct. These expectations are EXTERNAL SUPPLIER communicated to suppliers during our supplier selection process and throughout the relationship. Prospective external manufacturers of active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products are screened for safety, NETWORK Our Business Partner Code of health, environmental and human rights issues, in addition to quality, supply and Conduct and Supplier Performance technical competence requirements Merck purchases goods and Expectations were published and and other compliance issues. The services from thousands of disseminated to partners in 2012. The environmental, health and safety Code is based on Merck’s internal Code screening includes a survey covering suppliers around the world. of Conduct, Our Values and Standards, such topics as compliance, fatalities, We also work with numerous as well as the Pharmaceutical Supply major incidents and labor practices. licensees worldwide to market Chain Initiative’s (PSCI) Pharmaceutical and distribute our products. Industry Principles and the Based on the screening results and 10 Principles of the United Nations activities undertaken by the supplier, About 1,200 suppliers and service Global Compact. certain external manufacturers providers make up approximately are subject to a more detailed 80 percent of the company’s annual Reference to the Business Partner Code on-site assessment conducted by a spending on goods and services of Conduct is now included in strategic multidisciplinary team, which may include worldwide. Some of these are external sourcing requests for information, quality, safety, environmental, technical manufacturing companies that make quotes and proposals, and is a standard and procurement representatives. key ingredients or components for our requirement in all global procurement– External manufacturers contracted by products, manufacture finished products issued contracts and purchase order Merck are periodically reassessed using a for us, package our products, and/or terms and conditions. risk-based approach; higher-risk external transport our medicines. Others are manufacturers are subject to more suppliers that provide general business We also audit select suppliers based frequent on-site assessments. goods and services such as marketing on risk and regulations. Where audits and research support, business identify opportunities for enhancement Merck continues to support the travel, building management, or office or deficiencies, we collaborate closely to Pharmaceutical Industry Principles equipment and supplies. ensure that concerns are addressed in a for Responsible Supply Chain responsible and compliant manner. Management (the Principles). The PSCI At Merck, we use a defined sourcing Principles outline industry expectations process to select, qualify and maintain for external manufacturers and licensees our suppliers. We set high standards for with regard to labor, health, safety, MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 30 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT environment, ethics and management service providers, process personal systems. The external manufacturers with which Merck contracts are expected to understand and align with information in connection with their performance of services for Merck. We require these suppliers to provide ANTI-COUNTERFEITING these Principles. appropriate privacy protection for Counterfeit pharmaceutical personal information that they handle for, Ensuring Privacy of on behalf of, or otherwise in connection products are a growing global Personal Information with the performance of services for problem and a serious threat to Merck, in accordance with our privacy public health. They can include Many Merck suppliers, such as contract policies and applicable privacy laws, wrong doses of an active research organizations, market research regulations and guidelines. ingredient, no active ingredient agencies, systems developers and other or, in some cases, harmful or poisonous ingredients. P E R F O R M A N C E) We define a counterfeit medicine as a product that contains an unauthorized use of trademark, trade name, other identifying mark, imprint, or device, or any likeness thereof, to adulterate a product or falsely represent that the product was manufactured or distributed by the identified manufacturer or distributor. As counterfeiters have become more sophisticated, counterfeit products have become so similar in appearance to authentic products that, without Since the initial rollout of the Merck it a standard requirement in global laboratory testing, it is difficult to tell the Business Partner Code of Conduct, procurement–issued contracts and authentic from the counterfeit medicines. we have continued executing a detailed purchase order terms and conditions communications plan and have assisted • Developing a tool to assist suppliers For Merck, maintaining product efficacy suppliers in enhancing their performance. with building environmental, health and patient safety and protecting our Specific actions taken include: and safety competencies using reputation are paramount. We maintain publicly available technical references. a comprehensive worldwide anti• Including reference to the Business The tool will assist suppliers in counterfeiting strategy and operational Partner Code of Conduct in strategic technical areas where opportunities program that has three goals: sourcing requests for information, for enhancement are identified. quotes and proposals, and making • Secure the supply chains • Deter, rapidly detect and respond to counterfeit activity • Raise public and stakeholder awareness of the risks posed by counterfeits, and advocate for increased enforcement to shape relevant regulatory requirements MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 31 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Management Merck’s website, and we audit a majority mitigate those threats through civil and of our distributors to ensure compliance criminal enforcement actions. We also To focus our work in this area, our Antiwith Merck policies and procedures. collaborate with patient advocacy groups, Counterfeiting Steering Committee Proactive threat assessments are also and with industry associations such as oversees our global anti-counterfeiting completed on facilities and supply routes the Partnership for Safe Medicines, the strategy to ensure that our goals identified to be at risk for cargo thefts and Center for Safe Internet Pharmacies, and are reached. other illicit activity. the Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies that are dedicated to further identifying The cross-functional team is led by senior Merck also partners with law patient safety threats and advocacy leaders from Global Human Health, enforcement agencies to detect and actions associated with this critical issue. Quality, Manufacturing, and Global respond to threats from counterfeit Security. These areas are responsible products, including with U.S. authorities Merck promptly reports all confirmed for the worldwide marketing and sale of on importing counterfeit pharmaceuticals counterfeit activities to regulatory and/or our products, investigating suspected and with EU authorities on importing law enforcement agencies. We work with counterfeit events, testing suspected or trans-shipment of counterfeit regulators and distributors to remove counterfeit products and preparing pharmaceuticals through the European counterfeit products from the market, and investigative reports. Union. Working with customs authorities, with law enforcement officials to trace we have helped identify high-risk ports, counterfeit products back to an original Other functional areas involved in our antiborders and postal depots, and have source of supply. counterfeiting efforts include: Packaging provided a framework of action for Technology, which incorporates security use by customs authorities to detect Product Security features into our products; Legal, which and respond to counterfeit activities. manages trademarks and other forms of This training enables customs agents Protecting authentic Merck product is an intellectual property, and provides Global to identify suspicious pharmaceutical integral part of Merck’s anti-counterfeiting Security with information necessary to shipments and take appropriate actions to mission. Each new Merck drug is assist law enforcement and regulators in detain suspicious shipments and/or have assessed using a standard methodology enforcement efforts; and Global Public suspect products analyzed. for risk prior to regulatory approval. Our Policy, which coordinates our advocacy key focus in this process is the patientactivities to support stronger antiIn a number of developing countries, safety threat should a counterfeit or counterfeiting laws. moreover, we have provided training to illegally diverted Merck product be customs officials, in conjunction with the introduced into the supply chain. The risk Maintaining a Secure Supply Chain Pharmaceutical Security Institute, level assigned to a new Merck product is on trademarks and industry import and used to determine which product security Merck has in place strict policies and export practices. features will be included on the product procedures designed to keep our drug and packaging prior to the product’s distribution system safe and secure, In the U.S., the greatest identified market release. A complementary and to deter counterfeit products from threat of patients receiving counterfeit threat assessment is also performed on entering the supply chain. medicines is through the distribution of marketed products for which a credible pharmaceutical products via illegitimate counterfeit threat has been identified and In the U.S., for example, we require online drug sellers. In response to this for which updates to packaging security customers to purchase our products threat, Merck maintains a proactive features may be required. directly from Merck or Merck-authorized Internet monitoring program designed distributors. In addition, we publish the to identify threats to our patients from Serialization—or putting a unique names of authorized distributors on illegitimate online drug sellers and to identification number on each package MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 32 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT that goes to market—is one of the tools Forensic Laboratories P U B L I C P O L I CY Merck is investing in to secure its supply chain and prevent counterfeiting. A serial A key part of our ability to identify number on individual packages makes suspected counterfeits is our advanced Merck supports increased it possible for anyone along the supply forensic laboratories in the U.S. and the enforcement of existing antichain—from a distributor to a pharmacist U.K. that analyze suspected counterfeit counterfeiting laws and the to a patient—to scan the code and products and, if possible, identify where adoption of new public policies authenticate it as genuine Merck product. they came from. Lab findings are shared to strengthen existing laws and with regulatory and/or law enforcement enforcement programs, including Serialization is an important part of the agencies, and may be used to support increased criminal and civil company’s efforts to combat the threat subsequent enforcement actions and of counterfeit drugs, as it adds a robust legal proceedings. Merck also has penalties for counterfeiters. layer to the company’s product-security forensic detection devices in the field platform. It provides the ability to uniquely to analyze and detect counterfeits in We advocate for such change in a number identify and rapidly authenticate individual different regions around the world. of ways: packs which, in turn, helps to detect counterfeit medicines. As counterfeiters improve their skills and • As a member of the Alliance for Safe techniques, our forensic scientists have Online Pharmacies, Merck supports Many countries around the world are pioneered the use of several analytical the efforts of the White House’s requiring serialization on pharmaceutical tools for pharmaceutical-counterfeits Intellectual Property Enforcement packages, or are considering such detection, and continue to explore new Coordinator to combat online mandates. Serialization is required today analytical tools that would increase their pharmaceutical crime. We support in China, Turkey and Argentina, and will forensic-testing capabilities. initiatives to raise awareness of the soon be required in South Korea, Saudi dangers of purchasing from rogue Arabia, Brazil, India, the U.S. and Europe. Public Awareness sites and of the options to access Unfortunately, each country’s regulations legitimate online pharmacies. are different, making it very challenging We support efforts to educate the public • As a member of the Pharmaceutical for our packaging sites to meet these about the risks of counterfeit drugs and Distribution Security Alliance (PDSA), diverse and complex requirements. how to protect against them, as well as Merck supported the passage of the Merck is responding by launching the efforts to develop industry collaborations Drug Quality and Safety Act, U.S. Global Product Serialization initiative, to support a unified response to the legislation that creates a national with the goal of meeting these varying threat of counterfeit medicines. Our system and uniform standards to track requirements in a standardized and partnerships with the Pharmaceutical product across the pharmaceutical effective way. We are working with Security Institute (PSI), the Association supply chain. PDSA includes industry associations and regulatory of Safe Online Pharmacies (ASOP), the over 20 partners in the domestic authorities to help shape these new International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition pharmaceutical distribution supply requirements, and advocate for simple, (IACC), the Partnership for Safe chain working to achieve a national standardized and common-sense Medicines and the Rx360 Consortium solution toward product tracking. regulations that are truly effective at are a few of the industry collaborations in • Merck supports the Antiprotecting against counterfeit product. which we participate. These collaborative Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, We are also working on opportunities to efforts support the production of reports, which increases protection leverage this capability for more efficient white papers and data-circulation against a wide range of intellectual commercial and supply chain systems, initiatives, and promote the intelligenceproperty infringements and for the benefit of our patients. sharing necessary to combat threats from counterfeit medicines. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 33 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • In 1997, Merck and other • Merck supported the SAFE DOSES pharmaceutical companies created the Act, which was signed into law in the Pharmaceutical Security Institute U.S. in October 2012. The bipartisan (PSI) to develop global security legislation modernizes the U.S. strategies focused on both prevention Criminal Code to increase criminal and enforcement to ensure public penalties for medical product cargo safety and product integrity. Merck theft and provides law enforcement continues to be an active participant tools to deter this criminal behavior in this organization, and is pushing for and take down the organizations that increased levels of intelligence-sharing are perpetrating it. among the members. PERFORMANCE Commitments • Take actions to raise public awareness • Following on the passage of the of the risks posed by counterfeits and DQSA in the U.S., continue advocacy • Continue in the execution of a advocate for increased enforcement to efforts to support the development of proactive, worldwide corporate antishape relevant regulatory requirements a standardized system to identify and counterfeiting strategy focused on code medical products • Train key stakeholders and business securing the supply chain, detecting partners in the identification of • Develop data analytics and intelligence and responding to counterfeit events, suspicious activities and/or suspected management capabilities to enhance and raising awareness of the risks of counterfeit products threat detection and mitigation activities counterfeit pharmaceutical products associated with counterfeit and other • Continue to partner with industry • Take proactive measures to identify, illicit events, including increased levels groups to provide advocacy on assess and mitigate threats to our of intelligence-sharing within PSI and high-priority anti-counterfeiting patients associated with counterfeit other public and private partnerships policy initiatives, and explore new and other fraudulent products partnership opportunities with patients and other external stakeholders • Develop metrics to gauge the impact of specific actions to ensure that resources remain focused on the areas that can have greatest benefit MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 34 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT the success of the company and society Diversity Mentor/Champion Program SUPPLIER DIVERSITY depends on enabling diverse businesses to share and grow in the global market. to help develop qualified, diverse suppliers. Through the program, we begin relationships by conducting supplier Merck has had a Supplier Diversity assessments to create joint development Our suppliers should reflect the program in the U.S. for many years, plans with identified diverse suppliers people we are in business to which is managed by our Global Supplier that focus on increasing supplier growth, serve—our customers. Management group. competitiveness and sustainability. Merck senior executives champion each At Merck, we believe that having a The program includes the following mentored supplier, and create targeted diverse supplier base helps us to better major areas of focus: strategic external growth and development plans that include understand and anticipate the needs of outreach and globalization, supplier Merck-sponsored training and guidance. the people we serve. That is why we cast development and mentoring, compliance, a wide net in search of talent, seeking customer-focus and internal awareness. We also participate in more than qualified suppliers from all segments of Minority-, women-, LGBT-, and veteran30 external supplier conferences and the global community. owned business entities must be at least networking events focused on minority-, 51 percent owned, operated and controlled women-, veteran-, and LGBT-owned Our Supplier Diversity program includes by ethnic minorities (Black, Hispanic, Asian businesses, and are active in external large and small HUB Zone, minority-, and Native American), women, veterans organizations such as the National women-, veteran-, service disabled-, or LGBT individuals who are U.S. citizens, Minority Supplier Development Council, people with a disabilityand lesbian and and the business must be headquartered the U.S. Pan Asian American Chamber gay-owned (LGBT) business enterprises. in the U.S. or Puerto Rico. of Commerce, the Women’s Business We believe that working with qualified Enterprise National Council, the National suppliers from diverse segments of Merck hosts Supplier Diversity Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce the business community supports our Procurement and Education Forums to and the U.S. Hispanic Chamber business objectives and economic increase qualified, diverse suppliers’ of Commerce. development in all the communities understanding of Merck’s business needs, we serve. to introduce these suppliers to the Merck Our Supplier Diversity Program business professionals who are involved Is Going Global Our Policy in supplier selection, and to increase Merck’s knowledge about of current and We are proud to be recognized as a It is Merck policy to provide maximum potential diverse suppliers. A previous leader in the area of supplier diversity and practical opportunity to diverse suppliers forum was focused on women-owned continuously look for ways to expand and for the purchase of goods and services as businesses across various products and improve our program. We have expanded part of our global procurement process. services in partnership with the Women our program globally, establishing The inclusion of diverse suppliers is an Presidents’ Educational Organization. specific targets and objectives in integral part of our purchasing process, More than 90 businesses learned best countries outside of the U.S., including just as equal opportunity employment practices for developing strong valuebut not limited to Europe, South Africa is central to our personnel policies and proposition statements to attract and and Canada. Our approach may differ, procedures. We recognize that supplier engage new clients. depending on local laws and regulations, diversity creates a competitive advantage but we look forward to continuing to build for our company and positively impacts In addition, our Supplier Diversity a supplier base that reflects our diverse the global community. We believe that program offers coaching and feedback customers across the globe. on performance, as well as a Supplier MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 35 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE Merck has more than tripled its purchases from minority-, womenand veteranowned suppliers in the U.S. and Puerto Rico over the past eight years. In 2005, Merck spent $215 million of our total U.S. and Puerto Rico procurement dollars with minority-, womenand veteranowned firms. In recent years, Merck has expanded Supplier Diversity outreach to include LGBTand disabled-owned firms. In 2013, we spent $677 million with diverse suppliers and have begun implementing plans for continued and sustainable growth by developing more strategic relationships with diverse suppliers. We have introduced new suppliers whose products, services and strategies support our business objectives. This has promoted Supplier Diversity growth in our Manufacturing and Research & Development areas of the business, specifically. Our goal by 2017 is to achieve and maintain performance of close to, or greater than, $1 billion in diverse spending. A key component of Merck Supplier Diversity is our U.S. Small Business Program. In 2013, Merck spent $582M with U.S. small businesses, including the sub-categories of small disadvantaged, woman-owned small, veteran-owned small, service-disabled veteran-owned Merck is committed to achieving and the validation of the diverse and small small, and historically underutilized excellence in its Supplier Diversity businesses that provide products and business zone (HUBZone) firms. program. This includes ensuring that we services to Merck. maintain data integrity. In 2013, Merck increased certification requirements Every Merck employee and contingent for diverse suppliers to be counted in worker is responsible for understanding the Supplier Diversity program. These and appropriately applying the global changes have increased the accuracy of purchasing policy, which includes supplier Merck Supplier Diversity spend reporting diversity objectives. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 36 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In addition, an important goal is to • MMR-II® (Measles, Mumps, Rubella PRODUCT reduce the historic gap in product introduction between developed and Virus Vaccine Live) • PedvaxHIB® [Haemophilus b REGISTRATION developing countries. One way we strive Conjugate Vaccine (Meningococcal to reach this goal is by prequalifying Protein Conjugate)] medicines and vaccines through the World Health Organization (WHO). HIV/AIDS Treatments We are committed to registering WHO prequalification is required by UN our products in a timely fashion in agencies, which often procure healthcare • STOCRIN ® (efavirenz) markets where they are needed. products throughout developing countries in the absence of reliable national • CRIXIVAN ® (indinavir sulfate) medicines authorities that could certify • ATRIPLA® (efavirenz 600 mg/ OUR COMMITMENTS products for meeting required quality, emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir safety and efficacy standards. As such, disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) • We will work to initiate WHO prequalification is an important step registration of our products in toward fostering global access. In 2013, IMPLANON NXT® (etonogestrel) all countries where there is a received WHO prequalification. public health need in a timely We have secured WHO prequalification Although we anticipated submitting the manner in conjunction with for the following products: prequalification application to the WHO local regulatory authorities for the adult formulation of ISENTRESS® Family Planning Products (raltegravir) in 2013, we now plan to • We will work to strengthen the submit the documentation in 2014. We regulatory science capabilities • EXLUTON ® (lynestrenol also plan to make a submission for the of local regulatory authorities to oral contraceptive) raltegravir pediatric formulation when expedite product registrations • IMPLANON ® (etonogestrel implant) the WHO requests prequalification applications for this product. • MARVELON ® (desogestrel – • We will work with the World ethinyl estradiol) In order to make our products available Health Organization to prequalify our products, where • IMPLANON NXT® (etonogestrel) to the people who need them throughout appropriate, to expedite access the world, we registered 179 products in low-income countries Vaccines and devices in 2013. The majority of these products were registered in • GARDASIL® [Human Papillomavirus lowand middle-income countries in Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) the Asia-Pacific, Central and Eastern Vaccine, Recombinant] Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Americas regions. • ROTATEQ ® (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent) MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 37 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT To increase the transparency of the • ROTATEQ Learn more about our commitment to company’s product registration status, register our: • GARDASIL we continue to disclose registration information for ROTATEQ, GARDASIL • ATRIPLA • HIV/AIDS medicines and our four antiretrovirals (ARVs), and • CRIXIVAN • Women’s health products update this information every six months. • ISENTRESS • Vaccines Click below for details: • STOCRIN MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 38 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We recognize that we have an important In addition, we know that doctors and COMMERCIALIZATION role to play in helping to make our medicines and vaccines as accessible and affordable as possible for the people who patients look to us to provide accurate and balanced information about our products. We adhere to strict ethical need them. sales and marketing practices in each Merck strives to commercialize of our businesses, be it pharmaceuticals, our products in a way that both In many countries, private health vaccines, consumer health or develops our business and meets insurance plans are able to negotiate animal health. local needs in a responsible and significant rebates and discounts with efficient manner. pharmaceutical manufacturers that We believe that providing support enable patients to obtain healthcare and through grants to third-party medical, medicines at competitive prices. scientific and patient organizations is an important way to advance our mutual OUR COMMITMENTS For people in the U.S. who do not have objectives to improve health and advance prescription drug or health insurance patient care. We have robust standards • We will price our products coverage and who, without assistance, and policies in place to ensure that our through differential pricing could not afford their Merck medicine or grants support a full range of topics frameworks, taking into vaccines, the Merck Patient Assistance and activities important to healthcare consideration the level of Programs provide medicines and adult improvement. In 2013, we refined our economic development, the vaccines for free. grant support to prioritize and align distribution channel and the resources to complement our core public health need We recognize that in developing business strategy, which resulted in an • Across and within countries, world markets, access and funding for overall decrease in funding. Optimizing we will seek to identify healthcare can be limited. Therefore, we our focus in specific areas will continue to innovative and sustainable develop and support various sustainable improve the effectiveness and efficiency strategies for differential strategies to improve access, including of our support to improve health and pricing or other commercial directing differential pricing to patient advance patient care over time. approaches that allow for sub-segments. Key performance greater flexibility to better indicators for differential pricing shown Learn more. reach at-need segments, in the table below have been slightly pursuing partnerships with modified so that we can more broadly private, government or capture and accurately reflect our support nonprofit resources and for access through differential pricing. distribution channels Currently, we have differential pricing for 24 of our products, and 70 countries • We will evaluate and address have implemented interor intracountry public health needs by working pricing for at least one of our products. with our local healthcare Over the next three years, Merck providers globally to increase anticipates increasing the number of knowledge of product need and products supported by differential pricing use; we will invest in activities to at least 30 products. to improve patient awareness and education MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 39 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our prices around the world are Commercialization Summary determined by several factors, 2011 2012 2013 including the value of our products to patients, payers and physicians Number of Merck products that are NA NA 24 relative to competitor products; the supported with differential pricing1,2 ability and willingness of various Number of lowand lower-middle-income NA NA 70 customers—including national, regional countries where interand/or intra-country or local institutional payers, physicians, pricing has been implemented3 employers and patients—to pay for our products; and the cost and value of other Investment in patientand provider$93.9M $91.1M $70.5M4 treatment options, such as hospitalization. education programs The prices of our medicines and vaccines NA: Not applicable. also reflect government regulation and 1 Differential pricing intended to facilitate access for the at-need population. currency fluctuation effects. 2 Merck products include HIV treatments, vaccines and other patented products. 3 C  ountries as defined by World Bank 2013 GNI Classification and includes UN-defined Least While striving to maintain a consistent Developed Countries. global approach, Merck also considers 4 Strategy for grant support was refined in 2013. the national, competitive and regulatory conditions within each market individually. The pharmaceutical industry is faced It is important to recognize that the price PRICING with a variety of healthcare systems and government policies in developed countries, where it must balance patient a consumer pays is also affected by duties and tariffs imposed on imported medicines and vaccines, as well as price access to the best treatments with markups by intermediaries, including Throughout the world, healthcare the constraint of limited budgets. For wholesalers and pharmacies. costs are rising for a variety example, in most European countries and of reasons; chief among them in Canada, the government both regulates Given the choices available within a are the greater utilization and healthcare and provides it to its citizens. class of drugs today, powerful and greater complexity of services We understand the management and sometimes monopolistic buyers in and technologies that have budgetary pressures on the industry. the pharmaceutical marketplace— converted once-fatal diseases into particularly governments and national Despite differences in national health systems—have intensified pricing chronic conditions. approaches, we price our products in pressure throughout the developed all OECD (Organisation for Economic world. In price-controlled environments As populations continue to age in the Co-operation and Development) (particularly prevalent in Europe), most developed world, and better health countries to foster access while governments use international price technologies and pharmaceuticals ensuring a reasonable return on our comparisons and therapeutic-reference improve health and prolong life, investment (ROI). A sustainable ROI pricing as levers to set their own payers are increasingly focusing on supports Merck’s future funding of purchasing price. In addition, in a growing pharmaceutical spending in their overall innovative drugs and vaccines that can number of markets worldwide, decisions healthcare budgets. help address unmet medical needs that about medicines are increasingly being currently exist throughout the world and relegated to regional payers, extending benefit patients. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 40 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT the challenge of ensuring access to new strategies to improve access, particularly for more information. Merck is committed treatments beyond national priceor for economically at-risk patient segments. to continuing its efforts to develop reimbursement-setting alone. In terms of pricing, these strategies can commercial-access-program solutions, include directing differential pricing to including flexible pricing programs, In the private sector, particularly in patient sub-segments, either directly targeted as appropriate to address cost developed countries like the U.S., price through national or local programs or burden for patients at need throughout competition has been spurred by private indirectly through third-party healthcare the world. health insurance plans. These payers funding sources that demonstrate are able to negotiate significant rebates reasonable and secure product To learn more about our product pricing, and discounts with pharmaceutical distribution to intended patient segments. click on one of the links below: manufacturers, based on their ability Our key performance indicators for to direct utilization. Where competition differential pricing have been slightly • HIV Medicines exists among health insurance plans, modified so that we can more broadly • Vaccines patients are able not only to obtain capture and accurately reflect our support • Women’s Health Products healthcare and their medicines at for access through differential pricing. competitive prices but also to take advantage of innovative pharmacy Our willingness to provide differential services that have improved the quality pricing strategies is evident for many of pharmacy care. of our products, including some of our best-in-class innovative brands in our HIV, Merck recognizes that in developingwomen’s health and vaccine franchise world markets, access and funding areas. For example, in May 2013, Merck for healthcare, particularly for and a group of partners announced an pharmaceuticals, can often be limited. agreement through which we will reduce In many of these markets, most or all the cost of IMPLANON ® (etonogestrel of the cost of treatment is borne by implant) for millions of women in some of the patient. Merck actively works to the world’s poorest countries to improve develop and support various sustainable their access to contraceptives. Click here 2011 2012 2013 Number of Merck products that are NA NA 24 supported with differential pricing1,2 Number of lowand lower-middle-income NA NA 70 countries where interand/or intra-country pricing has been implemented3 NA: Not applicable. 1 Differential pricing intended to facilitate access for the at-need population. 2 Merck products include HIV treatments, vaccines and other patented products. 3 C  ountries as defined by World Bank 2013 GNI Classification and includes UN-defined Least Developed Countries. NOTE: The KPIs above have been slightly modified in 2013. Therefore it is not appropriate to assess the trend. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 41 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PATIENT ASSISTANCE ELIGIBILITY FOR MERCK PROGRAMS PROGRAMS If you have been prescribed a Merck medicine, you may be eligible for the program if all three of the following conditions apply: 1. You are a U.S. resident and have a prescription for a Merck medicine from a At Merck, we believe that no one doctor licensed in the United States.1 should go without the medicines or vaccines they need. That is why the AND company provides its medicines and 2. You do not have insurance or other coverage for your prescription adult vaccines for free to people who medicine. Examples of other insurance coverage include private insurance, do not have prescription drug or health HMOs, Medicaid, Medicare, state pharmacy-assistance programs, veteran’s insurance coverage and who, without assistance, and any other social-service agency support. our assistance, cannot afford their Merck AND medicine and vaccines. This is consistent with Merck’s long-held values and 3. You cannot afford to pay for your medicine. You may qualify for the tradition of putting patients first. program if you have a household income of $46,680 or less for individuals, $62,920 or less for couples, or $95,400 or less for a family of four.2 More than 55 years ago, Merck created our first U.S. Patient Assistance More information about this program is available at MerckHelps.com. Programs (PAPs) to keep affordable 1  ou do not have to be a U.S. citizen. If you do not meet the prescription drug coverage criteria, but your Y medicines within patients’ reach. Today, income meets the program criteria and there are special circumstances of financial and medical hardship our patient assistance offerings include that apply to your situation, you can request that an exception be made for you. several programs. Through these 2 F  or income limits in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, please call 1-800-727-5400. programs, Merck has provided more than 34 million free prescriptions and vaccines, representing a total value (wholesale Patient Assistance Program if they attest free of charge through periodic bulk acquisition cost) of more than $3.2 billion that they have special circumstances of replenishments to eligible facilities that in the past 11 years alone. financial and medical hardship, and their serve a large percentage of low-income, income meets the program criteria. uninsured patients. Types of eligible Merck Patient Assistance Program: facilities include outpatient pharmacies The Merck Patient Assistance Program Merck Vaccine Patient Assistance of disproportionate-share hospitals has provided Merck medicines free of Program: Launched in 2006, the Merck and nonprofit healthcare clinics that charge to millions of eligible individuals Vaccine Patient Assistance Program is have a licensed outpatient central-fill who, without our assistance, could a private and confidential program that pharmacy that is owned and operated by not otherwise have afforded them. A provides Merck’s adult vaccines free of the facility. The eligible facilities, under single application may provide for up charge to uninsured adults age 19 or older an agreement with the Merck Patient to one year of medicine free of charge, who cannot afford their medicines. Assistance Program, Inc., review the and an individual may reapply as eligibility of patients for assistance under many times as needed. Under certain Merck Bulk Replacement Patient the program’s criteria, with replenishment circumstances, individuals who don’t Assistance Program: The Merck Patient being limited to patients meeting meet the prescription drug coverage Assistance Program, Inc., may be able specified income and insurance criteria. criteria may still qualify for the Merck to provide medicines and adult vaccines MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 42 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPORT™ Program: To ease the plan, as well as Medicare beneficiaries • In an effort to simplify patient access healthcare reimbursement process, who enroll in a Medicare drug plan but further, the exceptions process Merck has created the SUPPORT™ still cannot afford their Merck medication. no longer requires a prescriber’s Program to help patients who have been Such individuals have to attest that they signature to the “exceptions request” prescribed ISENTRESS ® (raltegravir) have special circumstances of financial authorization form, although a 400 mg Film-Coated and 25 mg and medical hardship and that their prescriber’s signature is still required and 100 mg Chewable Tablets, and income meets the program criteria. on the initial PAP application CRIXIVAN ® (indinavir sulfate) 200 mg and 400 mg Capsules. The SUPPORT For Patient Assistance Program Communicating Our Programs to Program provides both personalized details, including eligibility Doctors and Consumers reimbursement support that helps requirements, visit MerckHelps. Merck is also working to raise awareness patients navigate what can be a complex com or call 1-800-PAP-5400 of our PAPs to doctors and eligible insurance and reimbursement system, (1-800-727-5400). patients via brochures about and and assistance with prior authorization, applications for the Merck Patient identifying insurance options, and Assistance Programs distributed by our reimbursement. The program also Designed for Ease of Use sales representatives to physician offices provides medicine free of charge to and clinics nationwide. All toll-free phone eligible patients lacking coverage for In recent years, we redesigned the Merck lines for Merck medicines include an ISENTRESS and CRIXIVAN. Patient Assistance Program with the goal option for patients to learn about the of simplifying and streamlining the patient Merck PAPs. Also, PAP information ACT Program: The ACT Program is assistance process for both healthcare is added to all new Merck direct-todesigned specifically to assist patients providers and patients. As a result: consumer advertisements, including a with insurance reimbursement issues and phone number for more information. questions, and to provide product free of • A simple one-page, two-sided form charge to those eligible individuals lacking was created Partnership for Prescription Assistance coverage for Merck’s oncology and Merck also participates in the • Only a completed application signed hepatitis C medicines. pharmaceutical industry initiative by both the patient and the prescriber Partnership for Prescription Assistance is required Merck Hotline Program: The Merck (PPA). The Partnership brings together Patient Assistance Program for • Education materials and applications America’s pharmaceutical companies, INVANZ® (ertapenem for injection), are available in Spanish as well as doctors, patient advocacy PRIMAXIN ® (imipenem and cilastatin for • Patients can receive a 90-day supply organizations and civic groups, to help injectable suspension), and CANCIDAS® of Merck medicines with up to three low-income, uninsured patients get free (caspofungin acetate) for Injection is refills—for a total of up to one year or nearly free brand-name medicines. a program designed to help indigent of medication PPA does this by offering one place—a and uninsured patients. This program single website—that provides information • Up to three scripts per application can provides reimbursement support and and access to more than 475 public and be submitted patient assistance/product replacement private patient assistance programs, to healthcare facilities. • Medicines can be mailed directly including more than 200 programs to a patient’s home or to a offered by pharmaceutical companies like Most of Merck’s PAPs also continue to prescriber’s office Merck. To date, PPA has helped millions be available to Medicare beneficiaries • Under special circumstances, patients of Americans get free or reduced-cost who are not enrolled in a Medicare drug with insurance who have extenuating prescription medicines. circumstances can request that an exception be made MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 43 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck’s participation in PPA underscores PERFORMANCE the company’s commitment to helping the uninsured gain access to Merck medicines. To learn more about the Partnership for Prescription Access, visit www.pparx.org. The main driver of the decrease in patient and prescription volumes for 2013 is the periodic changes in the products covered by the various patient assistance programs. These changes are due, in part, to company divestitures, the introduction of competing products, and the availability of generic alternatives. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 44 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Low levels of health literacy may span all Poor health literacy is a serious challenge HEALTH LITERACY age, gender, education, and/or income groups. It can be compounded by the to improving health outcomes around the world, and Merck’s commitment & HEALTHCARE emotional state of patients who are to advancing health literacy is trying to grasp the implications of a fundamental to how we do business. new diagnosis. It is linked to increased We recognize the potential Merck has DISPARITIES hospitalization rates, less frequent screenings for disease, increased rates of disease and mortality, and poor to help improve millions of lives3 by improving how we communicate as we shepherd discoveries from the lab to the adherence to treatment. Poor health marketplace. We also know it will take Low health literacy is a $200 billion literacy is also a contributing factor to a multifaceted effort focused on public global problem.1 healthcare disparities.2 policy, engaging diverse stakeholders and new ways of communicating in order As a research-based healthcare company, to translate confusing terminology into Merck’s mission is to improve the KEY DEFINITIONS clear and meaningful information that can well-being of people around the world. improve lives.4 That’s why we are calling Achieving our mission is about more than for collaboration among government discovering the molecules or the mixtures Healthcare Disparities: agencies, healthcare providers, patient that can help make people well. It’s also Differences or gaps in care advocacy groups and healthcare about improving people’s capabilities experienced by one population companies to do more, together, to to make healthy choices, manage their compared with another increase patient understanding about therapies and navigate health systems. population, due in part to: healthcare and treatment plans. • Lack of access to care Patients should be empowered to • Provider biases and At a time when patients and family manage disease through a better other issues members are increasingly involved in understanding of the treatments and the their own care, clear communication at medicines prescribed. Health literacy • Poor provider communication every point along the patient journey, is a critical factor in this understanding. • Poor health literacy from researching symptoms to seeking Without it, the chances that a patient will diagnosis, to managing disease, is correctly use and fully benefit from our Health Literacy (U.S.): The a crucial adjunct to the medicines discoveries are slim. degree to which individuals we discover. have the capacity to obtain, process and understand basic health information and services needed to make appropriate health decisions. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 45 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Health Literacy and Health Equity: A PERSPECTIVE FROM MERCK’S CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER: Key Priorities Across the Globe HEALTH LITERACY AND HEALTH EQUITY ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO MERCK’S MISSION TO IMPROVE HEALTH The office of the CMO is committed to ensuring diversity in clinical trials, Because of their direct impact on patient health, both health literacy and championing health literacy across health equity are key priorities for the Office of the Chief Medical Officer countries and divisions, and proposing (CMO). In the words of Dr. Michael Rosenblatt, Merck’s chief medical officer: new solutions to improve healthcare equity across the globe. In the U.S., our • Health literacy is vital to achieving the best possible results from medical vision is to be recognized by healthcare care, medicines and vaccines. The mission of the Office of the Chief stakeholders as a leader in the areas Medical Officer is to serve the best interests of patients and the field of of reducing healthcare disparities medicine. Merck is committed to leading the pharmaceutical industry in and improving health literacy through redefining how to apply health literacy principles to our direct and indirect innovative programs and resources, and communications with patients, including clinical trials, medication labeling through a demonstrated commitment for patients, and patient education. Over time, we will continue to apply to improving patient health outcomes. health-literacy principles, when appropriate. Merck proudly participates on both the • For example, currently at the point of dispensing medication there Institute of Medicine Health Literacy are barriers and practices that can compromise a patient’s proper Roundtable, as well as the Roundtable on understanding and sustained adherence to drug regimens. We believe that the Promotion of Health Equity and the clear information about medicines should be provided to people across a Elimination of Health Disparities. range of health-literacy levels. We have partnered with leaders in the field of health literacy to develop and test new approaches to patient labeling. In the EU, Merck collaborates Several rounds of market research indicate that these approaches result with various stakeholders in policy in strong comprehension of medication information by patients across a development for health literacy and range of health-literacy levels. supports programs that improve health• We must partner with patients to promote their understanding of their literacy levels of citizens and patients. medical conditions or diseases, the reasons they are being treated, and the We do this together with European appropriate use of medications and other treatments. The result will be associations of physicians, pharmacists, maximizing the benefit and minimizing safety issues when patients use our nurses, patients and policy makers from medicines. Merck is committed to improving health literacy as part of our the European Parliament and other EU mission to improve health. institutions. In addition, many subsidiaries of Merck/MSD have translated health literacy into programs to improve the health of citizens and patients. Finally, health literacy has also been mentioned in the EU Health Programme 2014–2020 thanks to the support of Members of the European Parliament; this mention allows access to EU funds for healthliteracy programs initiated by academics or other interest groups. We highlight some of our U.S. and EU health-literacy initiatives below. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 46 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Reducing Healthcare Disparities • Live presentations, including individuals with lower health literacy to and Improving Health Literacy: Delivering Quality Care to Diverse comprehend. In 2013, the marketing Initiatives in the U.S. Populations; Implementing research organization applied testing Universal Precautions (Ensuring and screening methods commonly used Many payers, integrated health Clear Communication and Patient within the field of health literacy, but systems, and large medical groups Understanding); and Relationshipnot previously in the pharmaceutical share a common interest in reducing Centered Care. industry, to increase participation of and healthcare disparities and addressing the validity of responses from individuals poor health literacy. Merck has created While the skills of individual patients with limited health literacy in its research. and shared resources used by these and caregivers are an important part of Merck will partner with health literacy organizations, including: health literacy, the subject encompasses experts to jointly present these learnings a great deal more. Health literacy is at conferences in late 2014 and through • Case studies, cultural pointers and about the ability to deliver patient future publications. Best practice guides cultural-competence brochures communications in an understandable have also been developed and distributed designed to help healthcare and actionable way. Merck is actively internally. We are also currently working providers better understand integrating health-literacy principles into with market research vendors to improve patients from diverse cultures and our patient education materials. A training their ability to recruit and engage patients effectively manage cross-cultural program is being developed that will with limited health literacy. communications. To see examples of provide clear instructions to the creators these resources, please visit: https:// of these materials on how to implement We also have improved the diversity of www.merckengage.com/hcp/for_ health-literacy best practices. These images and languages used in patient you/cultural_competence.aspx best practices are derived from recent education materials. In 2011 and 2012, research in the field of health literacy, hundreds of new photographs, reflective • An online video that provides tips on as well as feedback Merck has already of diverse populations, were taken. implementing universal health-literacy received from healthcare providers and In 2013, many of these images were precautions in a practice session, a patients themselves. made available on an internal global workbook modeling the “teach back site at no cost across all divisions of the technique,” and an accompanying To ensure consumer understanding, we company, and have already been used slide set for additional explanation. often test patient education materials across the company in many internal and “Teach back” is a model designed in market research. However, patients external communications. to confirm that patients understand with limited health literacy who are most medical concepts communicated to at risk of not understanding information them by having the patients explain have often not been well represented in the concepts back to the physician this type of research, as these individuals or clinician after having heard about commonly do not self-select for vendor them. Excerpts from the video recruitment panels. Furthermore, of Dr. Darren DeWalt describing many of the testing methods routinely implementation of universal healthapplied are confusing and difficult for literacy precautions using the toolkit are included on the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) website. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 47 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Because clear communication is valued As the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) extends health by everyone, we also conducted a insurance coverage to millions of healthcare consumers, many of whom health literacy review of our employee exhibit lower health literacy, more focus is needed to ensure that this growing enrollment materials for health insurance, universe of patients have the information needed to make informed health and implemented the use of optimized decisions. In 2013, in anticipation of the implementation of the ACA, the documents in the fall of 2013. We are also Institute of Medicine Health Literacy Roundtable published the discussion applying health literacy principles to other paper “Let’s Ask 4: Questions for Consumers and Providers About Health employee communications. Insurance.” A consumer version focused on answering four questions: What are my choices? How do I get it? How do I use it? How much will it cost me? Merck is unique in the industry in An interactive version was designed in partnership with the authors. In 2013, its dedication of resources to health Merck launched the Merck Investigator Studies Program (MISP) focused literacy. In 2013, two full-time positions on health literacy, diversity and adherence. The studies are ongoing, with were created in addition to a full-time results anticipated in 2015–2016. This program welcomed proposals from all health literacy and healthcare disparities therapeutic areas, and includes studies that evaluate the following: strategy role that has been in place for 1. Effectiveness of novel, scalable approaches, such as new technologies, several years. A market research position systems approaches and social media to help patients manage and was created to ensure creation and improve sustained-medication adherence employing principles of consistent application of best practices health literacy for health literacy in screening and testing across the business. And a new 2. Effectiveness of community-based interventions aimed at improving consumer strategy position focuses on health literacy among patients and/or providers, with the goal of enhancing integrating health literacy principles into quality of care and improving sustained-medication adherence and/or patient materials. patient health outcomes 3. Application of health literacy principles to increase enrollment by and Reducing Disparities in Diabetes Care retention of diverse populations, including African Americans, Latinos and in the U.S. Asians, in U.S. clinical trials In the U.S. disparities in many chronic health conditions, including diabetes, are a growing national concern. The In 2013, Merck partnered with proper use of medications over time, and U.S. Centers for Disease Control Northwestern Medicine®, Walgreens, and if this leads to better management of and Prevention estimates that nearly Alliance of Chicago community health chronic disease. This standard is referred 25.8 million people—8.3 percent of centers to collaborate on a study with to as a Universal Medication Schedule the U.S. population—are affected by a deceptively simple goal: provide clear (UMS). This study will focus on individuals diabetes. Type 2 diabetes accounts instructions on prescription medicine with type 2 diabetes and those with more for 90 percent to 95 percent of all labels so patients don’t make mistakes complex medication regimens. Twelve diagnosed cases. The American and overcomplicate taking their daily community health centers affiliated with Diabetes Association estimates that medications. This new study will test Alliance of Chicago will be the sites for the total costs of diagnosed diabetes whether prescribing medications to be the study. For additional information, were approximately $245 billion in taken at four standard intervals—in the please read the press release. 2012. To address the growing problem morning, noon, evening and bedtime of healthcare disparities related to type improves patients’ understanding and 2 diabetes in the U.S. among lowincome and underserved populations, MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 48 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT the Merck Foundation in 2009 launched (2014–2020)” and “Horizon 2020.” The MoH decided to invest in a survey, the Alliance to Reduce Disparities two proposals will frame future EU investigating the health literacy of the in Diabetes with a commitment of funding for health literacy projects. The Austrian migrant population. With $15 million through 2013. The Alliance inclusion of health literacy has been the implementation of a national collaborates with national, regional and possible thanks to the support of several working group, led by the MoH, it is community partners to develop and Members of the European Parliament. now sure that health literacy will stay implement comprehensive, evidenceon the Austrian political agenda for the based diabetes programs, with the goal Throughout 2013, several Merck/MSD next decade. Under the title “Hepatitis of minimizing disparities in diabetes subsidiaries across Europe initiated C mostly goes unnoticed,” leading outcomes and enhancing the quality projects in the area of health literacy: institutions such as the Red Cross, of diabetes care through improved the MoH and healthcare professional prevention and management services. Austria associations launched a national Learn more. education campaign in collaboration • “Shaping a health literate Europe— with MSD Austria. Lack of awareness Healthcare Disparities and Health a recipe for sustainable healthcare” and knowledge about hep C are Literacy: Initiatives in the European was the title of a session organized leading causes for people often Union (EU) by MSD/Merck in partnership with not knowing that they have a hep C Maastricht University, the European infection. A 16-sheet-poster campaign, The year 2013 was an important one for Patients’ Forum and the Standing short clips on info-screens in public health literacy in Europe. To further raise Committee of European Doctors transportation and patient testimonial the profile of the issue, and to discuss the European Health Forum Gastein movies were created to increase hep C the role of health literacy in public health (Austria). The session provided a literacy levels and to encourage people and health systems, Merck/MSD initiated platform to discuss the role of health to get tested. The campaign also and broadened the stakeholder dialogue literacy in healthcare and to launch comprised a pilot screening and quickwith the European Patients’ Forum, the EU consensus paper on health test initiatives in four Austrian regions the European Public Health Alliance, literacy. Antonyia Parvanova and to foster the collaboration between the Standing Committee of European Karin Kadenbach, both Members specialists and local physicians. Doctors, the European Association of of the European Parliament (MEP), Hospital Pharmacists, the European spoke at the event and were joined Belgium Federation of Nurses, and the University in the discussions by Gediminas of Maastricht. As a result, a consensus Cerniauskas, Vice Minister of Health • In spring 2013, MSD Belgium paper on health literacy, created by in Lithuania, representatives from the launched the first health literacy these organizations, was launched at Austrian payers’ association and award in Belgium, called “MSD Well the European Health Forum Gastein the European Commission. Done Health Literacy Award,” aimed (see “Austria,” below). In addition, the at awarding projects that empower • Health literacy is one of the key European Commission agreed to support individuals and improve health objectives of the health targets a study on the impact of health literacy literacy. In October 2013, the first defined by the Austrian Ministry of in health outcomes and healthcare three winners received the award Health (MoH). In the context of a expenditure; results are expected in 2015. from a representative of the Flemish comprehensive healthcare reform Ministry of Health. The “MSD Well agenda in 2013, health literacy was In terms of investing in health literacy, the Done Health Literacy Award” is embedded in the corresponding Council of the European Union and the supported by 13 partners, representing healthcare reform law. In a further step Parliament adopted the “third Programme healthcare professional associations, of common agreement, MSD Austria, for the Union’s action in the field of health patient associations, media and “sick the Austrian Social Security and the funds.” Learn more. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 49 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Denmark • The EMZ project “Patient Information multiple boundaries, professions and Leaflets (PILs)” started in 2009 sectors. Helping patient organizations • Empirical evidence is the basis as a cross-functional project with to effectively communicate patientfor improving health policy. MSD Regulatory Affairs, Patient centered healthcare was the objective Denmark supported a large national Relations, patient organizations, of the program “Volere non basta, health literacy survey with over 30,000 elderly organizations, and various bisogna comunicare” (“Asking for participants, marking the first time pharmaceutical companies. To date, something is not enough, we need to that health literacy was assessed in 30 PILs have been revised, and audio communicate”). Starting in 2013, it Denmark. The results were mixed and versions for the blind have been focused on effective communication showed a clear need to invest in health produced. In addition, discussions with within institutional settings and literacy. On average, nearly one out the German Medicines Commission among stakeholders. Twenty patient of five respondents had insufficient have started to improve the national associations benefited from the health literacy levels, and for lowguidelines for PILs. program, which was supported by income/short-education groups, it the MSD Foundation, endorsed by was nearly one out of four. Results To improve medical information for Sapienza University of Rome, and were presented at the 2nd European healthcare professionals, new Summaries operatively managed by an external Health Literacy Conference in Århus, of the Main Product Characteristics agency (AgEtica). Denmark, in April 2014. (SPC) have been developed and tested • Other projects by MSD Italy such as amongst physicians. The results showed “Pronti” (“Be ready”) and “Con te” Germany that the alternative SPC was consistently (“With you”) promoted a meaningful preferred; the findings were published in dialogue between patients and • In November 2013, MSD Germany the British Medical Journal in 2013. physicians. The former supported HIV started work with the Ethno-Medical patients in the context of aging and Centre (EMZ) on project “MiMi’— • The app “DiabetesPlus Type 2” co-morbidities; the latter focused on With Migrants for Migrants.” MiMi supported by MSD Germany became hepatitis C patients to provide better trains well-integrated migrants to be a great success in 2013 and generated understanding of the disease and mediators for health and integration 9,500 downloads via iTunes and 6,900 how to improve quality of life, and in the field of diabetes. The project downloads via the Android store it gave physicians tools to support provides intercultural training thus far. The app is simple to use and their patients. In addition, education for mediators and professionals, facilitates the documentation and the through information was also the multilingual information campaigns transfer of all important parameters objective of “LOVE IT,”a 360-degree and guidebooks, public relations such as therapy, meals and exercise. It cross-media campaign with the work, and the establishment of also was named by the consumer test Italian Society of Gynecology (SIGO), local networks for integration and organization “Stiftung Warentest” as leveraging the Italian “the pill without health. So far, a patient brochure the best health app. a Pill” campaign, aiming to create a has been published in 10 languages, cultural movement on contraception. and 52 mediators were trained Italy about diabetes who then organized • Improving one’s quality of life is 83 group sessions across Bavaria • According to the World Health a major challenge for patients and in Hamburg. Over 900 migrants Organization, health literacy is not with cancer. In 2013, MSD Italy benefited from these sessions. only the responsibility of individuals produced movie trailers, called or of policy makers or professionals “ONCOMovies,” with scenes from in the health sector; rather it crosses MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 50 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT well-known films to raise oncologists’ and Answers about Crohn Disease”; “therapeutic adherence,” its clinical and patients’ awareness of the “What do I have to ask my doctor and health-social impacts, reasons for importance of maintaining quality of if I receive an HIV diagnosis?”; and noncompliance, as well as methods life during chemotherapy treatment. a complete kit of information for and strategies to improve adherence. ONCOMovies was based on a study hepatitis C–diagnosed patients, This work suggests that therapeutic conducted by a board of Italian “Hepatitis C: Information for Patients. adherence must be an essential goal oncologists and psycho-oncologists Hepatitis C can be cured.” MSD Spain of the whole health system, involving who analyzed 82 cancer-related films contributed to this effort with the all agents in patient health. produced between 1939 and 2012. objective to support patients to play a • Together with the Galicia government Patients’ stories were also collected more active and more empowered role and academics, MSD Spain helped to on the website www.nonausea.it. in the management of their illness. evaluate the Galician Health School for Finally, one of the screenplays titled • Voices from the ‘Silent Disease’ is Citizens, a public institution focused “INSIEME,” was invited to the Venice a book about hepatitis C, featuring on health education initiatives that International Film Festival (September 12 stories of real patients. The book aim to help citizens make sound 2013) and to the Rome International has been edited by MSD Spain health decisions. In 470 face-to-face Short Movie Festival (October 2013). with the objective of increasing interviews, health literacy levels of “INSIEME” was produced by MSD awareness about hepatitis C and people attending the seminars of the Italy with scientific societies and helping patients to understand and Galician Health School were measured patient associations. manage their disease. According to in order to assess the effectiveness of • Improving health literacy in the area Antonio Bernal, the President of the its programs. The results showed that of prevention is the objective of the National Federation of Hepatic and the sample in Galicia scored higher in Web portal “LA DOLCE VITA 2.0” Transplant Patients (FNETH), the book the healthcare and disease prevention (www.dedicatialdiabete.it), was “without any doubt, the most domains than did the reference group. supported by MSD Italy. It educates important hep C dissemination project The results were presented at the 2nd site visitors about lifestyle choices and in Spain up till now.” European Health Literacy Conference healthy food, facilitates an interactive • Health literacy and adherence are in Århus, Denmark. Web community and promotes closely linked. To increase scientific Regional Cuisine Awards. In addition, knowledge of adherence, MSD Switzerland it also offers an app for download that Spain supported the scientific article helps people with diabetes manage “Therapeutic Adherence in Chronic • “The future of health literacy in their daily diets. Additionally, MSD Disease: Review of the situation and Switzerland” was the subject of Italy developed a short movie about future,” which has been published in a symposium organized by the hypoglycemia for patients already the Spanish Clinic Review. The article Swiss Health Literacy Alliance suffering from diabetes, to support the includes the review of the Spanish in December 2013. The alliance management of hypoglycemia. group of reference in chronicity comprises organizations such as and adherence, coordinated by the Swiss Medical Association, Spain the article’s author, Pedro Conthe, Public Health Switzerland, Health Doctor of Medicine (the Universidad Promotion Switzerland, the Careum • Patient literacy was a top priority in Autónoma de Madrid) and professor Foundation and MSD Switzerland. Spain in 2013. To empower patients in the Department of Toxicology and The state of play of and gaps in material was developed such as Forensic Medicine of the Universidad health literacy were presented, both “20 Questions and Answers about Complutense. The aim of this from an international and a national Ulcerative Colitis”; “20 Questions work is to develop the concept of perspective by Professor Jürgen Pelikan, Vienna and Stefan Spycher, MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 51 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT vice-director of the Federal Office of published the first edition of The Merck for Pet Health, which covers the full Public Health, respectively. One of the Veterinary Manual for veterinarians, which spectrum of today’s pets—from dogs, outcomes was a consensus that health has now sold over 1 million copies and cats and horses to birds, reptiles, fish and literacy plays a key role in improving has been translated into six languages. other exotic pets; and The Merck Manual adherence and helps vulnerable The latest edition, published in 2010, is of Patient Symptoms, a guide for medical groups to navigate the health system available in its 10th edition. students, residents, nurse practitioners better—and that there is still much and physician assistants. work to do in Switzerland. The event In 1997, we published The Merck was targeted to patient organizations, Manual—Home Edition to provide the public authorities, payors and politicians and aimed to strengthen the alliance’s visibility. benefits of the Manual to the general public. Now in its third edition, the renamed The Merck Manual—Home RESOURCES FOR 1  dvancing Health Literacy to Improved Quality, A Health Handbook has sold more than 3 million copies and has been translated HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS Adherence, and Outcomes. Ruth M. Parker, MD. Slide 21. into 12 languages. There is also an app for 2  HRQ 2012 Health Disparities Report (page 5). A this product that is available on multiple http://www.ahrq.gov/research/findings/nhqrdr/ platforms. As part of our commitment nhqr12/nhqr12_prov.pdf to provide medical information as widely 3 I mplementing Health Literacy in a Large Company. Univadis® /Merck Medicus—A An Example from Pharma. May 10, 2012. as possible, we offer the content of comprehensive online medical-information 4 Health Literacy in Europe. Dec 13, 2012. these Merck Manuals on the Web free of resource from Merck/MSD for healthcare 5 H  ealth Literacy Overview. Business Insight charge. Registration is not required, and Roundtable. June 4, 2012. professionals worldwide. This online use is unlimited. The Merck Manual site resource provides high-quality, relevant is updated to ensure that its information and trusted medical information essential is as current as possible. In addition, MERCK MANUALS for healthcare practice. With an easy-tosince 2011, we donated more than use interface, the site features breaking 50,000 copies of The Merck Manual to medical news, accredited education nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) courses and cutting-edge tools tailored to In 1899, we published the first for distribution to physicians, nurses and each medical specialty and clinician need. edition of The Merck Manual, a community health workers throughout developing countries. 192-page resource book designed All medical and scientific content comes to aid physicians and pharmacists. from independent third parties, such as In late 2013, we published the Merck scientific leaders, educational institutions Manual Go-To Home Guide for By the 1980s, The Merck Manual was and medical societies, as well as through Symptoms. This new publication takes the world’s best-selling medical text and partnerships with a range of worldcomplex medical information and makes had been translated into 17 languages. leading medical publishers. With no it easy to understand and accessible to an The 19th edition, published in July 2011, subscription or registration fees, the site everyday audience. It covers a wide range now comes with a free app for pocket provides access to: of everyday symptoms, from abdominal mobile devices. This updated edition pain to wheezing and almost everything in reflects progress in both medicine and • The latest medical news and clinical between. Other publications include The technology, as it keeps pace with the developments in 60+ specialist areas Merck Manual of Health & Aging, which many electronic platforms used to deliver • Selected full-text articles from The provides professionals and consumers information to healthcare professionals Lancet and JAMA with useful healthcare information for and medical students. In 1955, we older adults; The Merck/Merial Manual MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 52 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Weekly research summaries from The Adherence Estimator ® major peer-reviewed publications • Conference coverage from HEALTH RESOURCES Patients often fail to reach clinical goals FOR PATIENTS medical congresses because they don’t take medications as directed. At Merck, we remain committed • Full online access to trusted to identifying the reasons why patients do medical references not always take prescribed medicine and • A library of thousands of medical With research showing that three support the development of improved images to enrich presentations out of four Americans fail to evidence-based interventions that can and research take their prescribed medicines lead to improved adherence. • A wide range of resources to enhance as directed, the following The Adherence Estimator is a validated, interactions with patients at the point resources are designed to help patient-based resource that gauges of care, including interactive 3-D consumers stay on course with the likelihood of a patient’s adhering anatomy tools and patient handouts their treatment and have better to a newly prescribed oral medication The platform’s concept, first introduced conversations with their healthcare for certain chronic conditions. The professionals about the medicines Adherence Estimator asks questions in 2001, has undergone a redesign to they have been prescribed. about three key areas that affect meet the needs expressed by healthcare adherence: patients’ perceived concerns professionals (HCPs) and to reflect the MerckEngage about prescription medication, their evolution of healthcare professionals’ perception of the need for or their usage of digital information and mobile MerckEngage.com, a free health commitment to a prescription medication, technologies. The redesign has been support program available in the U.S., and their perceived financial burden due rolled out in over 78 markets in the last offers resources that help consumers to the cost of prescription medication. year, and ensures an online and mobile achieve their health goals by reinforcing After respondents answer the questions, resource that HCPs can rely on. healthy lifestyle choices, providing the resource provides information to disease-specific education, supporting enable the patient and healthcare provider Univadis/Merck Medicus creates adherence to therapy, and facilitating to discuss any concerns that the patient unique opportunities for long-term and more productive interactions with their may have. meaningful partnerships with scientific and healthcare organizations in addition to healthcare professionals. The site also provides support and encouragement for SPARTA / SPARSH the world-class publishers that we work with. The team behind the platform is caregivers, who are often engaged in the day-to-day care and treatment decisions SPARTA / SPARSH is a support initiative working closely with the RAMS (Russian of family members and friends. for patients with diabetes and other Academy of Medical Sciences) and the chronic illnesses who are taking certain AMB (Associação Médica Brasileira), The program also provides healthcare Merck medicines. The program was and has recently begun discussions with professionals with health support created in Australia, India and the the HINARI program at the World Health materials and tools for their patients. It Philippines in partnership with physicians Organization and the NCD Alliance. is designed to support the healthcare and pharmacists who voiced the need professional–healthcare consumer for more-robust patient support. Using relationship by providing tools and tips— the Adherence Estimator, counseling online, through a call center and through modules have been created so that mobile devices—for healthier living enrolled patients receive counseling between office visits. MerckEngage.com through telephone calls on understanding is also available in Spanish. their disease, the cost of inadequate MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 53 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT control (for example, in diabetes care, the OLMETEC PLUS. Since 2011, over financing program has since expanded complications of diabetes, and diet and 88,000 patients have benefited from to more than 30 cities across four exercise), with an effort to strengthen the program. states in India. More than 550 patients physician recommendation adherence. (representing nearly 30 percent of Current results indicate a very positive Project Sambhav new-patient enrollments) are currently effect on adherence through the program taking hepatitis C medicine through the with associated benefits in terms of Project Sambhav (a Hindi word for financing program. The loan repayment therapeutic outcomes as a result of the “making it possible”) is a first-of-its-kind, default rates are below 3 percent. improved adherence. The program is multi-stakeholder initiative led by MSD in now being implemented in a number India to collectively address key barriers of countries in the emerging markets to hepatitis C treatment. “I consider the Sambhav countries and in Europe. program a very important Launched in 2012, the program has two RxIQ—Adherence Support Program components—a financing component to initiative by MSD in increasreduce cost as a barrier, and a disease ing access to treatment for A significant barrier to effective medical management program to increase all my hepatitis C patients. treatment is non-adherence to treatment. disease awareness and facilitate For these patients, affordMany patients make critical choices about adherence to prescribed treatment. ability is a big challenge. In whether or not to fill or continue taking This core is supported by a number of addition, the awareness a prescription in the first few weeks innovative partnerships with the goal level about the disease is following diagnosis. of increasing awareness about the disease and advocacy for adherence to very low, and patients have Merck Canada is responding to this prescribed treatment. many myths and false challenge through an innovative information. The Sambhav adherence program designed to motivate The financing component consists of program addresses both and support patients in the early stages partnering with a financial institution these issues by offering of their treatment journey. The RxIQ™– that provides loans to eligible patients, financial help in the form of Adherence Support Program is a focused, allowing them to pay for the medicine three-month program offered through over an extended period of time. With a subsidized loan and the two channels: physicians, at time of this kind of financing, the affordability services of a counselor.” prescribing; and pharmacies, when the of hepatitis C treatment has increased Dr. Ajit Sood, the first doctor to prescription is first filled. The program from 2 to 3 percent of the population implement this program in India was developed with the help of a clinical to more than 40 percent. The disease psychologist. Program offerings are management component includes based on proven adherence concepts and the support of an independent nurse behavior change principles. counselor to increase understanding of the disease, loan options and, ultimately, In a JANUVIA pilot with Canadian improve adherence to treatment. pharmacists, 75 percent of patients enrolled in RxIQ were still on therapy after While similar disease management 365 days. RxIQ is available for several programs have been implemented before, chronic-care brands in Canada, including the financing component is an industry JANUMET, JANUVIA, OLMETEC, and first. Initially piloted in Punjab, India, the MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 54 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Despite Merck’s efforts to develop to meet the health needs of the COMMUNITY and implement effective business and philanthropic strategies to help remove underserved. In addition, the program provides rich professional development INVESTMENT barriers to access, challenges remain due opportunities that help Merck employees to the complex and multifaceted nature understand critical needs in different of the problem. To truly address—and, parts of the world. Learn more. ultimately, solve—the issues of access in We recognize that we cannot developing and middle-income markets, For additional examples of our support address complex public the international community must pool for healthcare capacity-building and health challenges on our own; its resources and expertise to strengthen health-system strengthening activities, healthcare infrastructure, to ensure please see Programs/Key Initiatives. therefore, we engage in adequate financing for health, and to help community investment to build local healthcare capacity through We also recognize that adequate address the barriers to access training and support. Even in developed solutions are not always available where we believe we can make countries, challenges remain to reach when patients need them. And while the strongest contributions. groups of underserved populations. Merck does not believe that donating medicines alone is a sustainable, longExamples of our community investment term solution to the global challenge OUR COMMITMENTS efforts follow. of access to medicines, we recognize that millions of patients need medicines • Through innovative approaches In 2011, we launched Merck for Mothers, now. For that reason, Merck remains and partnerships, we will a 10-year, $500 million initiative to committed to donating our medicines invest our expertise, human reduce maternal mortality worldwide. and vaccines through organized resources, financial resources, Through this effort, we are providing programs, as appropriate. Our primary products and market-based scientific and business expertise to programs involving donations of Merck solutions to: focus on three strategic areas: product products are: the Merck Medical innovation; access to affordable, quality Outreach Program (MMOP), the Support capacity-building, care; and advocacy. In order to strengthen Merck MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) including healthcare the health system by addressing local Donation Program (MDP), the professional training, to maternal health needs, Merck for African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS deliver healthcare solutions Mothers is collaborating with Merck Partnerships (ACHAP) and the Address underlying barriers offices around the world to support nearly U.S.-based Patient Assistance to health, such as health30 projects to train health providers in Programs (PAP). To date, we have system strengthening maternal care services, link pregnant provided over $1.75B in market value • When market-based solutions women to care, and raise awareness of of donated Merck products. are inadequate or unavailable, safe practices. Learn more. we will pursue programs to In 2013, the number of people provide direct access to our The Richard T. Clark Fellowship for reached through our programs medicines and vaccines World Health is a global program that increased substantially. The increase is designed to leverage the skills and was mainly driven by the expansion talents of Merck employees to build local of the MECTIZAN Donation Program capacity by enhancing the efficiency as it transitioned from a control to of operations, effectiveness and reach of an elimination strategy. Merck also nonprofit organizations that are working saw an increase in the uptake of MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 55 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT IMPLANON ® (etonogestrel implant) in having been completed. In addition, the wake of the announcement of the due to the 50 percent price reduction of IMPLANON Access Program, under IMPLANON and IMPLANON NXT, most which IMPLANON and IMPLANON of the training in developing countries NXT® are available at a 50 percent price is now being funded by international reduction in the targeted poorest eligible donor organizations and governments. countries of focus for the reproductive However, Merck continues to provide health community/FP2020. The total technical support for training and number of healthcare workers trained certification of expert and master trainers, through our efforts declined primarily including by supplying placebo applicators because several of our major programs and selected training material (e.g., that include training components will artificial arms), as well as on-site medical be concluding, with the training phase professionals where requested. 2011 2012 2013 Healthcare workers trained through 52,000 38,000 22,000 our major programs and partnerships1 Investment in partnerships for 35 24 24 activities that address underlying barriers to health, such as health-system strengthening and capacity-building ($M)2 People reached through our major 273 269 342 programs and partnerships (M)1,3 1  Major” is defined as an investment by Merck’s Office of Corporate Philanthropy and/or the Merck “ Foundation of more than $300,000 per year and/or an engagement with a national government. 2 I ncludes investments by Merck’s Office of Corporate Philanthropy and/or The Merck Foundation; also includes funding for access to clean water. 3 I ncludes treatments approved for river blindness and lymphatic filariasis through the Merck MECTIZAN ® Donation Program. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 56 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck MECTIZAN Donation Program GARDASIL Access Program KEY INITIATIVES The MECTIZAN ® (ivermectin) Donation Program is the longest-running diseaseThrough the GARDASIL® Access Program, Merck pledged to donate specific drug donation program and at least 3 million doses of GARDASIL As a global healthcare company, public-private partnership of its kind, [Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent Merck believes it has an important and is widely regarded as one of the (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, role and responsibility in improving most successful public-private health Recombinant] for use in smalleraccess to medicines, vaccines collaborations in the world. scale human papillomavirus (HPV) and quality healthcare worldwide, vaccination projects in eligible lowestthereby helping to reduce the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS income countries around the world, to Partnerships (ACHAP) enable participating organizations and burden of disease in the parts of institutions in those countries to gain the world that need it most. Merck, the Merck Foundation and the operational experience in designing and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation implementing HPV vaccination projects. We believe our role is to work in established the African Comprehensive partnership with others—​local HIV/AIDS Partnerships (ACHAP) in Alliance to Reduce Disparities communities, governments, donors, 2002 to support Botswana, a country in Diabetes patient organizations, healthcare disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. professionals, nongovernmental Diabetes represents a significant organizations (NGOs), multilateral China-MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership economic burden in the U.S. To address organizations and others in the private (C-MAP) the growing problem of healthcare sector—​to contribute our expertise disparities related to type 2 diabetes and knowledge. The Merck Foundation has committed in the U.S. among low-income and $30 million over eight years (2005–2012) underserved adult populations, the The programs highlighted here are to establish the China-MSD HIV/AIDS Merck Foundation in 2009 launched examples of our ongoing efforts. Partnership (C-MAP). This comprehensive The Alliance to Reduce Disparities HIV/AIDS initiative has project offices in Diabetes, with a commitment of Merck for Mothers in three places: Beijing; Chengdu, the $15 million. capital of Sichuan Province; and Sichuan Merck for Mothers is a 10-year, Province’s Liangshan Prefecture. Merck Childhood Asthma Network, $500 million initiative focused on creating Inc. (MCAN) a world where no woman dies giving life. HIV Care Collaborative We are committed to using our business The Merck Childhood Asthma Network, and scientific expertise to improve To help address remaining barriers to Inc. (MCAN) is the only private foundation maternal health and are already working HIV care, especially among underserved focused solely on addressing the complex in more than 30 countries around the populations, the Merck Foundation and growing problem of childhood world, including the U.S. launched a three-year initiative—the asthma in the U.S. MCAN’s mission is HIV Care Collaborative for Underserved to enhance the quality of life for children Populations in the United States—to with asthma and their families, and to connect more people living with HIV to reduce the burden of the disease on them the care they need to stay healthy. and on society. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 57 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT with three main pillars: 1) access to • Pathfinder International and World MERCK FOR MOTHERS affordable, quality care; 2) product innovation; and 3) advocacy and awareness. Health Partners are bringing maternal healthcare to pregnant women in remote areas through telemedicine, and developing critical referral The preventable death of a woman linkages between public and private from complications of pregnancy AC C E S S T O A F F O R DA B L E , health providers. and childbirth is a tragedy with Q UA L I T Y C A R E • White Ribbon Alliance for Safe devastating effects on families, Motherhood and Gram Vaani are communities and nations. Merck for Mothers strives to understand designing a free phone-based system the shifting dynamics of where and for women to rate the care they Although there has been impressive how women seek care, and in 2013 receive and hold providers accountable progress in reducing these deaths in we began to put in place solutions that for offering quality services. recent decades, the world is not yet improve women’s access to lifesaving on track to meet the United Nations’ quality healthcare. Our work is focused in the Indian Millennium Development Goal target states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and of a 75 percent reduction in the global India Jharkhand—areas with some of the maternal mortality rate by 2015. highest rates of maternal mortality in In May, Merck joined forces with leading the country. We hope to reach more Applying our scientific and business health organizations to launch four unique than 500,000 pregnant women over expertise to the challenge, Merck, maternal health projects in India valued three years. through its Merck for Mothers initiative, at nearly $10 million. Our partnerships is helping to bring the next generation explore the potential of local private Senegal of solutions to end preventable deaths. providers and health businesses—the Merck for Mothers is our company’s first source of care for the majority of As part of our eight-year, $50 million 10-year, $500 million initiative to the population—to expand access to partnership with the Bill & Melinda Gates reduce maternal mortality—the death affordable, quality maternal healthcare: Foundation, Merck for Mothers began a of a woman from complications during new project with IntraHealth International pregnancy and childbirth. Working in • The Hindustan Latex Family and the Senegalese government to close collaboration with more than Planning Promotion Trust is expand access to family planning—a 75 implementing partners, Merck expanding a franchise network of powerful preventive tool that can avert for Mothers has initiated more than private hospitals, clinics and health up to a third of maternal deaths. We 50 projects in 30 countries—all built for workers to an additional Indian state are supporting the regional scale-up of lasting impact and contributing to our to provide affordable access to quality an innovative model that offers private vision of a world where no woman dies care throughout a woman’s pregnancy. suppliers performance-based financial giving life. • Jhpiego and the Federation of incentives to maintain a sufficient Obstetric and Gynecological inventory of contraceptives and make Our focus is on the two leading causes Societies of India are developing sure that these products are consistently of death –postpartum hemorrhage and standards of quality care and helping available. Over the course of a year, nearly preeclampsia/eclampsia—as well as on private providers meet those standards 80 percent of health facilities in Senegal family planning, a powerful preventive through training, quality improvement experienced stockouts of contraceptive tool to save women’s lives. We have and an improved accreditation system. supplies. Providing performance-based created a portfolio of programs that align incentives to private suppliers to improve MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 58 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT logistics management, forecasting and In the first year of the program, our • Baltimore Healthy Start, the data collection is a key component of our partners in Uganda added nearly 40 new Camden Coalition of Health goal to expand access to family planning clinics, trained 150 drug shop owners, Providers, the Maternity Care in Senegal. established more than 25 “mothers Coalition and the Northern clubs,” and recruited more than Manhattan Perinatal Partnership Uganda 120 community health workers. The are enhancing community initiatives program is expected to reach more than that coordinate care for women with After a successful launch in 2012, we 140,000 women over three years. chronic conditions before and after expanded our first country program in childbirth so that they can have access Uganda—a partnership with Population United States to services that ensure good health Services International and its local during and beyond pregnancy affiliate, the Program for Accessible Despite global progress in reducing Health, Communication, and Education maternal mortality, the rate of maternal Zambia (PACE). The program is helping to build deaths in the U.S. has nearly doubled a health “ecosystem” in more than since 1990. That is why in November We launched partnerships with Africare 30 districts across the country: 2013 Merck for Mothers launched and the University of Michigan; Jhpiego programs to decrease the number of and the Imagine Rural Development • Strengthening and expanding women across the U.S. who die from Initiative; and Boston University with franchise health clinics so they or suffer severe complications related the Zambia Center for Applied Health are more accessible to women in to pregnancy and childbirth. As part of Research and Development; to research rural communities this effort, we have brought together and design new models of maternity leading organizations at the national, state waiting homes. Maternity waiting homes • Connecting communities with local and community levels to help improve are residential facilities located at or near transportation providers to improve maternal health in the U.S.: health facilities where women in the linkages to care late stages of pregnancy can stay before • Working with local drug shops to • The Association of Maternal and they go into labor. Many of these homes, provide essential medicines and Child Health Programs, beginning however, are in poor physical condition supplies for pregnancy and childbirth in six states, is strengthening data and lack essential services. Merck for • Promoting savings programs to collection and case reviews to better Mothers and partners are exploring ways make maternal care more affordable understand why maternal deaths are to improve and scale up a self-sustaining for women occurring and using that knowledge to maternity waiting home model that improve practice and inform policy can provide a safe place for women to • Offering business training to local await childbirth. private health providers so they • The American Congress of can better manage their finances Obstetricians and Gynecologists— Saving Mothers, Giving Life and operations District II; the Association of Women’s Health, Obstetric • Linking local health providers with As a founding partner of Saving Mothers, and Neonatal Nurses; and the loan programs so they can upgrade Giving Life (SMGL)—an ambitious publicCalifornia Maternal Quality Care their facilities and expand their range private partnership to reduce maternal Collaborative are implementing of service offerings and newborn mortality in Uganda and standard approaches to treat obstetric • Educating community health emergencies so that all women Zambia—Merck for Mothers played a workers to raise awareness about receive evidence-based, highkey role in the initiative’s early progress. safe motherhood and the importance quality care Leveraging the resources and expertise of giving birth in a care facility of its global partners, including the U.S. and Norwegian governments, Every MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 59 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Mother Counts, the American College P R O D U C T I N N OVAT I O N PATH Collaboration of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and Project C.U.R.E., SMGL put in place a Merck for Mothers recognizes that Merck for Mothers and PATH—a comprehensive set of evidence-based healthcare providers are only as leading global health nongovernmental interventions to ensure access to quality effective as the tools, medicines and organization—have been collaborating emergency obstetric and newborn care. skills they have available—especially since 2012 to assess high-potential In its first year, SMGL’s target districts in during a childbirth emergency. This maternal health innovations to reduce Uganda experienced a 30 percent decline fact is particularly acute in developing maternal mortality in low-resource in the maternal mortality ratio, and its countries where resources and settings. PATH, with funding from Merck, target facilities in Zambia experienced infrastructure are limited. That is why developed a technology-assessment tool a 35 percent decline in the maternal we are applying the company’s human that can be used in any area of global mortality ratio. Both countries also saw resources and scientific expertise to health to assess technologies along other promising results: advance proven solutions to the two lead a range of flexible criteria. Merck for causes of maternal death—postpartum Mothers contributed a commercial lens • Increases in deliveries taking place hemorrhage and preeclampsia/ that refines the assessment criteria for in health facilities (62% increase in eclampsia. Working with specialists the tool, and which is publicly available Uganda, 35% increase in Zambia) in research and development, product here. Combined with the Merck and commercialization, procurement, supply PATH technology assessments, we hope • Increases in facilities offering basic chain management, public affairs, this new tool will offer the maternal and emergency obstetric and newborn regulatory issues and more, Merck global health community information care services (200% increase in scientists are exploring user-friendly to accelerate and support informed Uganda, 100% increase in Zambia) products to prevent and treat postpartum allocation of limited resources that can • Increases in treatment for the hemorrhage. We are also applying our save lives. prevention of mother-to-child expertise in pharmacokinetics—how the transmission of HIV (28% increase in body processes a drug—to review prior Research Grants Uganda, 18% increase in Zambia) studies on simplified magnesium-sulfatetreatment regimens and to develop In 2013, we broadened the Merck a simpler, easy-to-use treatment for Investigator Studies Program to support preeclampsia/eclampsia. scientists researching novel approaches to improve maternal health in lowresource settings. We awarded four research grants to support pilot testing “Launching a program of this scale often takes years. But in of technology innovations, including an automatic blood pressure monitor; a lowjust one year, we’re seeing real impact of Saving Mothers, cost, low-power syringe pump; and a Giving Life. This pilot has shown convincingly that you can smartphone-enabled urinalysis device. bring comprehensive approaches to scale and that doing so has remarkable results. Often, we are at risk of overstating the results of a pilot. I think in this case, we have substantially understated the results of a pilot.” Dr. Thomas Frieden Director, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 60 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck for Mothers Global Engaging Merck Employees A DVO C ACY A N D AWA R E N E S S Giving Program Throughout the year, we enjoyed the In 2013, Merck for Mothers We collaborated with MSD offices around support and participation of Merck’s continued to increase awareness the world to support nearly 30 projects talented and dynamic workforce. Thirteen of maternal mortality and to that are responsive to local maternal Richard T. Clark Fellows were selected for make progress in engaging health needs. Working in countries as three-month assignments to strengthen key audiences. diverse as Colombia, Lebanon, Malawi, the effectiveness and sustainability and the Philippines, these programs of maternal care–related projects. In Merck for Mothers was highlighted at are training health providers in maternal India, Uganda and Zambia, they helped the Women in the World Summit, care services, linking pregnant women design feasibility studies of proposed an annual conference that spotlights to care, and raising awareness of safe business models, provided assistance serious issues facing women and girls motherhood. Some examples include: with business planning, advised on data around the globe. In addition to a robust management and quality assurance, on-site presence that included the Merck • Integrating HIV/AIDS and antenatal and recommended income-generating for Mothers global health lounge and services in Mozambique and the activities to help entrepreneurial efforts participation by Merck Vaccines President Democratic Republic of Congo become self-sustaining. We also raised Dr. Julie Gerberding on the maternal awareness of maternal mortality and • Leading an innovative public mortality panel, traditional and social Merck for Mothers through internal awareness campaign in the U.K. to media awareness efforts surrounding channels, including events at Merck promote early prenatal care with a the event reached 10 million people. sites in the U.S. and around the focus on health centers, pharmacies In 2013 we also announced two of our world, our online newsletter and our and retailers major country initiatives—a $6 million employee associations. • Connecting female factory workers commitment to programs in the U.S. and in Indonesia with affordable, quality Evaluating Our Efforts a $10 million commitment to programs health services in India. • Designing and testing e-health Recognizing the need to assess tools that improve maternal health the impact of our efforts, Merck outcomes in Ethiopia, Jamaica for Mothers has engaged a team of and Venezuela experts from The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine to evaluate the effectiveness and sustainability of our programming using both an epidemiological and a health economics lens. The multidisciplinary evaluation team is identifying key questions in the maternal health field and generating the data needed to advocate for adoption of evidence-based programs. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 61 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Year Ahead PERFORMANCE In 2014, Merck for Mothers will be Merck for Mothers, in collaboration with its partners, made significant progress in 2013. continuing to grow our programs in The following outlines some of the results: priority countries like India, Senegal, Uganda, Zambia and the U.S., building Merck for Mothers Performance Metrics on the initial phase of work in those countries. We will integrate results from Number of providers/community health workers 557 The London School of Hygiene & Tropical trained (in priority country programs) Medicine’s external evaluation to help Number of districts/regions reached 2014 report inform and evolve our work with partners on key programs. We will also be working Number of women reached 2014 report to advance interventions to help prevent Number of facilities upgraded or maintained to 2014 report and treat postpartum hemorrhage and BEmONC1/CEmONC2 states or high-quality care preeclampsia/eclampsia. facilities (in priority country programs) Number of women delivering in facilities 2014 report providing high-quality care (in priority country programs) Number of unplanned pregnancies averted 2015 report Maternal deaths averted 2016 report 1 BEmONC—Basic Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care 2 CEmONC—Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 62 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT leading causes of preventable blindness The disease is currently estimated to have MERCK MECTIZAN worldwide. Today, the latest WHO estimates indicate that approximately infected more than 120 million people, with more than 40 million incapacitated DONATION PROGRAM 130 million people are at risk of or disfigured with swelling of the limbs, the disease. breasts (lymphedema) and genitals (hydrocele). Swollen limbs also often MECTIZAN relieves the agonizing itching develop dramatically thickened, hard, One of the most significant that accompanies the disease and halts rough and fissured skin (elephantiasis). initiatives undertaken by Merck to progression toward blindness—two help improve access to medicines characteristics of the disease that In LF, parasitic filarial worms are dramatically affect the quality of life. transmitted by a mosquito and lodge in in developing countries is the MECTIZAN is well suited for distribution the lymphatic system. Those affected Merck MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) in remote areas by community health may develop kidney damage caused by Donation Program. workers through mass distribution blockage of the lymphatic system. programs. It is the only well-tolerated In 1987, Merck announced that it would drug known to halt the development of In addition to providing MECTIZAN free donate MECTIZAN, our medicine for river blindness. of charge, in December 2007 Merck the treatment of onchocerciasis, to all announced a donation of $25 million who needed it, for as long as needed. To facilitate the donation and delivery over eight years as part of an initiative The MECTIZAN Donation Program is of MECTIZAN, Merck established a with the World Bank to fund the African the longest-running disease-specific multisectoral partnership involving Programme for Onchocerciasis Control drug donation program and publicthe WHO, the World Bank and (APOC). APOC was originally established private partnership of its kind. While UNICEF, as well as ministries of to support the control of the disease the original goal of the program was to health, nongovernmental development in African countries affected by river control the disease, recent evidence from organizations (NGDOs) and local blindness through the development of the World Health Organization (WHO) communities. In 1988, Merck also self-sustaining MECTIZAN distribution indicates that elimination is now feasible established the MECTIZAN Donation programs named CDTI (communityin Africa. As a result, the program’s Program at the Task Force for Global directed treatment with ivermectin) strategy shifted from disease control to Health as well as the MECTIZAN Expert programs. Many of these programs have disease elimination, and the partners in Committee to provide technical and implemented at least one other health this program are now working toward scientific advice on the implementation of intervention in addition to MECTIZAN the goals established by the WHO to the program. This balanced governance delivery, thereby helping countries and eliminate both lymphatic filariasis (LF) and organizational structure continues their partners to improve healthcare by and onchocerciasis by 2020 and 2025, to support and facilitate the donation expanding health services in these hardrespectively. For more information on the of MECTIZAN. to-reach communities. MECTIZAN Donation Program, review the MDP Annual Highlights. In 1998, Merck expanded the Merck As evidence emerged that elimination MECTIZAN Donation Program to include of river blindness was possible in More commonly known as “river the prevention of LF in African countries Africa, the strategy of APOC and the blindness,” onchocerciasis is transmitted where the disease coexists with river MECTIZAN Donation Program evolved through the bite of black flies and blindness. LF is a devastating parasitic to elimination. Since river blindness can cause intense itching, disfiguring infection spread by mosquitoes. It is elimination and LF elimination both dermatitis, eye lesions and, eventually, caused by threadlike parasitic worms that require mass distribution of MECTIZAN blindness. At the inception of the damage the human lymphatic system. and are tightly linked, APOC’s mandate program, the disease was one of the MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 63 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT was expanded to encompass the new organizations in this effort. Merck common AE reporting form to standardize goals to eliminate LF and onchocerciasis and several other pharmaceuticals reporting requirements. by 2020 and 2025, respectively. Building companies committed to continue or on the accomplishments of APOC, a new increase their donations of medicines to program, the Program for the Elimination treat or prevent these diseases; donors PERFORMANCE of Neglected Diseases in Africa (PENDA), committed financial resources; and will be launched in 2016 to take forward NGOs agreed to support implementation Commitments the fully merged agendas of both needs. The partners came together elimination programs. under the banner of Uniting to Combat While much has been achieved in NTDs to track progress and identify the treatment and progress toward gaps (e.g., NTD research, additional elimination of onchocerciasis, there “Through the donation of funding, etc.) that need to be addressed remain a number of additional challenges in order to reach the goals of the that Merck and our partners are MECTIZAN, Merck has been London Declaration. Learn more about actively addressing. a valued partner in the effort the London Declaration. For more to eliminate river blindness information on Merck’s NTD research To ensure continued supply of and lymphatic filariasis. We visit Infectious Diseases. MECTIZAN ® (ivermectin) to support look forward to building on the activities of other program partners, our achievements to date, Adverse-Experience Reporting Merck remains committed to continuing to donate as much MECTIZAN as is and to expand as needed While side effects following treatment necessary to eliminate river blindness the delivery of the donated globally and to eliminate lymphatic with MECTIZAN are rare, Merck has medicine to achieve the developed a rigorous program for filariasis (LF) in African countries where elimination targets.” monitoring and reporting any adverse the diseases coexist. experiences (AEs) in the field. With the Dr. Ariel Pablo Mendez, Assistant Administrator for Global Health, USAID help of local NGDOs, all field-based Beyond addressing river blindness and community distributors are trained in AE LF, the MECTIZAN Donation Program is reporting; all AEs must be reported to a key component of the growing trend Merck, which then reports them to drug toward integrated programs to address The London Declaration safety and regulatory agencies in the U.S. Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs). In and internationally. fact, the integration of onchocerciasis and Merck is an original signatory of the LF efforts via the MECTIZAN Donation London Declaration, a collaborative The MECTIZAN Expert Committee, Program, which began in 1998, set the effort to accelerate progress toward ministries of health and the WHO also foundation for many of these efforts, eliminating or controlling 10 neglected play key roles in making sure best and Merck will remain engaged with key tropical diseases (NTDs) by the end of practices are applied for surveillance stakeholders to help with integration the decade. Merck joined 12 other global of AEs at the community level. The AE programs where feasible. pharmaceutical companies, and many reporting form itself has been revised other stakeholders including endemic several times throughout the program’s As a result of our activities and of the country governments, the WHO, the Bill history. Currently we are working with the collaboration and contributions of a wide & Melinda Gates Foundation, USAID, WHO, endemic countries and the other range of committed partners, we expect the UK Department for International drug-donation programs to develop a to achieve the following milestones in the Development (DFID), NGOs and other years ahead: MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 64 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Although we expected the Tropical Diseases, we expect the The donation of MECTIZAN also transmission of river blindness in all elimination of LF and river blindness by has led to the development of CDIT areas of the Americas to be halted 2020 and 2025, respectively. (community-directed treatment by 2013, mass treatment is still with ivermectin) programs, through ongoing in remote areas of Brazil In 2013, 168 million treatments were which trained community volunteers and Venezuela. We continue to work approved for river blindness (with distribute medicines, a critical element toward the goal to stop treatment in 40 million of those being for both river to effective mass-treatment programs those areas by 2015. blindness and LF) and 167 million in remote areas that often lack trained treatments were approved for LF. To healthcare workers. CDTI strategy • By 2015, program partners plan to date, Merck has invested approximately has been and continues to be used to achieve 100 percent geographic $62.5 million in direct financial support distribute MECTIZAN to more than coverage of treatment with for the MECTIZAN Donation Program, in 146,000 communities in 28 countries in MECTIZAN in all river blindness– addition to donating over 1.32 billion and Africa where river blindness is a public affected areas in Africa 983 million treatments of MECTIZAN for health problem. The CDTI strategy river blindness and LF, respectively. has enabled other health and social In accordance with the goals outlined services—such as vitamin A distribution, in the WHO Roadmap for Neglected cataract identification, immunization campaigns, training programs for community health workers, and River Blindness and census-taking—to be introduced in oftenLymphatic Filariasis (LF) Summary 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 remote communities. Direct investment in the 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 Impact MECTIZAN Donation Program (US$M) • An estimated 40,000 cases of river blindness are prevented by Treatments approved 211.0 220.0 270.0 266.0 335 the Merck MECTIZAN Donation (in millions) Program annually Market value of 606 651 747 906 1092 • The African Program for MECTIZAN donations Onchocerciasis Control (APOC) (US$M) estimates that 1 million disability Countries with LF elimination 17 17 17 22 22 adjusted life years (DALYs) per year programs supported by the are averted MECTIZAN Donation Program • The impact of the MECTIZAN (cumulative target: 30) Donation Program extends beyond Treatments with MECTIZAN 1 2 4 4 4 the immediate health benefits; approved for river blindness estimates show that investments (in millions)1 in river blindness control programs (e.g., MECTIZAN treatment and Treatments with 100.0 100.0 140.0 116.0 168.0 aerial spraying to control black fly MECTIZAN approved for LF populations) are helping people live (in millions) not only healthier but also more productive lives 1 I n 2011, approximately 18 million of the 140 million treatments approved were pre-approved for distribution in 2012. This resulted in a reduction of treatments approved in 2012. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 65 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • In 2013, Colombia received verification Elimination Targets from the World Health Organization that river blindness was eliminated, RIVER BLINDNESS LYMPHATIC becoming the first country to achieve (ONCHOCERCIASIS) FILARIASIS that milestone. By 2016, it is expected that all six formerly affected countries in the Western Hemisphere (Brazil, 2016 Mali 2014 Burkina Faso Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, 2015 Ghana Mexico and Venezuela) will have eliminated river blindness. 2017 Burundi 2016 Malawi, Mali, Niger, Sierra Leone • In Africa, the distribution of MECTIZAN has stopped in nine 2019 Benin, Chad, Malawi 2017 Cameroon, Guinea-Bissau, Uganda districts in Uganda, two districts in Mali and one district in Sudan where 2025 Angola, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, 2018 Benin, Central African Republic Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, is it believed that onchocerciasis transmission has be interrupted Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Tanzania, 2019 Ivory Coast, Mozambique, Senegal, Liberia • For LF in African countries co-endemic Uganda 2020 Angola, Chad, Congo-Brazzaville, Democratic with onchocerciasis, treatment has Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Guinea, stopped in six implementation units (IUs) in Burkina Faso, four IUs in Ghana 2035 Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Sudan Nigeria, Sudan-Khartoum, South Sudan, Tanzania, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea and one IU in Tanzania, and posttreatment surveillance is ongoing in Zanzibar, Togo and Yemen APOC believes that interrupting the transmission of river blindness in the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Sudan will be the most problematic and will require the longest time. Civil unrest and poor infrastructure contribute to the slow progress in these countries. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 66 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010, the Merck Foundation committed Lessons Learned in Botswana ACHAP an additional $30 million over five years (2010–2014) to support Phase II of ACHAP. This additional funding enabled • A successful national response to HIV/ AIDS requires a sound policy designed ACHAP to build on its progress by: to enable stakeholders to drive and In 2000, Merck and the Merck guide the right course of action Foundation and the Bill & Melinda • Positioning ACHAP as a successful • Local, national and international Gates Foundation established country-led, public-private partnership partners must integrate and align all the African Comprehensive model, now and in the future, through efforts with the national blueprint HIV/AIDS Partnerships (ACHAP) focused and sustained stakeholder relations and engagement • Success depends on building local to support Botswana, a country capacity and gaining agreement on a disproportionately affected by • Systematically transitioning the common strategy at all levels HIV/AIDS. support of the antiretroviral (ARV) treatment program to the Government • It is possible to implement of Botswana effective ARV therapy in the public The partners selected Botswana because health sector, even in a resourceof its HIV/AIDS disease burden— • Supporting the scale-up of safe male limited setting Botswana has one of the highest adult circumcision among HIV-negative prevalence rates in the world—its viable males aged 15–29 years • A sustainable solution must address existing healthcare infrastructure, and its both treatment and prevention • Strengthening the National strong political will and commitment to • ACHAP is considered an important Tuberculosis (TB) Programme in order address the challenges of HIV/AIDS. model for addressing the African HIV to improve access to and utilization of integrated TB and HIV services epidemic, and the lessons learned can In July 2000, the Merck Foundation help to inform positive action in other by 2014 and the Gates Foundation established countries in the region ACHAP with a commitment of • Improving the generation, utilization and sharing of strategic information • Working collaboratively and in a $106.5 million, and Merck agreed to and knowledge from HIV/AIDS and complementary fashion with other donate its antiretroviral (ARV) medicines TB programs in Botswana in order development partners enables the STOCRIN ® (efavirenz) and CRIXIVAN ® to inform and improve programs in expansion and strengthening of (indinavir sulfate) to Botswana’s national Botswana and the region by 2014 key programs ARV treatment program for the duration of the partnership. In November 2008, From the beginning, Merck and the Beyond HIV Treatment Merck expanded its donations to include ATRIPLA® (efavirenz 600 mg/ Gates Foundation have sought to create a program that would leverage privateWhile much progress had been made emtricitabine 200 mg, tenofovir disoproxil sector management expertise to resolve in Botswana during the first 10 years fumarate 300 mg) and ISENTRESS ® social and public health issues. They also of ACHAP, particularly in the areas of (raltegravir). hoped to create a model of care, which, if HIV treatment and the expansion of HIV successful, could inform and encourage counseling and testing services, it was Initially, ACHAP’s comprehensive others in government, international recognized that much more needed to approach included the prevention and organizations, foundations and the private be done as part of a comprehensive, treatment of HIV/AIDS, care and support sector that are working to address HIV/ sustainable and successful response for those infected, and mitigation of the AIDS in other countries or regions. to the AIDS pandemic in the country. It disease’s effect on the community. In was widely recognized that if Botswana MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 67 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT was to get ahead of this epidemic, broader global health field. The ACHAP Local Communities the focus must be on prevention. In assessment will culminate in a public addition, ACHAP recognized the need report, prepared by FSG, to be published ACHAP works with local institutions, to build greater capacity among local in the summer of 2014. including district administrations, district organizations, increasing the capacity of health management teams and facilities, communities to provide and utilize HIV/ healthcare workers, and other cadres, AIDS services. PA R T N E R S H I P S to support the national HIV response at the district and community levels. Therefore, priorities for ACHAP during The main partners in the African Local community leaders and civil Phase II evolved to include the scaling-up Comprehensive HIV/AIDS society organizations are also critical of prevention efforts, addressing the to implementation. Partnerships (ACHAP) are Merck needs of HIV patients co-infected with TB, improving the cost-effectiveness and the Merck Foundation, the Other Development Partners of the Masa antiretroviral treatment Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation program, and strengthening the and the Government of Botswana, From a multilateral perspective, ACHAP capacity of local organizations to carry but ACHAP also works with many has worked with the United Nations out a sustainable national response. different partners from the private Development Programme (UNDP); the The ultimate goal is for the efforts and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF); sector and civil society. programs ACHAP supports to become the United Nations Joint Programme on either self-sustaining or integrated HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS); the World Health Government of Botswana into the efforts led by the government Organization (WHO); the United Nations of Botswana. Population Fund (UNFPA); the World Within the Government, ACHAP Bank; the European Commission; and the works closely with the National AIDS Evaluating ACHAP’s Impact Global Fund for HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria Coordinating Agency within the Office (GFATM). ACHAP also collaborates with of the President; the Ministry of Health, The Merck Foundation’s funding of the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for particularly the Department of HIV/AIDS ACHAP will come to an end in 2014. AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), the U.S. Centers Prevention and Care, and the Department Therefore, in late 2013, the Foundation for Disease Control (CDC), and the U.S. of Public Health; and various other engaged FSG—a nonprofit strategy and Agency for International Development ministries. The Madikwe Forum, created evaluation consulting firm—to conduct (USAID). to bring together ACHAP and senior a strategic review and assessment of officials from the Ministries of health; ACHAP and its 13 years of support for Academia Finance and Development Planning; HIV treatment, prevention and care Education and Skills Development; Labor in Botswana. The key objectives of Academic institutions also play an and Home Affairs; Local Government this assessment are to (1) understand important role in building the capacity for and Rural Development; Youth Sport and ACHAP’s impact on strengthening health healthcare, most notably in developing Culture; the National AIDS Coordinating systems and reducing the burden of critical ARV training and preceptorship Agency; and Defense, Justice and HIV/AIDS in Botswana; (2) inform the programs for healthcare workers. Key Security; for regular consultation, helps future vision and transition planning for among ACHAP’s academic partners are to monitor the progress of ACHAP ACHAP; and (3) distill lessons learned the University of Botswana, Harvard programs, provide strategic and policy from the partnership to share with the University, the University of California guidance, and address issues that arise. Los Angeles (UCLA) and the University of Pennsylvania. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 68 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Nongovernmental Organizations society organizations, in line with the One of the strengths of ACHAP has (NGOs) program goals. In 2005, a strategic plan been its alignment with Government was developed with the following six strategies—NSF I and II (National The local NGO community is very strategic objectives: Strategic Frameworks)—as well as its involved in ACHAP, including NGOs ability to harness private-sector expertise focused on disease prevention in the 1. To scale up the quality of—and in support of national efforts to address youth population, and/or support for access to—comprehensive HIV HIV/AIDS. All ACHAP programs are people living with HIV/AIDS as well as prevention services developed through extensive consultation HIV/AIDS service organizations. 2. To expand HIV counseling and with all relevant government ministries testing capacity and departments. Partnership programs must build local capacity, demonstrate 3. To increase coverage of quality a measurable impact on the epidemic, S T R AT E GY HIV/AIDS treatment services to all be cost-effective, be appropriate to the eligible people setting in which they are delivered, and ACHAP launched in 2000 with 4. To increase the capacity of be sustainable beyond the life of the four objectives: communities to provide and utilize partnership. All programs were required HIV/AIDS services to fit within the strategic goals of the 1. To improve accessibility of Government of Botswana’s National 5. To improve ACHAP’s institutional comprehensive HIV prevention, Strategic Frameworks for HIV/AIDS. capacity to deliver effectively on its treatment, care and support strategic objectives 2. To improve access to highly active 6. To strengthen partnerships and build antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in the AC H I E V E M E N T S capacity to support the sustainability public sector for all people living with of the national response HIV/AIDS The African Comprehensive HIV/ 3. To strengthen sustainable In 2007, ACHAP expanded its support AIDS Partnerships (ACHAP) improvement in healthcare systems to target co-infection of HIV and demonstrates how publicand mitigate the impact of the HIV/ tuberculosis (TB). HIV infection has AIDS epidemic private partnerships can make fueled an explosive increase in TB cases in Botswana since the early 1990s. In a meaningful and lasting 4. To support the National AIDS Coordinating Agency (NACA) in fact, it was estimated that 60 percent contribution to a major public performing a thorough needs to 80 percent of TB patients were HIVhealth challenge, helping to restore assessment in HIV/AIDS prevention, positive (MOH, Community TB Care hope and transform the morale treatment and care in all districts (CTBC) Assessment, 2010), and HIVand prospects of an entire nation. in Botswana related TB was the leading cause of death among adult AIDS patients. In response, ACHAP has made a significant In the first four years, the program was ACHAP’s support was intended to contribution to Botswana’s response to delivered through national initiatives, strengthen TB/HIV collaborative and the HIV/AIDS epidemic and has served in line with the above objectives, and integration services to reduce mortality as a catalyst for providing urgently through an invitation for proposals from due to TB/HIV co-infection by supporting needed infrastructure, equipment, human a variety of organizations, including the National TB Programme, thereby resources, training and program support tertiary institutions and research and civil improving access to and utilization of for the Botswana ARV program. integrated HIV and TB services on a national scale by 2014. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 69 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Major contributions and achievements of • Supported the introduction of provider229,055, including those treated in the the program include: initiated routine HIV counseling and public (198,670) and private (30,385) testing as part of routine medical care sectors. Among the patients treated • Halved the mortality rate in adults, provision in addition to supporting in the public sector, 63 percent were saving over 50,000 lives between voluntary HIV counseling and testing females. Among all patients treated in 2002 and 2007 that is requested by clients the country, 3.6 percent (8,257) were children under 13 years of age. During • Dramatically reduced mother-to• Provided training, in collaboration with the year 2013, approximately 25,000 child transmission and reduced new Harvard University and the Botswana patients initiated ART. infections among children by at least Ministry of Health (MOH), for more 80 percent (from around 40 percent than 8,000 of Botswana’s healthcare • Between 2009 and 2013, ACHAP sero-conversion to less than 5 percent) workers in eight core modules on HIV/ has cumulatively supported the AIDS clinical care and medication circumcision of 81,532 Batswana • Contributed to significant adherence, largely with in-country males, with 44 percent of these improvements in blood-supply safety faculty. This effort expanded on procedures having been performed • Developed sustainable treatment by an earlier effort in which about during 2013. Modeling studies supporting the recruitment of over 3,200 physicians, nurses and other estimate that, depending on the 200 positions, on civil service terms, healthcare professionals received population groups targeted, eight to help staff the treatment program hands-on, clinic-based training from circumcisions are required to avert one and its rollout to the clinics over the international HIV/AIDS experts through HIV infection. Based on this model, project period. Through successful the partnership’s preceptorship over 10,000 HIV infections have been absorption of these staff positions program between 2002 and 2006. prevented as a result of ACHAP’s Safe into the government establishment Male Circumcision (SMC) efforts. • Successfully transitioned its treatment and with ongoing training of new staff, program technical support to the • In 2010, ACHAP supported patient access to treatment is now Government of Botswana, a milestone the development of a National available in 34 central sites and over reflecting just how much this program Tuberculosis (TB) Strategy and TB/ 524 satellite clinics countrywide. The has matured over the past decade HIV policy guidelines. In 2011 ACHAP satellite clinics are able to prescribe supported the review of the TB and dispense ARVs. • In conjunction with MOH, ACHAP Strategy with technical assistance is currently piloting a treatment • Supported the development of the from the World Health Organization optimization program that has a goal First National Strategic Framework (WHO), which identified the following to reduce delays to antiretroviral (ART) for HIV/AIDS (2003–2009) and the four priority areas for implementation: initiation by providing point-of-care Second National Strategic Framework CD4 testing services and enhanced 1. Coordination, leadership and (2010–2016) community-based HIV testing. governance: ACHAP has supported • Increased laboratory capacity so that Preliminary results show that by the the revision of the Terms of more than 130,000 patients could be end of December 2013, approximately Reference (TORs) for the TB/HIV supported in their treatment in the 6,008 HIV tests had been done with National Advisory Committee public sector through a decentralized 2,483 CD4-count tests, with the and TB/HIV Technical Working diagnostic and monitoring capacity period of treatment initiation for those Group (TWG). In addition, all that increased from an initial two eligible being reduced from 2 to 6 14 ACHAP-supported districts referral centers to 14 district and weeks to 2 to 4 weeks. have established functional primary hospitals. This enabled the TB/HIV district committees • The MOH reported that by the end of laboratory network system to cope to provide oversight of TB/HIV December 2013, the total number of with up to 20,000 new patients per plans implementation. patients on HAART in the country was year nationally. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 70 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2. Scale-up of TB/HIV collaborative districts to improve TB treatment 1. Provided technical and financial and integrated services. ACHAP outcomes. ACHAP also provided support in the development of has supported the increase in an orientation on CTBC services the training curriculum and in the access to and utilization of services to health education assistants Training of Trainees (TOTs) through the following activities: to strengthen family/guardian 2. Provided technical and financial models to enhance sustainability. support to orient community TB case screening and management: ACHAP supported 3. Monitoring and evaluation: ACHAP leaders in TB/HIV to (a) improve the orientation of clinicians and provided technical and financial their knowledge and understanding other auxiliary staff to enable support to the Botswana National of the two diseases in order for them to screen for TB cases, TB Programme (BNTP) Monitoring them to take greater responsibility including in patients co-infected and Evaluation unit for routine for their personal health and with HIV. In addition, ACHAP data management, and for the (b) empower individuals and supported healthcare worker evaluation of the CTBC service communities to take responsibility screening for TB and testing and models for efficiency, effectiveness for TB/HIV interventions to counseling for HIV. ACHAP also and sustainability. This evaluation enhance sustainability provided mentoring and support was initiated in 2013 and will be 3. Developed and distributed TB/ for supervisors of health facilities completed in 2014. HIV information, education and for the implementation of TB/HIV 4. Research and implementation communication (IEC) collaborative activities to ensure science: ACHAP provided financial service-delivery sustainability. support for a study to evaluate the • The national TB case notification TB prevention and control: ACHAP use of an instrument for rapid TB rate has decreased from 623 per provided technical assistance via diagnosis (Gene Xpert) to facilitate 100,000 persons in 2002 to 331 secondment of a TB infection and early treatment initiation to improve per 100,000 persons in 2012. The control physician and nurse to lead TB/HIV treatment outcomes reduction is likely attributed to the national effort. In all ACHAPthe high coverage of ARV therapy supported districts, the health • In 2012, the ACHAP-supported in the country and high-impact TB facility and Infectious Disease districts were aided disseminating TB/ interventions. The proportion of Care Clinic (IDCC) completed HIV policies, guidelines and supported tuberculosis patients with known HIV the TB risk assessment. Twentyin aligning their TB plans with the status has steadily increased from four IDCCs were modified to new policies 68 percent in 2008 to 87 percent make the facilities TB-infectionin 2012. • ACHAP also supported the Ministry control compliant. of Health to conduct the TB/HIV • Among those TB patients coCommunity TB Care (CTBC) Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) infected with HIV, the coverage of services: ACHAP provided Study (2011), the findings of which co-trimoxazole prophylactic therapy technical assistance in informed the development of the increased from 32 percent in 2008 to development of the CTBC BNTP Advocacy, Communications and 90 percent in 2012, and the coverage services policy and guidelines, Social Mobilization (ACSM) strategy of ART from 20 percent to 65 percent and also provided technical and during the same period of time. • In 2013, ACHAP supported the launch financial support to community of the TB Advocacy, Communication based organizations to offer and Social Mobilization strategy. In services in ACHAP-supported supporting implementation, ACHAP: MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 71 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 72 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT It is important to note that the estimated population infected with HIV is increasing because of increased access to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for those eligible for treatment, meaning that persons who are infected with HIV and who would have otherwise died are being treated and are surviving for longer periods of time. At the same time, new HIV infections are still occurring, adding to the number of people living with HIV. People on treatment increased from around 93,000 in 2007 to 229,055 by the end of December 2013. The proportion of those infected who will die from the disease will, however, decline based on treatment availability. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 73 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2. Deploying comprehensive, integrated Next Phase C-MAP risk-reduction approaches to reducing HIV transmission among at-risk populations In October 2013, the Merck Foundation committed an additional $6 million over three years (2014–2016) to supporting a Today, an estimated 780,000 3. Establishing a service network to provide continuous treatment, care second phase of C-MAP to strengthen Chinese citizens are living integrated HIV treatment capacity and and support for people living with with HIV. cooperation between the township and HIV/AIDS county health systems of Liangshan This is the figure given by the Joint 4. Providing support to orphans and Prefecture, and to expand the program Assessment of HIV/AIDS Prevention, families affected by HIV to alleviate to new sites in Chongqing Municipality Treatment and Care in China, published negative social and economic and Fujian Province to improve HIV/AIDS by China’s State Council AIDS Working consequences of the disease management and treatment services. Committee Office and the UN Theme 5. Building the capacity of healthcare During this next phase, C-MAP aims Group on HIV/AIDS in China. workers and organizations to further improve treatment coverage by strengthening the capacity of 6. Strengthening HIV surveillance, In 2005, the Merck Foundation healthcare workers to support effective monitoring and evaluation systems, as committed $30 million over eight years patient referrals and by promoting well as data management and analysis, (2005–2012) to establish the Chinaquality HIV care through health worker to track program implementation, MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership (C-MAP). training in HIV diagnosis, treatment and assess program outcomes, and This comprehensive HIV/AIDS initiative disease management. identify and apply best practices has project offices in three places: Beijing; Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan C-MAP collaborates with approximately Province; and Sichuan Province’s 11,500 people working in 1,600 Liangshan Prefecture. implementing organizations, including departments within the Government of C-MAP focuses on six goals: China, medical and health institutions, civil society, international organizations, 1. Raising awareness and reducing grassroots healthcare workers, and discrimination among target beneficiary groups. The Government of populations through training China, through its Ministry of Health, is and education providing staff, facilities and equipment. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 74 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE C-MAP was the first large-scale public-private partnership between the Chinese government and a multinational company to focus on HIV/AIDS prevention and control. Since 2007, the partnership has successfully established an overall HIV prevention and treatment network in Liangshan. This, coupled with training, has helped improve the capacity of local healthcare providers, expanded antiretroviral treatment (ART) coverage, and created a replicable model for HIV prevention and control in other ethnicminority areas. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 75 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In alignment with this overall NHAS goal, • The City of Philadelphia HIV COLLABORATIVE the Collaborative is tackling this challenge head on, working to improve access to available healthcare for HIV-positive Department of Public Health: The Engaging HIV+ Patients in Care Initiative uses system navigators people by: to help guide HIV patients through In the U.S. alone, there are still the local healthcare system 50,000 new HIV infections each • Integrating innovative, communityto improve access to regular year, and nearly a third or more based approaches with local public care and management of HIVof people living with HIV are not health systems to improve timely related comorbidities. in care.1 access to quality HIV care for underserved adult populations The George Washington University To help address remaining barriers to • Helping to reduce new HIV infections (GWU) School of Public Health and HIV care, especially among underserved among populations at greatest risk Health Services serves as the National populations, the Merck Foundation Program Office for the HIV Care • Sharing important findings and lessons Collaborative. GWU provides overall launched a three-year initiative—the learned to further the development technical assistance to each of the HIV Care Collaborative for Underserved of innovative programs that connect program sites and helps foster a “peerPopulations in the United States—to people living with HIV/AIDS to needed learning” network among the health connect more people living with HIV to care and treatment departments and local partners through the care they need to stay healthy. The Foundation has committed $3 million to regular meetings, site visits, and forums The Collaborative builds on efforts already for sharing best practices, lessons supporting local health departments in underway at the three program sites: learned, and key challenges. GWU also is Atlanta, Georgia; Houston, Texas; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. These are evaluating the progress and results of the • Atlanta/Fulton County Department Collaborative programs. among the 10 cities with the highest HIV of Health and Wellness: Bridging the burden in the United States.2,3 Gap is implementing a community1  enters for Disease Control and Prevention, C “Vital Signs: HIV Prevention Through Care and based care linkage coordinator and Research shows that when you are able Treatment—United States,” CDC Morbidity and referral program for HIV-positive Mortality Weekly Report, December 2, 2011. to connect those who are HIV-positive clients referred to, and enrolled in, the with ongoing care, it not only reduces county’s HIV primary care clinic. 2  ugavero, M.J., Lin, H.Y., Allison, J.J., et al. (2007), M HIV risk behaviors but also reduces viral “Failure to Establish HIV Care: Characterizing load from antiretroviral therapy (ART), all • Houston Department of Health the ‘No Show’ Phenomenon,” Clinical Infectious Disease, 45, 127–30. of which contributes to overall decreases and Human Services: The Expanded in HIV transmission. This is why the U.S. Linkage to Care Initiative brings 3  enters for Disease Control and Prevention, C National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) calls together healthcare providers, “Estimates of New HIV Infections in the United States.” August 2008. www.cdc.gov/hiv/ for the establishment of “a seamless community groups and researchers to topics/surveillance/resources/factsheets/pdf/ system to immediately link people to implement community-wide system incidence.pdf. continuous and coordinated quality care navigator and data-matching programs 4 T  he White House Office of National AIDS Policy, when they are diagnosed with HIV.”4 to help identify and reengage all those “National HIV/AIDS Strategy for the United States,” living with HIV who have fallen out July 2010. www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ of care. files/uploads/NHAS.pdf. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 76 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE data systems include electronic health for linkage to HIV medical care and records and administrative databases patient navigation services provided by Cross-Site HIV Care Collaborative designed to document federally funded community health workers for an average Program Evaluation health and support services utilization, of three months. processes, and clinical outcomes. The Merck Foundation is working with Qualitative techniques will be used to The Collaborative sites have enrolled George Washington University to conduct assess the impact of implementation participants on a rolling basis since the a three-year (2013–2015) cross-site of the Patient Protection and Affordable program was first implemented in 2013. evaluation of the HIV Care Collaborative Care Act (ACA), shifts in HIV public health Enrollment will be ongoing through (Collaborative) programs. A cohort of funding, changes in state health laws that June 2015. Because not all Collaborative newly identified and previously lost-topromote HIV screening and engagement clients started at the same time, the care HIV-positive adults is enrolled in care in care, and other policy changes. numbers and values for the participant linkage and engagement interventions baseline in 2013 and follow-up clinical that deploy linkage workers and patient The initial results from the evaluation measures will change over time until navigators. The cohort’s medical care provide an overview of client enrollment program implementation is completed. is followed over time to assess clinical and baseline patient outcome measures For ease of interpretation, we present the outcomes and other process measures for clients who are enrolled in the baseline enrollment data for the first half associated with the Collaborative. Collaborative intervention across the three of 2013, and six-month follow-up clinical program sites. data on all baseline clients. Note that Previously designed client-level data the data below are not site-specific, but systems are used to track patient During the first six months of 2013, rather were aggregated across the three characteristics, service utilization, quality 223 HIV-positive adults were enrolled program sites. of care, and clinical outcomes. Client-level in the Collaborative. Among this group, 166 (74 percent) clients were referred MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 77 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 78 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2012, the GAVI Alliance, a publicAs of February 2014, six countries GARDASIL ACCESS private partnership focused on increasing access to immunization in developing (Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, Mali, Tanzania and Uganda) that participated in the PROGRAM countries, opened the funding window GARDASIL Access Program are among for HPV vaccines—giving countries the the first approved by the GAVI Alliance opportunity to introduce the vaccine for HPV demonstration programs using sustainably through a demonstration or GARDASIL. In addition, Lesotho, which In 2007, Merck made a major national program. completed two HPV-vaccination projects commitment to helping with the support of the GARDASIL improve access to GARDASIL® In this context, and following consultation Access Program, has now been able to with a wide array of stakeholders, scale up to a national program with its [Human Papillomavirus including WHO, GAVI, PATH, other public own resources. Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, health organizations, select ministries 18) Vaccine, Recombinant in of health and some GARDASIL Access By actively disseminating information developing countries. Program participants, Merck and Axios from the operational experiences and Healthcare Development (AHD), a U.S. the lessons learned by participants, the Through the GARDASIL Access Program, nonprofit organization, decided that the program is contributing to the public Merck pledged to donate at least 3 million GARDASIL Access Program would no knowledge base on HPV vaccine access doses of GARDASIL for use in smallerlonger be awarding doses of GARDASIL and child and adolescent immunization scale human papillomavirus (HPV) to new projects. However, options for models in developing countries. vaccination projects in eligible lowestuse of the remaining doses of GARDASIL income countries around the world, to are currently being explored. Importantly, The program is managed by AHD with enable participating organizations and commitments to already-awarded strategic guidance provided by the institutions in those countries to gain projects will continue to be honored. independent GARDASIL Access Program operational experience in designing and Advisory Board, made up of international implementing HPV vaccination projects. 2013 included the launch of a twopublic health experts. AHD administers The program received proposals from year GARDASIL Access Program the program in consultation with applicants to conduct smaller-scale demonstration project in Zambia, as Advisory Board recommendations, and HPV vaccination projects rather than well as the conclusion of seven projects. coordinates delivery of donated vaccine nationwide programs. All applicants were As we continue to engage with the to participants. Technical assistance required to secure formal endorsement public health community, the collection, is provided by Axios International, a from their respective ministries of publication and dissemination of public health consultancy specializing in health, and were encouraged to follow information and our experience from past developing and emerging countries. World Health Organization (WHO) and current program participants by AHD recommendations and guidelines for will continue to be a key focus. HPV vaccination. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 79 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE As of December 31, 2013: GARDASIL Access Program Summary • More than 1,240,000 doses of GARDASIL have been shipped to 26 participants in support of their proposed HPV-vaccination projects in 21 countries: Bhutan, Bolivia, Cambodia, Cameroon, Georgia, Ghana, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal, Tanzania, Papua New Guinea, Uganda, Uzbekistan and Zambia • 24 HPV-vaccination projects have been completed in 15 countries: Bhutan, Bolivia (4 projects), Cambodia (2 projects), Cameroon, Ghana, Haiti, Honduras (4 projects), Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho (2 projects), Moldova, Nepal (2 projects), Tanzania, Uganda and Uzbekistan • There are seven ongoing HPVvaccination projects in seven countries: Georgia, Guyana, Mali, Mongolia, Nepal, Papua New Guinea and Zambia • Axios routinely interviews all GARDASIL Access Program participants and analyzes their formal progress reports to synthesize lessons learned from the program • Axios publishes newsletters periodically to update stakeholders on program progress • A second manuscript, “Evaluation of 21 HPV Vaccination Programs Implemented in 14 Lowest-Income Countries, 2009–2013,” has been submitted for publication MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 80 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Alliance Goals Alliance Programs ALLIANCE TO The Alliance works to minimize disparities Through grants to five organizations, REDUCE DISPARITIES in diabetes outcomes and enhance the the Merck Foundation is supporting quality of diabetes care by improving multifaceted, community-based prevention and management services. programs that address the key factors IN DIABETES The Alliance collaborates with national, regional and community partners to develop and implement comprehensive, that can improve health outcomes for people living with diabetes. The five grantee communities are Camden, New evidence-based diabetes programs that: Jersey; Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Healthcare disparities refer Memphis, Tennessee; and Wind River to differences or inequities in • Apply proven, community-based and Reservation, Wyoming. The University of access to, and outcomes of, collaborative approaches to addressing Michigan’s Center for Managing Chronic health services. healthcare disparities related to type Disease serves as the Alliance, National 2 diabetes among low-income and Program Office. In the United States, disparities for many underserved adult populations chronic health conditions, including Program Approach • Enhance patient and healthcare diabetes, are a growing national concern. provider communication, mobilize The U.S. Centers for Disease Control Alliance programs focus on integrating community partners, and assist and Prevention estimates that nearly three areas of intervention: healthcare organizations in decreasing 25.8 million people—8.3 percent of reducing disparities in diabetes care the U.S. population—are affected by • Patients: Patients who are better and outcomes diabetes. Type 2 diabetes accounts for 90 educated and empowered become to 95 percent of all diagnosed cases. • Disseminate important findings more engaged in their healthcare to foster the development of overall; they become better at Diabetes represents a significant comprehensive prevention and managing their conditions themselves economic burden in the United States. management programs designed by adopting behaviors that help The American Diabetes Association to improve the quality of healthcare prevent health problems and by estimates that the total costs of for adults who have or are at risk communicating more effectively with diagnosed diabetes were approximately for diabetes physicians and other clinicians. $245 billion in 2012. • Increase awareness among federal, • Clinicians: Clinicians who are more state and local policy makers of skilled in communicating with diverse To address the growing problem of health system and policy changes patient groups—and are aware of healthcare disparities related to type 2 that can reduce healthcare disparities diverse cultural beliefs—are more diabetes in the United States among in diabetes effective in providing care and low-income and underserved adult • Promote collaboration and information educating their patients. populations, the Merck Foundation in exchanges to strengthen the efforts • Health Systems: Healthcare 2009 launched The Alliance to Reduce of interested stakeholders around the organizations that implement and Disparities in Diabetes (Alliance), country that share the vision and goals support clinical systems, policies or with a commitment of $15 million of the Alliance practices addressing effective disease through 2013. management and quality improvement can help to reduce disparities in diabetes care. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 81 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Alliance Program Sites Public Policy Results from the evaluation through May 2013 are provided below. These include Camden Coalition of Healthcare Alliance program sites continue to an overview of provider enrollment and Providers (Camden, New Jersey): The make progress in addressing diabetes participation as well as baseline patient Camden Citywide Diabetes Collaborative disparities in their communities. Yet they self-reported outcome measures. aims to better coordinate and improve the also report facing systemic and structural quality of comprehensive primary care barriers in the healthcare system that In 2013, 48 clinics or practices services for city residents with diabetes. have challenged their ability to deliver participated in at least two of the three and sustain effective diabetes care for areas of intervention (i.e., patients, University of Chicago (Chicago, those most in need. To help overcome providers and systems). Cumulatively, Illinois): The University of Chicago these barriers, program sites have from 2009 to 2013, 173 individual program focuses on redesigning and initiated organizational and health system physicians have been actively engaged improving the quality of diabetes changes. Learn more. in program implementation (e.g., management and care provided at recruiting patients with type 2 diabetes, community health centers on Chicago’s Additionally, the Alliance programs and identifying and implementing South Side. emphasize the need to connect their systems change in the practice setting). “on the ground” experience with the In addition, Alliance sites have served Baylor Health Care System, Institute national policy dialogue about improving a diverse patient population through of Chronic Disease and Care Redesign the quality of healthcare and reducing their programs. From 2009 to 2013, (Dallas, Texas): The Diabetes Equity diabetes disparities in the United States. across the sites, 40 percent of patients Project focuses on helping physicians To advance the national conversation were Hispanic or Latino, 38 percent develop strategies that promote effective about ways to overcome systemic were African-American, 8 percent were care and management for low-income, barriers to providing effective diabetes Native American, 6 percent were white, uninsured and underserved people with care, the Alliance published a set of 1 percent were Asian, and 7 percent were diabetes in Dallas. policy considerations titled, “Policy of another racial or ethnic background or Considerations That Make the Link: of unknown ethnicity. Healthy Memphis Common Table Connecting Community Experience (Memphis, Tennessee): The Diabetes and National Policy to Reduce The Alliance program sites have been for Life program promotes community Disparities in Diabetes.” enrolling participants on a rolling basis outreach and diabetes self-management since the program was first implemented through local churches in Memphis. in 2009. Enrollment was ongoing through 2013. Because not all program PERFORMANCE Wind River Reservation (Fort participants started at the same time, Washakie, Wyoming): An effort led the numbers and values for participant Cross-Site Alliance by the Eastern Shoshone Tribe and its baseline and follow-up measures Program Evaluation collaborating partners seeks to improve continue to change until program access to diabetes care and management implementation is completed. For ease The Foundation is working with RTI among the Eastern Shoshone and of interpretation, we present the most International to conduct a five-year Northern Arapaho Tribes of the Wind recent overall baseline and follow-up (2009–2013), cross-site evaluation of the River Reservation. data on all participants who had these Alliance and its programs. We anticipate measures as of May 2013. Note that that the final results of this evaluation will the data below are not site-specific, but be published in November 2014. rather were aggregated across the five sites in an independent evaluation. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 82 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK CHILDHOOD ASTHMA NETWORK The Merck Childhood Asthma Network, Inc. (MCAN), a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization established in 2005, is the only private foundation focused solely on addressing the complex and growing problem of childhood asthma in the United States. Funded by the Merck Foundation, MCAN’s is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for children with asthma and their families, and to reduce the burden of the disease on them and society. Led by Floyd Malveaux, M.D., Ph.D., a nationally recognized expert in asthma and allergic diseases, dean emeritus of the College of Medicine and professor of Microbiology and Medicine at Howard University, MCAN is a respected authority, effective catalyst and influential advocate for children with asthma. Through research, community programs and partnerships, MCAN is working to: • Improve access to and quality of asthma healthcare for children, especially the vulnerable and medically underserved • Advocate for policies that expedite implementation, dissemination and sustainability of evidence-based asthma care • Increase awareness and knowledge of asthma and quality asthma care MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 83 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MCAN funds programs that involve process measures focused on care Puerto Rico and improves access to tailored asthma case management and coordination and clinical outcomes. quality asthma healthcare for this highly the reduction of environmental risk vulnerable and underserved community. factors and triggers in the home. These Current Care Coordination programs are implemented in several Program Sites: Children’s Hospital of settings: community health centers, Philadelphia, “Asthma Healthcare school systems, community-based Los Angeles Unified School Navigator Program” organizations, public housing and primary District, “Yes We Can Children’s This program deploys asthma healthcare care centers. Asthma Program” navigators in four primary care centers This program uses a care-coordination operated by the hospital to work with MCAN advocates for policies that and education model that extends primary care providers as integral support science-based asthma care beyond the immediate school clinic to members of the families’ asthma care by working with partners such as the foster systemic changes among health, teams. They help families identify and George Washington University School educational and community settings. The reduce asthma triggers in the home, of Public Health and Health Services, program triages students and families as well as provide self-management the U.S. Environmental Protection into appropriate levels of intervention, education and other resources for families Agency, the Centers for Disease Control improves the coordination of care among of high-risk children with asthma. and Prevention (CDC), and the National schools, clinics and community providers, Institutes of Health (NIH). and focuses on measuring symptom Community Healthcare for Asthma reductions and school days missed. Management and the Prevention of The Merck Foundation has committed Symptoms (CHAMPS) $41 million to supporting MCAN over University of Illinois at Chicago nine years (2005–2014). The investment School of Public Health, “Addressing CHAMPS is an innovative translational in MCAN was $5.14 million in 2012 and Asthma in Englewood” research and community-based clinical $4.4 million in 2013. This program centers on a community partnership funded by MCAN and led educator model, linking children by the George Washington University with asthma to appropriate services, (GWU) School of Public Health and Health community groups and local agencies. A Services. Additional partners include Rho, PROGRAMS home-visit case-management program Inc., and the RCHN Community Health is also provided to enhance asthma Foundation. The project is designed to MCAN Care Coordination Program education and to identify and mitigate demonstrate how tailored, evidenceSites (2010–2014) asthma triggers. based asthma management programs that have been proven efficacious in Through the Care Coordination RAND Corporation and University of controlled trials can be implemented in grant portfolio, MCAN is seeking Puerto Rico, “La Red de Asma Infantil Federally Qualified Health Centers, where to demonstrate the feasibility and de Merck de Puerto Rico” many low-income children and families effectiveness of implementing and This program carries out evidence-based receive healthcare. Community health sustaining care-coordination models interventions as part of an asthma care centers participating in the CHAMPS developed during MCAN Phase I in coordination program across home, program include: El Rio Community communities with significant childhood healthcare and community settings. Health Center (Tucson, Arizona), Cherry asthma morbidity and/or disparities in Implemented in a Federally Qualified Street Health Services (Grand Rapids, outcomes. Care Coordination program Health Center in San Juan, Puerto Michigan), and Costa Salud Community sites are participating in a cross-site Rico, La Red promotes asthma-friendly Health Center (Rincón, Puerto Rico). evaluation to assess outcome and communities throughout the island of MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 84 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Head-off Environmental Asthma the National Institutes of Health (NHLBI, Coalition members are working together in Louisiana (HEAL), Phase II NICHD, NIEHS, NIAID), the Centers for toward the shared goal of improving the Disease Control and Prevention (NCEH, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and With support from MCAN, HEAL, NIOSH, NCHS), the U.S. Environmental long-term management of childhood Phase II, builds upon the lessons learned Protection Agency and the Agency for asthma through federal policy change from the Head-off Environmental Asthma Healthcare Research and Quality provided and targeted state efforts. Collaboration in Louisiana (HEAL) project, a postsupport and expertise to help develop and leadership on childhood asthma is Katrina research initiative that studied the specific questions for the 2012 NAMCS, especially important at this critical time effects of mold and other indoor allergens which focused on the NAEPP asthma in Washington, when policy makers on children with moderate to severe guidelines and their use. are making important decisions about asthma. HEAL identified the challenges the future of federal investments in our and effectiveness of implementing a This survey will evaluate the nation’s public health and health coverage multifaceted intervention in asthma implementation of the NAEPP systems. By establishing a unified and case management and of environmental guidelines from the healthcare provider’s informed voice with input from credible mitigation designed to help improve the perspective and help in identifying experts, CALC sets a clear vision for health outcomes of children with asthma. barriers to the uptake of critical elements policy solutions and develops a practical of guideline-based management of pathway for achieving desired outcomes. In HEAL, Phase II, the Xavier University asthma. These findings can inform of Louisiana Center for Minority Health & ongoing strategies to increase effective Relying on a strong foundation of Health Disparities Research and implementation of the NIH guidelines. evidence-based policy analysis to Education, the Daughters of Charity inform its work, CALC’s leading policy Services of New Orleans, and the goals include: Children’s Health Fund are working P U B L I C P O L I CY together to disseminate and implement • Ensuring the availability of stable a multifaceted intervention in existing and continuous health insurance for healthcare systems. They provide The Merck Childhood Asthma children with asthma individualized counseling by certified Network (MCAN) has collaborated • Collaborating with stakeholders to asthma educators who make home visits with the Department of Health promote the Medicaid rule change that to children with poorly controlled asthma. Policy at the George Washington gives new flexibility to states to cover The asthma educators provide tailored University (GWU) and First and pay for community-based asthma counseling for children with asthma ages interventions when carried out by nonFocus to establish the Childhood 2–18 and their families to improve asthma licensed professionals management, avoid exposure to asthma Asthma Leadership Coalition triggers, and reduce the occurrence (CALC), a national multisector • Exploring best practices to of symptoms. coalition dedicated to improving reduce asthma triggers in homes and communities policy-making that addresses National Ambulatory Medical Care childhood asthma. • Identifying new opportunities to Survey (NAMCS) improve asthma care that arise from CALC is made up of individuals and the implementation of the Patient The National Ambulatory Medical Care organizations who are leading advocates Protection and Affordable Care Survey (NAMCS) is a national survey and experts in childhood asthma, Act (ACA) of physicians designed to increase public health, environmental health, understanding of how care is being poverty, housing, healthcare and delivered in providers’ offices. MCAN, healthcare economics. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 85 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE Demographic Characteristics of Participants Enrolled at Baseline in MCAN’s Translational Research Projects Characteristic/Variable Care Coordination HEAL, Phase II CHAMPS Patients enrolled through 2013 (N) 1,223 222 319 Age (Mean) 7.62 9.0 7.8 Sex (%) Male 60 55 60 Race/Ethnicity (%) White 2 9 6 Black 42 84 9 Other (Asian, Native Am., Mixed, Hisp.) 6 2 2 Hispanic 50 10* 83 *Hispanics: not a mutually exclusive category. Clinical Characteristics of MCAN Project Participants at Baseline and 12 months Characteristic/Variable Care Coordination HEAL, Phase II CHAMPS Baseline 12-month Baseline 12-month Baseline 12-month follow-up follow-up follow-up (N=416) (N=416) (N=222) (N=164) (N=317) (N=164) Missed school days, past year (mean)1,2 11.27 4.28 1.4 0.5 1.5 0.5 Limited activities, past month (mean) 6.70 2.51 – – 4.7 1.3 Nighttime awakenings, past month 6.48 2.29 – – 4.7 1.0 (mean) Emergency room visits, past year 2.88 0.99 – – 5.9 0.6 (mean) Hospitalizations, past year (mean) 0.80 0.29 – – 0.3 0.02 Daytime symptoms 7.93 3.09 8.2 5.2 8.7 2.6 Use of rescue medication 5.13 2.38 – – 8.2 1.8 1 The HEAL Phase II figure is for the past three months. 2 The CHAMPS figure is for the past month. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 86 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • IMA World Health Ongoing Donations of MERCK MEDICAL • MAP International • Project HOPE Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Care Products OUTREACH PROGRAM Each of these organizations has a longstanding relationship with the company; Donations of Merck’s pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer care products demonstrates integrity of purpose; are also made in response to proposals Established in 1958, the provides assurance that Merck products from our partners to address some of Merck Medical Outreach will be securely warehoused and not the specific shorter-term needs of their Program (MMOP) is the diverted, mishandled or misappropriated; programs around the world. We also and has well-established programs for the offer products to our partners proactively, primary mechanism through ill and needy in developing countries. The based on supply, for use in their ongoing which Merck donates its company, through the MMOP, monitors humanitarian programs. pharmaceuticals, vaccines and the NGOs and maintains the controls consumer health products for necessary for the proper distribution and Disaster and Emergency Relief humanitarian assistance in the handling of Merck medicines. We do not developing world and in support provide donations of expired products Merck’s disaster relief program is of disaster relief and emergency or of products with inadequate dating, designed to provide assistance during enabling proper administration prior major disasters and to support efforts situations worldwide. to expiration. in preparedness and recovery. Merck’s Office of Corporate Philanthropy The MMOP, managed by Merck’s The MMOP comprises serves as the central clearinghouse for Office of Corporate Responsibility, is three components: information regarding our companywide one mechanism through which we response to major disasters, and help to expand access to our products, The Merck Annual Product works with the Office of Corporate particularly in the developing world. The Allotment Program Responsibility to make decisions related program enables us to donate critical to our donations of cash, as well as pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer Through this program, the six NGOs medicines, vaccines and/or consumer health products to a limited number of with which we work can order fully health products, through the MMOP. For qualified, U.S.-based nongovernmental dated medicines of their choice from more information, please click here. organizations (NGOs). The scope of the the company’s current product line MMOP varies from year to year and is at specified times, up to an annually In conducting the MMOP, we adhere influenced by changing medical needs authorized amount. Through this to the World Health Organization in developing countries, the quantity of innovative approach to donations, our (WHO) Guidelines for Drug Donations. Merck medicines available for donation, partners can receive a sustained and Merck played an important role in the and the random nature of natural and predictable supply of needed medicines, development of these guidelines through man-made disasters. as is crucial to the effective planning our involvement in the Partnership for of ongoing humanitarian programs. Quality Medical Donations (PQMD), Donations of Merck medicines are made The first program of its kind in the an alliance of NGOs and medical product primarily through six qualified NGOs: industry, it has served as a model for manufacturers dedicated to raising the other pharmaceutical companies’ standards of medical donations to meet • AmeriCares donation programs. the needs of underserved populations • Catholic Medical Mission Board and disaster victims around the world. (CMMB) • Direct Relief International MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 87 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In addition to the MMOP, local Merck PERFORMANCE subsidiaries and other Merck divisions donated the equivalent U.S. market value In 2013, donations of medicines, vaccines of more than $11.8 million in products for and consumer healthcare products humanitarian aid. supported vaccination programs in Tajikistan; provided disaster assistance in the United States and the Philippines; supported partner medical mission programs; and reached many thousands more worldwide through the ongoing medical programs of the NGOs with which we work. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 88 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT and international agencies. We plan by antibiotic resistance in the U.S. each INFECTIOUS DISEASES to continue to expand our interactions with these groups to provide relevant expertise and resources. year. Merck’s long-standing commitment to the global fight against infectious disease goes hand-in-hand with a commitment to help slow the growth rate At Merck, we have a long-standing We also recognize that our research of resistance. commitment to discovering, capabilities and our access strategies developing and delivering novel play an important role in recruiting Since 2002, Merck has sponsored the medicines in the global fight outstanding scientists as well as Study for Monitoring Antimicrobial against infectious disease. About potential external research collaborators Resistance Trends (SMART), one of the one in four deaths worldwide seeking to make the products developed world’s largest programs for tracking from their discoveries available to trends in antimicrobial resistance. The is caused by infectious and/or patients worldwide. information collected and shared through parasitic diseases—totaling nearly SMART can help local and global health 15 million fatalities each year. We are committed to developing agencies improve surveillance so they can medications that provide benefits to better understand trends in antimicrobial Merck has a long history of both in-house patients with the greatest unmet medical resistance and select appropriate research and engagement with external needs, and increasing access to these antibiotics for their patients. partners to address infectious diseases. medicines among patients worldwide. We continue to seek new ways in An added complication is the fact that which we can contribute expertise and Learn more: while resistance is increasing, the resources to these disease areas. number of new antimicrobial medicines • Antibacterials being developed has decreased over the We apply our R&D resources, expertise • Hepatitis C past several years. Discovering novel and technology to identify potential • HIV medicines to combat resistant bacteria products that would address unmet • Neglected Tropical Diseases requires more effort, and the commercial needs in the treatment of infectious • Tuberculosis value of such medicines is poor compared diseases, such as HIV, hepatitis C virus with other disease treatments. To (HCV) and drug-resistant bacteria. address this issue in part, the U.S. Food ANTIBACTERIALS We are also involved in a number of and Drug Administration (FDA) and the product-development partnerships and European Health Authorities are actively research collaborations to further develop working on updating regulatory guidance treatments to address these diseases, and reforming the regulatory environment as well as neglected tropical diseases Overuse and improper use of antibiotics to help incent innovation in key areas (NTDs) and tuberculosis (TB). help accelerate the growth of drugof unmet need, including antibiotics. resistant germs and increase the need Currently, Merck has two antibacterials Merck recognizes that new methods for new medicines to kill them. And if approved worldwide (INVANZ® and and a broader scope of partnering—​with overuse and improper use continue, so PRIMAXIN ®) and is one of only a handful both public and private entities—​are does the cycle of increased resistance. of pharmaceutical companies that critical to continuing innovation. This continues to have active antibacterial is true for all diseases, and especially The rise in antimicrobial resistance discovery and development programs. true for diseases prevalent in lowand over the past 10 years has become one middle-income countries, for which of the world’s most pressing public • The FDA granted Fast Track status to the relevant expertise spans academia, health problems. An estimated 2 million MK-3415A, an investigational agent local public health authorities, industry illnesses and 23,000 deaths are caused MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 89 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT that works by neutralizing the keys hepatitis C virus (HCV) and that as many evaluating the efficacy and safety of an toxins associated with C. difficle as 170 million people may be chronically interferon-free oral regimen combining infections that can be directly related infected and at risk of developing two investigational once-daily HCV to antibiotic use and resistance. liver cirrhosis and/or liver cancer. The compounds, MK-5172 and MK-8742. Fast Track is a process designed company’s scientists have been engaged Based on the results of the Phase II to facilitate the development and in research to address HCV infection program, Merck is initiating a Phase expedite the review of drugs that treat since the discovery of the virus in the III clinical trial program, to be named serious conditions and fill an unmet late 1980s. C-EDGE. medical need. • The C-EDGE program is designed • Company researchers developed the • MK-7655, a beta lactamase inhibitor, to evaluate these investigational first approved therapy for chronic HCV, is also being developed as a fixedtreatments across viral genotypes interferon α2b, in 1991 dose combination with imipenem. The and in different HCV subpopulations, antibiotic is designed to treat resistant • In 1998, the first combination therapy, including patients with chronic kidney gram-negative bacteria. interferon α-2b+ribavirin, developed by disease, HIV/HCV co-infection or liver our scientists was approved cirrhosis, and those taking opioid• MK-8228 is being developed to • Merck also launched one of the first substitution therapy. prevent human cytomegalovirus (CMV)–related infection in highdirect-acting antiviral medicines, risk recipients of certain stem cell boceprevir, against HCV in 2011 Enhancing Access to HCV Treatment transplants. Currently no therapy is approved to prevent CMV infections in Currently, Merck has extensive research As a healthcare company, our role at these stem-cell-transplant patients. efforts under way to develop new oral Merck is first and foremost to discover therapies to bring continued innovation to and develop innovative medicines to Continued innovation in developing viral hepatitis treatment. address unmet medical needs. Yet, we new medicines is critical to address the also recognize that we have an important growing resistance to current therapies. • In October 2013, the U.S. Food and role to play, in partnership with other Merck is committed to working with Drug Administration (FDA) granted stakeholders, in working to ensure that partners to help address this growing MK-5172/MK-8742 Breakthrough our medicines are accessible to those area of unmet need and improve Therapy designation for treatment of who may benefit from them. patient outcomes. chronic HCV infection. The designation of an investigational drug as a Merck works to enhance access to our Breakthrough Therapy is intended to medicines to address barriers that inhibit HEPATITIS C expedite the development and review access to care, including low awareness of a candidate that is planned for use, among patients, lack of experience alone or in combination, to treat a among physicians in managing HCV and serious or life-threatening disease or lack of access to diagnostics. Adherence Merck is committed to building on its to treatment and affordability of treatment condition, when preliminary clinical strong legacy in the field of viral hepatitis are additional barriers that need to evidence indicates that the drug may by continuing to discover, develop and be addressed. demonstrate substantial improvement deliver medicines to help prevent and over existing therapies on one or more treat viral hepatitis. Merck utilizes multiple mechanisms clinically significant endpoints. to enhance access to our medicines, The World Health Organization (WHO) • In April 2014, Merck presented interim including differential pricing frameworks estimates that 3 percent of the world’s data from the ongoing C-WORTHY that take into consideration countries’ population may be infected with the Study. It is a Phase II clinical trial levels of economic development and MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 90 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT public health need. We also implemented It Takes a Multifaceted Approach medical education to healthcare workers an innovation program, Sambhav, in India, to Improve Access and to help ensure appropriate use of our which is designed to address adherence, antiretrovirals. We have invested at the availability and affordability. The program Merck is committed to working with local level to provide training and services has a diseasemanagement as well as a governments, donors, innovative and through an accessible, skilled workforce microfinancing component. generic manufacturers, multilateral in regions where HIV infection is highly organizations and civil society to address prevalent. In the United States, we are In January 2014, Merck initiated a new the full range of factors affecting working closely with numerous U.S. AIDS access pricing program for Merck’s access. Since 1985, we’ve been service organizations (ASOs) to help pegylated-interferon, PEGINTRON ® engaged in research and development address healthcare disparities through (Peginterferon alfa-2b), to help facilitate efforts in both HIV prevention and educational programs and resources that the initiation of treatment programs for treatment. But research is just one align with the National HIV/AIDS Strategy people living with HCV in the countries part of our comprehensive strategy to (NHAS). with the lowest ability to finance strengthen access. healthcare. Under this program, Merck To facilitate access in sub-Saharan Africa, will provide PEGINTRON at a price of We have seen that ensuring access and in low-income countries, the areas $40.00 per vial to all eligible public sector requires a broad, comprehensive of greatest need and the least ability to customers in Low Income and Least approach. Consequently, we are finance healthcare, we have instituted an Developed Countries, as defined by the committed to improving patient innovative model that utilizes a low-cost World Bank and UN, respectively. access through expanded availability, supply chain with manufacturing partners enhanced access strategies and local that has enabled us to reduce our lowest community engagement. Access price in these specific countries. HIV/AIDS To make this possible, we employ multiple strategies to address the needs We have also granted nonexclusive voluntary licenses to multiple generic manufacturers to supply generic of a particular region or country, including raltegravir in these regions. These are For more than 25 years, Merck seeking rapid and broad registration of coupled with our commitment to provide has been committed to addressing our antiretrovirals; developing pediatric local, on-the-ground support, including the global challenge of the formulations; generating support medical education in sub-Saharan Africa. HIV epidemic. for clinical studies in resource-limited settings; creating differentialGiven the varying levels of economic The challenge of HIV is vast. At Merck pricing policies; and establishing development and national strategies, we have sought to make a difference in strong collaborations with government, we have implemented a different the fight against HIV, particularly in the manufacturers and other stakeholders. approach for middle-income countries developing world. But the need is greater to make meaningful improvements than the results any one stakeholder We believe it is critical to invest in HIV in patient access. We are focused on can deliver, requiring coordinated at the local level. Such investment working with governments and with efforts among many. After a decade of supports healthcare professionals and other country stakeholders to develop specific efforts to increase access to HIV the communities they serve, and assists strategies tailored to each country’s HIV treatment in the developing world, it is in providing much-needed education to access needs. As part of this effort, we clear that access to care is about more help ensure appropriate HIV care and have implemented a differential pricing than the price of medicines, and that treatment in all regions of the world. In policy based on country income level, collaboration has been essential to the sub-Saharan Africa, for example, Merck disease burden, treatment-guideline progress made against HIV. has expanded resources to provide position, patient access through national MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 91 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AIDS treatment programs, and market hit hardest by HIV. Since 2000, Merck Improving access to HIV medicines conditions. As conditions evolve, has been donating its antiretrovirals to requires more than simply making our we continue to refine these countrythe African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS medicines and vaccines available at specific models. Partnerships to support treatment reasonable prices. We believe that to truly scale-up in Botswana, and The Merck address the issue of access in lowand In developed countries, our commitment Foundation has committed more than middle-income markets, the international to addressing patient access needs $122 million to both this partnership and community must pool its resources has not wavered. In the United States, the China-MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership. and expertise to strengthen healthcare for example, many state AIDS Drug The number of people in Botswana on infrastructure, to ensure adequate Assistance Programs (ADAPs) have HIV treatment increased from around financing for health, and to help to build struggled to meet growing need. Over 93,000 in 2007 to over 229,000 in 2013. local healthcare capacity through training the last two decades, Merck has lowered In the areas served by the partnership in and support. Pharmaceutical companies or frozen the price of its antiretrovirals China’s Sichuan Province, the number alone cannot solve these immense four times. We also continue to offer of AIDS patients on treatment increased public-health problems. Sustainable support to eligible patients through from zero in 2007 to more than 6,000 solutions will come from comprehensive Merck’s comprehensive Patient in 2013. approaches that draw on the expertise of Assistance Programs and Co-Pay all stakeholders. Assistance Program. Since 2010, Merck Merck remains committed to fulfilling has worked with Welvista and with our shared responsibility to improve For this reason, a key element of Merck’s HarborPath to offer immediate access access and to helping the world win approach to increasing access to HIV to no-cost HIV medicines to patients the long-term battle against HIV. medicines is promoting and participating on ADAP waiting lists and to support a Continued dedication and strengthened in public-private partnerships with common portal for patients accessing investment from all stakeholders are governments, multilateral organizations, company Patient Assistance Programs. needed to fully address the evolving community-based organizations, other challenges of the epidemic, including the corporations, and nongovernmental Innovation and Collaboration multifaceted barriers to access. We look organizations (NGOs) to address specific Lead to Results forward to building new partnerships health and development challenges and collaborations to move toward our beyond those over which Merck has We constantly strive to discover new common goal of achieving greater access immediate and direct control. While many ways to apply our expertise, human to healthcare and continuing the fight include financial or in-kind support, we and financial resources, and marketagainst HIV. also seek to leverage our expertise and based solutions to address the complex the skills of our employees to contribute challenge of patient access. Our in additional meaningful ways. strategies are designed to enable us I N I T I AT I V E S to facilitate access while continuing to Ensuring Access to Our HIV Medicines develop new medicines. They also help for U.S. AIDS Drug Assistance us move beyond the limits of what we Multi-stakeholder efforts including Programs (ADAPs) can achieve if we work alone. governments, civil society, donors and the private sector are needed We have a long history of working closely This desire to redraw the boundaries of to address the challenges to with leaders from the HIV community possibility enabled Merck to pave the to ensure that our approach to pricing delivering comprehensive HIV way for two successful private-public our medications is fair and reasonable, prevention, care, and treatment. partnerships that were created in the last balancing Merck’s interest in conducting two decades in some of the countries MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 92 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT extensive HIV research while supporting infection in children and adolescents Other Access Avenues: broad access to our medicines. two years of age and older and HarborPath, CPAPA weighing at least 10 kg. ISENTRESS is Merck was the first company to provide the only integrase inhibitor approved Merck was one of the first companies to a price freeze for the unique state U.S. for use in a regimen in HIV-1–infected provide its HIV medicines to uninsured AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (state pediatric patients. patients on waiting lists for drugs under ADAPs) when, in the late 1990s, they the AIDS Drug Assistance Program began to suffer a funding challenge. In ADAPs reach approximately one-third of (ADAP). Merck continues to provide 2008, Merck announced a price freeze people with HIV estimated to be receiving its HIV medicines to patients on ADAP on ISENTRESS ® (raltegravir) for state care nationally. The renewal of the waiting lists through HarborPath, a ADAPs, and in 2010 Merck extended existing special pricing program through nonprofit organization dedicated to the ISENTRESS price freeze and that 2014 is the fourth major ADAP response helping the uninsured living with HIV and/ of CRIXIVAN ® (indinavir), which was by Merck in five years. or Hepatitis C medications gain access first established in 2003 for eligible to free medications offered through a state ADAPs, through December 31, Merck’s SUPPORT™ Program single portal. 2013. Merck also is providing expanded in the United States financial relief to state ADAPs through Merck also participates in the national increased discounts. Merck’s commitment to patients’ Common Patient Assistance Program access to its products is reflected Application for HIV medications Most recently, in November, 2013, in its SUPPORT™ Program, which (CPAPA). The form was developed Merck and the ADAP Crisis Task Force helps answer questions related to by the Department of Health and (ACTF) announced that we will extend insurance coverage and provides free Human Services (DHHS), participating our commitment to support state ADAPs, reimbursement support services for pharmaceutical companies, the National which have struggled to meet growing patients who have been prescribed Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS needs in recent years due to funding ISENTRESS or CRIXIVAN. A Program Directors (NASTAD), and community shortfalls. Through the new agreement, Specialist can also help patients apply for stakeholders. The form can be used which extends through December 31, the Patient Assistance Program, which both by people living with HIV and by 2014, Merck will: provides ISENTRESS and CRIXIVAN free their providers, and reduces the need of charge to eligible patients. The Merck to complete several different and • Provide continued support for Patient Assistance Program is designed individual PAP application forms for initiatives to provide low-income primarily to help those who do not have HIV medications. individuals living with HIV with access insurance coverage; however, individuals to medicines. who have insurance, including Medicare Merck’s Co-Pay Assistance Program Part D, but still have trouble paying for in the United States • Provide access for eligible ADAPs to their medicines, may request that an obtain ISENTRESS (raltegravir) filmexception be made, provided that their In addition to the SUPPORT Program, coated tablets at the same “frozen” income is not above a set limit. More Merck has a program in the U.S. for low price in effect since January information about the SUPPORT Program eligible patients on ISENTRESS. If 2012. Merck first “froze” the price can be obtained by calling 1-800-850patients have private insurance and of ISENTRESS for eligible ADAPs 3430, or for more information about an out-of-pocket cost for ISENTRESS, in 2008. Merck’s Patient Assistance Program, visit they may be eligible to receive a • Add a “frozen” low price to eligible www.merckhelps.com. savings coupon. The coupon provides ADAPs for ISENTRESS chewable savings toward their out-of-pocket tablets for the treatment of HIV-1 costs, up to a maximum of US$400 per MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 93 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT prescription (regardless of the number of disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. PA R T N E R S H I P S tablets supplied on the prescription) of The partners selected Botswana because ISENTRESS. The coupon can be used up of its HIV/AIDS disease burden— to 12 times prior to the expiration date. Improving access to care requires Botswana has one of the highest adult Restrictions and terms and conditions more than simply making our prevalence rates in the world—its viable apply. Learn more. medicines available and affordable. existing healthcare infrastructure, and Collaboration is essential to its strong political will and commitment enhancing access in HIV. to address the challenges of HIV/ AIDS. Over the 15 year lifespan of the P U B L I C P O L I CY The most important factors for longpartnership, Merck has contributed term sustainability are strengthening $100 million to strengthen prevention Merck actively engages with healthcare infrastructure, ensuring programs and health systems to deliver stakeholders involved in HIV/AIDS adequate financing for health, and care and treatment. Merck has also outreach and public policy through helping to build local healthcare capacity donated its HIV medicines to Botswana, a number of mechanisms. through training and support. Publicproviding medicines which would private partnerships have a critical have cost the Botswana National AIDS In the United States, Merck has role to play in this process, drawing program approximately $300 million, established ethnically diverse HIV on the complementary expertise if purchased in the local market from Community Advisory Boards that include of all stakeholders—governments, generic manufacturers Learn more HIV community leaders from across the international agencies, community about ACHAP. nation. Merck meets with these boards organizations, donors, the private sector, regularly to discuss new data, clinical nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), China-MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership trial design, and marketing and access patients and others—to identify the most C-MAP was the first large-scale publicstrategies. We also meet regularly with promising and efficient ways to address private partnership between the Chinese the European Community Advisory the impact of HIV in a variety of resourcegovernment and a multinational company Board of the European AIDS Treatment limited settings. focusing on HIV/AIDS prevention and Group to discuss similar issues, and we control. Since its establishment in 2005, engage with stakeholders in public policy Developing World we have donated US$30 million in discussions through numerous scientific Sichuan Province’s Liangshan Prefecture. and policy events and initiatives. In this section, we outline two long-term Today, the program has expanded to partnerships that Merck has supported cover 62 counties/districts in Sichuan, to develop comprehensive programs to targeting 21 million people. To ensure address the challenge of HIV in two highly C-MAP’s sustainability and further affected areas in the developing world. support the government’s efforts to address HIV, in 2013 the Merck African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Foundation committed an additional Partnerships (ACHAP) $6 million over three years (2014–2016) to In 2000, Merck and the Merck support a second phase of C-MAP. Foundation and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation established the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships (ACHAP) to support Botswana, a country MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 94 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT During this next phase, C-MAP aims to Everyone Has a Story “Sharing Stories, Creating further improve treatment coverage by In the United States, women account Hope” (“Compartiendo Historias, strengthening the capacity of healthcare for more than one-quarter of all new Construyendo Esperanza”) workers to support effective patient HIV/AIDS diagnoses. Among Black Latinos make up 16 percent of the referrals and by promoting quality HIV Americans, one in 30 women will receive total U.S. population yet account for care through health worker training in a positive HIV diagnosis at some point in 20 percent of all new HIV cases. Latinos HIV diagnosis, treatment and disease her lifetime. also experience disproportionately high management. Learn more about C-MAP rates of delayed testing, diagnosis and and the progress being made through this To address the disproportionate impact entry into care. collaborative effort. of HIV on Black American women, in 2009 Merck collaborated with To address these disparities, in 2011 United States SisterLove, Inc., an Atlanta-based HIV/ the Latino Commission on AIDS and AIDS service organization, to develop Merck came together to develop Merck is committed to reducing a mini documentary that addresses the “Sharing Stories, Creating Hope,” a healthcare disparities and improving unique challenges faced by HIV-positive groundbreaking multimedia educational access to HIV treatment and care women of color. The result was Everyone initiative. The bilingual initiative, launched in the United States. As part of this Has a Story (EHAS)—an educational in 2012, supports capacity-building commitment, Merck engages in capacityand skills-building initiative efforts across the U.S. to enhance collaborations to reduce the impact of HIV for healthcare professionals (HCPs) and interactions between Latinos living with on those most in need and most at risk. HIV-positive women. EHAS uses videoHIV and their healthcare providers, and to Merck works with leading AIDS service based storytelling to empower individuals support access and adherence. organizations (ASOs) to support solutions to address stigma, navigate disclosure, that strengthen access to treatment, build strong relationships with providers, Bridge 2 Care care and support for disproportionately and live healthier lives. It also improves Merck developed Bridge2care.com affected communities. cultural competence among HCPs. (B2C) to support the National HIV/ AIDS Strategy. The free, self-directed HIV Care Collaborative You Are Not Alone e-learning platform provides proven In the U.S. alone, there are still With Merck’s support, Gay Men’s linkage and retention techniques for approximately 50,000 new HIV infections Health Crisis (GMHC), an internationally care providers. Content is delivered each year, and nearly a third or more recognized Aids Service Organization using videos and games that utilize people living with HIV are not in care. In (ASO), developed a social marketing emerging trends in health technology. 2012, the Merck Foundation launched campaign—“You Are Not Alone”—to B2C draws upon CDC and HRSA a three-year initiative—HIV Care raise awareness about the importance of evidence-based interventions (ARTAS-II, Collaborative for Underserved Populations medical care, treatment and adherence. in+Care Campaign), providing training in the United States—designed to The campaign targets the most affected in skills related to communication, help link more people living with HIV groups in the U.S., including young patient engagement and retention, and to the care they need. The Foundation men of color who have sex with men, quality care. committed $3 million to support the women of color, Latinos and Latinas. efforts of local health departments in It provides critical information to help Atlanta, Georgia; Houston, Texas; and HIV-positive individuals gain access Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. These three to treatment, health information and cities are among the 10 cities with the healthcare services. highest HIV burden in the United States. Learn more. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 95 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Beginning in 1999, Merck sought Current Activities HIV RESEARCH registration for efavirenz as STOCRIN ® in many countries around the world. In 2005, Merck and its partners Merck continues to focus on comprehensive research and began a large trial to test the development that targets HIV, recognizing Merck has had an intensive, efficacy of a Merck developmental the need for new methods to address the broad-based HIV clinical research cellular-immune-based vaccine. epidemic. Merck’s current R&D work in program in place since 1985 The study, known as the STEP trial, HIV includes programs to develop novel that has sought to address both was cosponsored with the National HIV-prevention technologies, new HIV treatment and prevention. Institutes of Health (NIH) and the HIV antiretroviral medicines, and approaches Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN), and to addressing HIV latency and eradication. In addition to our own research efforts, was designed to evaluate whether we also have entered into collaborations the vaccine prevented HIV infection Merck has also granted the International with other researchers and scientific and whether it reduced virus levels in Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) a nonorganizations to help accelerate the those who developed infection. In an royalty-bearing, nonexclusive license search for new treatments and possible interim analysis, the vaccine did not to develop, manufacture and distribute cures. Merck’s work has been pioneering, reduce the incidence of infection nor a novel ARV compound (L’644) for use and was pivotal in the development of did it reduce virus levels, and the study as a vaginal microbicide to help protect new antiretroviral treatments including was discontinued. women in developing countries. The PIs, NNRTIs and an integrase inhibitor. • In 2006, a partnership between compound, the fourth we have licensed Merck also played an important role in Merck, Bristol-Myers Squibb and to IPM, is a member of a class of ARV collaboration with others to define the Gilead was established to develop a molecules known as fusion inhibitors, principles for combination antiretroviral once-daily, single-tablet regimen HIV which inhibit HIV infection by preventing (ARV) treatment that are the standard for treatment, resulted in the approval the virus from fusing with the surface today’s treatment paradigm. in the U.S. of ATRIPLA® (tenofovir, of target cells—an early step in the HIV infection process—potentially emtricitabine, efavirenz). ATRIPLA is Historic Timeline of Merck’s representing a novel way to block marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and HIV Research Efforts infection. Merck is also collaborating with Gilead in the United States, Canada the Division of AIDS (DAIDS) to advance and Europe. Merck markets ATRIPLA • In 1989, Merck scientists established early-stage product development in many developing countries around the role of protease in the HIV life research efforts. the world. cycle, were the first to publish the • In 2007, Merck’s efforts to address crystal structure of HIV protease the growing problem of multidrug shortly thereafter, and were among resistance led to the approval in the the first to discover and develop U.S. of ISENTRESS® (raltegravir), the medicines for the treatment of HIV first integrase inhibitor and the first • In 1992, Merck scientists helped to ARV treatment to target the integrase discover efavirenz, a non-nucleoside enzyme, one of the components reverse transcriptase inhibitor. the HIV virus needs for replication. • In 1996, Merck introduced CRIXIVAN ® ISENTRESS offers patients a different (indinavir), a protease inhibitor. way to target the HIV virus as part of a treatment regimen. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 96 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Vaccine Research established physician advisory board Merck began research into an HIV vaccine that includes international and national scientific leaders. This advisory board PEDIATRIC TREATMENTS FOR HIV shortly after the virus was identified in meets with Merck regularly to discuss the mid-1980s and has been actively and to advise Merck on HIV research and involved in HIV vaccine R&D since that development strategy, emerging scientific time. Merck continues to work with the issues, and clinical-program design. At research community to gain a better the international level, Merck has also As part of the company’s understanding of the field of AIDSestablished a similar advisory board with commitment to fight HIV/AIDS, vaccine R&D. In addition to testing scientific and clinical leaders worldwide Merck has conducted extensive CTL-based vaccine approaches, Merck to gain input on emerging challenges in research and development scientists have also tested antibodyHIV care in developing countries. efforts to bring forth pediatric based approaches and have been studying novel immunogen designs Ongoing Research Efforts formulations for its antiretrovirals based on essential and conserved regions to Eradicate HIV (ARVs). of the HIV envelope glycoprotein. Merck has established collaborative research In July 2011, Merck announced that Our commitment extends to ongoing projects with academic investigators to several company researchers will collaborations to help improve access to advance promising antibody-based participate in two new collaborative ARV treatment for children living with HIV approaches for an HIV-1 vaccine. efforts led by two prominent academic in resource-limited settings. institutions, the University of North Carolina (UNC) Chapel Hill and the Extensive R&D Efforts for Pediatric “Building on our longUniversity of California San Francisco Formulations for Merck ARVs standing commitment to (UCSF), to develop new approaches the HIV community, Merck towards eradicating HIV, the virus In 2007, Merck began collaborating with that causes AIDS. UNC, researchers National Institute of Allergy and Infectious continues to evaluate from nine additional U.S. universities, Diseases (NIAID), the National Institute new candidates we believe of Child Health and Human Development and Merck scientists are studying HIV have the potential to make latency and identifying ways to purge (NICHD), and the International Maternal, a meaningful difference persistent infection of the virus from the Pediatric, Adolescent AIDS Clinical in the lives of HIV patients.” body. Separately, researchers at UCSF Trials (IMPAACT) Group, to conduct are working with an international team a Phase I/II, multicenter, open-label, Daria Hazuda, Ph.D., vice president, of academic, government and Merck noncomparative study to evaluate the Infectious Diseases, Merck Research Laboratories scientists on a five-year research effort to safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and define HIV’s reservoirs, better understand antiretroviral activity of ISENTRESS ® the reservoirs, and test potential (raltegravir) in children and adolescents: Stakeholder Engagement to Advance treatments. The National Institute of IMPAACT P1066. This study of three Merck’s R&D Efforts Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), formulations—the film-coated tablet, part of the NIH, is the primary funding a chewable tablet and granules for oral Merck regularly communicates, interacts organization for both of these research suspension—included over 150 HIVand collaborates openly with scientific efforts. Merck does not receive any infected children ranging from 4 weeks to leaders in the HIV/AIDS field to advance funding for participation in either effort. 18 years of age in the United States, Latin science. In the United States, for more America and Africa. than a decade, Merck has had an MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 97 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT On the basis of results from this study, all Merck announced that it has entered generic partners for commercialization three formulations of ISENTRESS have into negotiations with the Medicines in all low-income countries and all now been approved by the United States Patent Pool for licenses for the pediatric countries in sub-Saharan Africa. With Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for formulations (chewable tablets and the implementation of this supply chain, use in infants, toddlers, children or granules for suspension) of raltegravir. we have been able to reduce the price of adolescents. In December 2011, Merck Read the full press release. ISENTRESS to US$1.85 per day (ex-MSD) gained FDA approval for two formulations in these countries. of ISENTRESS (chewable tablets and Also in collaboration with IMPAACT, film-coated tablets) for use in children and one study in neonates, IMPAACT Merck has granted multiple adolescents 2 to 18 years of age. P1097, examining raltegravir levels in nonexclusive licenses to Indian generic Additionally, the granules-for-suspension infants born to mothers who have taken manufacturers for the manufacture and formulation was approved by the FDA in raltegravir in pregnancy (these infants commercialization of raltegravir in 60 January, 2014, for use in HIV-1-infected were not given raltegravir directly), has low-income and sub-Saharan African infants and toddlers as young as 4 weeks completed enrollment. Another study, countries. In addition, in February 2014, of age and weighing at least 3 kg to less IMPAACT P1110, of active raltegravir Merck and Cipla announced a strategic than 20 kg. Both the chewable tablets and dosing to neonates at risk for acquiring partnership to co-market raltegravir the granules for suspension are dosed HIV infection, is now open; this study, (400mg tablet) for the Indian market. based on weight. which uses the granules for suspension formulation, aims to define the safety Merck has also granted royalty-free and appropriate dose of raltegravir licenses for efavirenz to six South African Merck intends to register these for neonates. generic manufacturers. three formulations of raltegravir broadly in the countries with the Manufacturers to whom Merck has HIV PRODUCT greatest pediatric HIV burden. granted a royalty-free voluntary license for efavirenz include: The burden of pediatric HIV falls primarily on sub-Saharan Africa and on low and AVAILABILITY AND • Emcure Pharmaceuticals S. Africa and Arrow Pharma S. Africa—joint license low-middle income countries. The lack of demand for pediatric HIV medicines in high-income developed countries AFFORDABILITY granted in 2011 • Sonke Pharmaceuticals—license granted in 2009 provides little commercial incentive for Merck continually looks for • Aspen Pharmacare—license granted the development of optimized pediatric combination formulations, such as ways to reduce the cost of its in 2008 those seen in combination formulations antiretrovirals (ARVs) for people • Aurobindo Pharma—license granted for adults. In May 2014, UNITAID—in living in the world’s poorest in 2008 cooperation with the Medicines Patent countries and those hit hardest by • Cipla Medpro—license granted Pool (MPP) and the Drugs for Neglected the epidemic. in 2008 Diseases Initiative (DNDi)—announced an integrated partnership intended • Adcock Ingram Healthcare—license One way is to work with external to increase access to pediatric HIV granted in 2007 manufacturers and suppliers to treatment by developing improved achieve incremental efficiencies. For or new pediatric formulations of HIV ISENTRESS® (raltegravir), Merck has medicines. In support of this initiative, established a low-cost supply chain with MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 98 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Patent Pool for HIV Medicines Pediatric HIV treatment is an area However, both the letter and the spirit of where multi-sector efforts are needed international trade rules suggest that such Merck has demonstrated its commitment to facilitate development of appropriate authority should be used only in the most to improved access to HIV medicines combination formulations and to promote extraordinary and limited circumstances through long-standing efforts over many manufacturing and supply of these in order to support all forms of innovation years, including differential pricing, pediatric formulations. around the world. Merck will work voluntary licensing, public-private vigorously with governments and other partnerships, philanthropic programs, Therefore, Merck supports the multistakeholders in the developing world to and continued research and development stakeholder initiative led by UNITAID, the meet the health needs of patients and efforts in HIV. Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative increase access to its medicines. (DNDi) and the Medicines Patent Pool Merck’s focus has been on implementing Foundation seeking to increase access For more information on Merck’s public our access strategy for ISENTRESS® to pediatric HIV treatment through policy position on compulsory licensing, (raltegravir) in Low-Income countries the development of improved or new click here. and sub-Saharan Africa as part of our pediatric formulations of HIV medicines. ongoing efforts to further enhance global In support of this initiative, Merck has Antiretroviral Registration access to our HIV medicines. Through entered into negotiations with the Merck is committed to pursuing rapid this comprehensive, innovative strategy, Medicines Patent Pool regarding potential registration of our antiretrovirals (ARVs), Merck is bringing ISENTRESS to the licenses on the pediatric formulations including registration in those countries areas of greatest need at a significantly of raltegravir. most affected by HIV/AIDS. reduced price, while facilitating generic competition in these areas of greatest Compulsory Licensing Currently, Merck ARVs are registered need through voluntary licenses. Merck or available through import waiver in is engaging on the ground locally to Merck understands that access to many countries. Since the first approval provide support for healthcare providers medicines is a particularly complex in 2007, ISENTRESS ® (raltegravir) has and patients through ongoing medical issue in many developing countries, received regulatory approval in more education and pharmacovigilence. and respects that international trade than 90 countries for use in treatmentagreements—especially the World Trade experienced adult patients infected with Merck firmly believes that the Organization’s TRIPs agreement (tradeHIV-1, and in 47 countries for use in engagement of all stakeholders, including related aspects of intellectual property treatment-naïve adult patients infected governments, donors, civil society, rights) and subsequent Declaration on with HIV-1. Merck is in the process of and industry, is needed to address the TRIPs and Public Health agreements— filing ISENTRESS in additional countries multiple issues impacting access to provide countries with the authority, in around the world. healthcare. In certain instances, Merck limited circumstances, to use compulsory may work with multilateral mechanisms licensing. In the case of medicines, Details of registration and availability of when they offer additional opportunities we further respect that compulsory our four ARVs are available through the to enhance access beyond those offered licenses may be issued, under limited and links below: by Merck’s ongoing access strategies in specified circumstances, to meet a health the areas of greatest disease burden and crisis or emergency. • ATRIPLA® (tenofir, where governments have the least ability emtricitabine, efavirenz) to finance healthcare. • CRIXIVAN ® (indinavir sulfate) MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 99 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • ISENTRESS ® (raltegravir) provide our medicines in countries with a Countries classified as low-middle lower HIV disease burden and a greater income and upper-middle income2 by the • STOCRIN ® (efavirenz) ability to finance healthcare. World Bank are eligible for prices that are discounted from those in developed, World Health Organization ISENTRESS (raltegravir), STOCRIN high-income countries. These prices will (WHO) Prequalification (efavirenz), CRIXIVAN (indinavir) vary based on, among other things, a STOCRIN, CRIXIVAN and ATRIPLA have Merck offers its lowest Access price for combination of country income, disease received World Health Organization its HIV medicines to countries based on burden, treatment guideline positioning, (WHO) prequalification. WHO a combination of highest disease burden patient access through national AIDS prequalification verifies that medicines and lower country income (gross national treatment programs, and market meet the quality, safety and efficacy income [GNI] per capita), as defined by conditions, and will be negotiated with requirements of UN agencies, including the World Bank. A list of eligible Access each government. UNICEF and the Pan American Health countries is provided here. Organization—an important step toward providing global access. Merck is committed to working with the WHO As of July 1, 2013, the Access prices for the prequalification of ISENTRESS. for Merck’s HIV medicines for eligible Although we anticipated submitting the customers1 are: prequalification application to the WHO for the adult formulation of ISENTRESS (raltegravir) in 2013, we now plan to submit the documentation in 2014. We also plan to make a submission for the raltegravir pediatric formulation when the WHO requests prequalification applications for this product. HIV Pricing Policies Merck’s differential-pricing policy is part of its commitment to addressing HIV, with the goal of ensuring that its HIV antiretroviral (ARV) medicines reach as many of those in need as possible. Pricing Policy for HIV Medicines in the Developing World Our differential-pricing program not only facilitates access, but also helps us sustain our investment in clinical ISENTRESS and medical education programs in the developing-world countries with the 100 mg tablet Based on weight (0.60) greatest disease burden and least ability to finance healthcare, while maintaining 25 mg tablet Based on weight (0.15) an incentive to sustain innovation and MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 100 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT For high-income countries, Merck will make ISENTRESS ® (raltegravir) available at competitive prices that take into account the innovation and value that ISENTRESS represents. ATRIPLA (tenofovir, emtricitabine, efavirenz) Merck sells ATRIPLA® at US$1.68 per day, or US$613 per year, in 98 Access countries, as defined by our agreement with Gilead. 1  ustomers eligible for public-sector Access C pricing in eligible Access countries will include: governments and programs fully funded by governments and/or by multiand bilateral donors (e.g., the Global Fund, PEPFAR, UNITAID), UN System Organizations, NGOs and other noncommercial providers of HIV treatment in sub-Saharan Africa, World Bank–defined lowincome countries, UN-defined least developed countries and India. Merck offers these products on a Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU), Carriage and Insurance Paid (CIP) or Carriage Paid To (CPT) airport-of-destination (Incoterm, 2000) basis. Additional costs may include freight, insurance, customs handling, taxes and duties. 2  ustomers eligible for public-sector pricing in lowC middle and upper-middle income countries will include: governments and programs fully funded by governments and/or by multiand bilateral donors (e.g., the Global Fund, PEPFAR, UNITAID), UN System Organizations and NGOs. Lowand middle-income countries that are members of the European Union are not eligible for pricing under this Access program. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 101 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT and many other stakeholders, including For more information on progress NEGLECTED TROPICAL endemic country governments, the WHO, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, toward the London Declaration goals, please see http:// DISEASES USAID, the UK Department for unitingtocombatntds.org/report/ International Development (DFID), NGOs delivering-promises-driving-progressand other organizations in this effort. second-report-uniting-combat-ntds. Merck and the other pharmaceutical Merck initiated research on companies committed to continuing or For more information on Merck’s drug MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) for use increasing their donations of medicines donations associated with this initiative, in humans for river blindness, a to treat or prevent these diseases; donors please refer to the MECTIZAN® committed financial resources and NGOs (ivermectin) Donation Program. neglected tropical disease (NTD), agreed to support implementation needs. in 1978 and continues to conduct The partners came together under the Research & Development research to address the burden of banner of “Uniting to Combat NTDs” to neglected tropical diseases today. track progress and identify gaps that need WIPO Re:Search to be addressed in order to reach the Merck is one of the founding members The World Health Organization (WHO) goals of the London Declaration. of WIPO Re:Search, a consortium of reports that the burden caused by many public and private organizations that of the 17 diseases that affect more Although existing tools are having a facilitate research on neglected tropical than 1 billion people worldwide can be major impact, several NTDs require diseases, malaria and tuberculosis. effectively controlled and, in many cases, new or improved drugs and diagnostics Through this consortium, Merck entered eliminated or even eradicated. In 2012, to achieve the 2020 goals. Merck, into an agreement with researchers at the WHO published a new strategy, along with several other companies, is the University of California, San Francisco Accelerating Work to Overcome providing access to compound libraries (UCSF), providing UCSF scientists with a the Global Impact of Neglected with external researchers through the series of compounds for screening that Tropical Diseases—A Roadmap for World Intellectual Property Organization’s have the potential to lead to better and Implementation, to set targets for Re:Search (WIPO Re:Search) Consortium safer treatments for patients suffering what can be achieved by the end of and Drug for Neglected Disease Initiative from schistosomiasis. Schistosomiasis the decade. (DNDi). Learn more about our Social is a blood-borne parasitic disease that Licensing Approach for NTDs. Through affects millions of people living in the The London Declaration our drug donations for onchocerciasis developing world. In addition, we have and lymphatic filariasis and our provided relevant expertise, such as an Merck is an original signatory to the research and development activities for investigator from the Emory University London Declaration, a collaborative effort schistosomiasis, visceral leishmaniasis Vaccine Center, to other WIPO Re:Search launched in 2012 to accelerate progress and Chagas diseases, we are supporting members as requested and appropriate. toward eliminating or controlling 10 NTDs the 2020 goals of the London Declaration by the end of the decade. Merck joined 12 for five NTDs. WIPO Re:Search Partnership Stories other global pharmaceutical companies 2012–2013 MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 102 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT “Merck’s vision is to make a difference in the health and wellbeing of individuals across the globe. WIPO Re:Search provides Merck and its scientists with an opportunity to further their TUBERCULOSIS commitment to health by supporting activities that expand on In January 2012, Merck joined six Merck’s R&D efforts. We believe this consortium presents a other pharmaceutical companies, unique opportunity for us to have an impact on advancing R&D four research institutions and the for diseases of poverty and, ultimately, the individuals and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation communities of the developing world.” to launch the TB Drug Accelerator Geralyn S. Ritter (TBDA) partnership, which Senior Vice President, Global Public Policy & Corporate Responsibility, Secretary and aims to speed the discovery of Assistant General Counsel, Merck & Co. Inc. essential new treatments for tuberculosis (TB). DNDi Collaboration In 2013, Merck continued to collaborate Through the partnership, companies In June 2009, Merck and the nonprofit with DNDi by placing a Merck scientist on will share targeted sections of their organization DNDi entered into a rotation at DNDi through the Richard T. compound libraries and data with one collaborative agreement to support Clark Fellowship for World Health. another and with academic research the discovery and development of institutes, in order to develop the best improved treatments for a range of Clinical Research drug prospects, regardless of where they NTDs. The partnership focuses on A Phase II investigational proof-oforiginate. As of 2013, Merck has robust numerous NTDs, including visceral concept clinical study to evaluate the collaborative activities with several TBDA leishmaniasis and Chagas disease, oral antifungal agent posaconazole members to identify potential compounds both of which infect millions of people. (marketed as NOXAFIL® oral suspension for screening. Through a nonexclusive, royalty-free in the U.S. and the EU, and in several license to DNDi, Merck is contributing other countries) for the treatment of small-molecule assets and related chronic Chagas disease is ongoing. In intellectual property for DNDi to conduct planning the study, Merck consulted early-development programs for drug with international agencies and research candidates for treatment of NTDs, with organizations to identify current the primary goal of manufacturing and medical needs and reach consensus distributing drugs at low cost to the public on a study design for posaconazole in sector in resource-poor countries. Merck asymptomatic chronic Chagas disease. and DNDi will share joint intellectual Study completion is anticipated in 2015. property rights on drug candidates Learn more. generated through early development, and Merck will retain the option to undertake late clinical development and registration of these drug candidates. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 103 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT infrastructure and available workforce disease and save lives through a VACCINES in lowand some middle-income countries, preventive measures such as immunization programs can be difficult comprehensive approach of developing new and innovative vaccines, working to make them available and affordable to deliver, yet they are particularly globally to those who need them, and Vaccines are one of the greatest critical to the health and economies of establishing programs to help address public health success stories of these countries. Merck is committed to implementation challenges. the last two centuries. working with partners to help prevent OUR COMMITMENTS In 2013, following Merck’s donation of 180,000 doses of GARDASIL® through the GARDASIL Access Program, the Zambian Ministry of Health in collaboration with Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon (PRRR) initiated a two-year HPV • Engage in innovative research vaccination demonstration program in three districts in Zambia. PRRR is a and development (R&D) to historic initiative that brings together publicand private-sector partners, provide vaccines that address including Susan G. Komen for the Cure®, the George W. Bush Institute, vital global health needs the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), UNAIDS, the • Reduce the gap between U.S. government and other corporate organizations including Merck. It is vaccine availability in anticipated that the vaccination program in Zambia will reach 50,000 eligible developed countries and the girls over a period of two years. Also in 2013, the African Center of Excellence developing world through for Women’s Cancer Control, in coordination with local NGOs and the the timely registration and Zambian government, and with support from Merck through its partnership introduction of our vaccines at with Susan G. Komen for the Cure®, began work on a strategic national cancer affordable prices plan. This included initiating cervical and breast cancer advocacy activities • Improve our products, to increase awareness and reduce stigma throughout Zambia, conducting increase our manufacturing technical training for more than 350 medical staffers, and supporting cervical capacity, and address overall cancer screening activities. For additional details on Merck’s partnerships and implementation challenges programs to expand access to GARDASIL and ROTATEQ® (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent), see the Cervical Cancer and Rotavirus sections of • Develop creative solutions this report. and partnerships that will help broaden access to our vaccines Vaccines have resulted in the global eradication of smallpox and the elimination of polio from the Western Hemisphere and much of Asia. In addition, vaccines for diseases like measles, pertussis and diphtheria have dramatically reduced childhood mortality worldwide. However, because of gaps in areas such as the healthcare MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 104 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck collaborates with a broad set from several of our vaccine access countries (Rwanda, Burkina Faso, Gambia of global stakeholders to improve initiatives in GAVI-eligible countries. and Mali) were the first to introduce access to vaccines. We help inform the Focusing on the anticipated need for our ROTATEQ with GAVI support. Merck’s vaccine policy environment through HPV and rotavirus vaccines, GARDASIL partnership with GAVI and other Alliance stakeholder engagement with important and ROTATEQ, Merck collaborated partners is helping to ensure that infants international organizations such as the with GAVI and other members of the and girls in the poorest countries have World Health Organization (WHO), Alliance, including UNICEF, to understand access to rotavirus and HPV vaccines. the GAVI Alliance Board and UNICEF. estimated country demand for the Additionally, Merck engages stakeholders vaccines over time, and to determine from regional and national organizations, the lowest possible access prices that VAC C I N E R E S E A R C H contributing to the development and could be sustainably offered to GAVI and & DEVELOPMENT implementation of regional and national UNICEF for the vaccine volumes to be vaccination programs. delivered to these poorest countries. Merck conducts innovative Through active engagement of the GAVI In 2013, Merck was awarded a significant research and development to Alliance, Merck helped to foster an portion of the first UNICEF HPV vaccines provide vaccines that address environment that led to mobilization of tender for GAVI countries. Then, in vital unmet and emerging global funding and partner technical support early 2014, GAVI approved 12 additional health needs. for the introduction of new vaccines countries for HPV vaccine support; nine in the worlds’ poorest countries. This of those countries selected GARDASIL For more than 100 years, Merck engagement included the sharing of for their programs. Additionally, between scientists have been discovering vaccines best practices that had been gleaned May 2012 and February 2014, four African that have been impacting lives. Vaccines discovered and developed by Merck have made unique contributions to public Merck also continues to work in partnership with stakeholders to provide health, including helping to prevent access to information regarding health and immunization. In 2013, Merck diseases like measles, mumps, shingles supported the National Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition (HMHB) and cervical cancer. Merck remains one in efforts to expand well-baby care during the first year of life. Through this of the few companies dedicated to the program, Merck, HMHB, and the National Medical Association created a complex business of researching and 12-month guide that educates new parents and caregivers on the importance producing vaccines to address the public of following through on well-baby visits during the first year of life. The guide health burden of disease for people provides them with information about what to expect at each well-baby visit, around the world. Merck supports and suggests questions to ask the healthcare provider. It also helps caregivers the Millennium Development Goal of keep track of babies’ vaccinations. Please visit the National Healthy Mothers, reducing childhood mortality (MDG 4) Healthy Babies Coalition to learn more about the program. through our efforts to address two main causes of death in children under five in In addition, Merck, in partnership with HealthyWomen, a leading the developing world from preventable independent health information source for women, launched a brand-new or treatable disease: diarrheal and communications campaign called Lifetime of Vaccines. This program, which pneumococcal diseases. In addition, piloted in Chicago, Cincinnati and Sacramento in 2013, is focused on raising some of the vaccines being researched awareness about the importance of vaccination throughout a lifetime, and is by Merck scientists target diseases that targeted at families’ key healthcare decision makers—women. To learn more are particularly prevalent in the developing visit Lifetime of Vaccines. world. This research includes programs and collaborations addressing diseases such as HIV, malaria and dengue. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 105 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck looks to establish new business Registration & Prequalification is part of Merck’s more than $1 billion models and partnerships for research investment in its vaccine manufacturing and development. A case in point is Merck seeks to reduce the gap between capabilities over the past nine years. the MSD-Wellcome Trust Hilleman vaccines availability in developed These investments demonstrate Merck’s Laboratories. Established in 2009, countries and their introduction in lowcontinued commitment to providing highit is the first-of-its-kind research and and middle-income countries through quality vaccines to meet increasing global development joint venture with a notthe timely registration and introduction of demand for these products. for-profit mission to focus on developing our vaccines. affordable vaccines to prevent diseases In addition, we continue to explore that commonly affect low-income GARDASIL® [Human Papillomavirus potential partnerships with low-cost countries. In 2011, Hilleman Laboratories Quadrivalent (Types 6,11, 16, and 18) manufacturers to bring down the cost announced that its first project would Vaccine, Recombinant] is currently of vaccines. Merck has a long history be a feasibility study of how new registered in more than 130 countries, of progress in this area. Our hepatitis B thermostabilizing technologies might and ROTATEQ ® (Rotavirus Vaccine, license of technology to manufacturers be used to develop a rotavirus vaccine Live, Oral, Pentavalent) is registered in in China dates back to the 1990s, and designed specifically with the needs of more than 110 countries. In addition to has resulted in over 100 million doses developing countries in mind. In 2013, registration, World Health Organization of recombinant hepatitis B vaccine the laboratories, now fully staffed and (WHO) prequalification is an important being produced by our collaborators operational in New Delhi, India, worked step in Merck’s access efforts, signifying each year to address the public with collaborators to advance R&D on this that vaccines meet the quality, safety and health burden of hepatitis B in China. important project. In addition, Hilleman efficacy requirements of UN agencies, Merck is also working with the Serum Laboratories continued to engage including those of UNICEF and the Pan Institute of India Limited to develop and the external global health community American Health Organization (PAHO). commercialize a pneumococcal conjugate through various forums, including Merck received WHO prequalification vaccine (PCV) for use in emerging and ongoing dialogue with its Strategic for ROTATEQ in October 2008, MMR®II developing countries. Advisory Group, which is composed (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus of leading health experts who provide Vaccine Live) in December 2008, and Pricing the laboratories with input on customer GARDASIL in May 2009. needs, strategic direction and diseaseIn the developing world, Merck offers area needs. Manufacturing and Supply ROTATEQ and GARDASIL at an access price that is significantly less than the Merck continues to make investments price of these vaccines in developed in manufacturing capacity as part of our markets. The access price is exclusive AVA I L A B I L I T Y long-term strategy to reach more people to the public sectors of Global Alliance & A F F O R DA B I L I T Y around the world with Merck vaccines. for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI)– In 2013, Merck received approval from eligible countries, meeting the needs Merck is focused on timely the U.S. Food and Drug Administration of the developing world by facilitating registration, increasing (FDA) to manufacture bulk varicella at the access to these innovative vaccines in manufacturing capacity, ensuring company’s site in Durham, N.C., for use in the poorest countries, while making sure affordable pricing, and addressing Merck’s vaccines against chickenpox and they remain affordable and sustainable in shingles. This approval will enable the site the long term. We believe that our pricing implementation challenges. to produce bulk varicella supply for the approach contributes to wider access to U.S. and help boost Merck’s overall global our vaccines, while taking into account supply capabilities. The Durham facility our need to continue investing in vaccine MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 106 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT research, development and production. Since its launch in 2006, ROTATEQ has CERVICAL CANCER For more developed, middle-income been registered and approved in more countries, Merck provides our vaccines at than 110 countries. In the same year in Merck is committed to supporting differential prices in relation to a country’s which it was registered and launched in public health initiatives that ability to pay. the U.S., ROTATEQ was also launched increase access to vaccines where in Nicaragua through a joint program that Partnerships to Address was established between Merck and the they are most needed. Implementation Challenges Nicaraguan Health Ministry—marking the first time there was access to a vaccine in In March 2014, over 5,000 Merck continues to pursue a systematic the public sector of a developing country municipalities in Brazil kicked off approach to overcoming access barriers, in the same year that it was first licensed the national campaign of HPV and has pursued a number of publicin a developed country. The successful immunization using GARDASIL® private partnerships to study the public public-private partnership (PPP) was [Human Papillomavirus health impact of our vaccination programs recognized as a model for the rapid Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16 and and to facilitate the introduction of adoption of a vaccine in a developing18) Vaccine, Recombinant]. In vaccines in resource-poor settings. world setting and is described in a case Brazil, cervical cancer is a leading For more details on the initiatives, study. Learn more about the joint cause of death in women, with please see the Rotavirus and Cervical program in Nicaragua. more than 5,000 women dying of Cancer sections. the disease each year. GARDASIL Nearly a quarter of a million African will be supplied to the National children die from the dehydrating Immunization Plan (NIP) through diarrhea caused by rotavirus infection a partnership between Merck and R O TAV I R U S every year, accounting for more than Instituto Butantan, a Brazilian 50 percent of the global total of rotavirus biomedical research center and Merck is pursuing multiple deaths. Merck, along with partners vaccine producer. This partnership approaches to increasing global including country governments, the highlights Merck’s commitment to access to ROTATEQ® (Rotavirus GAVI Alliance, and other stakeholders, working closely with governments Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent). is working to expand access to rotavirus and scientific institutions to vaccines to help address this problem. ensure broad and sustained Rotavirus gastroenteritis is a leading In the last year, three additional African access to GARDASIL. cause of severe diarrhea in infants and countries—Burkina Faso, Gambia, and young children. In 2008, an estimated Mali—launched national immunization programs using ROTATEQ. These Merck has a long-standing commitment 453,000 rotavirus gastroenteritis African countries join Rwanda, which to helping improve access to GARDASIL associated child deaths occurred launched ROTATEQ in 2012, in combating in developing countries, where more worldwide. Since 2009, the WHO’s the high burden of rotaviral disease in than 85 percent of the world’s cervical Strategic Advisory Group of Experts these countries. cancer cases occur. We have engaged in (SAGE) has recommended the inclusion a number of multidisciplinary partnerships of rotavirus vaccination in all national In addition, Merck continues to evaluate that help resource-poor countries immunization programs, helping to ensure and implement approaches aimed at gain access to human papillomavirus access to rotavirus vaccines in the world’s improving product attributes to better (HPV) vaccination. poorest countries. Merck believes that we have an important role in contributing meet the specific needs of lowand toward this goal. middle-income countries in the future. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 107 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HPV Vaccination Partnerships human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination. Bhutan Ministry of Health. In subsequent Uganda has been approved for scale-up years, the program has continued to In September 2012, the Republic to a full national HPV vaccination program provide an opportunity for appropriate of Uganda, through the Ministry of with support from the Global Alliance 12-year-old girls to be vaccinated Health (MoH) and supported by Merck, for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI with GARDASIL. announced the launch of a national Alliance) in 2015. vaccination program with GARDASIL. These programs in Uganda and Cervical cancer is the most frequent In 2010, Merck also partnered with Bhutan are serving as models for other cancer diagnosed among women in the Government of Bhutan and the developing countries that aspire to Uganda, and incidence rates of the Australian Cervical Cancer Foundation implementing national cervical cancer disease in the country are about three (ACCF) to initiate a six-year program vaccination programs. times the global average. An estimated aimed at reducing incidence of 3,500 women in Uganda are diagnosed cervical cancer in Bhutan. Through Cervical Cancer Prevention with cervical cancer each year. Through this partnership, Bhutan became the and Treatment Partnerships this agreement with Merck, the first developing nation in the world to vaccination program was implemented implement a national cervical cancer Merck is working to create with just under a half million doses vaccination program. The first year of novel partnerships that take of GARDASIL donated to 12 districts the program provided an opportunity a comprehensive approach in Uganda, enough to vaccinate for appropriate girls and young women approximately 140,000 eligible girls 9 to from ages 12 to 18 to be vaccinated to cervical cancer prevention 13 years of age over a two-year period. with GARDASIL, and achieved an and treatment. The program represented the first phase approximately 90 percent vaccination of Uganda’s national rollout plan for rate for all three doses, according to the For instance, in September 2011, Merck announced its plans to contribute $3 million over three years to Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon™, to address both cervical and breast cancer in sub-Saharan African nations. Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon (PRRR) is a historic initiative that brings together publicand private-sector partners, including Susan G. Komen for the Cure®, the George W. Bush Institute, the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), UNAIDS, the U.S. government and other corporate organizations. Through this three-year commitment, Merck will work with Susan G. Komen for the Cure to support the initiative to raise awareness about the burden of breast and cervical cancer, work toward increased access to cervical cancer screening and treatment for women and toward HPV vaccination of A young girl is immunized during the September 2012 phased launch of a national vaccination eligible girls in sub-Saharan Africa, and program using GARDASIL in the Republic of Uganda. serve as a catalyst for additional partners MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 108 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT to garner support for increased capacity advocacy activities to increase awareness 30,000 appropriate girls participating in in cervical and breast cancer prevention and reduce stigma throughout Zambia, “HPV Vaccines: Evidence for Impact” and treatment. conducted technical training for more demonstration projects. The overall than 350 medical staffers, and supported initiative was designed to strengthen In 2013, Botswana, with support from cervical cancer screening activities. the capacity of developing countries to Merck and from Pink Ribbon Red prevent cervical cancer by generating Ribbon, successfully completed an HPV In April 2011, Merck began providing and providing necessary evidence for vaccination demonstration project to gain GARDASIL to a first-of-its-kind cervical public-sector introductions of HPV experience for an anticipated national cancer program in Rwanda, including vaccines, informing global advocacy HPV vaccination rollout. In the schoolboth HPV vaccination and HPV DNA efforts, and providing analyses to help based program, approximately 2,000 girls testing. Over the three-year program, accelerate access to HPV vaccines. received all three doses of GARDASIL. which concluded in 2013, Merck provided The projects suggest that high coverage Additionally, the Ministry of Health gained nearly 1.4 million doses of GARDASIL. with HPV vaccines can be achieved valuable experience that will guide it This program was made possible by through various delivery strategies in in the rollout of the national program. a collaboration established in 2009 the countries studied. Secondary cervical cancer prevention and between Merck and QIAGEN, the treatment are being supported through leading global provider of sample and Additionally, through the charitable PRRR partners providing community assay technologies, to increase access GARDASIL Access Program, Merck has awareness, increased capacity through to HPV vaccination and testing. This donated more than 1.2 million doses of healthcare worker training, and screening initiative marked the first time a vaccine GARDASIL for use in smaller-scale HPV and treatment equipment. manufacturer and a molecular diagnostics vaccination projects in eligible lowestcompany have collaborated to address income countries around the world. Also in 2013, following Merck’s donation the burden of cervical cancer in one The program has enabled organizations of 180,000 doses of GARDASIL through comprehensive approach. As part of the and institutions in 21 countries to gain the GARDASIL Access Program, program, on which Merck worked closely operational experience in designing the Zambian Ministry of Health in with the Government of Rwanda, more and implementing HPV vaccination collaboration with PRRR partners than 96 percent of targeted girls were projects, with the goal of supporting the initiated a two-year HPV vaccination vaccinated with the full three doses of development of successful child and demonstration program in three GARDASIL in 2011 and 2012. Rwanda adolescent immunization models. In light districts. Merck and PRRR partners has been approved to transition to GAVI of changes in the global health funding have also provided technical support for Alliance support for its vaccination landscape, and after consultation with the program. It is anticipated that the program in 2015. various stakeholders, it was decided vaccination program will reach 50,000 that, as of August 2012, the GARDASIL eligible girls over the two-year period. Commitment to Support Access Program will no longer award Additionally in 2013, the African Center of HPV Vaccine Introduction doses to new projects. However, options Excellence for Women’s Cancer Control, for the use of the remaining doses of in coordination with local NGOs and the Beginning in 2006, Merck partnered with GARDASIL are currently being explored. Zambian government. and with support the international nonprofit organization from Merck through its partnership with PATH to provide GARDASIL for the As of March 2014, six countries Susan G. Komen for the Cure, began conducting of post-licensure HPV(Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, Mali , Tanzania work on a strategic national cancer vaccine demonstration projects in Peru, and Uganda) that participated in the plan, initiated cervical and breast cancer Vietnam and India. GARDASIL was GARDASIL Access Program are among provided to vaccinate approximately the first approved by the GAVI Alliance MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 109 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT for HPV demonstration programs using GARDASIL. In addition, Lesotho, which completed two HPV-vaccination projects with the support of the GARDASIL Access Program, has now been able to scale up to a national program with its own resources. Experiences and lessons learned from past and current Program participants will continue to be disseminated in the public health community by Axios Healthcare Development, a U.S. nonprofit organization that manages the GARDASIL Access Program. Learn more about the GARDASIL Access Program and this development. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 110 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The fifth Millennium Development and reduces the risk of preterm birth.3 WOMEN’S HEALTH Goal, Improve Maternal Health, sets targets of reducing maternal mortality (Goal 5a) and achieving universal access The use of family planning methods can also reduce the number of unsafe abortions and associated complications.4 to reproductive healthcare (Goal 5b) by The private sector has an 2015, both major contributors to the Access to modern contraceptives important role to play in overall health of women, families and is an important aspect of family contributing to the achievement society.1 While progress has been made, planning. At Merck, our multifaceted of the United Nations Millennium the rates of maternal mortality remain approach supports efforts to improve Development Goals regarding high in many countries, and access to access to family planning services and women’s health. modern contraceptive methods remains contraceptives for the women most in limited, especially among the poorest need of them. We are actively engaged and least-educated women. in areas where maternal mortality is high COMMITMENTS and the prevalence of contraceptive use Enabling couples to determine whether, is low.5 Facilitate sustained access for when and how often to have children 1 http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/ Merck family planning products is vital to helping achieve safe mdgoverview/mdg_goals/mdg5/ and services that address motherhood, healthy families and healthy 2 http://www.rhcatalyst.org/site/DocServer/ specific reproductive health and communities. Voluntary family planning Birth_Spacing_Research_Update_USAID_12-3002_Final.pdf?docID=162 development challenges. helps protect the health of women by 3 http://www.marchofdimes.com/news/ reducing high-risk pregnancies and helps jul19b_2011.html protect the health of children and mothers 4  ingh S., et al., Guttmacher Institute and S by allowing sufficient time between United Nations Population Fund; 2009. www.guttmacher.org/pubs/AddingItUp2009.pdf pregnancies. Research has shown that 5 http://www.everywomaneverychild.org/resources/ appropriately spacing pregnancies helps un-commission-on-life-saving-commodities/about improve mother and child survival rates2 Global Access to Health (ATH) Franchise Approach to Global Target Principle ATH Principle We will evaluate and reflect, where Develop new formulations of our • Gain approval of a temperatureappropriate, the needs of emerging existing women’s health technology stable contraceptive ring by 2020 markets in the R&D of our products. platforms to better meet conditions in • Gain approval of longer-acting emerging markets contraceptive ring and HIVpreventative ring (being developed in partnership with the NIH) by 2020 • Gain approval for a new indication for IMPLANON® for use in post-partum women, including post–second trimester abortion Develop innovative, long-acting • Gain approval of medicated reversible contraceptive solutions intrauterine system (IUS) (MK-8342) relevant to the needs of women in by 2020 emerging markets MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 111 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The coalition brings together diverse Family Planning 2020 (FP2020)— PA R T N E R S H I P S agencies and groups with critical Merck participates in the FP2020 Country roles in providing contraceptives and Engagement Working Group, which is Merck participates in a number other reproductive health supplies. working to facilitate access to funding, of coalitions that support women’s These include multilateral and bilateral technical assistance and country-toreproductive health by increasing organizations, private foundations, country support for transformational, access to family planning, working governments, and civil society and country-owned family planning programs. to reduce maternal mortality private-sector representatives. FP2020 works with governments, civil Merck participates in various RHSC society, multilateral organizations, donors, and promoting collaboration working groups, including the Market the private sector, and the research and between the public, private and Development Approaches Working development community to enable not-for-profit sectors. Group and the Resource Mobilization 120 million more women and girls to use and Awareness Working Group. We also contraceptives by 2020. It is based on Throughout the world, Merck has signed on to the RHSC’s Hand to Hand the principle that all women, no matter partnered with organizations and campaign to reach the goal of 100 million where they live, should have access to supported projects that work to: increase new users of modern contraception lifesaving contraceptives and supports women’s access to health services, by 2015. the UN Secretary-General’s global effort reduce maternal mortality, increase for women and children’s health. awareness of reproductive/sexual health The C-Exchange—The overall goal of among adolescents and vulnerable the C-Exchange is to convene a group of The Bellagio Group—Merck is a populations, prevent mother-to-child corporate partners that will work together member of the Bellagio Group, a group transmission of HIV/AIDS, and promote to bring women’s health products and of international experts on family planning women’s empowerment and access to services to market and scale them up in and reproductive health that strives economic opportunities. developing countries. The C-Exchange to find innovative solutions that expand will focus on technological solutions contraceptive choice and accelerate Improving access to information is that, if accessible, will help improve the universal access to reproductive health essential to ensuring that girls and health of girls and women. Access to services by increasing availability of longwomen can manage their health, reduce four of the solutions—contraception, acting reversible contraceptives (LARCs). unintended pregnancies, and understand mobile communications, HPV testing and The Group asserts that if all women, and obtain essential health services. vaccination, and misoprostol—is available men and young people do not have a full Merck supports various programs and today, but scaling up can be complex and and informed choice of contraceptive partnerships that provide health education challenging. Merck is a member of the options, they do not have full access. and increase awareness around the world. C-Exchange’s leadership group of 10 to Meeting most recently in November 12 private-sector corporations committed 2013 at the International Conference on Partnering for Implementation to helping Women Deliver—a global Family Planning in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, advocacy organization working to improve the group reached a consensus on a Reproductive Health Supplies the health and well-being of girls and statement and recommendations Coalition (RHSC)—The RHSC is a women—shape, create and lead the for action. global partnership of public, private and C-Exchange. nongovernmental organizations dedicated For more information on how we partner to helping all people in lowand middlewith customers and other stakeholders, income countries gain access to and use please visit our Access to Reproductive affordable, high-quality supplies that Health section. ensure better reproductive health. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 112 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE IMPLANON/NXT® EXLUTON® MARVELON® Product is Yes Yes Yes Women’s Health: WHO-prequalified Access to Health Commitments Number of FP2020 422/28 233 244/1 The following metrics are for Merck countries where family planning products intended for product is registered/ underserved segments of the world’s Number pending poorest countries (defined as Family Planning 2020 Countries1) that are Number of FP2020 285 76 67 supplied through the public sector and countries in which social marketing organizations. we supply product Number of women 4.09 million 475,000 235,000 GOAL reached8 in FP2020 countries Facilitate sustained access for % of orders supplied 100% Pending Pending Merck family planning products on time in full in and services that address FP2020 countries specific reproductive health and development challenges. 1  Includes 70 countries identified by the external reproductive health community during the July 2012 London Family Planning Summit, plus South Africa. These countries are those with a 2010 per capita gross national income less than or equal to US$2,500 per year, based on the World Bank classification using the Atlas Method. They are thought least likely to meet the Millennium Development Goals set by the UN General Assembly in 1990 to reduce the number of infant and young child deaths by two-thirds and to improve maternal health by 2015. 2 B  angladesh, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, DRC, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe; plus the following countries where we have introduced the product through special waiver: Rwanda, Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Liberia. 3 Y  emen, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nicaragua, Guinea, Niger, Cambodia, DRC, Egypt, Mali, Senegal, Kenya, Uganda, Iraq, Congo, Indonesia, Philippines, Zimbabwe, Myanmar, Togo, Tanzania, Sudan, Vietnam. 4  angladesh, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Kenya, Lao People’s B Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, Zimbabwe. 5  angladesh, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Comoros, DRC, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Honduras, B Indonesia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Mongolia, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Vietnam, Yemen, Zimbabwe. 6 C AR, DRC, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Philippines, Sudan, Togo. 7 C AR, Guinea Bissau, Kyrgyzstan, Nicaragua, Sudan, Tanzania. 8 Based on number of units supplied; for contraceptive pills, number based on 12 per cycle per year. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 113 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT contraceptive options, including a ACCESS TO single-rod contraceptive implant, a Merck supports the ambitious, once-monthly vaginal contraceptive but we believe achievable, goal set out by the global reproductive REPRODUCTIVE ring, and progestin-only and combined oral contraceptives. health community in 2012 of ensuring that voluntary lifesaving HEALTH In 2013, Merck researchers continued to develop new formulations of our existing women’s health products to family planning information, services and products reach an additional 120 million women better meet conditions in developing and girls in the world’s poorest At Merck, our commitment to countries by 2020. We also countries. Our research efforts include providing access to reproductive support the call to improve research and work on a temperaturehealth starts with our research stable contraceptive ring, as well as a equitable access to 13 overlooked and development, which has longer-acting contraceptive ring and commodities, including resulted in a diverse portfolio of HIV-preventative ring (being developed contraceptive implants, by the in partnership with the NIH) and a UN Commission on Life-Saving contraceptive products. medicated intrauterine system. Commodities for Women and Children’s Health. Beyond our research, we continue to work hard to develop sustainable Sustainable Business Model business models that will help improve to Promote Access In developing countries that have high access to our products for the people rates of maternal mortality and low who need them most. Our partnerships Merck is committed to making its rates of contraceptive prevalence, our with governments, international contraceptive products available to Institutional Family Planning Services organizations and nongovernmental women around the world. We take a division has created a sustainable development organizations help support comprehensive approach to access that business model to promote access to and implement programs that improve includes high-quality manufacturing contraceptive health programs. These access and promote capacity building by and supply chain management; activities are focused primarily on subhelping to train healthcare professionals extensive registration and World Health Saharan Africa and markets in Asia and and address other barriers to care. Organization (WHO) prequalification of Latin America with high unmet need. our family planning products; responsible Research & Development commercialization that incorporates High-Quality Manufacturing & Supply training and capacity-building; and Chain Management Merck has a strong legacy of research community investment. and development of contraceptive We work to ensure that we have products that have supported women’s sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet family planning efforts. Over the short-, mediumand long-term availability years, we have been responsible for of our contraceptive products for the development of a wide range of reproductive health programs conducted by governmental and nongovernmental organizations and other customers. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 114 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2012, we dedicated resources to IMPLANON/NXT® EXLUTON® MARVELON® examining our supply chain to reduce inefficiencies, optimize yields and lower Product is Yes Yes Yes costs of production. We have passed WHO-prequalified these savings on to our customers in the Number of FP2020 422/28 233 244/1 form of lower prices, particularly in lowercountries where income markets. We also invested in new product is registered/ technologies to increase the efficiency of Number pending our operations and to be able to produce more affordable product at the same high Number of FP2020 285 76 67 quality to meet increasing demand. countries in which we supply product Registration & Prequalification Number of women 4.09 million 475,000 235,000 We seek to ensure global access to our reached8 in FP2020 contraceptive products by obtaining countries and maintaining up-to-date product % of orders supplied 100% Pending Pending registrations around the world. In addition on time in full in to existing and in-process registrations, FP2020 countries numerous registrations are planned for products in countries of various 1  Includes 70 countries identified by the external reproductive health community during the July 2012 London income levels. Family Planning Summit, plus South Africa. These countries are those with a 2010 per capita gross national income less than or equal to US$2,500 per year, based on the World Bank classification using the Atlas Method. They are thought least likely to meet the Millennium Development Goals set by the UN General Registrations Assembly in 1990 to reduce the number of infant and young child deaths by two-thirds and to improve maternal health by 2015. The following metrics are for Merck 2 B  angladesh, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, DRC, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Niger, family planning products intended for Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, underserved segments of the world’s Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe; plus the following countries where we have introduced the product through special waiver: Rwanda, Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Liberia. poorest countries (defined as Family 3  emen, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nicaragua, Guinea, Niger, Cambodia, DRC, Egypt, Mali, Senegal, Kenya, Y Planning 2020 Countries1) that are Uganda, Iraq, Congo, Indonesia, Philippines, Zimbabwe, Myanmar, Togo, Tanzania, Sudan, Vietnam. supplied through the public sector and 4  angladesh, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Kenya, Lao People’s B social marketing organizations. Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, Zimbabwe. 5 B  angladesh, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Comoros, DRC, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Honduras, Note: For World Bank country Indonesia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Mongolia, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, South classifications, please click here. Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Vietnam, Yemen, Zimbabwe. 6 C AR, DRC, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Philippines, Sudan, Togo. 7 C AR, Guinea Bissau, Kyrgyzstan, Nicaragua, Sudan, Tanzania. 8 Based on number of units supplied; for contraceptive pills, number based on 12 per cycle per year. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 115 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WHO Prequalification Commercialization support family planning by increasing the use of contraception; international, In order to facilitate institutional The success of reproductive health bilateral and multilateral donors that purchases of family planning products programs in the developing world finance the purchase of reproductive and provide quality assurance, Merck relies upon the close cooperation and health commodities and invest in has secured WHO prequalification for coordination of many partners. They service delivery management and EXLUTON ® (lynestrenol), IMPLANON ® include pharmaceutical companies implementation; nongovernmental (etonogestrel implant), IMPLANON NXT® like Merck that discover, develop and organizations that support (etonogestrel implant) and MARVELON ® manufacture contraceptive products; implementation of such programs; and (desogestrel-ethinyl estradiol). national governments that seek to healthcare professionals and health extension workers who counsel and provide care for women around the world. As one of many partners, Merck takes the following steps to support family planning programs and to help increase awareness and access to a broad choice of contraceptive products. Requests for Quotation Merck receives and responds to “Requests for Quotation” from developing countries’ governments seeking supplies for their own programs (financed by government funds, by multilateral organizations like the World Bank or through bilateral aid); from donor country aid agencies (e.g., USAID, DFID, KfW) seeking to purchase reproductive health commodities that will be donated to programs in one or more countries; from multilateral agencies, such as the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) donating to one or more countries; or from nongovernmental agencies seeking supplies for programs that they manage in one or more countries. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 116 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In responding to these requests, Merck We believe that our pricing approach will allowed Merck to achieve improved adheres to the specific guidelines of help improve product availability while economies of scale making the further each proposal and acts in full compliance also allowing the company to continue price reduction possible. Under the with local and international laws to invest in research, development, agreement, MSD will reduce the cost and requirements. production, and the training and education of IMPLANON and its next-generation necessary to help ensure appropriate implant, IMPLANON NXT (etonogestrel), Pricing counseling and use of our products. by approximately 50 percent for the next six years in the targeted poorest eligible For contraceptive product pricing, we In July 2011, Merck and the Reproductive countries of focus for the reproductive consider a nation’s level of economic Health Supplies Coalition (RHSC) health community. Learn more. development and other relevant announced a partnership to enhance factors, including the type of family access and appropriate and effective use Partnering for Implementation planning programs implemented by the of IMPLANON (etonogestrel implant) for local government. qualified buyers in developing countries. For family planning programs in the Under the initiative, IMPLANON is developing world involving Merck’s In upper-middle-income and high-income available at Merck’s lowest access price contraceptive implant IMPLANON, countries, we provide our products to donor agencies and family planning the company requires the recipient at prices that take into account the members of RHSC in sub-Saharan Africa, governments and partnering NGOs to innovation and value they represent. and in all other Low Income countries as sign a Cooperation Agreement for the With a commitment to making our defined by the World Bank1 and Lower Receipt and Use of IMPLANON (CARUI). contraceptive products available to the Middle Income countries1 with maternal The cooperation agreement includes: public sector, we also offer discounts to mortality ratios of >200 according to organizations that serve women of all UN data.2 • Merck’s commitment to a income levels, like Planned Parenthood comprehensive service approach that affiliates, so that the women who rely Less than one year later, in November provides and/or supports capacity on their services have routine access to 2012, RHSC announced that the initiative building in service delivery, including contraceptive options that include nonhad met its initial target of supplying preand post-insertion counseling and daily and long-acting reversible methods. 4.5 million units of the product, triggering insertion/removal training a further credit rebate for the eligible • Distribution requirements that must In order to facilitate the purchase of our recipient countries. be met by Merck and local partners products for use in institutional family to ensure that all clinics/providers planning programs in low-income and In May 2013, building on the company’s meet training and quality assurance lower-middle-income countries, we price previous price announcement, Merck requirements, provide sustained our reproductive health commodities at and a group of publicand private-sector services over the duration of the their lowest access prices when selling partners announced an agreement to product’s life (three years), and can them to qualified buyers. further expand contraceptive access and access referral centers in case more options for millions of women in some specialized care related to IMPLANON of the world’s poorest countries. The is required increased volume generated from the success of the initial initiative with RHSC and the guarantee of continued volume MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 117 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Merck’s commitment to “training In 2013, we worked with more than 35 We also participated in the September of trainers” and providing training countries in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and 2012 launch of a report by the UN materials, including audiovisual Central America to provide contraceptive Commission on Life-Saving Commodities materials, training kits, artificial arm products through numerous partnerships for Women’s and Children’s Health models and placebos; Merck may with governments, donors and NGOs. that recognized the importance of provide additional technical assistance Some of the countries where our contraceptive implants and of women’s for direct and cascaded training Institutional Family Planning Services choice in deciding which method activities of healthcare providers engaged in partnerships in 2013 include and product is right for them. Merck with our local partners on a case-byMadagascar, Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer case basis Tanzania, Nigeria, South Africa, Yemen, Ken Frazier was one of the Commission’s Bangladesh, Pakistan, Philippines, 19 commissioners. • Procedures to report product Vietnam, Cambodia and Ecuador. complaints and adverse events In November 2013 at the International • Provisions regarding compliance with As part of our committed capacity Conference on Family Planning in Addis the applicable laws of the U.S. and the building and training commitment, Ababa, Ethiopia, MSD joined with other recipient country, and Merck’s ethical Merck provided support and educational international experts on family planning and business compliance policies grants for governments and/or local and reproductive health as part of the implementing partners to train more Bellagio Group to reach consensus on In the countries where Merck products than 6,000 healthcare providers in suba statement and recommendations are included in family planning programs, Saharan Africa, Asia and Central America for action to expand contraceptive we work closely with ministries of in 2013. choice and accelerate universal access to health and local implementing partners, reproductive health services by increasing who play a pivotal role in supporting Public Advocacy availability of long-acting reversible training, counseling and other related contraceptives (LARCs). activities. Our local implementing Merck supports the ambitious but, we partners have included Jhpiego, believe, achievable goal set out by the 1 W  orld Bank Classification of countries as of 18 July 2011, Atlas Method. EngenderHealth, Marie Stopes public health community in 2012 of 2  HO/UNICEF/UNFPA/The World Bank, W International, International Planned ensuring that voluntary lifesaving family Estimates of Maternal Mortality 2008. Parenthood Federation, Population planning information, services and Services International and Pathfinder products reach an additional 120 million International. Such collaboration women and girls in the world’s poorest ensures that countries have the expertise countries by 2020. and support they need to achieve their reproductive health objectives. We were pleased to have been asked to participate in the London Summit on Family Planning in July 2012, at which we affirmed our partnership with RHSC to make IMPLANON available at our access pricing. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 118 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT healthier. Healthier animals mean Merck Animal Health employs more MERCK ANIMAL sustainable food supplies, protection of human health against zoonotic diseases1, than 6,800 people worldwide and is present in more than 50 countries. The HEALTH support to reduce the burden of certain company operates a global network of food-borne diseases, and longer, richer manufacturing sites and dedicated R&D companionship for pet owners. facilities, and offers products for various species, including ruminants (cattle, Our mission is the science of Merck’s global Animal Health business sheep, goats), poultry, swine, aquatic healthier animals. is dedicated to preserving and improving animals and companion animals (dogs, the health, well-being and performance cats, horses) in 150 countries. Animals work for us, feed us and give of animals by offering veterinarians, us comfort and support. People also farmers, pet owners and governments At Merck Animal Health, we focus our have a responsibility to care for animals one of the widest ranges of veterinary corporate responsibility efforts on the and ensure their well-being. Which is pharmaceuticals, vaccines and health following areas: why our science within Merck Animal management solutions and services in Health (MAH) is all about making animals the world. • Protecting animal health • Contributing to public health • Supporting a sustainable, global food supply and managing our 2013 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS global footprint • Ensuring ethical business practices • Accelerated registration by the U.K. health authorities of a vaccine to help protect sheep and cattle against birth defects caused by the Note: This section includes information Schmallenberg virus (SBV) about how Merck contributes to societies • European registration of Panacur Aquasol dewormer for chickens; the new through its Animal Health business. formulation, allowing application via the drinking water, facilitates correct Information and data on Merck Animal treatment of flocks Health’s performance in the environment • European registration of first tetravalent leptospirosis vaccine for dogs, and in other areas is contained within the providing an aid against an increasing number of cases of leptospirosis not main sections of Merck’s global corporate covered by the claims of the existing canine vaccines responsibility report. • Received positive opinion of the European Committee for Medicinal 1  oonotic diseases are any disease or infection that Z Products for Veterinary Use (CVMP) recommending the granting of a is naturally transmissible from vertebrate animals to humans or vice versa (World Health Organization). marketing authorization for the veterinary medicinal product BRAVECTO™ Food-borne diseases in general encompass a wide chewable tablets for dogs. This new ectoparasiticide for dogs provides spectrum of illnesses caused by microbial, parasitic or chemical contamination of food. veterinarian’s and pet owners with a unique and prolonged active period against fleas and ticks for 12 weeks (eight weeks for Rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks). • Development and marketing of a campylocater vaccine for sheep in Australia that prevents abortion in sheep and zoonotic infections • Geoexpansion of the innovative INNOVAX™ range of poultry vaccines against Marek disease and New Castle disease • Expansion of veterinary educational initiative MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 119 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2013, product safety and efficacy PERFORMANCE in the hot South African climate were further secured by the introduction of 48-hour cold chain boxes for delivery of vaccines and other cold chain products to customers. Keeping Pets Healthy Pets play an increasingly significant role in many families, and their health and quality of life are important. Merck Animal Health provides veterinary medicines that help keep pets healthy. In 2013, we received registration in Europe of the first tetravalent leptospirosis vaccine for dogs, providing an aid against an increasing number of cases of leptospirosis not covered by the claims of the existing canine vaccines. accelerated the assessment process to By offering vaccinal immunity against a PROTECTING ANIMAL make this needed vaccine for a newly emerging disease available at earliest wider range of relevant serovars than the existing product, we provide veterinarians HEALTH convenience. If cattle and sheep are with a solution to response to the exposed to the virus during pregnancy, increasing evidence that the disease the fetus can be damaged. The midgeincidence is increasing due to the new borne disease emerged in 2011 in serotype. This change also reinforces Merck Animal Health tackles the Germany and has had increasingly the importance of vaccination and world’s biggest animal health devastating effects for sheep and cattle encourages more dog owners to protect challenges, and collaborates with in Europe. their pets against leptospirosis. our customers to answer their Ensuring Animal Health under We also continuously strive to make specific needs. our treatments as gentle on pets as Extreme Conditions possible. Our newest anti-flea products, Protecting Sheep and Cattle Under the Approved Vaccine Distributor for example, minimize pet exposure to against Birth Defects Caused by (AVD) program launched in 2012, our chemicals by limiting their activation to Schmallenberg Virus (SBV) business in South Africa ensures, in within the flea. cooperation with its business partners, In 2013, we were able to help farmers in correct cold chain procedures in vaccine While the range of preventative products Europe, first in the U.K., with a vaccine to storage and transport at the distributor available to veterinarians and owners help protect sheep and cattle against birth level. Standard operating procedures continues to grow, animals still get defects caused by the Schmallenberg and minimum facility requirements are sick. In May 2014, the FDA approved Virus (SBV). Without compromising audited annually under this program. BRAVECTO™ (fluralaner) chewable scientific rigor, the U.K. health authorities MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 120 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT tablets for dogs (112.5 mg, 250 mg, AABP Bovine Veterinary Student In 2013, Dr. Fahimeh Zibaee, 500 mg, 1000 mg, 1400 mg), the first Recognition Awards sponsored by graduated veterinarian from and only treatment that has been shown Merck Animal Health. This grant University Teheran, Iran, received to quickly and effectively kill fleas and made it possible to increase the a Rosenberger grant for her multiple tick species for 12 weeks in number of awards from seven to 15 outstanding work in dermatitis a single dose. It also is effective for and each scholarship’s amount from digitalis, the monitoring of infectious eight weeks against Amblyomma $1,500 to $5,000. claw diseases and other production americanum ticks. health problems in cattle • The bursary programs of our U.K. business demonstrate our • We are developing the Dairy Investing in Veterinary Education long-term commitment to furthering Care365™ Training Series, a program and Continued Professional veterinary education and animal to educate U.S. dairy farm workers Development health knowledge. For more than in best practices for handling and 10 years, students have benefited managing dairy cattle Merck Animal Health (MAH) invests in from the Connect Bursary program, the future of the veterinary profession • We have been offering poultry and which enables them to undertake swine health training courses to by supporting research, education research in new and exciting areas of and specialized skills training so that veterinarians for more than 20 years. veterinary work. Through these courses, which are veterinarians will have the resources they need to provide the best healthcare • In addition, Merck Animal Health held in the Netherlands, hundreds of possible for the animals they treat. supported educational institutions and veterinarians from important poultryFor example: student-focused bodies around the and swine-production countries and world with about $229,000 to facilitate companies around the world have • We provide scholarships to participation at congresses, technical received training. The courses are veterinary students pursuing careers trainings, acquiring equipment and conducted in collaboration with the in large-animal medicines in the U.S., fellowship programs Dutch Animal Health Service. For the and support award programs for past three years, an extended-level • We also contribute to the Gustav outstanding veterinary students in course on poultry has been conducted Rosenberger Memorial Fund, which the Philippines in collaboration with the University supports the training of young of Georgia’s Department of Poultry In 2013, at the AABP annual veterinarians from South America, Science in the U.S. conference awards ceremony Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa. The Merck, Animal Health recognized 15 fund provides annual grants to young • We also sponsor fish-vaccination of the industry’s top future leaders and promising veterinarians who come training to fish producers in bovine veterinary medicine and from countries where bovine medicine and veterinarians awarded each a $5,000 scholarship. needs further development and 1 Z  oonotic diseases are any disease or infection that During the past 10 years, Merck who intend to apply the knowledge is naturally transmissible from vertebrate animals to Animal Health has presented 72 obtained in those countries. humans and vice-versa (World Health Organization). outstanding veterinary students P E R F O R M A N C E 2 013 with the American Association of Bovine Practitioners (AABP) Bovine Veterinary Student Recognition Award. This year, the Merck Office of Corporate Philanthropy funded a $100,000 grant to AABP for the 2013 MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 121 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Salmonella Rabies CONTRIBUTING TO Food-borne microbial bacteria, such as Rabies, a fatal neurological disease, PUBLIC HEALTH Salmonella, are also a growing concern, is widespread throughout Africa, with particularly for poultry farmers. Human more than 25,000 people—mostly consumption of poultry infected with children—dying from the disease each the bacteria can result in severe illness year after being bitten by a domestic dog, Protecting animal health helps in humans, pushing governments the main carrier of the disease. Globally, protect human health and and industry to implement adequate the disease kills an estimated 55,000 contributes to a sustainable measures to reduce this risk. We have people annually. developed a Food Safety Platform for food supply. poultry farmers that includes a broadMerck Animal Health donates more spectrum Salmonella vaccine and than 200,000 doses of rabies vaccine Contributions to Public Health services that ensure effective, timely annually to the Afya Serengeti Project in intervention if an outbreak occurs among Tanzania and Kenya. By tackling rabies in Global trade, global migration and climate poultry. Through a unique Pin-Point these East African nations’ domestic dog change are increasing the spread of highly Monitoring Program, poultry producers populations, we’ve helped to dramatically infectious diseases such as foot-andcan identify critical food-safety-hazard reduce the number of rabies-infected mouth disease, and zoonotic diseases points and be prepared to respond dog bites, and also helped to protect the such as avian flu, in the world today. quickly and effectively. This combination countries’ fragile wild dog population. Experts estimate that 60 percent of all of vaccines, biosecurity and other human diseases can move from human measures has contributed significantly In India, we also sponsor two similar to animal and vice-versa. In fact, during to the reduction in incidence of human projects, in collaboration with the Global the past three decades, approximately salmonellosis. For more information, Alliance for Rabies Control and the 75 percent of new emerging human click here. Bombay Veterinary College in Mumbai, infectious diseases have been zoonotic. A to support mass-vaccination of pets fast, flexible approach to vaccination can Swine Influenza and improved educational awareness in help control such diseases and minimize 10 villages surrounding Bangalore and the medical, social and economic impact To help control the swine influenza Pune. Through the projects, education that could occur if left unchecked. virus, we developed in 2012 the first about rabies prevention and treatment is pentavalent inactivated vaccine to control provided to the communities—to small Full Range of Veterinary Solutions the most common strains in pigs. children as well as to adults and village for Public Health leaders. The project employ involves Leishmaniasis medical and veterinary professors, We provide a range of vaccines and experts in the field of rabies, and medical treatments to keep livestock healthy to Merck Animal Health’s canine students from area universities. Special ensure a stable food supply and help preventative product protects dogs accommodations are made to educate control organisms that can ultimately against leishmaniasis, helping to control community members in their own affect the health of people such as one of the world’s most deadly parasitic dialects, with sensitivity to local customs. food-borne salmonella infections diseases, which is linked to 60,000 In 2013, we were able to support fighting or leishmaniasis. human deaths annually. rabies in India with 50,000 doses of rabies vaccine. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 122 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Often a novel approach can bring SUPPORTING As economies continue to grow important additional features to protect and lifestyles change around against devastating diseases such as the globe, the global appetite for A SUSTAINABLE infectious laryngotracheitis and New meat, milk and eggs increases. In Castle disease in chickens. In the fact, the United Nations Food and past year, we were able to broaden FOOD SUPPLY Agriculture Organization (FAO) expects the global demand for animal protein to double by 2050. the availability of our innovative vector-vaccine concept to protect against severe poultry diseases that were first introduced a few years By 2050, it is estimated there will ago in South America. By using only be an additional 2 billion people Our portfolio of animal health products specific immunogenic proteins of the in the world. To feed them, we is focused on helping farmers keep pathogens in a harmless vector, a longwill need to help animal producers their livestock productive. Targeted lasting immune response could be intervention with vaccines, antiparasitics, become more efficient and induced, limiting in general the need for anti-infectives, and other veterinary more sustainable. revaccinations in the field or in another medicines helps protect the health application, a milder vaccination could be and well-being of animals, and helps Animal diseases cost farmers a developed to protect chickens against the producers limit their production losses. significant proportion of their meat, fish viral New Castle disease. For example, we help control parasites and dairy yield every year. In fact, the through our Lung Health platform, which World Organization for Animal Health allows customers to tackle complex Currently, half of all the fish estimates that animal disease reduces problems like bovine respiratory disease. consumed globally is farmed. global food production by 20 percent. We also help farmers protect cattle from Its impact on food output is greatest in bovine viral diarrhea through vaccination. developing countries, where two-thirds of Demand for fish is also rising, and farmed the world’s 1.5 billion poor are reliant on fish are becoming more important—in Protecting Poultry Flocks and livestock as their main source of food and order to meet this demand and protect Ensuring the Livelihood of Farmers income.1 wild fish. Through the introduction of a vaccine Preventing disease-related costs will also Our SLICE Sustainability Project, against a specific virus strain causing be crucial if we are to meet the increasing developed in partnership with fish infectious bronchitis (IB) in chickens, demand for animal protein, created by farmers, continues to help control farmers in Argentina booked significant rising standards of living and population parasites and keep fish healthy. SLICE® reduction of morality in their chicken growth. In addition, the land and water (emamectin benzoate) controls sea lice, flocks and improved their productivity. available for agriculture is decreasing. Not the naturally occurring parasites that live Merck Animal Health vaccines helped to only will food-producing animals have to in the ocean and threaten the health and control this poultry disease, also affecting stay healthy, they will have to be reared welfare of salmon. In turn, it improves flocks in other regions of the world but more efficiently, too. the efficiency and long-term value of being undetected in Argentina since fish production. starting immunization of the chicken population in 2013. 1  IE, B.Vallat. Opening speech, European Veterinary O Week, Brussels, Nov. 10, 2008. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 123 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Managing Our thin film PV laminates for energy The approval process for medicines Environmental Footprint supply. The project was supported and vaccines used in farm animals also by the Italian Energy Management establishes withdrawal periods, from the Merck Animal Health is taking action to authority and will lead to carbon time the last dose of product is given until help preserve the resources of our planet. emissions reductions from the facility the animals or products enter the food While supporting our customers to by 10 percent and energy cost savings chain. These withdrawal periods ensure ensure a sustainable food chain, we also of around US$50,000 per year. the safety of human consumption of look to reduce the environmental footprint meat, milk and eggs from medicineand of producing our animal health products. vaccine-treated animals. Initiatives from our manufacturing network add to the overall company goals on environmental sustainability: ENSURING ETHICAL Our submissions to regulatory agencies also include an environmental • Solar photovoltaic energy system BUSINESS PRACTICES assessment that appraises the effects of the use of a Merck Animal Health at manufacturing site in Australia: product on flora, fauna, soil and water. In 2013, we installed a new 250 kW We invest millions of dollars When necessary, restrictions are placed solar PV system for energy supply, each year into the research and on the use of our products to protect which helps cut pollution by reducing the environment. development of novel animal carbon emissions (by 22 percent) health products and the continued and energy costs (US$44,000 per Once a product is on the market, we— year). This investment into a more investigation of existing products. together with other stakeholders such economically and environmentally as veterinarians, authorities and animal sustainable production received As with our human health owners—monitor all aspects that could funding under the Clean Technology pharmaceuticals and vaccines, we test affect product safety. Findings are Investment Program of the our investigative animal health medicines assessed and, if need be, reported to Australian government. and vaccines vigorously for safety, quality regulatory authorities and addressed and efficacy before submitting them to • Recognition of excellence “EMAS through appropriate measures. regulatory agencies for additional review, APO” and solar system installation research, testing and, ultimately, approval in Italy: In a joint initiative with other after thorough review by independent companies, we introduced proactive regulatory authorities, such as the U.S. environmental management across Food and Drug Administration or the the territory and especially among European Medicines Agency. the companies of the local production cluster. Joining the EMAS APO The authorization standards for veterinary medicines are at the same level program administered by the Minister as human medicines. On average, it takes 5 to 12 years to bring a veterinary of Environment in Italy, the production product to market. cluster committed itself to achieving environmental excellence as defined A science-based, predictable regulatory environment is one of the key by the European Eco-Management conditions necessary for innovation and for providing our customers with and Audit Scheme (EMAS). In 2013, high-quality products. Merck Animal Health supports global harmonization these efforts were officially certified. of the regulatory process for veterinary medicines through its participation in and dialogue with the International Cooperation on Harmonisation of In addition, our site introduced a new Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products 115 kWp solar system working with and the Codex Alimentarius. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 124 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Antimicrobial Stewardship RESPONSIBLE USE OF ANTIBIOTICS In animal health, antibiotics are used both to treat infections and to prevent disease Merck Animal Health is a member of and supports the European Platform for in companion animals and farm animal the Responsible Use of Medicine in Animals (EPRUMA), a multi-stakeholder populations. Antibiotics are used to treat platform that aims to ensure best practices through responsible use of individual diseased animals, to treat herds medicines—including antimicrobials—in the prevention and control of that have high morbidity and mortality animal diseases. rates, and to prevent disease in herds that are at high risk of illness. In some regions of the world, antibiotics are also Merck Animal Health also promotes, with Structured Herd Health Management used in feed for farm animals to improve its customers, adherence to guidelines the stability and balance of an animal’s on the responsible use of antimicrobials The most effective means of preventing intestinal bacteria, and to improve its developed by international and national development and spread of antimicrobial digestion, and, therefore, its efficient use organizations such as the World Health resistance is to reduce the need for of nutrients. Organization, the World Organization antimicrobial treatment. The key is for Animal Health, the World Veterinary disease prevention, which can be aided In recent years, widespread efforts Association, the American Veterinary by vaccination. In a number of countries, have been made to manage antibiotic Medical Association, and the European we support veterinarians with our use in animals to reduce the potential Platform for Responsible Use of ResCalf and ResPig programs to develop for antibiotic resistance and keep these Medicines in Animals. Merck Animal a structured approach to improving lung medicines effective. Merck Animal Health Health provides continuing education health and preventing bovine respiratory supports these efforts. In addition, Merck opportunities on the responsible use disease in calf and respiratory diseases Animal Health does not market antibiotics of antibiotics at international, national in pigs. Respiratory disease can affect that are listed by the World Health and local veterinary meetings. Merck the health of cattle and pigs seriously and Organization as important for human also sponsors and delivers educational lead to economic losses. With monitoring health for productivity enhancement in programs and materials on practices to and high-quality technical support and food animals. ensure sustainable use of antibiotics advice, combined with vaccination, to veterinarians, farmers and feed Merck Animal Health helps to control Merck engages in research to increase companies. Finally, Merck Animal this disease complex and reduce the our knowledge of the proper use of Health supplies guidelines for resistance use of antibiotics to treat sick animals. antibiotics in animals for the benefit of management, and provides educational In the Netherlands, we joined in 2013 a both human and animal health. Merck materials on appropriate dosage and top-sector public-private partnership to Animal Health operates and participates length of use of its antibiotics. develop a multiplex diagnostic tool for in public and industry surveillance the detection of respiratory diseases programs that would detect the For more information, please see in calves, including fast and reliable emergence of bacterial resistance of Merck’s Public Policy Position Paper sensitivity testing to facilitate effective animal pathogens, or bacteria of human on Antimicrobial Stewardship. antibiotic selection for treatment health concerns, for the antibiotics we if necessary. market. Merck Animal Health is active in research programs to develop alternative approaches to the use of antibiotics in animals. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 125 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Assuring Safe and Appropriate Use • Milk for Malawi relations, improve mobilization of Through our partnership with Shire group resources, and mitigate the When animal-health product, technology Highlands Milk Producers Association, effects of HIV/AIDS in sustainable or production practices are used, it is Merck Animal Health lends financial ways. Merck Animal Health Swine essential to use them properly and to and in-kind support to Malawian dairy Business supports the animal health– follow recommended guidelines and best farmers to improve the quality and related components, amongst others, management practices. Our ZILMAX® quantity of milk supplies. with veterinary medicines. Quality Assurance program is a good • Enhancing the poultry value chain Supporting Local Needs example. The program comprises in Ethiopia In 2013, nearly 200 company colleagues training of users of the feed supplement, Our global poultry business joined helped renovate the Margaréta Children’s paying attention to cattle management the Dutch consortium Holland Africa Home in Nógrád, Hungary. The and feeding regime, as well as safety Poultry Partners (HAPP) in 2012. The renovation involved a complete change procedures and labeling instructions to consortium envisions facilitating the of flooring, furniture, outdoor sports enable a beef animal’s natural metabolism important role the domestic poultry equipment and the playground. For to convert, more efficiently, feed to sector could play in Ethiopia and its 50 years, Margaréta Children’s Home protein. This is part of a Five-Step Plan growing economy. Merck Animal has provided home care for children aged to educate our ZILMAX customers and Health colleagues are involved in 3 to 21 in Nógrád. The special care on other interested groups who are involved activities such as knowledge seminars physical, emotional moral dimensions in animal husbandry and well-being. For about commercial and sustainable is being taken care of in three groups. additional information about ZILMAX, poultry farming, practical training Like many colleagues in other countries, please visit: http://www.mercksessions, incoming and outgoing trade our Hungarian colleagues engage each animal-health.com/zilmaxinfocenter missions, and participation in Ethiopian year in voluntary community work. In .aspx. poultry trade fairs. previous years, colleagues involved in • Joined forces for Bamboutosthe renovation of public spaces, schools Making a Difference in Wider Menoua Pig Holder and nursery playgrounds in Kolontár Societal Needs The Bamboutos-Menoua Smallholder and Devecser, towns affected by the Integrated Pig Project in Cameroon, red-sludge disaster in 2010. In 2012, the MAH uses its experience, resources and under the coordination of Heifer company joined the “Adopt a Village” science to help our partners keep animals International, aims to improve the program in Hungary and renovated the healthy, ensure a sustainable food supply, livelihood of 1,500 resource-poor local school and nursery in Jobbágyi, in protect public health, help people and project participants, as well as their the underprivileged region of Pásztó. pets enjoy their lives together. We are committed to making a difference in the direct dependents, by helping them health and welfare of animals and in wider increase their income, improve gender societal needs. P E R F O R M A N C E 2 013 Access to Veterinary Expertise Access to veterinary expertise and medicines significantly impacts the livelihoods of small land holders and their families. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCESS TO HEALTH | AUGUST 2014 126 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Merck has a long history of We have identified the issues that We have defined environmental-footprint environmental stewardship and are important to our business and our measures and established a simplified set stakeholders so that we can prioritize of goals to improve the sustainability of compliance, but we realize that them for action. our operations our strategy and efforts need to evolve in order for us to operate We envision Sustainable Operations & We have reduced the number of in an increasingly resourceSupply Chain, Innovative Products environmental key performance indicators constrained world. & Packaging, and Environmental (KPIs) to reflect our new Environmental Sustainability being fully integrated into Sustainability Strategy and simplified set business decisions of environmental goals. Our Environmental Sustainability Strategy focuses on improving the efficiency of our operations, designing for the environment, and reducing the impacts and risks in our value chain. K E Y P E R F O R M A N C E I N D I C AT O R S MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 1 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck recognizes that climate change SUSTAINABILITY could significantly impact global health and our business. We also recognize that STRATEGY the world’s resources are limited, and that over the next few decades the demand for energy, clean water and natural resources will increase substantially At Merck, we demonstrate due to population growth and economic respect and care for the development. We understand that environment in everything we do business has a responsibility to use resources wisely and drive innovations because we know that a healthy that will enable global development while planet is essential to human protecting and preserving the planet. health and the sustainability of our business. In 2013, we revised our Environmental Sustainability Strategy to focus on three main areas: MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 2 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2013, we conducted a comprehensive ENVIRONMENTAL review of the environmental goals we had set in 2010 to determine how our GOALS environmental commitments could better align with our business strategy by driving cost reduction, making efficiency improvements and lowering risk. We Merck has narrowed its obtained input from our stakeholders, environmental sustainability conducted external industry scans goals to the critical few that are and considered global environmental concerns such as water scarcity, climate fully aligned with our business change and natural resource availability. and that focus on key global After completing our analysis, we environmental challenges. decided to retain our previous wateruse-reduction goal, and to set new goals for reducing greenhouse gases and efficiently managing our waste. These goals will allow Merck to better align its business to meet the challenges of a world with limited natural resources and a changing climate. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 3 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The following charts demonstrate our continued progress toward these goals. Many of the goals we’ve been working toward since 2010 have been achieved ahead of schedule. Some proved difficult to measure accurately. Others have been incorporated into our new simplified goal set. To see the progress we made in 2013 versus our previous goals, click here. This year will be the last year in which we will report on progress made against the goals that were announced in 2010. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 4 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT STATUS GOALS PREVIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS 2013 2015 2020 AIR & Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GOAL M-10% ET -10% CLIMATE CHANGE Reduce volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions GOAL -34% MET -20% Reduce total water use GOAL -16% MET -15% -25% WATER Reduce chemical oxygen demand (COD) in discharges GOAL -65% MET -15% -20% Reduce nitrogen and phosphorus in discharges GOAL -44% MET -10% -15% Eliminate PVC from -80%2 -100% non-primary packaging PACKAGING Use more sustainable paper products3 GOAL M50% ET 50% Sell more products with data not 50% sustainable packaging4 available Use recovered solvents 30% 40% in manufacturing5 Reduce nonhazardous -11% -30% waste generation WASTE Recycle more nonhazardous 56% 60% waste6 Improve process mass data not -20% intensity (PMI)7 available 1 All Goals have a 2009 baseline unless otherwise stated. 2 I ncludes products for which transition is underway (i.e., they are using their remaining inventory of packaging materials). 3  ustainable paper products include paper and packaging made from at least 30% post-consumer recycled S content or from certified fiber. 4 Measured as percent of revenue from products with at least one sustainable packaging attribute. 5 Measured as percent of total solvent use that is recovered material. 6  easured as percent of total nonhazardous waste generated that gets reused off-site, is recycled or M is composted. 7  rocess mass intensity is a measure of how efficiently materials are used in the synthesis of an active P pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for human health products. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 5 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Promote a global standard of care self-assessments surface issues. EHS MANAGEMENT & that minimizes EHS impacts from our operations, products and partnerships Monthly and annual performance metrics reflect progress. [CHECK] COMPLIANCE • Foster a culture of EHS excellence built upon integrity, accountability, collaboration and the active • Corrective actions and continuous improvement initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns participation of all that are surfaced during performance Protecting our people, our reviews, assessments, audits or • Continuously improve our systems, communities and the environment, routine surveillance of the regulatory processes and performance and and being in full compliance landscape. [ACT] integrate EHS throughout our with the law, are fundamentally global operations important to the way we operate. Subtopics addressed in tabs at the top of • Engage stakeholders and this page: communicate our progress Merck’s mission and values are and performance • EHS Governance articulated by our Code of Conduct, Our Values and Standards, which • Provide appropriate resources • Internal Auditing serves as a vehicle to communicate and build individuals’ knowledge and capabilities to achieve • Training them to all employees. Our EHS values and commitments are further detailed these commitments • Performance in our corporate Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. In Our EHS Management System follows addition to compliance with all applicable the classic “Plan, Do, Check, Act” model, E H S G OV E R N A N C E country, regional and local safety and which is implemented through a set of environmental laws, we strive for EHS interwoven business processes that span performance that is among the best in the the corporation. Merck’s commitment to pharmaceutical industry. environmental and employee • The planning process includes health and safety begins with the As our EHS Policy states, we: development of goals, objectives and company’s Executive Committee, metrics based on a review of company which has established the • Comply with the letter and spirit of all performance, EHS programs, corporate EHS Council. applicable laws, regulations and other applicable regulations and other requirements designed to protect external factors [PLAN] This council, composed of senior-level safety, health and the environment • Standards, Guidelines and Tools, executives from the business units, is • Create and maintain a safe and which are integrated into the responsible for overall EHS governance healthy working environment for all EHS Management System, detail as well as leading and driving enterprise employees, contractors and guests the program implementation wide excellence in EHS management expectations for sites and operating and performance. • Protect our environment and the organizations [DO] communities in which we operate; conserve resources, promote • Governance committees, from the Specifically the council: recycling, reduce hazardous-material executive-level EHS Council through use and prevent pollution site compliance committees, review • Establishes strategy, policy performance and progress against and standards objectives. Central audits and MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 6 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Provides enterprise wide oversight • Providing technical and I N T E R N A L AU D I T I N G of environmental and employee regulatory support to site-safety safety issues, risk mitigation and and environmental staff and Merck has a detailed and rigorous control strategies operating organizations global internal corporate safety • Monitors performance, establishes • Managing and implementing an and environmental audit program. continuous-improvement targets, and internal audit program targeted at recognizes and promotes excellence understanding the current state Our corporate EHS audit program is one of compliance, and identifying way in which we identify and resolve • Allocates resources and/or sponsors potential issues compliance and performance issues. projects to address specific concerns • Tracking and communicating internal An EHS Standards Committee chartered and external trends that should • Our audit leaders are full-time by the council provides stewardship over be addressed professional auditors with extensive the standards and enables business experience in auditing procedures. • Anticipating, tracking and commenting engagement in the development of new Audit team members consist of EHS on new regulations affecting our or revised standards. professionals with extensive subjectbusiness and, where appropriate, matter expertise. developing materials to address them Each area of the business is responsible • All audit findings are addressed for executing against the Standards, Our site-safety and environmental through development of corrective contributing to development of professionals around the world support and preventative action plans, which programs, supporting internal audits and the EHS needs of their business areas, are reviewed, approved by the audit communicating significant EHS events. which include manufacturing, research leader, and tracked to completion Divisional Compliance Committees have operations, sales and/or administrative • Findings from our audit program are been established to provide governance activities, by: communicated to appropriate parts on implementation of the standards and of the Merck organization so that for other EHS matters. • Ensuring that line management fully learnings may be shared and proactive understands EHS requirements actions can be taken The vice president of Global Safety and the Environment (GSE) is responsible • Establishing, assessing and • Audit performance and key program for communicating to the Executive improving programs metrics are reviewed as part of our Committee and EHS Council regarding • Providing regulatory and technical governance process progress on goals, objectives and support to employees and the metrics, as well as other material issues. operating areas The audit frequency for a given facility The VP of GSE partners with business is primarily risk-based. Manufacturing • Routinely assessing performance leaders to establish longand short-term and research sites are typically audited against both regulatory and goals and performance measures. every one to three years, depending on Merck requirements their size and other factors. Less complex Our corporate EHS organization is • Acting as the primary liaison with local facilities, such as sales and business responsible for: regulators and inspectors offices and our warehouses, are typically • Investigating incidents and developing audited every five or more years. In • Developing corporate policies, corrective action plans to address many cases, particularly outside of the procedures, guidelines, standards, identified root causes United States, our internal auditors work tools and programs to set expectations with independent consultants who have and to support EHS compliance regulatory expertise in the laws of the host country. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 7 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TRAINING PERFORMANCE Notices of Violation, Fines & Settlements Training is critical to building Merck’s centralized environmental, worldwide competencies health and safety (EHS) We report all forms of EHS compliance notices using the term Notices of that will improve compliance, information system allows Violation (NOVs), which includes reduce risks and drive us to collect, manage, learn citations, letters of warning, and notices continuous improvement. from and share our safety and of noncompliance from environmental environmental performance data and safety-focused regulatory agencies. We have a global standard that defines more efficiently. In 2013, we had 258 EHS inspections, a 4 the EHS training expectations for percent increase from 2012. all employees. Three categories of We collect and analyze data reflecting training programs exist, specific to both leading and lagging metrics to Merck received nine safety NOVs in 2013, our managers, our EHS professionals look for potential trends and identify which is a 70 percent reduction from and our overall employee population. opportunities that could help us to the prior year. Merck paid two safetyManager training covers specific drive performance improvement. We related fines totaling $3,827 in 2013. management responsibilities with regard continuously explore new ways to learn Merck received six environmental NOVs to environmental and safety compliance from and report on our performance. in 2013, which is a 57 percent reduction and promoting a “safety first” culture. from the prior year. Merck paid $1,167 in EHS professional training is designed to fines associated with one environmental drive more consistent technical expertise enforcement action in 2013. and improved EHS program and support capabilities around the world. General employee training topics focus on hazards and control measures for our overall employee population. These are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain current. Recently, a team of EHS professionals revised the standard curricula to improve clarity and better connect the training content to employee job tasks. Our EHS training program materials are available in both instructorled as well as e-learning formats. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 8 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Significant Environmental Events Merck has previously reported environmental events, which included permit exceedances, spills and environmental releases. This year, to be consistent with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and to ensure we are reporting on material issues, Merck is reporting only significant environmental events. A “significant environmental event” is defined as an environmental release that results in environmental harm (to human, aquatic organisms or wildlife) or any environmental release that requires reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Merck experienced no significant environmental events in 2013. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 9 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Methane our operations, and understand our ENERGY USE & • Nitrous oxide • Hydrofluorocarbons supply chain-related impacts. CLIMATE CHANGE Merck has established an Energy Capital • Sulfur hexafluoride Fund of up to $10 million per year to transition to more energy-efficient In 2010, Merck established a goal of technology and to better position the Scientific data supports that reducing our direct GHG emissions by company to respond to energy demands climate change is occurring, and 10 percent between 2009 and 2015. in the future. In 2013, we met the target Merck is taking action to reduce Merck met this goal three years early in spend of over $10 million, which resulted 2012, with a 10.4 percent reduction in in $5.7 million annual savings and a the future economic and public direct GHG emissions, which included reduction of over 17,000 metric tons of health risks associated with a reductions from our facilities, our fleet carbon dioxide from our facilities. changing climate. and the electricity we purchased. The primary avenue for achieving this goal Facilities Merck has made it a priority to reduce our was lowering our energy demand. We demand for energy and has taken steps have established a new goal of reducing We strive to make our facilities as energyto establish responsible internal policies GHG emissions an additional 15 percent efficient as is practical. and practices focused on reducing between 2012 and 2020. energy usage at all sites and greenhouse • When we purchase new facilities, we gas (GHG) generation throughout the We have an Energy Center of Excellence evaluate them for energy efficiency company. By taking these steps, we are (CoE) that identifies, shares and and assess them against our best not only minimizing GHG emissions but standardizes best practices, and practices as part of their integration we are also reducing our operating costs prioritizes the funding of energy projects into Merck and mitigating the business impacts to reduce energy usage across the • We require all new facilities to comply expected to be associated with future company. While we have implemented with our Energy Design Guide and climate change requirements. some renewable energy projects, Energy Conservation Planner our program emphasizes energy We report our GHG emissions as required conservation, because using less energy • We build all new laboratories and by regulations in certain countries and provides a better balance of business offices following cost-effective annually through the CDP, in whose needs and environmental impact energy-efficient practices. Merck system our score has improved each reduction. Our manufacturing facilities, has several facilities that are year. The disclosure we submitted to warehouses, laboratories, major offices LEED certified. CDP in 2013, which reflected our 2012 and vehicle fleet are the priority targets of • In 2013, we conducted energy performance data, received a score of our energy-demand-reduction programs, “treasure hunts” at facilities in Ireland, 87B. The number (87) is a reflection because they represent the majority of Puerto Rico, Singapore and the U.S. of our disclosure and the letter (B) is a our energy consumption. At each facility, volunteers spent reflection of our performance. three days looking for opportunities to reduce demand for both energy We track the generation of five and water. This has identified many greenhouse gases associated with I N I T I AT I V E S project opportunities that have been operating our facilities and our fleet: successfully implemented. Merck has launched initiatives around • Carbon dioxide (CO2) the world to improve energy use, reduce • Four of our U.S. facilities were greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from awarded the 2013 ENERGY STAR MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 10 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT label by the U.S. EPA for superior • One site in Pennsylvania has a Vehicle Fleet energy efficiency and environmental combination green and solarperformance amongst U.S. photovoltaic roof. The solar array More than 10 percent of our energy use pharmaceutical manufacturing plants comprising 110 panels generated is associated with our vehicle fleet. We almost 30 megawatt hours (MWh) calculate our fleet’s GHG emissions • Five of our buildings were certified of electricity in 2013. And the based on estimated fuel economy and ENERGY STAR in the top quartile roof’s 2,700 square feet of green actual total miles driven. • Four international sites met the plants provide insulation to the ENERGY STAR challenge for Industry, building and extend the roof’s life • Our global fleet-management achieving a 10 percent reduction in by protecting it from ultraviolet (UV) principles include maximum limits for energy use over five years. light. In addition to these benefits, carbon dioxide emissions (g/km) in the the green roof reduces the impacts selection of fleet vehicles Work Practices of storm water runoff by capturing • We have reduced the number of sales about 90 percent of rainwater, or fleet vehicles on the road and the total Merck takes advantage of technology approximately 60,000 gallons, based number of miles driven annually advances in order to save energy, time on annual rainfall estimates. A project and money and reduce emissions. to expand the green roof is currently • Over the last few years, we being developed. have converted our U.S. Human • Site energy use is tracked monthly Health sales fleet from cars with • Several sites host solar arrays by our Energy CoE through a 6-cylinder engines to cars with producing more than 5,400 MWh centralized system 4-cylinder engines of energy annually, including a new • Employees are encouraged to make installation at one of our Australia sites • Our European fleet continues to use of e-meetings whenever possible that went online in October. convert to more efficient vehicles and as opposed to traveling for business is on track to meet the EU targets of • One site hosts two 2MW wind a fleet average of 130g of CO2/km by • A “Rail Travel” option was added to turbines that generate more than 2015 and 95g CO2/km by 2021. our on-line business-travel booking 11,700 MWh of energy annually tool to make it easier to travel by train when appropriate. Traveling by train has a smaller carbon footprint than traveling by either airplane or personal vehicles. • The carriers who transport our products use alternatives to air freight whenever practical. This helps to reduce the GHG impacts within our value chain. Renewable Energy Photovoltaic (PV) arrays, wind turbines and other renewable energy installations help us to reduce energy-demand peaks and to postpone or avoid adding new power plants. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Partnerships Various projects discussed in the “Initiatives” section contributed to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR: This partnership lowering our energy consumption provides a broad energy-management strategy that serves as a useful framework and reducing our direct greenhouse for measuring our current energy performance, setting goals, tracking savings gas emissions. The most significant and rewarding improvements. In 2014, the EPA has again recognized Merck with contributors to decreasing our GHG the Sustained Excellence Award. This is the ninth consecutive year we have been emissions were demand reduction/ recognized by ENERGY STAR for excellence in energy management. For more conservation; consolidating our office, information on our awards, click here. lab and manufacturing spaces; and shifting some power supplies from purchased electricity to on-site-generated electricity through combined heat and PERFORMANCE power systems. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT As we expand to attempt to meet the • Cooling-system optimization WATER health needs of most of the world, we are increasingly operating and engaging with people and partners in regions • Prompt repairs and maintenance of steam-distribution systems and traps of the world where clean water and • Recovery and reuse of steam Our business, our suppliers, our condensate, and water purification of sanitation are under great strain. Even in communities and our customers established markets, our business faces “reject water” depend on having access to serious water-related risks. The initiatives, • Process-water purificationclean water. partnerships and goals to help address system optimization our global water risks are identified in the • Avoiding the use of water in Merck’s global water strategy aims to following sections. mechanical seals, such as in pumps achieve sustainable water management within our operations and our supply Click on the links below for related Many of our sites employ a variety of chain. As part of our “Be Well” information about: technologies and techniques aimed commitment, we are also striving to at reducing our water footprint and reduce the impact of water-related • Wastewater improving operational performance. illnesses. Water use-reduction is a • Pharmaceuticals in priority for Merck and is one of our three the environment • Closed-loop cooling systems are environmental performance goals. • Environmental goals employed at over half our facilities worldwide and reduce our freshwater To achieve these strategic use by approximately 3.3 billion gallons objectives, we are focusing on five a year specific commitments: I N I T I AT I V E S • Reverse osmosis (RO) reject 1. Understanding and reducing our water is reused for nonpotable and Merck is engaged in numerous non-process applications such as operational water footprint initiatives worldwide to reduce our cooling-tower feed water, fire water 2. Reporting publicly on our water use water use and to understand the and irrigation and saves an estimated and goals water-related risks and impacts in 50 million gallons of freshwater 3. Advocating for effective water policy every year our upstream supply chain. 4. Working with partners to address water needs in communities globally We have committed approximately $67 Merck’s Water Standard includes million from a $100 million capital reserve 5. Encouraging and empowering our assessing the impact of each facility’s fund for improvements in infrastructure employees to be water stewards operations on its local watershed, to help achieve Merck’s water at work, at home and in their assuring compliance, and driving commitments at our operating facilities local communities continuous improvement in how around the world. water is used and in the quality of At Merck, much of the water we water discharged. Facility-specific projects: use is for cooling utility systems in manufacturing plants that produce our Our Energy Center of Excellence includes • Our manufacturing facility in Elkton, medicines; these systems require large the total cost of water in energy-project Virginia, has recently completed a volumes of cooling water. Our efforts to evaluations and drives best practices water-reduction project that will save reduce this use of water are a major part that conserve both energy and water. approximately 465 million gallons of of our goal-realization strategy. Examples include: water per year, generate approximately MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 40 kilowatts per hour through energy (NGOs), local communities and other 2 . 2 . 3 . PA (PA R T N E R S H I P S) recovery, and reduce operating costs interested parties to address global by approximately $500,000 per year water challenges. Merck has endorsed the UN • Our manufacturing facility in Heist, CEO Water Mandate, a public Merck is in the third year of a partnership Belgium, is expected to save commitment to adopt and with the Safe Water Network, through 9.2 million gallons of freshwater and reduce operating costs by implement a comprehensive which we are supporting efforts to bring approach to water management, sustainable water solutions to the rural approximately $125,000 per year by poor in India. The initiative is providing reusing wastewater streams in its and we have aligned our Water safe water to over 80,000 people by scrubber and cooling tower Standard with the UN CEO Water creating 18 new sites in Safe Water • Our manufacturing facility in Mandate principles. Network’s existing field projects in Shanghai, China has reduced its the state of Andhra Pradesh. Through consumption of water by 5.4 million The CEO Water Mandate endorsers Merck’s support, Safe Water Network gallons by implementing a metering have a responsibility to make waterrecently launched the improved “iJal” system that identifies pipe leaks and resources management a priority brand (“my water” in Hindi) to increase conservation opportunities and to work with governments, UN demand and strengthen the quality, agencies, nongovernmental organizations safety and reliability of the water stations. • Our manufacturing facility in Brinny formed an inclusive team of engineers, analysts and operators to look at water 2 . 2 . 3 . P (P E R F O R M A N C E) use. They focused on the plant’s reverse osmosis (RO) units and came up with an optimization plan that is now saving 4.8 million gallons of water per year and yielding energy savings of $450,000 per year. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT During 2013, Merck used 7.7 billion In 2013, Merck operated 16 gallons of water versus 9.2 billion gallons manufacturing and/or research facilities used in 2009. This reflects a 16 percent in areas of high overall water risk and reduction in water use over this period. one facility in extremely high overall The realization of several water-savings water risk. These facilities are in the initiatives combined with reduced U.S., Mexico, China, South Africa and demand at our Riverside, Pennsylvania, Indonesia. The two manufacturing facility contributed to a 1.2-billion-gallon facilities that use the most water are reduction from 2012 water use. located in areas of medium to high overall water risk in the U.S. We are investing in Approximately 70 percent of the total water-use-reduction technology at both water we used in 2013 was supplied from of those facilities. nearby surface water and groundwater resources, with the balance sourced from municipal water supplies. Many Merck facilities employ water reuse and recovery strategies, including recirculation of water in cooling towers and condensate recovery. Merck uses the WRI water-riskassessment tool called “Aqueduct” to measure and map our water risks. The overall risk score relies on 12 different measures grouped into three categories: physical risk quantity (7 measures), physical risk quality (2 measures), and regulatory & reputational risk (3 measures), which are combined to generate an overall water-risk score. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Green Chemistry program, we design EMISSIONS, new processes that use fewer and safer chemicals; consume less energy, EFFLUENTS & WASTE water and other resources; and generate less waste. Our process-development chemists have the green chemistry expertise and the partners to support Our new Environmental the development of more sustainable Sustainability Strategy emphasizes ways to synthesize our products. And improving the efficiency of our engineers work on increasing our production efficiencies. our operations. By tracking our emissions, effluents and The management of emissions, wastes worldwide, we are able to identify effluents and wastes from our facilities the best opportunities to reduce our is important to the communities where direct environmental footprint, evaluate we operate and is the focus of most of the overall impact of new projects and our environmental permits and other ensure that we maintain reductions regulatory requirements. To minimize achieved through past initiatives. our environmental footprint, we look for opportunities to avoid or reduce demand More information is available on how for hazardous materials, reuse or recycle we manage our solvent use, our air materials, and prevent the generation emissions, and our wastewater of waste. When prevention, reuse and effluents, and on our waste prevention recycling are not practical, we apply and management and our Remediation controls and treatment technologies to program. Data about our performance in prevent human health impacts and reduce these areas can be accessed through the environmental impacts. Performance tab above. Reducing emissions and wastes of all types begins with the design of our manufacturing processes. Through our MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 18 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AIR EMISSIONS energy, we will also be reducing the NOx Our emissions data reflect the facilities emissions and, in some cases, the SOx we own and operate, our leased facilities, We are committed to controlling emissions. For more information on our and our vehicle and aircraft fleet-related air emissions from our facilities greenhouse gas emissions and energy emissions. Decreases between 2012 and use, click here. 2013 in VOC emissions, NOx emissions to reduce local, regional and and SOx emissions reflect more accurate global impacts. Currently, solvents are one of the emission-tracking methods and less largest sources of air emissions in our solvent being used in our manufacturing The largest component of air emissions manufacturing processes. Emissions operations. Emissions of ozone-depleting at our sites is carbon dioxide (CO2) from solvent use are the primary substances (ODS) are the result of generated from boilers and powercomponent of volatile organic compound non-routine releases from temperaturegeneration turbines (for heat and energy), (VOC) emissions. In an effort to reduce control and fire-suppression systems, and from other combustion processes, these emissions, we use various and can vary significantly from year to such as thermal oxidizers (for treating pollution-control technologies such year. Our sites have programs in place air emissions) and incinerators (for as conservation vents, carbon filters, to proactively maintain cooling systems destroying waste). These combustion thermal oxidizers, condensers and and minimize leaks of refrigerants into the processes also result in emissions of scrubbers. A key element of our Green atmosphere. Our use and emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sometimes Chemistry program is to design ODS will be lower following the phaseout sulfur oxides (SOx), depending on processes and cleaning operations that of these substances by the European the fuels used. As we strive to make use fewer solvents, resulting in reduced Union on January 1, 2015. our facilities as energy-efficient as is solvent emissions. practical and reduce the demand for WA S T E WAT E R E F F LU E N T S Merck has allocated $100 million for water and wastewater infrastructure improvements. We operate wastewater-treatment plants at many of our production and research facilities. More than 70 percent of the wastewater from our manufacturing plants is treated on-site before being discharged to rivers or other surface water bodies, with the balance going to local municipal wastewatertreatment facilities that have the technology and capacity to treat our production wastewater. Chemical oxygen demand (COD) and nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus are indicators of the quality of the wastewater MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 19 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT discharged from our operations. COD is Over the past two years, Merck has WA S T E P R E V E N T I O N a measure of the overall pollutant load spent $5 million in its $100 million water& M A N AG E M E N T of our discharges. Nutrient enrichment infrastructure-improvement initiative is a water-quality concern globally and to install API treatment technology. An We are striving to prevent waste, in many watersheds where our facilities additional $5 million is forecast for 2014. and to drive a larger portion of are located. our waste toward recycling, We report both what we discharge To assure that our factory discharges to surface water, as well as what is composting and energy recovery do not contain residual product that discharged to municipal treatment plants and away from disposal. presents a risk to human health or the where additional treatment is provided. environment, Merck has established Our 2013 COD discharge of 2,170 metric Waste generation reflects the efficiency compound-specific criteria and tons was 10 percent lower than our of our processes and our business, procedures. In addition, our production 2012 discharge. Our nutrient load has so all of our facilities track and report facilities have, or are being provided with, also improved by 22 percent, with 2013 the amount of operational waste they treatment technology to ensure that our discharges totaling 197 metric tons. The generate and how it’s managed, and wastewater meets these standards. reductions in both COD and nutrient look for ways to generate less waste and load were associated with project-based recycle more of it. For more on: improvements and lower production volumes than those of the prior year. Operational wastes are given different • Pharmaceuticals in the names in various parts of the world. For Environment, see the Product this report, we have divided wastes into Stewardship section. two categories: • Our water use and conservation 1. Hazardous waste, which includes program, see the Water section. the heavily regulated or high-risk waste streams that need to be either recovered, neutralized, treated or destroyed to address a particular hazard (e.g., toxic, flammable, corrosive, radioactive, infectious or pharmaceutically active waste) 1. Nonhazardous waste, which includes all other operational wastes. Operational waste does not include construction or demolition project waste. Most of the hazardous waste we generate is spent solvent from our manufacturing operations. Our Green Chemistry program supports the design of efficient new manufacturing processes that use less solvent and generate less hazardous waste. At a number of our MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 20 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT facilities, we are able to recover spent WA S T E P R E V E N T I O N & M A N AG E M E N T I N I T I AT I V E S solvents and reuse them on-site in our processes. This lowers our manufacturing Merck has launched initiatives around the world to reduce the amount of costs by reducing the amount of new waste that either ends up in landfills or incinerators without any energy solvent we need to purchase and the recovery. Below are just a few examples. amount of hazardous waste we need to send off-site for treatment. Most of our Reduce / Reuse solvent waste cannot be economically recovered and is instead burned to • Green Chemistry: Applying advances in biocatalysis recover its energy value. Some of the technology is allowing us to reduce the amount of solvent hazardous waste generated by our used to make our pharmaceutical compounds. For more research and manufacturing activities details, please read the JANUVIA® (sitagliptin) innovative requires autoclaving, incineration or other manufacturing case study. technologies to manage exposure risks. • Bulk Tablet Containers: Prior to the year 2000, the containers Much of the waste generated during we used for storing and transporting our bulk tablets were used large construction or demolition projects just once and then discarded. Since establishing a process for is recyclable. While we don’t calculate returning, washing and reusing these bins, we have avoided construction and demolition debris in the purchase of more than 330,000 containers. In addition to the amount of operational waste we reducing waste and GHG emissions, this initiative has saved the generate, when demolishing existing company more than $7 million. buildings, projects strive to segregate any contaminated debris that must be Recycle / Energy Recovery sent to landfill from uncontaminated debris that can be recycled. Information • Our manufacturing site in Swords, Ireland, manages over a thousand product SKUs including age, use and sampling results and packages products for 76 countries. By designing its waste systems following inform how the waste is segregated and Lean manufacturing principles, the site was able to avoid sending any waste to classified. Many of our sites, including our landfills in 2013. largest site in Pennsylvania, have been • 5S (Visual Systems): Waste and recycling containers throughout the site are successful with recycling most of the color-coded project waste they generate. • Poke Yoke (Mistake-Proofing): Product rework tables have slots that are the appropriate shape and size for individual waste components To make sure that our hazardous and nonhazardous wastes are managed in • One of our largest research and vaccine manufacturing an environmentally responsible manner, facilities, located in West Point, Pennsylvania, has we maintain a list of approved waste demonstrated the value of collaboration between facilities. Approved facilities demonstrate Merck and its suppliers through improved waste that they have the systems, technologies performance. During a recent 12-month period, the and practices to manage our waste site increased its recycling rate and was able to divert streams responsibly and in compliance 84 percent of its operational waste and construction with all applicable requirements. and demolition debris from landfills. This diversion performance claim has been certified by GreenCircle, For more about green chemistry, an independent performance-data-verification firm. click here. For more about solvent use, click here. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 21 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Our Animal Health manufacturing This year, we expanded our wastebeing either discontinued or transferred to facility in Pune, India, is one of many tracking categories to better reflect external partners. Merck sites that are composting the the waste hierarchy and to drive waste food waste from on-site cafeterias. into higher uses such as composting This year we began collecting more What makes Pune different is that it and waste-to-energy conversions. Our detailed information about how our waste is doing so with the help of worms. operational waste metrics don’t include is managed off-site. Of the hazardous Known as vermicomposting, in this project waste tonnage because the waste we generated in 2013, 63 percent approach the worms produce a rich amounts of project-related waste can vary was beneficially reused in some way. soil amendment that is used for dramatically from year to year based on Over 24 percent of our hazardous waste on-site landscaping. size and frequency of projects. was sent off-site for solvent recovery and was either returned to Merck for reuse or • Obsolete electronics from our offices, In 2013, Merck managed a total of sold to other industries. Recovery is lower laboratories and manufacturing 106,000 metric tons of waste from our than in prior years because of certain facilities around the world go to operations, a 13 percent decrease from high-volume manufacturing processes qualified recyclers who disassemble 2012. Of this, 56,000 metric tons were being transferred from our operations to the parts for glass, plastic and precious hazardous waste, a 14 percent reduction our external supplier network. The other metal recycling. versus the prior year. The reduction is in 39 percent was burned to generate power large part a result of certain processes or as a fossil fuel substitute in industrial furnaces, such as cement kilns. This rate has been stable in recent years. Of the hazardous waste that couldn’t be recycled or beneficially reused, 28 percent was incinerated and approximately 4 percent (all non-liquids) was sent to hazardouswaste landfills. We recycled or composted 56 percent of the 50,000 metric tons of nonhazardous wastes we generated in 2013. Recycling and composting rates are increasing as more large-scale composting and broader recycling infrastructure is becoming available in the regions where we operate. We are evaluating and refining the programs in place at our facilities to reduce waste generation and increase recycling. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 22 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT S O LV E N T U S E Solvents are also currently the single Click on the links below for more largest source of air emissions information about: Solvents are a significant part of from our manufacturing processes. our operational and supply chain Emissions from solvent use are the • Green Chemistry primary component of volatile organic environmental footprint. • Emissions, Effluents & Waste compound (VOC) emissions to air. To control emissions of solvents into the • External Manufacturers Solvents currently play a key role environment, we employ treatment in how we manufacture our active In 2013, Merck used 35,000 metric tons technologies and controls such as pharmaceutical ingredients and certain of new solvent and 15,000 metric tons conservation vents, carbon filters, other products as well as in how we of recovered solvent in our production thermal oxidizers, condensers and clean some of our equipment. As a result, processes and cleaning activities. The scrubbers. Any spent solvents that solvents are the primary component decrease in total solvent use is the result leave our site as hazardous waste are that we must manage and control in of lower production volumes of active managed at appropriately permitted and our emissions, effluents and wastes. pharmaceutical ingredients at Merck Merck-approved facilities that are on our Because of their significance in our facilities combined with newer, moreapproved list of waste management sites. business and the life-cycle impact they material-efficient processes. In 2013, we represent, we focus on designing our used recovered solvents for 30 percent of processes to use solvents efficiently our manufacturing and cleaning needs. and to minimize or avoid their use where practical. We have an active Green Chemistry program to design our new processes using fewer solvents and other hazardous materials and to reuse and recycle more of the solvents we do use. For cleaning our manufacturing equipment, we use E N V I R O N M E N TA L R E M E D I AT I O N water-based methods when they are equally effective as solvents. At each the health and safety of our neighbors and Management practices for of our manufacturing sites, we have broader communities, our employees, emissions, effluents and wastes engineers who have responsibility and the environment, and to comply with for identifying and driving processhave evolved significantly in the all applicable requirements. improvement projects. When it isn’t past 30 years. practical to reuse regenerated solvents For remediation and environmental in our own production processes, we With research and manufacturing liabilities, including at formerly owned and either work with suppliers who recover operations dating back more than operated sites, Merck spent $14 million in the spent solvents for resale to other 100 years, some of our facilities were 2012 and $20 million in 2013. In addition, industries or burn them as a source operating at a time when there were few Merck is a potentially responsible party at of energy. In some cases, we operate regulations and little understanding of 18 multi-party Superfund sites in the U.S. special boilers at our facilities that are good environmental practices. Because approved to burn solvents, which reduces Merck has responsibility for remediation our energy costs and other emissions. of those sites, we have launched investigations and aggressive and appropriate cleanup projects to protect MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 23 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT [link] to make our products more studies that evaluate the potential effects PRODUCT effective while recognizing that extra care is required when dealing with these pharmaceutical products may have on the aquatic environment and human STEWARDSHIP new materials. health. We support the use of sciencebased environmental risk assessments Our program extends downstream and we will continue to collaborate to our customers and consumers with regulatory, academic, healthcare Merck is committed to through the design of effective product and research organizations to identify understanding, managing and packaging. We also provide for product additional data needs on the transport, reducing the impacts of our returns and guidance on the disposal of fate and effects of pharmaceuticals in unused medicines. the environment. products and the materials associated with discovering, Read more about Merck’s PIE producing and delivering them to public policy. our customers. P H A R M AC E U T I C A L S I N THE ENVIRONMENT For Merck’s views on responsible Ensuring that our products are disposal of medicines in the household, designed, made and used in a safe and We are committed to please refer to our public policy statement environmentally sound manner is one of understanding and managing the on that issue. Merck’s highest priorities. We deliver on environmental impacts of our this commitment by actively pursuing For more information about how we products throughout their life improvement initiatives, maintaining reduce the impacts of our products in cycle—from discovery through a highly trained and capable internal the process design stage, read about our scientific community, and collaborating manufacturing, use and disposal. Green Chemistry program. with experts in academia and consortia with active programs in this field. Our Environmental risk assessments are product stewardship programs focus conducted on products during the on identifying and either preventing development phase through product N A N O T E C H N O L O GY or controlling potential safety and launch to understand and manage environmental hazards throughout product impacts. Merck assesses Merck supports the use of products in a manner consistent with the product life cycle. We conduct nanotechnology to develop extensive testing of our products [link] to the most stringent applicable global innovative drugs, vaccines and identify and understand potential safety, regulations. Product environmental safety profiles are reassessed during consumer products that address health and environmental hazards. We periodic renewals of product filings. the unmet medical and wellness manage and communicate information about hazardous materials to keep our We use that information to establish or needs of people and animals. employees, contractors, transporters revise compound-specific criteria and and other partners safe. Our chemists procedures to assure that wastewaters Nanotechnology broadly describes the and engineers are trained on the green discharged from our facilities do not use of very small materials—ranging from chemistry principles [link] and are contain residual products that present a the extreme size reductions of normal provided tools and resources to help them risk to human health or the environment. materials to unique, minute substances design manufacturing processes that such as carbon nanotubes and other use fewer resources and safer materials. Merck carefully monitors scientific exotic materials. Merck has a public policy We use innovations like nanotechnology research on the issue of pharmaceuticals statement that explains our approach for in the environment (PIE) and in particular using nanotechnology responsibly. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 24 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The testing required for all drugs ensures PAC K AG I N G As we continue to expand our packagingthat nano-based pharmaceuticals are safe improvement efforts, we are making and effective for patient use. Our safety Our intention is to optimize our sure that the changes we make do not and health professionals closely monitor product packaging—to use as little increase product loss rates, since that the developments in this area. Based on would offset the environmental benefits packaging as possible. current knowledge of nanoparticles, our of packaging improvements. existing methods for assessing risks to The packaging we use for our finished workers and the environment are valid We are also developing guidelines products and for our in-process materials and our existing controls are well suited that will help our packaging engineers serves a range of purposes. The foremost to minimize exposure to employees and design new product packages that are purpose is to protect the purity, efficacy the environment. better for the environment. To help us and physical integrity of the product. evaluate the environmental differences Packaging also provides the customer Examples of how Merck uses between packaging options, we use with information and convenience, nanotechnology to improve health: the COMPASS Comparative Packaging the pharmacist or provider with easy Assessment, a simplified life-cycle and accurate dispensing at the point • Human Health: EMEND ® (aprepitant) assessment software tool developed of purchase, and our business with uses a nanoscale milling approach to by GreenBlue. marketing value. For some products, the make its granules very small so that packaging also serves safety functions— they are more easily absorbed by the For more information about waste child-resistance and tamper evidence. digestive tract reduction efforts at our facilities, click here. • Animal Health (Intervet): Nanoscale In recent years, we have improved our milling is used for the active ingredient product packaging: in PANACUR® (fenbendazole) to produce a stable and more easily • We have systematically reduced the G R E E N C H E M I S T RY re-suspendable formulation number of unique pharmaceutical • Consumer Health: Some Coppertone® product images worldwide and have Finding safer and more efficient products contain micronized zinc implemented strategies to reduce ways to make lifesaving, oxide, which provides improved broadthe amount of packaging line scrap we generate innovative medicines is good for spectrum UVA/UVB protection from business and contributes to our the sun’s damaging rays, reducing the • We have reduced our use of polyvinyl risk of sunburn, early skin aging and chloride (PVC). More than 80% of the “Be Well” mission. skin cancer. Nanoparticles of titanium products we identified as using PVC dioxide (TiO2) and zinc oxide (ZnO) One of the key components of Merck’s for non-product contact purposes, have been extensively studied, and Environmental Sustainability Strategy such as in tubs, trays, clamshells, neck current scientific data, including our involves designing our products with the bands, straps, and labels have shifted own studies, demonstrate that skin environment in mind. Green chemistry is or will shortly shift to cost-effective contact with these particles does not one of the primary ways in which we are PVC-free alternatives. represent a health concern. reducing the use of hazardous substances • Approximately half of the fiber in how we manufacture our products. materials we buy for our in-house Our scientists and engineers are trained product-packaging operations contain in the use of the 12 principles of green a minimum of 30% post-consumer chemistry and engineering to give them recycled fiber or carry major forest the skills to design more environmentally product certifications benign manufacturing processes. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 25 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Recently, we have increased our focus We are currently collaborating with other well as risk-based control measures that on innovations such as biocatalysis, ACS member companies to develop may be necessary in accordance with the which can potentially provide a more new Green Chemistry tools that are requirements of applicable regulations. sustainable means for manufacturing specifically relevant to bioprocessing. complex pharmaceutical compounds than For information about how we manage traditional chemical synthesis methods. For more information about our efforts to the environmental fate and effects of Bioprocesses typically have superb increase use of recovered solvents and our own compounds and products, selectivity and minimal by-productprevent waste, click here. click here. formation characteristics, thereby decreasing waste. C H E M I C A L M A N AG E M E N T As part of our Green Chemistry program, we have calculated the process mass intensity (PMI) of all new and highA comprehensive and effective production-volume pharmaceutically chemical management program is active products for human use. PMI critical to ensuring the safety and reflects the number of kilograms of raw protection of our employees, the materials used to produce one kilogram communities in which we operate, of API (active pharmaceutical ingredient), and the environment. and is one indicator of process efficiency. The PMI metric is a useful way of We have procedures, systems and comparing different processes and processes in place to manage the tracking improvements over time. approval, procurement, inventory, receipt, transfer, storage, labeling, and Since the establishment of the annual disposal of chemicals at all of our sites. Presidential Green Chemistry Award by We provide our employees and others the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency with information about the identities and in 1996, Merck is the only pharmaceutical potential hazards of the chemicals in our company to have been recognized operations and final products through with three Green Chemistry awards for proper labeling of chemicals and creation innovative process improvements. of safety data sheets. Merck is a founding member of the Complying with requirements applicable American Chemical Society’s to our chemical substances and products Green Chemistry Institute® (ACS is a top priority for Merck. We are tracking GCI) Pharmaceutical Roundtable, a and fulfilling obligations associated partnership between the ACS GCI and with numerous existing and emerging member pharmaceutical companies. chemical control regulations that require Roundtable members work together notification and registration of specific to create green chemistry tools and types of chemicals. In support of these to advance research on new ways regulations, our scientists complete to apply green chemistry and green assessments of the environmental and engineering principles to pharmaceutical human health risks of our substances. discovery and production processes. We provide details on product use as MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y | AUGUST 2014 26 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES Because the capabilities, integrity K E Y P E R F O R M A N C E I N D I C AT O R S and diversity of our employees drive our success, Merck is committed to discovering more ways to create an inclusive workplace where our employees— and our business—can thrive. We recognize the challenge of balancing professional achievement and personal well-being. And we understand that the more that’s asked of us as a business, the more we rely on our employees to work hard to advance our vision. We care about helping our employees succeed, and are focused on providing resources to improve their health and that of their families, creating a culture that appreciates differences and the collective power that comes from having a diverse workforce, and offering more opportunities to grow both professionally and personally at work and in the communities where they live. Whether through our strong culture that values integrity and high employee engagement to bring healthcare solutions to those in need around the world, or through new programs and tools that advance our physical and emotional well-being, we are committed to making Merck an exciting place where the world’s best people are proud to work. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 1 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • We value diversity and inclusion as We conduct rigorous and transparent POSITIVE WORK essential, integrated elements of our culture and leadership annual performance reviews of employees at all levels to guide company decisions relating to compensation ENVIRONMENT • We demonstrate scientific, business and rewards. Employee performance and operational excellence is measured, in part, by how well • We are results-driven and employees demonstrate our Leadership highly competitive Behaviors. In this way, we seek to A positive working environment • We are empowered to make emphasize not just what an employee is essential for employees to decisions, and we hold ourselves achieves, but also how he or she feel welcomed and valued, and accountable for the outcomes achieves it. This is so critical to the to be able to fully contribute • We innovate and take appropriate risks company that the annual incentive bonus to the business objectives of of management-level employees is • We value feedback and learn from our determined, in part, by demonstrated their teams. successes and our mistakes leadership that is consistent with • We encourage debate and the behaviors. To achieve our mission of being the communicate candidly and respectfully best healthcare company in the world, In addition, we conduct an annual we must ensure that we provide a • We are efficient, agile and responsive employee-development planning process best-in-class, inclusive and welcoming to change in which managers discuss with each environment with supporting leadership of their employees his or her strengths behaviors to encourage high levels of Leadership Behaviors, and development needs. The manager Employee Development and employee engagement. At Merck, we and employee then jointly create an Professional Growth provide numerous opportunities for action plan to strengthen areas in employee development and professional need of development and build new Merck’s employee behavior standards growth, competitive compensation leadership skills. are closely aligned with the company’s and benefits, and a focus on health and business strategy and Code of Conduct. safety, and we leverage global diversity Global Diversity & Inclusion Our seven leadership behaviors apply to and inclusion as an enabler in creating a every Merck colleague, and support us 21st century workforce that is genderAt Merck, we are proud of the progress in our efforts to consistently perform at a balanced and inclusive of top, diverse being made in developing a 21st-century level of excellence, achieve our strategic talent. Our efforts to build a positive and workforce that is inclusive of the world’s goals, and create and sustain our highhigh-performing working environment are top, diverse talent, and driven by the performance culture. based upon the following principles: desire to apply cutting-edge science to developing clinically meaningful Merck Leadership Behaviors medicines and vaccines that save • We are a unified company with all • Focus on Customers & Patients and improve lives. Global Diversity & employees sharing in the mission of • Make Rapid, Disciplined Decisions Inclusion (GD&I) has been our strength being the best healthcare company in and competitive advantage in the global the world • Act with Courage & Candor economy for more than 30 years. We • We share a strong core of ethics • Build Talent work collaboratively to leverage the and integrity • Demonstrate Ethics & Transparency innovation that results from a dynamic, inclusive organization led by a diverse • We put patients and customers first • Drive Results team of leaders to achieve business • Foster Collaboration MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 2 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT results and to reinforce our vision of non-apparent disabilities, and employees work culture that reinforces healthy, being the best healthcare company in who have religious obligations—indeed, safe behaviors. U.S.-based employees the world. all employees—benefit from the greater can also access our Employee work-life integration offered at Merck. Assistance Program, which provides We seek the best, the brightest, and free short-term counseling on health those with a passion for scientific In addition, Merck understands that matters as well as legal consultations excellence. Merck actively promotes employees with disabilities—apparent and financial counseling. opportunities for people of all and non-apparent disabilities—may backgrounds across race, gender, require workplace accommodations to We also engage in preventive measures ethnicity, culture, age, disability, religion, enable them to contribute to their fullest while also closely tracking accidents, gender identity, gender expression, potential. To support these employees, injuries and illnesses, so that we can and veteran status. We recognize that a Merck has developed a comprehensive address problems promptly and work workforce that is representative of the strategic platform to address full toward eliminating occupational injuries global markets offers distinct competitive disability inclusion called Merck and illness. advantages, such as diversity of thought, Workplace EnABLEment. greater consumer insights, faster speed For more information, click here. to market, higher levels of productivity, • Merck Workplace EnABLEment is and business innovation. At Merck, the first enterprisewide, customized Employee Giving GD&I contributes in meaningful and disability inclusion strategy that sustainable ways to superior business addresses the entire spectrum of the Merck employees around the world are performance leveraging enterprisewide, employee experience with a strategic actively engaged in their communities. senior level commitment to GD&I; bestroad map that includes recruiting, The opportunity to engage benefits practice recruitment, retention, and retention & advancement, the Justemployees, their communities and talent management strategies; inclusive in-Time manager training toolbox Merck. The company offers a number of and flexible work-life and workplace and employee education program, programs through which employees can strategies; and external marketplace communications support, community contribute to the communities in which and strategic alliance engagement— outreach, supply-chain engagement, they work and live. For more information, all working together to support strategic alliance support, and a click here. transformative business results. measurement system to track results. Partnership for Giving: In 2013, For more information, click here. For more information, click here. the Merck Foundation matched U.S. (including Puerto Rico) employee and Work-Life Integration Wellness retiree contributions, up to $30,000 per donor, to eligible U.S. nonprofit Merck takes a comprehensive and A healthy and safe workforce is a more organizations. The $30,000 per year will holistic view towards work-life productive workforce. Merck provides remain the same for active employees; integration. We focus on a broad array of employees with a wide variety of health retiree contributions will be matched up programs to appeal to employees at all programs, in alignment with the highest to $20,000 in 2014, and will be set at stages of life. Employees who manage standards of local medical care and $10,000 annually beginning in 2015. Our multiple responsibilities in the home and regulatory requirements, to enhance support for employee contributions to in the workplace, employees who are their health and well-being. Through our worthy causes not only assists thousands caregivers to elderly parents, employees various wellness programs, we offer of organizations, but also expresses who are single-head-of-household a range of confidential personal tools, our engagement in and support of parents, employees with apparent or programs and activities to support an our communities. individual’s health choices and to build a MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 3 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Employee Volunteering: Our Global able to share interests, messages and If our employees have any concerns or Employee Volunteerism Policy is designed ideas online. In addition to the Sync wish to report behaviors that seem at to expand our culture of volunteerism portal, employee communications odds with Merck’s Code of Conduct, and to encourage employees worldwide vehicles include quarterly employee they can contact the Merck Ombudsman to volunteer. Merck considers active business briefings, town halls and and/or the Merck AdviceLine. employee volunteering as a way to email communications from senior engage with individuals and groups management, as necessary, to For more information on how we in our communities, and is expanding communicate more broadly with communicate and engage with our opportunities for employee involvement employees worldwide. employees, click here. in local communities around the world. Learn more. PERFORMANCE Merck Blood Drives: For employees who wish to give blood, Merck runs regular blood drives at many of its sites 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 around the world. Number of employees 100,000 94,000 86,000 83,000 77,000 (approximate) For more information on these and other programs, click here. Total compensation paid to NA 9 8.8 8.3 7.7 employees/payroll, excluding Employee Communication & benefits (US$B) Engagement: We offer many ways Employee Categories Covered by a Standardized Performance Appraisal Process for employees to comment on Merck’s mission, goals, business strategy, Executives1 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% performance and work environment. Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% For example, an employee opinion survey provides global feedback that Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% management rigorously analyzes and Non-managers2 100% 90% 93% 93% 93% uses to inform decisions. Turnover We also conduct quarterly internal Overall turnover rate3 5% 11% 14% 11% 15.5% business briefings via live webcasts, which are then archived. In addition, Voluntary turnover rate NA 6% 6% 5% 5.8% Merck’s CEO and Executive Committee members meet regularly with smaller Unavoidable voluntary NA 1% 1% 1% 2.4% groups of employees for informal turnover rate breakfast and town hall discussions. Involuntary termination rate NA 5% 7% 5% 7.2% For access to company news and videos, 1 “Executives” refers to the first two levels below the Chief Executive Officer. the company has a global enterprise 2 I ncludes all “non-managers” (previously “individual contributors”) who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement (unions). portal, known as “Sync,” including 3 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring. divisional and functional news channels NA: Data not available. where organizational communities are MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 4 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Total number and rates of new employee hires by region Number of Hires Hire Rate TRAINING & Emerging Markets–Asia Pacific Emerging Markets—EEMEA 2,523 1,021 19.3% 24.0% EDUCATION Emerging Markets– 654 8.9% To create a high-performance Latin America organization and stimulate EUCan 740 3.3% individuals to achieve their full potential, we offer a wide range Japan 63 1.5% of training and educational U.S. 824 2.9% programs and resources. The Merck Talent Philosophy serves as the foundation for employee development, confirms our commitment to our people, and aligns with our business strategy. Each of Merck’s three main divisions— research and development, sales and marketing and manufacturing—as well as major support functions, such as finance, have established training organizations to build the required functional and technical skills. To support these organizations, we sponsor a curriculum that builds leadership and management skills for all levels of employees globally. This curriculum includes: myCareer The myCareer system is available to all employees, and supports developing our talent to meet our business needs. With myCareer, employees have access to Development Planning and Career Maps, and have the ability to complete MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 5 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT self-assessments to help define focus Merck Sigma to ensure that they are competitive areas for their professional development. with those of other companies—and These resources are intended to support Responsibility for developing Lean Six appropriate to the markets in which we employees and managers in having open Sigma and Change Execution capabilities compete for talent. and robust development discussions. was decentralized in 2013 to better meet the business needs of the divisions and At Merck, “Total Rewards” are the Career & Learning Portal functional groups. Merck continues to compensation, benefits, career and workfocus on these capabilities in support life programs we offer to employees that The Career & Learning Portal provides of its strategy to simplify processes, support their professional and personal employees at all levels with thousands maximize efficiency, reduce errors and well-being. Our philosophy behind of resources to support their career minimize risks. these programs is rooted in maintaining development. Resources are integrated our competitive position in the market with Career Maps and the associated Advancing Employee Education while providing a comprehensive competency models, and are available package of rewards that supports our in the following formats: “On-Demand” Merck’s U.S. Educational Assistance business, recognizes individuals and Web-based modules, classroom program encourages employees to learn aligns employees with the future needs programs, on-the-job development more for their current assignments and/or of our company. Compensation plans suggestions, articles, tools and helps them prepare for new assignments. are designed to compensate employees video podcasts. The program includes financial assistance for appropriate efforts performed in for relevant undergraduate and compliance with Merck’s policies and Management Foundations graduate education. procedures. Information on Merck’s Total Rewards is available to all employees on This is a comprehensive program that the company’s portal. focuses on building the core, common COMPENSATION & and critical knowledge and skills for new Benefits managers. Using a variety of learning methods, new managers focus on what In the United States, we provide they will need to know and do to be effective in their role and to gain the knowledge and skills to manage others. BENEFITS benefits to all employees, including parttime employees. Outside of the U.S., while benefits may In 2013, Merck paid a total of Team Development vary by region and country, we offer $7.7 billion in payroll expenses, health insurance, life and injury insurance, There is a suite of programs for team excluding benefits. disability insurance, retirement income development and team building, ranging benefits and insurance for business from formal learning experiences to Merck’s compensation programs are travel. In the United States, employees “action learning”-based activities designed to recognize and reward also can opt for tax-free Flexible Spending that help teams develop skills and employees for their accomplishments Accounts for health spending and/or competencies as they pursue real and the value they bring to the company. dependent-care costs. In addition, in business goals. Merck is committed to providing many countries where legally permitted, competitive pay programs designed to we extend healthcare and various help attract, retain and motivate the key insurance benefits to employees’ sametalent we need to succeed in all aspects sex domestic partners and their partners’ of our business. We monitor all elements eligible dependent children. of our total compensation program MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 6 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Worldwide, Merck offers retirement and we comply with any and all Merck takes a comprehensive and benefits that are competitive with those contractual or legal requirements. Outside holistic view of work-life integration. of our peers and general industry. In the the United States, the number of weeks’ We have instituted a broad array of United States, for example, we offer a notice required for major operational programs to appeal to employees at all defined benefit pension plan, as well as changes is set out by statute law rather stages of life. Employees who manage a 401(k) plan with company-matching than collective bargaining agreements. multiple responsibilities in the home and contributions. To assist them in personal in the workplace, employees who are investment decision-making, we offer all caregivers to elderly parents, employees employees the Ernst & Young Financial Planning Program at no cost. And U.S.based employees who are at least age 55 WORK-LIFE BENEFITS with visible or non-apparent disabilities, and employees who have religious obligations—indeed all employees— and have at least 10 years of service as benefit from the greater work-life of age 40 (for certain employees, service Today’s professionals are interested integration offered at Merck. before age 40 also counts) are eligible for not only in intellectually challenging subsidized medical benefits at retirement. work and the opportunity to We recognize the following benefits that contribute to company goals, but a holistic work-life effort provides: Other Benefits and Services also in finding work environments • A work environment that attracts that are flexible to personal life At certain Merck sites, including the talented applicants needs and interests. In short, they company headquarters in Whitehouse • Improved employee performance and Station, New Jersey, employees can see desire work-life integration. reduced absenteeism a healthcare professional on-site—and usually on the day they need to—for With this in mind, Merck has developed • Increased employee engagement such services as immunizations and work-life integration programs that are • Greater employee and treatment for minor aches and pains. innovative and that meet the needs of customer loyalty At many of our sites, we also offer today’s talent and employee pool, while enhancing our reputation as an employer • Decreases in sick leave services such as cafeterias, oil changes for automobiles, child care, dry cleaning, of choice. gyms and fitness classes. In the United States, our employees can bank through the Merck Employees Federal Credit WORK-LIFE Union, which offers competitive interest rates on savings accounts and lending. HOME BENEFITS DISCOUNTS Merck established the Credit Union in Academics and Education, Child care, including Backup Shopping 1936 to help U.S. employees during including Merck‘s College Coach Care Connection® the Depression. and Tuition Assistance Programs Entertainment Financial Planning Childcare and Aging, In the United States, where there are including Merck on-site Travel bargaining obligations, there is no set Pregnancy Child Learning Centers period of time between notice and action. Backup care and national Family We make reasonable efforts to ensure Emotional Health discount programs that employees are aware of information, Becoming a parent Adoption Assistance Home & Auto MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 7 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • An enhanced reputation in to apply for a flexible work arrangement, Thoughtful Communication the marketplace which includes: with Employees and Managers • Lowered staff attrition rates • Part-Time Work: Employees’ To ensure deepand broad-scale • Higher levels of teamwork workloads and hours are awareness of all Merck programs, the and collegiality decreased to less than the standard company uses a thoughtful, integrated • A perception of the organization as workweek requirements along with communications approach to help all genuinely innovative commensurate reduction in benefits employees manage work-life integration. and compensation. We provide training to managers in Global Flexible Work Arrangements • Job Sharing: Two employees on helping employees find new ways of reduced schedules and workloads working to achieve business goals, Merck believes flexible work share the overlapping responsibilities while supporting employees’ work-life arrangements offer a different and of one full-time position; effectiveness, and the use of internal smarter way of working that enhances benefits and compensation are communications, employee networking employees’ commitment to the company, reduced accordingly. events, mentoring and leadershipincreases productivity and makes development forums to maintain high • Flextime: Employees with full-time levels of employee morale, enthusiasm employee teams more competitive. job responsibilities modify the start and productivity. The company has had a flexible work time and quit time of a standard day arrangement policy and tools for several while being present for departmentally Merck also has a vibrant website years in the United States, and globally established “core hours” (hours supporting work-life effectiveness, since 2008. of mandatory attendance, such as where U.S.-based employees can build 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.), if any. awareness and take advantage of the In developing our global Flexible Work Arrangement Policy, we’ve challenged • Compressed Work Weeks: wide variety of U.S.-based programs that traditional assumptions about where Employees compress full-time job Merck offers. and how work can and must be done. responsibilities into fewer than Flexibility reflects our belief that job five days per week or 10 days per In addition, Merck offers enhancements effectiveness is determined by employee two weeks. to existing U.S. work-life integration performance and results, not by the programs to help employees manage • Telework: Employees fulfill full-time number of hours one is seen in the office. work-life issues. They include: job responsibilities up to several days a What is produced or accomplished is week at sites other than their primary more important than when or where the • Vacation, Holiday and Yearlocation—usually their home or a work is done. End Shutdown: Merck provides satellite office. employees with fixed holidays, Employees and managers work • Remote Work: Employees fulfill year-end shutdown days and a set together to assess the opportunities and full-time job responsibilities working number of paid vacation days to use challenges of a proposed arrangement. primarily as home-based or mobile throughout the year based on years While the overall process should be employees, with limited presence in a of service or work experience for collaborative, managers are accountable regular company facility. new hires. for making the final decision in light of • Other: Other options, including hybrid • Parental Leave: Employees get one business requirements, recognizing that arrangements, seasonal work, projectweek of paid parental leave for the some positions may not lend themselves based approaches, etc., may also birth or adoption of a child (for U.S.to a flexible work arrangement. All regular make business sense. Employees and based employees not subject to a fullor part-time employees are eligible managers are encouraged to consider collective bargaining agreement). and pilot other alternatives. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 8 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Childcare Leave: Employees receive College Coach: College Coach is unpaid, job-protected leave to care for a newly born child, adopted child or an educational counseling service that offers a comprehensive menu of ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES child placed in foster care within the education topics and helps U.S.-based first six months (182 days) following employees manage their professional the child’s birth, adoption or foster and family responsibilities through care placement. workshops, expert counseling and Web• Free Commuter Transportation based assistance. The program helps Historically, employee Service: A free commuter/shuttle employees and their families reach engagement at Merck is much their academic goals—reducing stress higher than the average at most service from specific locations near and keeping employees happy and Merck headquarters in Whitehouse U.S. companies. productive, both at home and at work. Station, New Jersey, enables employees to save on transportation We strive to foster this engagement Special Needs: The Autism Spectrum costs and commute time while in many ways: by promoting a positive Disorder (ASD) Program is for U.S.-based reducing their carbon footprint. work environment, by requiring ethical employees and their children as they • Summer Hours: The Summer Hours business practices and by communicating plan for and navigate school and college program offers U.S. employees an proactively with our employees. options for students with diagnosed ASD additional resource in our flexible work and related conditions. Once qualified, schedule portfolio. Specifically, eligible Also critical to our success is employee employees can receive five hours of employees are able to work ninefeedback. As we do with our external personalized counseling and participation hour days Monday through Thursday, stakeholders, we work to understand in one live webinar. and the final four hours on Friday our employees’ concerns, needs and (departing no earlier than noon). thoughts pertaining to the company’s Website for Exceptional Caregivers: strengths and weaknesses, and we This U.S. website provides online Backup Dependent Care: Temporary incorporate these findings into our caregiver support and online elder care backup dependent-care services for strategies, processes and programs to support programs on a range of topics U.S.-based employees at Merck are help us achieve our business goals. and resources relating to children with provided by LifeCare, for children and special needs. adults when employees are scheduled to And because our employees are our most work and their regular care arrangements prominent and valuable ambassadors Adoption Assistance: This program are unavailable. Employees are eligible with most of our external stakeholders, provides U.S.-based employees with for 10 days’ usage per dependent per we make sure that we communicate reimbursement of up to $10,000 for year for a nominal out-of-pocket fee. important news about the company to eligible adoption-related expenses. Employees can also take advantage of employees as quickly as possible and significant online resources. through the most appropriate channels. Employee Assistance Program: This Employees generally are notified program offers U.S.-based employees National Care Discount Programs: within minutes of most major external access to confidential, professional Merck has made arrangements with three announcements concerning the company. assessment, referral, counseling and childcare providers to offer discounts to educational services. U.S.-based employees on their regular For example, through our global tuition. All of these providers can be enterprise portal, known internally as found nationally in the U.S. “Sync,” employees can gain access to company news and videos, divisional MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 9 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT and functional news channels, and As part of our company’s efforts to fully publications, on our intranet and through organizational communities that allow engage employees, drive a culture of emailed summaries. them to share interests, messages innovation and execute on our growth and ideas online. Other employee strategy, in November 2012 we launched Our 2013 results showed that employee communications vehicles include a 72-hour “Transformation Jam” to confidence in Merck’s mission and future quarterly Employee Business Briefings, leverage the wealth of ideas throughout as a healthcare leader remains strong. Town Halls and email communications our company to help us remove obstacles Results indicate that employees are from senior management, as necessary. and foster greater speed, integration, most engaged by supporting Merck’s innovation and empowerment. The reputation. However, employees indicate Professional Networking Transformation Jam brought thousands that engagement can be increased by and Collaboration of employees from over 80 countries greater empowerment as well as by together to post more than 16,000 ideas. clearly defined career paths. We also enable employees to give their We incorporated feedback from the feedback through our online news site Jam into the 2013 Voice Survey Action Executive Committee members and and via brief, three-to-five-question Planning Guide, which was provided to leaders of the company’s strategic surveys and open-comment forms managers as part of our Voice Survey change initiatives use the results of our attached to key communications. results delivery (see below). This guide is annual surveys as part of their ongoing Soliciting employee feedback on the designed to offer best-practice actions for strategic planning. subject of the communication in real improving survey results. time gives us the information we need Other Resources for to close knowledge gaps and address Employee Surveys Employee Feedback employee concerns. Such direct employee feedback has resulted in “meet As part of our mission to maintain In addition to the employee surveys, our and greet” sessions hosted by our CEO a satisfying and productive work “ombudsmen” within Merck’s Office of and our Executive Committee, which give environment, Merck routinely surveys Ethics provide an avenue for employees employees yet another opportunity to all employees to learn their perspectives to raise concerns in confidence and, share information with senior leaders in a on the business and on how we when necessary, take action. Our more personal setting. are responding to the needs of our anonymous helpline, which operates workforce. We also conduct an annual in accordance with applicable legal We conduct global employee briefings employee opinion survey, the Voice standards for employee-based hotlines, is every quarter. Our CEO and members Survey, with content based on Merck’s available 24/7 to listen and provide advice of the Executive Committee speak to business needs. to employees worldwide. Learn more. employees about how we are fulfilling our Merck mission and goals. These Offered in 20 languages, the Voice encouraging and educational sessions Survey helps Merck leaders and cover topics such as the quarterly managers understand employees’ performance update, pipeline progress, perspectives on our culture and its customer stories and anticipated effect on the company’s ability to meet product developments. our business objectives, as well as what drives employee engagement. We communicate highlights of the survey results through meetings with our employees, in our employee MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 10 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT we do a good job of anticipating new PERFORMANCE products, while 69 percent believe Merck/ MSD is truly customer-focused. The slight 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 drop in Customer Focus scores in relation to 2012 may be related to “growing pains” Response rate to the NA 64% 63% 77% 77% associated with the newly implemented Voice Survey Customer Centricity intitiative. Divisional Percentage of employees NA 51% 49% NA NA leaders expect Customer Focus scores “fully engaged” or “engaged”1 to increase as employees become more familiar with and knowledgable about Engagement index NR NR NR 78% 78% Customer Centricity. (favorable response rate) 1 I n 2012, Merck changed survey vendors and methodology, which allowed us to streamline our process as well Employees gave high ratings to their as to focus on those elements of culture and engagement that are most important to our ability to execute immediate managers on a number of Merck’s unique strategy. aspects ranging from diversity and inclusion to responsiveness to suggestions In September 2013, 77 percent of Merck Employees showed continued confidence for change. The overall Immediate employees worldwide (just under 60,000 in the Merck strategy, with 76 percent Manager dimension score increased by respondents) completed the Voice Survey. saying they understand how transforming 2 percentage points from 2012 to 2013. This participation rate is considered high the company will help us achieve our The improvement in this area is especially by the independent organization that long-term strategy. In addition, 81 percent encouraging in light of the focus on administered the survey on Merck’s agree that Merck has the ability to become employee development over the course behalf. As an incentive for completing the the best healthcare company in the world. of the year. Moreover, 1,536 managers Voice Survey, Merck donated $1,000 to graduated from the 2013 Management Join My Village, an innovative, online social As in previous years, one of the highest Foundations program, a four-month, change initiative to empower women and scoring areas in this year’s survey was skill-building program for managers that girls in the developing world, for each in the Reputation & Trust dimension. includes classroom learning, Web-based division/function that achieved a 60 to 70 Overall, employees believe Merck/MSD training, and virtual classroom workshops. percent response rate on the survey. The operates with integrity (86 percent), that donation doubled for each 10 percentage everyone is held to the same standards Scores regarding career development points above that range. Response rates of ethical behavior (80 percent), and that increased over last year (from 63 percent across the divisions and functions resulted management’s decisions are consistent to 65 percent favorable). We believe in a donation of $76,000. with the company’s core values (74 that this increase is due in large part percent). An overwhelming majority of to the rollout of Career Maps, which Highlights from September employees (94 percent) believe strongly in help employees take ownership of 2013 Responses the products and services Merck provides. their professional development by focusing on developing critical skills and Responses indicate that employees are However, when it comes to two key competencies. However, employees say engaged (78 percent) and highly energized drivers of Merck strategy—Innovation that more needs to be done in this area. (86 percent). What’s more, employees and Customer Focus—employees While 70 percent agree that there are are strongly committed to Merck’s pinpointed a number of opportunities for sufficient opportunities for training to success—92 percent say they are willing improvement, ranging from empowerment improve their skills, only 62 percent say to put in a great deal more effort than and cross-company collaboration to speed they have a reasonably good idea of their would normally be expected to help the of decision-making. On Customer Focus, possible career paths. company succeed. only 64 percent of employees believe MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Finally, knowing which health issues most at on-site employee health clinics or WELLNESS affect Merck’s workforce can help us make the right investments to improve the health of our people. through programs offered by vendors in conjunction with our benefits coverage. Health services and programs available to Merck employees include: In keeping with our company’s Since environmental, health and safety business mission to protect (EHS) matters are closely connected, LIVE IT and promote health, Merck is we manage them collaboratively across committed to providing a safe numerous functions. A key element Merck’s employee wellness initiative is and healthy workplace for our of our EHS management system is branded as LIVE IT: Be Well at Merck. employees around the world. the monitoring of health and safety LIVE IT is an initiative that brings risks and performance. Health and together all of Merck’s U.S. health and We want to ensure that our employees safety performance is an important wellness offerings under one integrated return home from work every day consideration in our annual assessment platform and provides most U.S.-based healthy and safe. As part of this of scorecard performance, which is tied employees and eligible family members commitment, Merck expects every to compensation. with access to a broad suite of helpful employee to perform his or her job health and wellness tools, programs without compromising personal safety In this section, we provide and information. In 2013, LIVE IT was and health, or the safety and health of data on Employee Health and expanded globally (and branded LIVE other members of our workforce and the Employee Safety. IT: Be Well at MSD) to certain regions communities in which we operate. outside the U.S. to improve the health of our employees worldwide. We provide employees with access to EMPLOYEE HEALTH a wide variety of health programs. We Merck partners with Health Advocate also take preventive actions and closely in the U.S. to help employees and track workplace accidents, injuries and their families navigate the complicated illnesses, so we can address problems healthcare and health insurance system. promptly and work toward eliminating As a global healthcare company, Health Advocate is designed to make occupational injuries and illnesses. Merck is committed to helping our employees’ lives easier by saving hours employees manage and improve of effort, with activities such as: Merck believes there are many benefits their health and well-being. to this approach. First, health is a • Helping resolve complicated medical key ingredient of optimal workforce and dental insurance claims Merck’s Global Employee Health performance. Whether work is done department works closely with the Global • Finding doctors, providers or facilities at the office or at home, sickness or Benefits department to provide a wide • Scheduling appointments for injury often can affect a person’s ability range of health and wellness services physicians, treatments and tests to perform and contribute effectively. and programs. Because our business is health, we • Securing second opinions believe we must lead by example. We These offerings cover the continuum • Assisting with eldercare and also believe that a constructive approach of care for those who are well, those Medicare issues to employee health helps to recruit and at risk, those with acute or chronic • Getting cost estimates for retain top talent. illnesses, and those requiring complex medical procedures or catastrophic care. Many of these services and programs are provided MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Assisting in the transfer of offered to those who wish to quit using addition, many Merck sites around the medical records tobacco products. Participation in the globe have cafeterias that offer healthy health assessment and in other programs food options and nutrition education. • Researching and locating the is voluntary and confidential. Our food vendor is an integral partner of latest treatments our LIVE IT team, and we jointly sponsor • Locating work-life resources During the annual health insurance healthy eating events that correspond enrollment period each fall, employees with the National Health Calendar. The program is available to most U.S.and their covered spouses/same sex based employees at no cost, and is domestic partners are encouraged to Fitness Centers also available to employees’ parents take the PHA as part of Merck’s LIVE and parents-in-law for any healthcare or IT initiative. Merck offers access to on-site fitness eldercare issues they may be facing. centers at several large U.S. facilities, Results from the PHA are used to help as well as at other Merck/MSD facilities Our Health & Wellness Website develop programs such as the Weight around the world. In the U.S., professional Watchers Reimbursement Program, to fitness managers organize programs and Merck provides a health and wellness help employees with their events to encourage employees to eat website for U.S.-based employees and health concerns. well, manage their weight, exercise, and their dependents that features a personal participate in various fitness challenges health assessment questionnaire, online On-Site Health Clinics and other special events. Merck also interactive health tools and information, offers on-site massage therapy services health-coaching programs, and more. The Many on-site Merck health clinics offer at these centers at a reasonable cost website is designed to raise awareness employees the opportunity for lipid, to employees. about health issues and to motivate blood glucose and other biometric dataemployees to manage and improve their collection services in conjunction with Occupational Health health and well-being. It includes topical their PHA. “Lunch and learn” programs health summaries based on scientific and site-based wellness activities, As a global organization, Merck has evidence and links to reliable healthcare including counseling and weightnumerous operating divisions and information. Mobile technology solutions reduction programs, are also available. work assignments—each with its own were added in 2013 to help employees To support new mothers returning to range of requirements. Particular work manage their health while not at their work, our clinics also offer worksite assignments may involve potential desks during the workday. lactation programs. exposure to one or more occupational hazards, such as noise, mixtures of Immediately after completing the online Cafeteria Collaboration chemicals or hazardous biological Personal Health Assessment (PHA), an compounds. The company maintains a employee receives a customized report What we eat and drink affects our daily continuing and concerted effort to assess that summarizes his or her health status physical and mental well-being and our and control workplace hazards (chemical, and offers suggestions for personal longer-term health and resilience. To biological and physical) and to make sure goal-setting. Anyone who takes the contribute to a healthy work culture, that each employee’s work assignment assessment and wants to work on an we work with our on-site food vendor is safe and consistent with his or her identified health risk has access to an at most of our U.S. facilities to increase evaluated capabilities. In 2013, major online lifestyle coach, someone who the availability and visibility of healthy progress was made in standardizing provides advice and encouragement and food choices and to raise awareness of Merck occupational health procedures regularly monitors progress. A special proper nutrition. Employees also receive globally, including in The Netherlands, tobacco-cessation coaching program, discounts for healthy food purchases. In Mexico and Puerto Rico. branded LIVE IT: Tobacco-Free is also MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Occupational health programs are surgical or nonsurgical treatments and card. Employees may also consult with developed and implemented in procedures. A personal Health Advocate a Global Employee Health licensed accordance with identified health risks will help set up the appointment and healthcare provider for specific traveland applicable regulatory requirements. transfer any required medical records. related prescription medications that In the event that an employee becomes The goal is to provide a full range of may be needed during travel, possible injured or ill while performing his or options so employees can make the most preventive medical care prior to her job, we have programs in place for informed decisions about their course departure, information regarding the treatment and rehabilitation. of therapy. availability of medical care in the country of destination, and the possibility of Work-Related Injury and Disability Management/ medical care after return, as needed. Illness Management Disability Accommodations Annual Flu Shots and Pandemic Merck’s Global Employee Health The Disability Leave team and our Flu Planning professionals are clinically trained, and Global Employee Health group work dedicated to supporting efficient and with external vendors in the U.S. to Most Merck sites around the world effective quality healthcare for employees develop and implement shortand offer employees annual flu shots. In the who become injured or ill as a result of long-term disability management and U.S., our Global Employee Health group their work. They advise on and coordinate return-to-work policies and programs. provides annual flu shots at no cost healthcare with providers or agencies Optimizing the health and productivity to employees at site-based employee to ensure a smooth treatment-andof our employees is a key goal of these health clinics. With guidance from recovery process, while complying with efforts. Merck’s centralized Workplace Global Employee Health, most Merck both company and applicable regulatory EnABLEment program in the U.S. sites have also developed site-specific record-keeping requirements. ensures that employees with apparent pandemic flu preparedness plans, and non-apparent disabilities are able to employing a variety of countermeasures Acute Episodic Healthcare be accommodated, where feasible, to that focus on heightened awareness and enable them to work to their full potential. tactical procedures. Most Global Employee Health clinics provide non-work-related acute episodic Business Travel Program Smoking Policies healthcare, including the diagnosis and treatment of minor non-occupational Merck is concerned about the health The majority of Merck sites around illnesses or injuries; health maintenance and safety of our employees who travel the world have either a no-smoking counseling; and appropriate referral to on business, especially to international policy or a smoke-/tobacco-free policy specialty services. locations. Our Global Employee in place. These policies send a strong Health group maintains up-to-date message that the company is committed Treatment Decision Support information about infectious diseases to promoting healthy lifestyles and to that are prevalent in all countries and protecting its employees and visitors Through Health Advocate, Merck offers a their required immunizations. Business from the harmful effects of tobacco. resource for newly diagnosed U.S.-based travelers are given any required In addition, the majority of U.S.-based employees to obtain information specific immunizations, information on health employees have access to LIVE IT: to their diagnoses. Health Advocate can conditions in the country of their Tobacco-Free, a telephonic personal also help U.S.-based employees and destination, as well as a traveler’s guide, health-coaching program that helps their dependents access expert second a travel kit containing over-the-counter participants quit the tobacco habit. opinions for complex or critical illnesses, medications they may need, and an or explore options regarding the need for international emergency travel-assistance MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Automatic External Defibrillator strive to eliminate work-related injuries, recurrence. Our injury and illness Program and Emergency Response illnesses and unplanned events from our data are consolidated into a central global operations through comprehensive system, enabling us to analyze trends At many Merck sites, on-site health clinic safety programs that are part of an overall and, together with leading indicator staff respond to medical emergencies Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) information, make adjustments to our while also working with volunteers who management system. The design of our programs. We also take steps—through help as emergency responders. Our facilities and processes, as well as our internal safety alerts and bulletins—to Global Employee Health group provides process controls, protection systems and communicate significant incidents, neardirect oversight for automatic external emergency response capabilities, are miss events, and conditions that could defibrillators and associated training, critical components of our overall effort represent risks at other Merck operations provided at many of our sites in the U.S. to minimize the frequency and severity of and sites. safety and environmental incidents. Vaccinations Click here for EHS governance, roles Our global “Target Zero” initiative and responsibilities. Merck’s on-site clinics in the U.S., reinforces the link between Merck’s as well as many around the world, leadership behaviors and our safety and Select the Programs tab on this page for offer employees both occupational environmental objectives. We believe that employee safety programs. vaccinations (including travel-related through visible management leadership vaccinations) and non-occupational and employee engagement we can Select the Performance tab on this page vaccinations for such diseases as increase the awareness of hazards and for our 2013 safety performance. pneumonia, shingles and cervical cancer. help employees make the right choices Through the Express Scripts Retail when it comes to safety, health and the Vaccination Program available through environment—both on and off the job. In PROGRAMS the Merck Medical Plan, applicable to addition to “Target Zero,” we promote a most U.S.-based employees, participants strong safety culture at our manufacturing We are committed to providing a may also receive their vaccinations at and research sites through active safe and healthy workplace for all participating retail pharmacies without safety committees that drive program of our employees. a copay. implementation and address safety issues together with employees. Process Safety For consistency across the company, and EMPLOYEE SAFETY Our Process Safety program identifies to enable us to compare our performance and addresses risks associated with with that of other multinational our pharmaceutical, biologic therapy, companies, we use the U.S.-based and vaccine production operations. As a global healthcare company, Occupational Safety and Health This program applies not only to Administration (OSHA) record-keeping Merck strives to provide a safe operations that are subject to process criteria for tracking work-related injuries and healthy workplace. safety regulations, but also to all of and illnesses across our global sites. our pilot plants and manufacturing We require that all recordable injuries, We are committed to providing a safe operations where process hazards illnesses and incidents involving our and healthy workplace for all of our may exist. In addition, we have employees be reported and investigated employees around the world and to implemented a structured chemicalto determine their cause. We also complying fully with all applicable country reaction-hazard review program for our require actions to be taken to prevent and local safety laws and regulations. We research laboratories. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Early in product development, we Capital Projects Construction Safety feasible, we establish effective work begin testing our processes, products practice controls and use appropriate and intermediate materials to identify Merck has a strong Construction Safety personal protective equipment. We potential process-safety hazards. This program with a focus on educating and formally evaluate existing processes and testing effort continues throughout the coaching our capital project construction control strategies to determine whether product life cycle to assure that, at all contractors on safety fundamentals, and further engineering and work practice stages, we keep safety at the forefront. on driving continuous improvement in controls are feasible. For new processes Global process-safety professionals the safety culture of our construction and facilities, appropriate engineering work with operational and engineering partners. Our global engineering group and operational controls are part of the personnel to perform process hazard has adopted Hearts and Minds™, a design and installation. We verify the studies to thoroughly review our culture-based program that promotes effectiveness of these controls after operations. These structured reviews safety as a personal value. The program installation and ensure that they are take place during the design and start-up has had a significant positive effect on our properly used and maintained. and throughout the life of the process contractors’ performance. to verify that the facility, equipment, Motor Vehicle Safety and operating controls and procedures Merck uses the days away, reassignment effectively address the process hazards. or transferred (DART) rate for assessing The goal of our Motor Vehicle Safety our construction capital projects, instead program is to reduce both the frequency Non-Routine Hazardous Work of the lost-time incident rate (LTIR). and the severity of motor vehicle DART includes restricted and transferred injuries in our global operations. The In recognition of industrial safety trends cases that are not included in LTIR and implementation of global motor vehicle and our own EHS audit observations, is deemed more appropriate for the safety standards across all markets we have refined our global approach to construction safety program. remains an area of focus for Merck. the safety of non-routine maintenance Programs to support safe driving and repair activities. Across the industry, Select the Performance tab on this page behaviors are being harmonized and these work activities are a leading cause for a discussion of our 2013 performance. reinforced across our sales and marketing of serious and fatal injuries. Merck has groups, which operate the majority of revised its global safety procedures, and Industrial Hygiene our business-use vehicles. As we make the related employee training and safety these changes, we expect to see a equipment requirements to reduce the Our Industrial Hygiene (IH) program corresponding reduction in the injuries potential for serious incidents when protects the health of our employees associated with vehicular collisions, both working on or near machinery, piping and throughout all stages of research and for our own employees and for those with electrical systems; working at heights; manufacturing by identifying chemical, whom we share the road. and entering confined spaces. This physical and biological hazards, assessing global effort is focused on creating a exposures, and properly controlling risks. Select the Performance tab at the top more rigorous and error-free approach by of this page for a discussion of our 2013 incorporating proven industry practices To protect the health of our employees, motor vehicle safety performance. to consistently complete these work we apply a hierarchy of control measures activities safely. that first seeks to eliminate or find a Ergonomics substitute for hazardous material or Select the Performance tab at the top process. When this is not possible, we The goal of our Ergonomics program is to of this page for a discussion of our 2013 evaluate the feasibility of engineering improve human performance and wellsafety performance. controls based on the hazard and risk. being in relation to job tasks, equipment Where engineering controls are not and the work environment. Our priority MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT business areas are the manufacturing, PERFORMANCE research and sales environments, where most ergonomic injuries and illnesses are related to manual material handling and While our ultimate goal is to have zero workplace injuries, we establish repetitive motion. annual injury-reduction targets. Ergonomics-related recordable injuries Our 2014 goal is to reduce companywide recordable and lost-time injury rates by continue to represent about 20 percent 20 percent from 2013 levels. of our injury cases globally. Program improvements are underway to further Global Safety Performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 eliminate ergonomic risks through better Workplace Safety engineering design. We also continue to focus on risk assessment and control, Recordable injury rate (RIR) 0.92 0.79 0.74 0.62 6 0.61 training, communication and employee RIR percentage change vs. NA -14% -6% -16% -2% participation to improve our ergonomic prior year culture both at work and at home. Lost-time incident rate (LTIR) 0.41 0.32 0.30 0.27 6 0.27 Select the Performance tab at the top LTIR percentage change vs. NA -22% -6% -10% 0% of this page for a discussion of our 2013 prior year safety performance. Fatalities1 2 2 3 1 1 Motor Vehicle Safety Accidents per million miles 10.97 10.40 9.90 10.23 12.98 (APMM)2 Capital Projects Construction Safety 3,4 RIR NA 0.80 0.57 0.78 0.36 DART5 NA 0.48 0.16 0.22 0.20 Fatalities NA 0 0 0 0 NA: Data not available. 1 All fatalities were transportation-related. 2 APMM: Reflects both personal and business use of company-owned or -leased vehicles. 3 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology. 4 Primarily reflect capital projects over $100,000 managed by our global engineering group. 5 DART: Days away, reassignment or transferred calculated per OSHA 300 methodology. 6 W  orkplace injury rates for 2012 have been restated for accuracy as well as associated percentage change vs. prior year. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LOST-TIME INJURIES BY BUSINESS AREA HQ & Facilities Management Employees 4% 4% Research Employees Manufacturing 20% Employees Sales & Marketing Employees 71% RECORDABLE INJURIES BY CAUSAL FACTORS Chemical/biological exposure 71 4 4 20 3% 4% 4% Physical exposure 7% 27% Slips/trips/falls Other Repetitive motion 13% Carrying/lifting/pushing/ pulling/bending 22% Motor vehicle 20% Struck by/caught in Note: Figures may not add to 100 percent due to rounding. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 18 27 4 22 3 7 20 4 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Workplace Safety Performance Motor Vehicle Safety Performance observations (both corrective and positive). Safety observations logging In recent years, more than 60 percent of We saw a 27 percent increase in the is an important part of the program, our recordable employee injuries have number of collisions normalized for miles because it reflects worker engagement been related to slips, trips and falls, traveled in 2013. This was the result of a and interventions, emphasizes being motor vehicle accidents, and ergonomic harmonized data-reporting collaboration observant, and identifies and prevents issues. In 2013, our sales and marketing with our global insurance companies, issues that could lead to injury employees accounted for more than which is providing more complete and events. The significant increase in 70 percent of the total number of lostaccurate data. The number of reported participation in certain voluntary aspects time-injury cases. employee injuries related to motor vehicle of our program supported our 2013 collisions in 2013 also increased by performance improvements. While our overall trend in recent years 9 percent from 2012. reflects improvement, our workplace injury rates have been steady between We are directing our efforts toward 2012 and 2013. Slips, trips and falls reducing the number of motor vehiclecontinue to be a leading cause of workrelated injuries in our sales force, related injury, accounting for 27 percent which accounted for 22 percent of of all injuries. Prevention in this area is our recordable injuries in 2013. The a key component of Target Zero—our importance of motor vehicle safety was global injury-reduction initiative. We again demonstrated when, tragically, continue to direct efforts at reducing the we lost one of our Merck colleagues in a number of slips, trips and falls among motor vehicle accident in Brazil. sales colleagues, which accounted for nearly 60 percent of such incidents Construction Project companywide in 2013. Safety Performance The number of ergonomic-related Our 2013 construction safety recordable recordable injuries and illnesses injury rate (RIR) of 0.36 reflects a dropped by 17 percent from 2012 to 64 percent reduction in total recordable 2013. This reduction was achieved incidents from 2012, and our DART through an intensive focus on injury rate, which stands for days away, and illness reduction in our research reassignment or transferred of 0.20 and manufacturing divisions. In our and lost-time injury rate of 0.12 are also manufacturing division, Target Zero reductions from 2012. implementation, which focuses on improved management leadership We achieved zero recordable injuries in and employee engagement, helped 94 percent of our 2013 projects. With to increase the awareness of hazards, 4.9 million construction hours logged including those related to ergonomics. in 2013, only six out of more than 100 projects experienced recordable injuries. In 2013, global engineering construction safety logged almost 47,000 safety MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 19 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT have senior-level commitment to GD&I, certification for GARDASIL ® (Human GLOBAL DIVERSITY we leverage best-practice recruitment, retention and talent management Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16, and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant), & INCLUSION strategies to achieve workplace goals, Merck’s human papillomavirus (HPV) and we partner with strategic advocacy vaccine. Through this certification, we groups to support transformative expanded access to GARDASIL for the business results. Muslim community, helping to improve Creating the Workforce of the and save lives around the world. Learn 21st Century Commitment from the Top more about Merck vaccines. At Merck, we are proud of the progress The single most significant driver of Emerging Global Markets—The being made in developing a 21st century Global Diversity & Inclusion at Merck emerging markets now account for workforce that is inclusive of the world’s resides at the very top—with Merck approximately 22 percent of Merck’s top, diverse talent, and driven by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pharmaceutical sales, with China desire to apply cutting-edge science Kenneth C. Frazier. Mr. Frazier chairs continuing as a key growth driver. to developing effective medicines and the Business Insight Roundtable, Over the past two decades, Merck vaccines that save and improve lives the company’s executive diversity has successfully introduced more than around the world. We have a long governance structure, which includes 40 innovative medicines and vaccines history of working collaboratively to nine Employee Business Resource in China. In October 2013, the Merck leverage the innovation that results from Groups (Women, African Ancestry, Foundation committed an additional having a dynamic, inclusive organization Hispanic/Latino, Asian Pacific-Islander, $6 million over three years (2014–2016) to led by a diverse team of leaders; this Native American/Native Indigenous, supporting a second phase of the Chinaenables us to achieve business results Interfaith, LGBT, Differently Able, and MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership (C-MAP) and to reinforce our vision of being the Veterans), and personally communicates #1 trusted and valued healthcare partner his commitment to GD&I through the Merck for Mothers— Expanded to to patients, healthcare providers and company intranet, the corporate website include India in 2013, this global 10-year, payers worldwide. and various external conferences and $500 million initiative was launched in global events. 2011 to help create a world where no We seek the best, the brightest, and woman dies giving life. Merck for Mothers those with a passion for scientific Merck’s public endorsement and sanction and its partners in India—Hindustan excellence. Merck actively promotes of GD&I as a critical link in the company’s Latex Family Planning Promotion Trust, opportunities for people of all business strategy is evidenced in several Pathfinder International with World Health backgrounds across race, gender, important company brand-marketing Partners, and the White Ribbon Alliance ethnicity, culture, age, disability, religion, programs, geographic strategies, and for Safe Motherhood with Gram Vaani— gender identity, gender expression and corporate reputation and community are working to accelerate India’s progress veteran status. We recognize that a responsibility initiatives. toward the United Nations’ Millennium workforce that is representative of the Development Goal 5: reducing the global global markets offers distinct competitive GARDASIL® —Merck has supported maternal mortality rate by 75 percent advantages, such as diversity of thought, diverse employees who bring their by 2015. greater consumer insights, faster speed specific cultural, ethnic, religious, gender to market, higher levels of productivity, and other demographic knowledge Brazil’s Science without Borders and business innovation. At Merck, Global and understanding to bear on business Initiative—Kenneth C. Frazier, Merck Diversity & Inclusion (GD&I) contributes challenges and opportunities. One Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in meaningful and sustainable ways to example is the obtaining of Halal is one of 24 CEOs of Brazilian and superior business performance. We MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 20 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT U.S. companies appointed by both as board member of North Carolina Additionally, other Executive Committee governments to provide policy advice A&T State University. Willie also members at Merck act as executive to Presidents Barack Obama and Dilma serves as the executive sponsor for sponsors as follows: Rousseff under the U.S.-Brazil CEO Merck’s Veteran’s Employee Business Forum. The Forum’s recommendations Resource Group. • Richard DeLuca, president, Merck focus on incremental improvements • Bridgette Heller, president, Merck Animal Health, executive sponsor for in the bilateral economic framework, Consumer Care, is currently a Hispanic/Latino Employee Business seeking to maximize commercial member of the national board of Resource Group and investment exchanges between directors for Girls Incorporated, having • Clark Golestani, chief information both countries. previously served as board chair; a officer, executive sponsor for member of the Executive Leadership Native American/Native Indigenous In a meeting with presidents Obama Council; and a former member of Employee Business Resource Group and Rousseff in April 2012, the CEOs the advisory board of the Center for committed to supporting Brazil’s Science • Michael Holston, chief compliance African American Studies at Princeton without Borders initiative, whereby officer, executive sponsor for LGBT University. She was recognized by nearly 100,000 students will join top Employee Business Resource Group the Healthcare Businesswomen’s international universities for part of Association (HBA) in 2013 as their • Roger Perlmutter, executive vice their education between 2012 and Woman of the Year for her leadership president of Merck & Co. and 2016. The Forum’s member companies in healthcare and business success. president of Merck Research are contributing with internships for Bridgette is the Executive Sponsor for Laboratories, executive sponsor for graduation students and research the company’s Asian Pacific-Islander Merck’s Differently Able Employee opportunities for more advanced degrees, Employee Business Resource Group. Business Resource Group to which Merck has contributed with • Adam Schechter, president, Global • Michael Rosenblatt, chief 15 internships. Mr. Frazier is currently Human Health, serves as a board medical officer, executive sponsor serving his second term (2013–2016) as a member of Water.org. He serves on for Interfaith Employee Business Forum member. the board of directors of the European Resource Group HIV Awareness & Education—To Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, whose The Workforce: Becoming a “Talent commemorate World AIDS Day 2013, mission is to promote pharmaceutical Magnet” for Best-in-Class Global, Merck encouraged people impacted by research and development and Diverse Employees HIV to take action with the educational HIV campaign, I Design. Visitors to www. the best conditions in Europe for companies to introduce new Merck understands that by consistently ProjectIDesign.com were able to mark medicines that improve human health harnessing the knowledge and insights the day by making a pledge to learn more and the quality of life around the world. of a diverse workforce—one with unique about HIV, educate someone else about He is also an executive board member backgrounds and affiliations—we are the condition, or help themselves or a for the National Alliance for Hispanic able to deliver more innovative solutions loved one manage their HIV care. Health, an organization focused on to patients around the world. Therefore, improving the health of Hispanic through GD&I best practices, policies and Other Merck Executive Committee communities in the U.S. and working programs, we ensure that candidate pools members demonstrate their commitment with others to secure health for all. are broad and representative of top, bestto diversity and inclusion as well, including: Adam also serves as the executive in-class talent from diverse backgrounds, sponsor for Merck’s Women’s that all applicants are treated fairly and • Willie Deese, president, Merck Employee Business Resource Group. equally in the selection process, and that Manufacturing Division, serves Merck is regarded as a “talent magnet” MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 21 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT for the most qualified and best-trained With this in mind, the company takes The Marketplace: Achieving employees around the world. We utilize a comprehensive approach to ensuring a Competitive Advantage in the targeted recruiting firms, attend job that employees have personal and Global Marketplace fairs, and leverage strategic alliances career development opportunities, build with organizations such as the Society important stakeholder relationships Merck recognizes that customers in the of Women Engineers, the National throughout their career, learn new skills, U.S., as well as worldwide, are becoming Society of Hispanic MBAs (NSHMBA), and hear the perspectives of the seniorincreasingly diverse, and that true the National Black MBA Association most people in the company in order competitive advantage lies in mirroring (NBMBAA), Ascend, Simmons College, to network and broaden their insights the markets we serve. As an example, Catalyst, the Gay, Lesbian & Straight and knowledge. Our employees also women account for more than half of the Education Network (GLSEN), Career have the opportunity, through the nine world’s population and patients. They Opportunities for Students with Employee Business Resource Groups, make 90 percent of all the healthcare Disabilities (COSD), 100,000 Jobs to contribute to the company, whether decisions for themselves, their children Mission, and more, to net the company it be suggestions regarding how to and families, and those in their care, a broad representation of talent with more fully leverage a product launch, representing an estimated $2.3 trillion important functional skills and training. how to enhance communications to a in healthcare purchases within the U.S. diverse segment of the market, or how and approximately $5 trillion globally. A clear expectation is set for all Merck to leverage national advocacy and local Women of color (African Ancestry/ leaders to achieve Global Diversity organizations to strengthen strategic Black, Hispanic/Latino, Asian/Pacific & Inclusion goals; these goals guide alliances in the communities we serve. Islander, and Native American/Native rewards and incentives set at the The Employee Business Resource Indigenous) also represent a core individual manager, divisional and Groups also play a critical role in providing customer and patient group for Merck. corporate level, and reflect functional networking opportunities, offering While they represent an emerging affirmative action plan targets developed leadership development sessions, and “minority” in the U.S. (35 percent of in accordance with legal requirements building awareness of their specific U.S. female population, with $1.3 trillion and diversity objectives. constituencies’ interests and heritage for in consumer spending), they represent greater understanding and appreciation. half of all mothers aged 15–44 in the The Workplace: Creating an Inclusive U.S. with children under their care, and Environment and Supportive Merck also maintains a strong emphasis are the dominant global majority with Leadership Behaviors on mentoring—both informal and specific health care needs. They are formal—as a key to successful leadership disproportionately impacted by chronic By actively promoting diversity and development. We offer work-life illness and conditions, such as diabetes, inclusion best practices, we work to integration programs to reflect the needs hypertension, HIV and osteoporosis. create a positive and flexible work of today’s talent and employee pool, to As the global emerging markets will environment that enhances our drive engagement, and to enhance our continue to be important to the Merck employees’ commitment to the company, reputation as an employer of choice. pharmaceutical and vaccine businesses, increases employee engagement, drives As an example, during 2013, the Merck increasing the representation of diverse higher levels of productivity and sharpens Hispanic/Latino Employee Business talent at Merck will help drive competitive our ability to excel in the competitive Resource Group entered its second business results. global landscape. year of offering mentoring support to Latino employees, leveraging the To operate successfully in this global cultural insights and the unique needs marketplace, and to achieve our vision of these constituents to help guide their of being the #1 trusted and valued career advancement. healthcare partner to patients, healthcare MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 22 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT providers and payers globally, we are The objective of the Global Diversity Our strategic alliances include: focusing on further aligning our internal & Inclusion Awards is to recognize workforce and executive population to employees at all levels around the world • Brinkley Heights Urban Academy better reflect and understand those we who demonstrate an extraordinary • Legal Services of Northwest Jersey serve. We believe that having a diverse, commitment to integrating diversity and inclusive workforce and organization inclusion throughout our company, at • United Negro College Fund (UNCF) makes us a more innovative and agile both the individual and the team level. • National Alliance for Hispanic Health company, better attuned to the needs • Philadelphia Foundation Community of our customers and able to respond The six categories of Global Diversity & Scholarship Fund—Cornerstone to these opportunities in a seamless, Inclusion excellence are: Christian Academy integrated fashion. Individual Categories Partnerships Global Diversity & Inclusion Governance • Integrates and Collaborates Merck values highly the opinions and • Enhances Merck’s External Image thought leadership of key influencers The Global Diversity & Inclusion Center • Demonstrates Personal Leadership and national advocacy groups within of Excellence (COE) oversees the the diverse communities we serve. company’s integrated effort to include • Demostrates Management Excellence Among the external partnerships and diversity and drive inclusion in all business strategic alliances we support are the practices. The COE is led by the Global Team Categories following organizations: Chief Diversity Officer, David Gonzales, who is responsible for creating the • Enhances Merck’s Image through • Ascend strategy for diversity and inclusion efforts External Outreach at Merck and providing direction for the • Catalyst • Supports Merck’s Business creation and management of tailored • Careers on Students with Disabilities through Inclusion diversity initiatives that support our (COSD) business priorities. The Global Diversity & Philanthropy • DiversityInc. Inclusion COE consults with our Office of Ethics and Human Resources to resolve • Executive Leadership Council Providing support for the communities in workplace issues involving diversity and • Gay Lesbian Straight Education which we live and work is an important oversees compliance with local, state and Network (GLSEN) value at Merck and a central tenet of federal regulations. giving back and of being a globally • Hispanic Association on Corporate responsible corporate citizen. In Responsibility (HACR) Merck Global Diversity & alignment with this value, the company Inclusion Awards • Healthcare Businesswomen’s provides support for a number of Association educational programs and nonprofit Merck recognizes that our success • Hire Heroes organizations that promote diversity depends upon the harmonious and inclusion. We have maintained a • Human Rights Campaign collaboration of our employees in relationship with these organizations achieving clearly stated business goals. • National Council of La Raza (NCLR) because we understand that supporting That’s one reason why the company • National Reservation Economic them helps to build stronger and more sponsors the Chairman’s Global Diversity Summit (National RES) robust relationships in the community & Inclusion Awards in recognition of the and enables us to reinforce our role as • Office of Disability Employment Policy outstanding commitment of employees employer of choice. (ODEP) to achieving diversity excellence. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 23 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Out & Equal Merck has a legacy of commitment and disability inclusion strategy that support for employees with disabilities. addresses the entire spectrum of the • Simmons College In 1983, Merck received its first employee experience with a strategic • Society of Women Engineers Office of Federal Contract Compliance road map that includes recruiting, • Tanenbaum Center Programs (OFCCP) Exemplary Voluntary retention and advancement, our JustEfforts Award, which honors federal in-Time manager training toolbox • US Business Leadership Network contractors that have demonstrated and employee education program, (USBLN) exemplary and innovative efforts to communications support, community • Families and Work Institute increase the employment opportunities of outreach, supply chain engagement, underrepresented ethnic groups, women, strategic alliance support and a A Strategy of Full Inclusion for individuals with disabilities, and veterans. measurement system to track results. Employees with Disabilities Since then, Merck has continued to • Workplace EnABLEment supports achieve compliance with the OFCCP individuals with an apparent or At Merck, we recognize that full inclusion guidelines under our functionally aligned non-apparent disability who are of employees with disabilities—both affirmative action plans. existing employees, who are actively apparent and non-apparent disabilities— seeking employment at Merck, and has the potential for positive business To address the business case of who are returning from medical or impact. Globally, approximately People with Disabilities (PwD), and to military leave. 15 percent of the world population is increase employment opportunities for believed to live with a disability.1 Those its constituents, Merck has developed • The Workplace EnABLEment program people are among the patients and Merck Workplace EnABLEment. adheres to external regulations and customers we serve at Merck. Within requirements as stipulated by federal the U.S. alone, there are an estimated • Merck Workplace EnABLEment is disability nondiscrimination laws, such 54 million people who are affected by the first enterprisewide, customized as the ADA and Section 503 of the either an apparent or non-apparent/ Rehabilitation Act. hidden disability. From a patient perspective, Merck recognizes that people with disabilities experience certain illnesses at a disproportionate rate compared to other patient groups. For example, individuals with diabetes are more than twice as likely as other patient groups to suffer a hearing disability. “Hearing loss may be an under-recognized complication of diabetes. As diabetes becomes more common, the disease may become a more significant contributor to hearing loss,” according to senior author Catherine Cowie, Ph.D., of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). 1 http://www.who.int/disabilities/world_report/2011/ report/en/ MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 24 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT leaders to identify opportunities to external community. These EBRG I N I T I AT I V E S leverage business insights, maximize and leaders provide guidance to local chapter cultivate the diversity of our talent, and ERGs that operate at Merck’s numerous Diversity and Inclusion Are Key enhance our corporate reputation and office, laboratory, manufacturing and Growth Strategies in Recruiting, community responsibility. field locations around the world. ERG Retention and Leadership membership is open to employees at all Development Programs There are three priority areas for the levels, and participation in ERG-hosted Business Insight Roundtable and EBRGs: events is also open to all fulland partMerck has had a substantial and time employees. sustained commitment to Global Diversity • Business Insights & Inclusion as a strategic enabler of The BIR and EBRG structure provides • Talent and Inclusion our vision to improve health outcomes strategic oversight to and is aligned with • Corporate Reputation and Responsibility Merck ERGs: for patients globally. By tapping into all employees’ imagination and creativity, the Under this structure, all employees The Women’s EBRG is aligned with the company is unleashing a unique source of globally are able to get involved by joining Merck Women’s Network (MWN); the competitive advantage: its people. an Employee Business Resource Group African Ancestry EBRG is aligned with or a local chapter of an ERG and to the League of Employees of African Business Insight Roundtable contribute by providing perspective and Descent (LEAD); the Hispanic/Latino ideas on how to address the opportunities EBRG is aligned with the Merck Hispanos Early in 2012, the company announced the and challenges facing the company today Organization (MHO); the Veteran EBRG launch of the Business Insight Roundtable and in the future. is aligned with the Veterans Leadership (BIR). The BIR is a powerful resource in our commitment to saving and improving Network (VLN); the lesbian, gay, bisexual Employee Business Resource Groups and transgender (LGBT) EBRG is aligned lives. In keeping with our focus on the needs of Merck patients, customers and with the Merck Rainbow Alliance (MRA); EBRGs are one of the ways that we the Asia Pacific EBRG is aligned with colleagues around the word, this diversity intentionally drive inclusion best practices the Asia Pacific Association (APA); the and inclusion governance structure for our employees. For employees who Differently Able EBRG is aligned with the provides employees with better insights share similar affiliation, the EBRGs Merck Allies for Disabilities (AFD); and into our most pressing business priorities represent excellent opportunities to the Interfaith EBRG is aligned with the and better aligns our efforts to strategies support and contribute to the company’s Merck Interfaith Organization (MIO). to enhance our ability to outperform in business goals, to network, to engage the marketplace. in community outreach, to participate in The EBRGs have had a direct impact leadership development opportunities throughout 2013 in driving business The Business Insight Roundtable and to share provide business insights results for Merck: comprises a group of nine senior with Merck leaders. business leaders from across Merck who provide guidance to our nine Employee • The BIR and the Women’s EBRG, The leaders of each EBRG are nominated in particular, provided valuable Business Resource Groups (EBRGs) to for a two-year period to serve as leaders insight to Merck’s Marketing Team more fully integrate, leverage and align for their demographic groups at an on OXYTROL® FOR WOMEN, the the multitude of local chapter Employee enterprise level, act as an educational first over-the-counter treatment for Resource Groups (ERGs) across the and cultural resource for other Merck overactive bladder (OAB) in women. company. Kenneth C. Frazier, Merck’s employees and business groups, and Research shows that OAB is among chairman and chief executive officer, serve as contact points for and build the top 10 conditions affecting women and our Executive Committee members key strategic relationships with Merck’s today; over 20 million women in the work directly with the BIR and EBRG MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 25 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT U.S. experience OAB, which impacts • The Native American/Indigenous and inclusion. Accordingly, we their lifestyle. Working with marketing EBRG designed Sacred Dream, a support Cornell University’s Beyond insights from the Women’s EBRG, revenue-generating business that will the Yellow Ribbon initiative as a Merck Consumer Care successfully provide employment opportunities means of recruiting veterans and launched this product in 2013. for tribal residents. Sacred Dream building awareness of its fulladdresses growing healthcare inclusion strategies. • Merck Hispanic/Latino EBRG disparities among Native American • Disability Mentoring Day: Disability partnered with LATINA Style and indigenous populations. Its Mentoring Day is an effort to promote Magazine to launch MerckEngage business strategy includes the career development for students and in the Hispanic market. The development of a healthcare job seekers with disabilities through MerckEngage site provides valuable expansion model in partnership with job shadowing and hands-on career information in an easy-to-navigate tribal and government organizations. exploration. It provides an opportunity and accessible way for consumers to have access to vital healthcare to learn about the connections information on topics such as fitness, Over 8,000 Merck employees are between school and work, evaluate healthy living, caregiving and specific members of an EBRG today. personal goals and explore possible health issues, including diabetes, career paths. Merck has participated asthma, cholesterol and more. The Recruiting in this event, hosted by the American site is one of the few consumer Association of People with Disabilities healthcare information sites available Merck has participated in several (AAPD), for three years, and has in both Spanish and English. The recruiting initiatives designed to seek and provided more than 145 mentees with availability of this rich source of health attract diverse job candidates. job-shadowing opportunities. information can help to close a gap • Diversity Conferences: Merck that exists in the Hispanic community • 100,000 Jobs Mission: Merck joined the 100,000 Jobs Mission, a growing partners with several diversity-focused for culturally and linguistically relevant professional organizations in order health information and health-related coalition of employers who aim to hire at least 100,000 veterans by 2020. to find diverse talent for entry-level educational resources. through professional-level positions Merck was the first pharmaceutical • The African Ancestry EBRG provided member company to join and has within the company, targeting women, insight to Merck’s Consumer Care encouraged industry colleagues to join African Americans, Hispanics and the Marketing Team on Coppertone® as the effort as well. LGBT community. We are able to target a sunscreen for consumers of African diverse constituencies through our • Career Opportunities for Students relationships with such organizations as ancestry. Although individuals with with Disabilities: We collaborate Simmons College, the National Black more melanin in their skin (e.g., people with Career Opportunities for Students MBA (NBMBA), the National Society of African descent) have greater with Disabilities (COSD) to help of Hispanic MBAs (NSHMBA) and The protection against the sun than those more effectively prepare students National Council of La Raza. with less melanin (e.g., Caucasians), with disabilities for recruitment there is still a need for sunscreen • Drexel’s Disability Career Day: In opportunities in the industry. protection among all people. Working partnership with Drexel University, with the African Ancestry EBRG, • Cornell University: Beyond the we implemented the inaugural the marketing team was able to Yellow Ribbon Initiative: Merck Merck Disability Career Day, on leverage insights about the use of recognizes that almost 50 percent which,recruiters, members of the sun care among African Americans of U.S. veteran employees in the Differently Able EBRG and other to help improve sunscreen education workforce have some form of relevant Merck colleagues provided and usage. disability that requires support in the professional and career skills form of workplace accommodations MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 26 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT development for people with disabilities a five-year, $13 million grant, and in Two in particular will help further the on the Drexel campus. Recruiters 2011, the Foundation pledged another company’s goal of creating a fully provided attendees with information $14 million to the UNCF over five years. inclusive work environment for all: regarding general career skills and • U.S. Business Leadership Network personal résumé-review sessions. • Microinequities Training: This (USBLN®) Career Link Mentoring Disability-specific information was also training provides employees with an Program: The Career Link Mentoring provided, including ADA Overviews opportunity to learn about and avoid Program is a collaborative project and Disclosure Dialogue. The overall noninclusive behaviors. between the USBLN and Cornell atmosphere of the gathering was • Unconscious-Bias Education: University’s Employment and extremely informal. The program Using thought leadership related to Disability Institute. Merck is among was enthusiastically supported by unconscious bias in the workplace, all the member companies that supports Drexel and Merck stakeholders and is Merck vice presidents and above will the USBLN Career Link Mentoring something we plan to implement at be introduced to Unconscious-Bias Program by providing a six-month additional core schools in the future. Education (UBE) to identify the hidden career mentoring opportunity to • National Alliance for Hispanic 40–50 college students and recent biases we all possess and to mitigate Health: Together with the National graduates with disabilities. their impact on the employment life Alliance for Hispanic Health, Merck cycle. UBE has been proven as a key launched a program to promote science The company also partners with several enabler to help organizations: education called the Alliance/Merck diversity engineering conferences, • Raise awareness of leaders and Ciencia (Science) Hispanic Scholars such as the National Society of Black enable them to understand their Program. The Alliance/Merck Ciencia Engineers (NSBE), the Society of own inherent biases; program is designed to help Hispanic Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) students pursue undergraduate and the Society of Women Engineers • Positively impact leaders’ abilities degrees in science, technology, (SWE), in an effort to source qualified to more fairly assess, retain, engineering and mathematics (STEM). engineering talent and those individuals develop and promote diverse talent; • United Negro College Fund (UNCF): with STEM training for positions • Develop leaders’ “cultural Despite statistics suggesting that more throughout the company and in specific competence” for working with than 50 percent of new entrants into regional locations. Moreover, we others who are different from tomorrow’s workforce will be people collaborate with several minority research themselves; and, of color, African Americans currently science organizations—such as The • Improve leaders’ capabilities in hold less than 3 percent of PhDs in National Organization of Black Chemists operating and competing effectively biology and chemistry. To help address and Chemical Engineers (NOBCChE) in the global arena, which translates this imbalance, Merck joined with and the American Indian Science and into success with customers and UNCF to help expand the pool of worldEngineering Society (AISES)—in an effort within the marketplace. class African American biomedical to create a 21st century workforce that scientists and, in so doing, achieve the is gender-balanced and inclusive of top, Merck’s use of Unconscious-Bias complementary goals of enhancing diverse talent in the STEM disciplines. Education is further evidence of economic competitiveness and social the company’s strong commitment diversity in the U.S. The UNCF/Merck Training & Leadership Development to create and sustain an inclusive Science Initiative (UMSI) was launched work environment and promote in 1995 with a 10-year, $20 million Merck offers employees a variety of leadership behaviors that create a fully grant from the Merck Foundation. training programs and development engaged workforce. In 2005, the Foundation renewed opportunities that reinforce our its commitment to the UNCF with commitment to diversity and inclusion. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 27 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE Total Workforce by Employees and Supervised Workers by Gender Employees Gender Count Female Male Unknown Total Workforce 36,665 40,168 454 77,287 Supervised Workforce 31,147 30,481 361 61,989 Total Workforce by Region and Gender Region Gender Total Female Male Unknown Emerging Markets– 5,977 6,984 0 12,961 Asia Pacific Emerging Markets–EEMEA 2,281 2,024 96 4,401 Emerging Markets– 3,160 3,683 196 7,039 Latin America EUCan 11,389 10,478 162 22,029 Japan 925 3,214 0 4,139 U.S. 12,933 13,785 0 26,718 Total 36,665 40,168 454 77,287 Female Male Unknown Total Emerging Markets– 7.73% 9.04% 0.00% 16.77% Asia Pacific Emerging Markets–EEMEA 2.95% 2.62% 0.12% 5.69% Emerging Markets– 4.09% 4.77% 0.25% 9.11% Latin America EUCan 14.74% 13.56% 0.21% 28.50% Japan 1.20% 4.16% 0.00% 5.36% U.S. 16.73% 17.84% 0.00% 34.57% Total 47.44% 51.97% 0.59% 100% MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 28 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Women in the workforce1 50% 50% 51% 47% 47% Women on the Board 17% 17% 17% 17% 17% Women in executive roles1,2 25% 32% 35% 31% 31% Women on the senior 32% 39% 42% 35% 35% management team3 Women in management roles4 41% 47% 43% 38% 37% Underrepresented members of 11% 11% 11% 25% 25% ethnic groups on the Board Underrepresented members 13% 15% 17% 16% 17% of ethnic groups in executive roles (U.S.) Underrepresented members 16% 20% 15% 23% 23% of ethnic groups on the senior management team (U.S.) Underrepresented members of 24% 24% 29% 24% 24% ethnic groups in the workforce (U.S.) Underrepresented members 22% 25% 19% 18% 18% of ethnic groups in management roles (U.S.) New hires that were female1 45% 51% 50% 45% 46% New hires that were members 30% 25% 25% 27% 25% of underrepresented ethnic groups (U.S.) Applications for diversity awards5 NA 380 NA 109 NA Countries represented in NA 34 NA 18 NA applications for diversity awards5 NA: Data not available. 1 Beginning with 2012, data reported for women is global. Previously, it was limited to the U.S. 2 “Executive” is defined as the CEO and one to two levels below. 3 “Senior management team” is defined as the fourth structural level below the CEO. 4 “Management role” is defined as all the other managers with direct reports not reflected in notes 2 or 3. 5 Diversity & Inclusion Awards were not distributed in 2009, 2011 or 2013. Note: Merck has publicly disclosed EEO-1 information since 1999. Our 2011 data is available at http://www.merck.com/about/how-we-operate/diversity/2011EEO-1-diversity-brochure.pdf MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 29 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT company to invest in key areas for future These position eliminations consisted of RESTRUCTURING growth, including emerging markets, biologics, vaccines and consumer care. employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The 2008 Restructuring Program was As part of the Merger Restructuring substantially completed in 2011, with In October 2013, the company Program, the company expected to the exception of certain manufacturingannounced a new global reduce its workforce, as measured related actions, that are expected to be restructuring program (the “2013 at the time of the merger, by an completed by 2015. As of July 1, 2013, Restructuring Program”) as part additional 12 to 13 percent across the the remaining future separations under of a global initiative to sharpen company worldwide. A majority of the the 2008 Restructuring Program were its commercial and research & workforce reductions in this phase of transferred to the Merger Restructuring the Merger Restructuring Program Program, and any remaining activities development focus. related to manufacturing (including under the 2008 Restructuring Program Animal Health), administrative and are now being accounted for as part of As part of the new program, the company headquarters organizations. the Merger Restructuring Program. expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. These Previously announced workforce The company will continue to hire workforce reductions will come primarily reductions of approximately 17 percent employees as necessary in strategic from the elimination of positions in in earlier phases of the program primarily growth areas of the business, and will sales, administrative and headquarters reflected the elimination of positions in continue to pursue productivity and organizations, as well as research & sales, administrative and headquarters operational efficiencies and to regularly development. The company will also organizations, as well as eliminations evaluate its manufacturing supplyreduce its global real estate footprint resulting from the sale or closure of chain capabilities. and continue to improve the efficiency certain manufacturing and research of its manufacturing & supply network. & development sites, and from the While we believe these actions The actions taken under the 2013 consolidation of office facilities. are necessary to support Merck’s Restructuring Program are expected to competitive advantage, they are difficult be substantially completed by the end From the inception of the Merger decisions that will impact some of our of 2015. In 2013, approximately 1,540 Restructuring Program through colleagues, their families and local positions were eliminated under this plan. December 31, 2013, Merck eliminated communities. We are committed to approximately 26,880 positions making these decisions in a responsible In July 2011, in the midst of a challenging through employee separations, as well way, with respect, transparency and business environment, the company as the elimination of contractors and open, ongoing communication. Eligible announced the latest phase of its global vacant positions. employees affected by restructuring restructuring program (the “Merger actions will be able to receive benefits Restructuring Program”), which was In October 2008, Merck announced a and other services that may include initiated in conjunction with the merger global restructuring program (the “2008 severance pay, continuance of healthcare of the legacy Merck and legacy ScheringRestructuring Program”) to reduce its benefits and outplacement services. Plough businesses. cost structure, increase its efficiency, and enhance its competitiveness. For updated information on Merck’s The Merger Restructuring Program From its inception in 2008 through restructuring program, please see our was intended to support Merck’s June 30, 2013, Merck has eliminated most recently filed quarterly and strategic direction as a customerapproximately 6,460 positions as part annual reports. focused, innovative and diversified global of the 2008 Restructuring Program. healthcare company, and to enable the MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES | AUGUST 2014 30 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS & TRANSPARENCY At Merck, the foundation of required to take. This refresher course engaging audiences on all sides of the our strategy is our unwavering presents employees with the opportunity issues that matter, and by going beyond to apply their understanding of the Code mandatory disclosure to proactively commitment to values to business situations that any employee communicate key information in and integrity. might encounter. greater detail. All employees are expected to behave We aspire to be the most trusted We disclose information through a variety ethically and in compliance with healthcare company in the world. Our of mechanisms, including our financial the Merck Code of Conduct and Values and Standards are an essential and corporate responsibility reporting, policies. The Code of Conduct, called part of how we build trust and confidence participation in voluntary efforts such as Our Values and Standards, is the with customers, partners, employees, the Carbon Disclosure Project, through foundation of our company’s ethics and the general public and other stakeholders. the media, and through one-on-one compliance program. We’re working every day to earn trust by stakeholder discussions. We believe ethics and compliance training is an important part of creating a strong culture at Merck. The Global Compliance Training Series (GCTS) portfolio of required fundamental courses helps build awareness of the Merck Code of Conduct, policies and legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business. The GCTS includes Understanding the Merck Code of Conduct, Preventing Corruption and Bribery, Preventing Discrimination and Harassment, Protecting Trade Secrets and several other courses that are mandatory for targeted employees. In 2013, we introduced a new annual refresher on the Code of Conduct that all employees were MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 1 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We have a well-established global Merck’s Board of Directors and senior COMPLIANCE compliance program that is consistent with the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & management, including the chief ethics and compliance officer and members of the Corporate Compliance Committee, Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice provide the foundational elements of Being an ethical company is about requirements, as well as other applicable leadership, accountability and structure to much more than simply adhering regional or country industry codes oversee the company’s global compliance to the letter of the law—but that’s of conduct, including those issued program. Written standards, including a an important step. by the Pharmaceutical Research and corporate Code of Conduct, complianceManufacturers of America (PhRMA) and related policies and procedures, As part of our long-standing commitment European Federation of Pharmaceutical education, training and communications, to ethics and good corporate citizenship, Industry Associations (EFPIA). reinforce the importance of ethical and our first step is always to comply compliant business practices. with the laws and regulations that The global compliance program is built govern the way we market and sell our around the core elements of an effective The Corporate Compliance Committee medicines, vaccines and other products. compliance program: meets at least four times per year to review the compliance status across the company’s business divisions worldwide as part of the committee’s effort to assess the effectiveness of the company’s compliance program. MERCK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 2 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Values and Standards, the Merck The Office of Ethics is also responsible OFFICE OF ETHICS Code of Conduct, and by fostering a culture that promotes the prevention, detection and resolution of potential for managing the Merck Ombuds Program, which offers an additional safe haven for U.S.-based employees to misconduct. The Office of Ethics helps discuss work-related issues without fear At Merck, how we operate is as to protect and promote the Company’s of retaliation. This program confidentially important as what we do. high ethical standards on a worldwide addresses employees’ concerns mainly basis by developing and overseeing relating to manager or coworker relations It is critically important to our patients, global initiatives designed to deter illegal, or fair treatment. About 65 percent of the consumers, purchasers, healthcare unethical and improper behavior related calls that the Office of Ethics receives professionals, employees and to the company’s business. The Office each year are classified as part of the investors, and to the sustainability of of Ethics is responsible for updating the ombuds process. our business success, that we adhere Code of Conduct and for ensuring that to all applicable laws, and regulations, employees are aware of and trained Addressing Misconduct follow ethical business practices, on the Code of Conduct. One key maintain good corporate governance, responsibility of the office is to serve as a It is Merck’s policy to maintain a work practice transparency and treat people channel for the receipt and investigation environment where all employees are with respect. of employee concerns about potential expected to report potential ethical and ethics or compliance violations. A second compliance concerns that are inconsistent We have strong management oversight, key area of responsibility is the mandatory with the company’s Code of Conduct and comprehensive corporate policies and global compliance training program that policies. The company is committed to procedures and a long history of abiding all employees must complete. A third maintaining a process that ensures timely by legal and regulatory requirements key area is corporate policies to ensure escalation and investigation of potential and of promoting high ethical standards. that employees have standards that compliance concerns. Retaliation against Every Merck employee is responsible for provide guidance on expected behaviors employees who report such concerns adhering to business practices that are and responsibilities. is a violation of corporate policy and will in accordance with the letter and spirit of not be tolerated. The Office of Ethics is the law and with ethical principles that Resources for Employees responsible for oversight of the global reflect the highest standards of corporate processes for managing investigations and individual behavior. The Office of Ethics serves as an into potential ethics and compliance employee resource for raising concerns concerns to ensure consistent and timely The Merck Office of Ethics was about ethical and compliance-related resolution of potential concerns and established in 1995 with the goal of concerns. There are multiple channels implementation of remediation actions. further supporting our company’s through which employees can contact the When Merck substantiates allegations of commitment to the highest standard of Office of Ethics. Employees can contact ethical misconduct, it takes appropriate corporate conduct, responsibility and the Office of Ethics directly, by toll-free disciplinary actions in order to ensure accountability. The Office of Ethics is led telephone or email, to speak to an ethics that those who were responsible are by the vice president, Office of Ethics officer or ombudsperson. Merck also held accountable. Disciplinary actions and International Compliance, who provides a confidential toll-free intake can include dismissal from the company, reports to the company’s chief ethics service, called AdviceLine, through a issuance of final written warning letters, and compliance officer. The mission of third party that offers the option for the or financial penalties. We also take the Office of Ethics is to actively support reporting person to remain anonymous. appropriate steps to address any needed Merck’s commitment to the highest improvements in organizational and standards of ethics and compliance by process controls. facilitating behavior consistent with MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 3 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In early 2014, Merck adopted a new Annual Ethics & Policy Certification and certify, in writing, whether actual policy that will give the company the or potential conflicts of interest exist. discretion to recoup incentive payments An important component of Merck’s Where potential conflicts are identified, made to employees in certain instances. corporate compliance program is its the Office of Ethics will work with This policy will apply when a senior annual ethics and policy certification. management to take actions to mitigate leader engages in misconduct or fails to the potential conflict. In addition, all reasonably supervise an employee who The annual review process requires all U.S.-based employees must certify engages in misconduct that results in a directors, officers, managers and other compliance with Merck’s corporate material policy violation relating to the selected company employees to certify policy on the effects of exclusions, research, development, manufacturing, compliance with the Code of Conduct debarments, suspensions and healthcaresales or marketing of company products and corporate policies on ethical business related criminal convictions, reporting where the policy violation causes practices, antitrust law compliance and and screening. significant financial or reputational harm insider trading. These employees are to the company. also expected to regulate their outside The certification process also includes a activities to avoid any conflicts of interest question soliciting employees to report any concern they may have about the company’s business not being conducted PERFORMANCE in full compliance with laws, regulations and company policies. Although the number of responses submitted represented less than one percent of all employees, the company investigated each issue to ensure full compliance with laws, regulations and company policy. Beginning with 2014, the Annual Ethics & Policy Certification will take place in the second quarter. While the Annual Ethics & Policy Certification may not have been completed in 2013, employees were reminded throughout the year about the company’s policies through ongoing communication and training. Employees are also reminded to discuss potential conflicts of interest with their management or another company resource, such as the Office of Ethics, prior to engaging in any activity. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 4 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT environment and to deter employee opportunity to apply their understanding MERCK CODE misconduct. These core values included in the Code of Conduct are intended of the code to business situations that employees might encounter. Efforts OF CONDUCT to foster: have now expanded to integrate ethics and compliance content into business • Compliance with company policies and and leadership development courses applicable governmental laws, rules for managers and senior leaders. The Merck Code of Conduct, and regulatory requirements Ethics and integrity are key leadership called Our Values and Standards, • Safeguards to protect the privacy competencies that are assessed as part is considered to be the foundation of annual performance reviews. These of personal information, as well core leadership competencies also play of our company’s success. These as honesty and transparency in an integral role in our decisions about values and standards apply communications about our products employee advancement in the company. worldwide, wherever our company • Measures to mitigate potential does business. conflicts of interest External Suppliers’ Ethical Standards • Prompt internal reporting of potential Ethics and integrity make up one of violations of the Code of Conduct We abide by strict ethical standards in our five core values, as outlined in our and policies our own operations—and we insist on mission statement. These values are equivalent standards from our suppliers. • Employee accountability for adherence underscored in the company’s Code of Merck has a Business Partner Code of to the values and standards set forth in Conduct, Our Values and Standards, Conduct that is based on Merck’s Code the Code of Conduct which was first developed and distributed of Conduct, Our Values and Standards, to Merck employees in 1999, and has as well as the Pharmaceutical Supply To download a copy of the Merck Code of been updated three times since then. The Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) Pharmaceutical Conduct or locate company resources to current edition includes antibribery and Industry Principles and the 10 principles raise a question or concern, click here. anticorruption guidance. of the United Nations Global Compact. Ethics Training & Development Our Code of Conduct, available in To download a copy of the Merck 26 languages, applies one standard of Business Partner Code of Conduct, We provide training to all employees conduct to all employees worldwide. click here. worldwide on our Code of Conduct to ensure awareness of our values The values and standards embodied in For more information on how we work and standards as well as a variety of Merck’s Code of Conduct are designed with our suppliers to uphold ethical associated topics such as privacy and to promote ethical business practices standards, please click here. preventing discrimination, harassment, as our employees conduct activities corruption and bribery. In 2013, we in a continuously evolving business introduced a new annual refresher on the Code of Conduct that all employees are required to take. This refresher course presents employees with the MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 5 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our global privacy program is structured Our program is modeled for continuous GLOBAL PRIVACY around a system of five core elements consistent with recognized standards improvement, based on changes within our business and in the external PROGRAM for implementing an accountable environment that affect inherent privacy privacy program. While the principle of risks and the effectiveness of our privacy accountability was first recognized in controls. The five core elements are: the Guidelines Governing the Protection Merck has implemented a of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Awareness comprehensive global privacy Personal Data (the “Guidelines”) issued, program that promotes in 1980, by the Organisation for Economic • Promote and maintain a corporate Co-operation and Development (OECD), culture that respects privacy and accountable privacy and data the essential elements for an accountable protects information about people protection practices across privacy program were first expressed in • Communicate timely information about our business and with our 2009 by the Accountability Project, an updates to privacy laws, regulations, collaborative partners and initiative led by the Centre for Information rules, guidelines and policy issues suppliers. In 4Q 2013, our program Policy Leadership, with participation was certified under the Asia from privacy regulators, data protection Policies & Standards Pacific Economic Cooperation authorities, business and academia. Merck established its system in 2010 Cross-Border Privacy Rules • Implement privacy and data-protection and joined the Accountability Project in System. Merck is the first policies and standards that set forth 2011. In 2013, the OECD published its operational principles and procedures, healthcare company in the world first revision to the Guidelines since 1980. governance, accountability, incident to achieve this certification. The revised Guidelines set forth a new handling and individual redress standard for implementing accountability Our program is designed to assure that through privacy management Training four core privacy values are embedded programs. Our global privacy program into the way we conduct our business, is consistent with the standards of the • Implement a privacy-training without regard to how our business, revised Guidelines. curriculum designed to support the technology or other external factors core elements of “Awareness” and may change. “Policies & Standards,” and to provide functional knowledge aligned to roles and responsibilities Accountability Demonstrate the effectiveness of our program by: • Prospectively building and documenting appropriate privacy and data-protection requirements into Merck processes and systems that will be maintained throughout process and system life cycles MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 6 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Periodically verifying privacy and data Merck was one of the first pharmaceutical protection compliance through audits, companies to certify its adherence to the assessments and investigations Safe Harbor Framework. We first certified in November 2001. U.S. organizations • Reporting to government authorities that certify to the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor as required by law are recognized as providing adequate • Management acknowledgement protection for personal data transferred and responsibility for ensuring that from the EEA, and organizations that requirements are addressed certify to the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor are recognized as providing adequate Metrics protection for personal data transferred from Switzerland. Our Safe Harbor • Define baseline and target metrics certification applies to transfers of to determine the effectiveness, experiences (supports our privacy personal information about a broad maturity and risks associated with the principle of Necessity) range of stakeholders from the EEA and, privacy program since 2009, from Switzerland, including S—Security: Protecting personal • Collect and analyze data for each employees, customers, patients, clinical information from loss, misuse, metric and evaluate program investigators, healthcare professionals unauthorized access, disclosure, effectiveness, maturity and risks, and and others. We have reaffirmed our alteration or destruction (supports our areas for enhancement, improvement adherence to the Safe Harbor annually privacy principles of Data Integrity, and risk mitigation since 2001. Security and Data Transfer) Consistent with our privacy values, we In 2013, Merck became the first T—Treating our stakeholders in a manner continue to believe that trust is core to healthcare company in the world, and consistent with the company’s values our privacy mission. We define Privacy the second multinational company, to (supports our privacy principles of TRUST as supporting each of the be certified under the new Asia Pacific Access, Correction, Enforcement and operational privacy and data protection Economic Cooperation Cross-Border Dispute Resolution) principles to which we adhere: Privacy Rules System (APEC CBPR). The APEC CBPR system provides a Global Cross-Border Data Flows T—Transparency: Being clear about framework for organizations to ensure how personal information is collected, protection of personal information As a U.S.-based corporation, we have used and disclosed (supports our privacy transferred among participating relied on the Safe Harbor Framework principle of Notice) APEC economies. Achievement of for transfers of personal data from the APEC certification demonstrates to European Economic Area (“EEA”) to R—Respecting Choices: Such as whether our customers, patients and other the United States (the “Safe Harbor”) or not people want to participate in our stakeholders our strong commitment to as a primary mechanism for facilitating programs (supports our privacy principle accountable, values-based, privacy and cross-border data flow originating from of Choice) data protection practices in every region European countries. We also have utilized of the world in which we operate. the Safe Harbor principles to support U—Understanding Perspectives: the development of our comprehensive Including that people have different levels privacy program, including incorporation of concerns about their privacy based of Safe Harbor standards for on cultural perspectives and personal movement of personal data to and from other countries. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 7 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Privacy Risk & Effectiveness with us in multiple ways to compare A DVO C ACY our practices. All of our standardized Consistent with our commitments comprehensive notices, available in Merck is actively engaged in to accountability and continuous multiple languages, are published online. policy and advocacy efforts to improvement of our program, in 2011 further privacy standards and we developed a quantitative approach We recognize that health innovations to consistently evaluate privacy risk continue at a rapid pace, and we strive next-generation policy frameworks and determine the impact of control to enhance our transparency practices that promote responsible effectiveness on privacy risks across our to address these changes. In 2009, we collection, use and collaborative operations. We continue to apply this updated our Internet Privacy Policy sharing of data in support of approach to new activities and initiatives to include explanations of new ways in healthcare, biomedical research to provide consistent guidance on which we planned to collect personal and other innovation. required privacy standards and controls. information online using social media In connection with our annual privacy and mobile computing; the transparency Merck is a member of the International compliance review, we also evaluated standards we apply to these types of Pharmaceutical Privacy Consortium global and country operations, and we online technologies; and additional (IPPC), an association of researchutilized this quantitative approach to disclosures regarding collection of based pharmaceutical companies that determine opportunities for improvement information from personal computers and supports worldwide responsibility for the in specific areas and across our program. other electronic devices. We also began protection of personal health information implementing contextual privacy notices and other types of personal data. Merck is Transparency & Privacy in our apps for mobile devices in 2009. a corporate member of the International Most of our privacy notices can be found Association of Privacy Professionals, We aspire to be a leader in privacy in the description at the app store, as well and we encourage development of transparency practices. We aim to as in the information, settings, email and privacy competencies through privacy achieve this by explaining our privacy reporting features of our mobile apps. In training and professional certification of practices in ways that enable our 2011, we began implementing reference designated privacy leaders and stewards. stakeholders to make meaningful choices notices to Merck privacy practices on Merck also participates in other privacy about how we collect, use and disclose social media platforms through which and information policy organizations, personal information about them. Merck engages stakeholders such as such as the Centre for Information Facebook and Twitter. In 2012, we Policy Leadership (CIPL) and the Future Since 2007, we have developed and began implementing our first privacy of Privacy Forum, which encourage published standardized comprehensive notices for Merck apps hosted on social responsible information governance privacy notices for major categories of media platforms, such as Facebook. and the development of leading privacy stakeholders about whom we collect, use In recognition of growing regulatory practices. We also participate as a and disclose personal information across concerns regarding mobile app privacy, formal stakeholder in the Center for our business. We adopted a format first in 2013, we published a new standLaw, Ethics and Applied Research proposed in 2007 for the U.S. financial alone overview regarding our mobile app in Health Information (CLEAR services industry.1 This standard format privacy practices. Health Information). uses a tabular approach to categorize 1 T  he proposed Model Privacy Notice was included the information provided in the notices in in the Interagency Proposal for Model Privacy Form In 2012, we engaged in constructive order to make them easier to understand, under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, 72 FR 14940 discussions with U.S., European and and easier for people who interact (March 29, 2007). Latin American regulators, scholars and business privacy leaders on Phase IV of the CIPL Accountability Project, MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 8 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT including presentation of our approach PERFORMANCE to privacy risk assessment and piloting of an organizational self-assessment tool for privacy accountability. The outcome of Phase IV was published in an Accountability Self-Assessment Tool released by CIPL in December 2012. In demonstration of our commitment to accountability as a key facet of our global privacy program, in 3Q 2012, Merck integrated the structure and standards of the Accountability SelfAssessment Tool into the management certification process that supports our annual privacy compliance verification. In 2013, Merck became a founding supporter of the Information Accountability Foundation, a charitable organization created to build upon the work of the Accountability Project to further accountability-based information governance that facilitates information-driven innovation while protecting individuals’ rights to privacy and autonomy. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 9 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck’s Global Policy on Human Rights Our Values and Standards (Code of HUMAN RIGHTS and Our Values and Standards (Code of Conduct), which reaffirms our commitment to scientific excellence, Conduct), our Global Labor Relations Guiding Principles, and our environmental governance and management ethics and integrity. systems. Specifically: Human rights are an important element of Merck’s commitment Our Values and Standards outline our 1. Labor Standards: We maintain to conducting our business in a responsibilities to our customers, our labor standards, including hours, responsible manner. fellow employees, our suppliers, our conditions, wages and overtime pay communities and societies around the practices, that are in compliance with Merck respects human rights as world, as well as to our shareholders. the laws of the jurisdictions in which recognized by the principles of the United These responsibilities are not only the we operate. Nations Global Compact and as defined in foundation of our company and what we 2. Health & Safety: We provide a safe the United Nations Universal Declaration stand for, but the basis of our success. and healthy work environment in all of of Human Rights; the International Our Global Policy on Human Rights our operations, regardless of their size Covenant on Economic, Social and further strengthens our commitment or function. Cultural Rights, the International in this area by defining specific roles Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the and responsibilities to ensure that our 3. Freedom of Association: We Organisation for Economic Co-operation policies are effectively implemented respect our employees’ right to and Development (OECD) Guidelines for across Merck. freedom of association. Multinational Enterprises; and the core 4. Forced & Child Labor: We labor standards set out in the International Our Aim condemn the use of forced labor and Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration exploitative child labor as defined by on Fundamental Principles and Rights We seek to prevent or mitigate adverse the International Labor Organization’s at Work. human rights practices that are directly 1998 Declaration on Fundamental linked to our operations, products Principles and Rights at Work. Our Belief or services. 5. Wages & Benefits: We compensate our employees in accordance with Merck believes in the dignity of every Our Commitment market practice in a manner that human being and in respecting individual supports their ability to meet their rights. The company has established Our commitment is formalized and basic needs. We also offer our global policies and processes to manifested through various policies, employees the opportunity to improve demonstrate this respect, including including our Human Rights Policy, their skills and capabilities. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 10 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6. Diversity & Equal Opportunities: status, disability or any other legally vendor. Employees also can contact the We value diversity and strive to protected characteristic subject to Office of Ethics directly and speak with provide equal opportunities for compliance with applicable law. an ethics specialist. Noncompliance with all individuals. Merck’s policies including human rights 14. Compliance: We adhere to local are subject to escalation, investigation 7. Privacy: We respect individual laws. When local protection is and remediation in accordance with our privacy expectations and protect insufficient or nonexistent, we established global processes. personal information that we collect, observe even more demanding use and disclose in connection with standards consistent with our human our business. rights policy to the extent that these Engagement with Suppliers standards do not violate local laws 8. Access to Healthcare: We respect We expect our suppliers and service and regulations. the right to health for all people providers to comply with human rights and work toward expanding access and environmental standards that are to care. Our Approach compatible with our own, and to conduct 9. Customers: We take into their business in accordance with the Merck’s Global Policy on Human consideration the economic, social, highest ethical standards throughout Rights was developed with input from geographic and cultural diversity of their entire supply chain. The Business employees in key functional areas our customers as we develop and Partner Code of Conduct further and from external stakeholders. It market our products. communicates our expectations. The was approved by Merck’s Executive code is based on our own code of 10. Business Partners: We expect Committee, which is also responsible conduct, Our Values and Standards, as appropriate standards of conduct and for ensuring that governance processes well as the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain respect for human rights, consistent are in place to provide oversight of the Initiative’s (PSCI’s) Pharmaceutical with our own, from our suppliers, implementation and execution of the Industry Principles for Responsible contractors, vendors and partners. policy. When we engage with third Supply Chain Management and the parties, we require specific contractual 11. Communities: We respect the 10 principles of the United Nations obligations and conduct a risk-based human rights of our neighbors Global Compact. We have implemented approach to due diligence and compliance in those areas where we have procedures to provide business partners monitoring. If a potential concern is raised operations or facilities. with our Business Partner Code of regarding a human right, the concern is 12. International Standards: We Conduct so that our values and standards, investigated and remediation action is respect international standards on including protection of human rights, are taken for any substantiated concerns. human rights and, where possible, clearly communicated at the outset. We contribute by working with partners. have translated the Business Partner Resources for Employees Code of Conduct into 26 different 13. Nondiscrimination: We do not languages to help ensure that the content discriminate in employment, Merck’s Office of Ethics serves as is widely understood. contracting, wages, promotion, an employee resource for raising working conditions or in any other concerns about ethical issues, including Learn more about environmental, labor opportunity based on race, color, noncompliance with corporate policies. and human rights in the supply chain. gender, gender identity, gender Employees globally can contact (via expression, genetic information, age, toll-free telephone or intranet) the religion, ethnicity, national origin, AdviceLine, which is run by an outside ancestry, sexual orientation, marital MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Employees can also contact the Merck citizens, pharmaceutical companies HUMAN RIGHTS Office of Ethics for assistance. In addition, the Office of Ethics maintains have a substantial role to play in realizing this right. OF OUR EMPLOYEES an “AdviceLine” that is available to employees, either by telephone or the The role of the pharmaceutical industry intranet, 24 hours a day, seven days in respecting and promoting health as a a week. Staffed by an independent human right is complex. We believe that Respect for human rights is organization, the AdviceLine allows our most basic role is our core activity of embedded in the company’s employees to remain anonymous, discovering, developing and delivering Code of Conduct, Our Values in accordance with applicable legal medicines and vaccines to address unmet standards for operation of whistlemedical needs. and Standards. blowing hotlines. • Another option is the Merck Ombuds We also recognize our ethical duty to In addition to Our Values and Standards Program, which offers a safe haven support governments in their efforts to and our Code of Conduct training for U.S. employees to discuss workprotect the right to health by “doing no programs, Merck established the Global related issues. harm.” We do this in a number of ways, Labor Relations Guiding Principles including by: to support our Global Labor Relations • Merck has a policy that prohibits Strategy and to ensure consistency retaliation against employees who • Monitoring and reporting on the safety worldwide. These principles support raise concerns through any of the of our products our commitment to respect employees’ available mechanisms. Retaliation lawful freedom of association globally. is not tolerated and is subject to • Providing healthcare workers and disciplinary actions up to and including consumers with important information Resources to Report Concerns termination of employment. on the benefits and side effects of our products Merck’s Code of Conduct promotes the • Safeguarding the health, safety and HEALTH AS A importance of maintaining a safe-toprivacy of patients involved in our speak-up environment and employees clinical trials are required to report policy violations to ensure they can be investigated and addressed. There are several ways in which employees can report suspected HUMAN RIGHT Supporting the Right to Health Beyond these efforts, we also have human rights violations: Health as a universal human the ability—and, we believe, the right is recognized by the United responsibility—to support the right to • As a first step, employees health and to effect positive change. can seek out an immediate Nations Universal Declaration We do this by promoting timely product supervisor or manager to discuss of Human Rights and the registration; by helping to improve suspected violations. International Covenant on access to new medicines and vaccines; • If the matter is not successfully Economic Social and Cultural and through partnerships and public resolved, or if concerns remain, Rights (ICESCR). policy advocacy that seek to strengthen employees are encouraged to pursue healthcare capacity and address deepthe issue with their next level of Although government has the primary rooted and multifaceted barriers to access management or Human Resources. responsibility for managing a health in ways that are aligned with our business system that ensures the health of its mission and core capabilities. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Others have roles and responsibilities, too. Industrialized countries—where most research in life sciences takes place—must continue to foster innovation by funding basic research and supporting related institutions, and by recognizing the value of innovative medicines and vaccines. Developing countries also must continue to make healthcare a budget priority; remove taxes and import duties on medicines that unnecessarily raise the price of medications; and limit product diversion to richer countries by price arbitragers. Emerging or middle-income countries should do the same, and should also recognize that they can and should pay more than the poorest countries for medicines, rather than take actions that remove incentives for innovation. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Post-Marketing Requirements Corporate Political Advocacy TRANSPARENCY Merck recognizes the importance and Contributions DISCLOSURES of providing transparent information Merck is committed to participating about the status of our marketing and constructively and responsibly in the development activities after a product has political process. To improve access to been approved by regulatory authorities. information about Merck’s advocacy Merck aspires to be open and This information can help ensure health activities, Merck discloses its costs transparent about how it operates care providers and patients remain associated with lobbying in the European in order to earn and retain the trust informed about our products. Union and the United States. and confidence of its customers, To inform the public about post-marketing Where permitted by law in the United employees, shareholders and activities, Merck will, on a quarterly States, Canada and Australia, the other important stakeholders. basis, post information concerning postcompany makes corporate political marketing requirements (PMRs) for U.S. contributions, primarily to the electoral We will do this by proactively providing marketed products intended for human campaigns of individual candidates. nonproprietary information to use on this website. Information will stakeholders about Merck’s business, include the nature and status of the PMRs To improve access to information about how we operate, and decisions we for the life cycle of a marketed product, Merck’s corporate and political action take, which will help stakeholders in accordance with U.S. regulations. committee contributions in the United make informed decisions about their Information will include reference to States, Merck semiannually posts the interactions with the company and clinical, non-clinical, or pharmacovigilance company’s contributions categorized its products. studies/trials that have been identified as by state, candidate and amount. Merck PMRs. Additional background on postalso discloses any contributions to We will disclose information through marketing requirements is available at the committees known as 527 organizations a variety of mechanisms, including FDA Web Site. or organizations organized under the our financial disclosures, corporate 501c(4) section of the U.S. tax code. responsibility reporting, participation Below are the column headings and Merck posts its contributions in Canada in voluntary efforts such as the Carbon explanations of terms found in the PDF and Australia annually. Disclosure Project, through the media, files below of Merck PMRs. The PDF files and through one-on-one stakeholder are searchable. Since 2008, we have also been disclosing discussions. As part of our commitment the portion of dues that major U.S.to increase transparency, we also disclose based trade associations report to us as information on our website about our being used for advocacy and/or political business in the following areas: activities where dues are >$25,000. We encourage all trade associations to which we belong to publicly disclose their political activities as well. Learn more. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Philanthropic Grants In 2009, we began voluntarily disclosing To learn more about our disclosure and Contributions all payments to U.S.-based healthcare of grants outside the United States, professionals who speak on behalf of click here. Starting in March 2009, Merck began Merck or our products. As of June 2012, reporting all philanthropic grants reports are posted quarterly reflecting Employee Diversity made through the Office of Corporate payments and transfers of value to Philanthropy and The Merck Foundation. U.S.-based physicians including those We were one of the first companies in engaged in clinical research activities. the United States to annually disclose our Charitable Contributions We include both direct payments Equal Employment Opportunity data and Report 1Q2014 to individual physicians, as well as continue to do so annually. Learn more. “indirect” payments to the research Charitable Contributions Report 2013 entity/institution with the name of the We consider diversity and inclusion Charitable Contributions Report 2012 associated principal investigator(s). integral parts of the culture we seek Charitable Contributions Report 2011 Learn more. to build. Charitable Contributions Report 2010 Grants to Medical, Scientific Carbon Disclosure Project Charitable Contributions Report 2009 and Patient Organizations Charitable Contributions Report 2008 The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Merck has a leadership role as a global is an independent not-for-profit Payments to European-based corporate citizen in our respective organization working to drive greenhouse Healthcare Professionals industries. We believe that providing gas emissions (GHG) reduction and support through grants or donations to sustainable water use by business Merck will begin disclosing payments to third party medical, scientific and patient and cities. European-based health care professionals organizations is an important way to and health care organizations in 2016. advance our mutual objectives to improve CDP works with investors globally to health and advance patient care. advance the investment opportunities and Merck will begin disclosing payments to reduce the risks posed by climate change European-based health care professionals We have robust standards and policies by asking almost 6,000 of the world’s and health care organizations in 2016 in place to ensure that our grants are largest companies to report on their in alignment with the disclosure intended and provided in support of climate strategies, GHG emissions and code announced by The European improving patient care, and are not energy use in the standardized Investor Federation of Pharmaceutical promotional or likely to be perceived as CDP format. Merck has been disclosing Industries and Associations (EFPIA) in being promotional in nature, or provided climate information via the CDP for a July 2013. Merck played a supportive role to induce or reward prescription of our number of years and more recently has in the development and adoption of the products. Further, any grant or donation participated in both their Water and code by the EFPIA board. must also be permitted by and aligned Supply Chain disclosures. with local country laws and regulations. Payments to U.S.-based CDP Climate Change (2013) Healthcare Professionals To learn more about our disclosure CDP Water Disclosure (2013) of grants inside the United States, click here. CDP Supply Chain (2013) As an early supporter of the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, we believe in broad disclosure of financial relationships between physicians and the pharmaceutical industry. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Clinical Trials Trial Data Sharing. Learn more about our Merck is committed to the timely policies and perspectives: DISCLOSURE OF GRANTS INSIDE THE registration of clinical trial information • Merck Policy on Access to Clinical and the disclosure of clinical trials— Trial Data regardless of their outcome. Learn more • Merck Policy on CSR Synopsis Posting about clinical trials. Clinical Trials Disclosures • Merck External Scientific Review Board (ESRB) Charter UNITED STATES Since 2007, we have registered at trial Scientific and medical researchers who Merck has a leadership role as initiation all clinical trials in patients wish to submit a proposal for access a global corporate citizen in our in which treatment is assigned that the company sponsors and conducts to Merck data may send an inquiry by respective industries. worldwide on www.ClinicalTrials.gov. clicking here. We also disclose results from registered We believe that providing support through clinical trials of marketed products— Clinical Research Protocols grants or donations to third-party medical, regardless of outcomes—on www. Effective July 1, 2011, when we scientific and patient organizations is an ClinicalTrials.gov. submit a manuscript on a study of an important way to advance our mutual investigational or an approved medicine objectives to improve health and advance Clinical Trial Results or vaccine to a biomedical journal, Merck patient care. We have robust standards Merck and Schering-Plough clinical will voluntarily include the protocol and and policies in place to ensure that our study results previously posted on statistical analysis plan. Merck previously grants are intended and provided in the Pharmaceutical Research and supplied this material only upon request. support of improving patient care, and are Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) Upon a journal’s acceptance of the not promotional or likely to be perceived Clinical Study Results Database, as of manuscript for publication, we will as promotional in nature, or provided December 2011 are available on www. provide the journal, at its own discretion, to induce or reward prescribing our merck.com and at the links below: with the opportunity to post on its products. Further, any grant or donation website the key sections of the protocol, must also be permitted by and aligned PhRMA List for Legacy Merck including the objectives and hypotheses, with local country laws and regulations. Studies PhRMA List for Legacy SP patient inclusion and exclusion criteria, Studies PhRMA List for Legacy study design and procedures, efficacy Merck discloses grants of more than Organon Studies and safety measures, the statistical $500 provided by the company’s analysis plan, and any amendments Global Human Health division to U.S. Clinical Trial Data Sharing relating to those sections. organizations in support of independent, Merck is committed to the PhRMA/ accredited educational programs for EFPIA Principles for Responsible Clinical healthcare professionals, as well as grants to patient organizations and other medical education or scientific societies/organizations in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Canada. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck updates grants to medical, As part of our commitment to these 2011 scientific and patient organizations principles, Merck regularly reviews Grants made in the 4th quarter 2011 quarterly in the United States, and and updates our Code of Conduct to in the U.S. annually for ex-U.S. jurisdictions. We will reaffirm our mission and commitment to Grants made in the 3rd quarter 2011 continue to expand our disclosure into scientific excellence, ethics and integrity. in the U.S. other regions as we work to build the These principles are also reflected infrastructure and systems necessary in the company’s corporate policies, Grants made in the 2nd quarter 2011 to allow us to report this information procedures and guidelines, which every in the U.S. on a global basis. The following three Merck employee is responsible for Grants made in the 1st quarter 2011 principles guide our approach to providing understanding and appropriately applying. in the U.S. financial support to medical, scientific and patient organizations: Disclosures in the United States 2010 Grants made in the 4th quarter 2010 Independence 2013 in the U.S. Grants made in the 4th Quarter 2013 Grants made in the 3rd quarter 2010 Merck respects the independence in the U.S. in the U.S. of medical, scientific and patient Grants made in the 3rd Quarter 2013 organizations and refrains from using Grants made in the 2nd quarter 2010 in the U.S. our financial support to influence the in the U.S. policies of organizations or to promote Grants made in the 2nd Quarter 2013 Grants made in the 1st quarter 2010 specific medicines. in the U.S. in the U.S. Grants made in the 1st Quarter 2013 Transparency in the U.S. 2009 Grants made in the 4th quarter 2009 Merck supports transparency of financial 2012 in the U.S. support provided to medical, scientific Grants made in the 4th quarter 2012 Grants made in the 3rd quarter 2009 and patient organizations. We believe in the U.S. in the U.S. this is an important step in building public Grants made in the 3rd quarter 2012 trust with both Merck and those to whom Grants made in the 2nd quarter 2009 in the U.S. we provide support. Making our support in the U.S. public also enhances the visibility of Grants made in the 2nd quarter 2012 Grants made in the 1st quarter 2009 Merck’s commitment to help advance in the U.S. in the U.S. health and science. Grants made in the 1st quarter 2012 in the U.S. 2008 Compliance with Local Laws Grants made in the 4th quarter 2008 in the U.S. In providing financial support to medical, Grants made in the 3rd quarter 2008 scientific and patient organizations, Merck in the U.S. will comply with all relevant local laws and regulations. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Disclosures Outside the United States Spain DISCLOSURE OF Grants made in 2013 Sweden Switzerland GRANTS OUTSIDE THE Algeria Tunisia Austria Turkey Belgium Luxembourg Ukraine UNITED STATES Bulgaria Canada Croatia United Kingdom Yemen Cyprus Grants made in 2012 Disclosure of grants to patient Czech Republic Austria organizations has been mandatory Denmark Belgium Luxembourg in Europe since March 2009. Egypt Bulgaria However, in Europe, the Middle EPA (English and Portuguese Africa) Canada East and Africa, Merck voluntarily Estonia Charitable Contributions began disclosing financial support Ex-US HQ Croatia to patient organizations in 2008, Finland Cyprus France Czech Republic and in Canada in 2009. FWA (French West Africa) Denmark Germany Egypt In October 2009, Merck in Europe, the Greece Estonia Middle East, Africa and Canada also Gulf Ex-US HQ began to disclose grants to other thirdHungary Finland party organizations such as medical Ireland France societies and scientific organizations. Israel Germany The information disclosed includes the Italy Greece organization, the amounts received, the Jordan Gulf dates of payment and the projects for Latvia Hungary which the money was used. Disclosures Lebanon Ireland include all donations and charitable Lithuania Israel contributions, grants, and membership Merck for Mothers Italy fees to professional societies or other Morocco Jordan medical or scientific organizations. Merck Netherlands Oss Kazakhastan was also a member of the working group Norway Latvia to develop the European Federation OCP Foundation Lebanon of Pharmaceutical Industries and Poland Libya Associations (EFPIA) Code of Practice Portugal Lithuania on Relationships between the Public Policy Macedonia Montenegro Pharmaceutical Industry and Patient Romania Morocco Organisations, which became effective Russia MSD Europe Inc on July 1, 2008. Serbia Netherlands HaarlemEurope Slovak Republic Netherlands Oss Merck updates grants to medical, Slovenia Norway scientific and patient organizations South Africa Poland annually for ex-U.S. jurisdictions. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 18 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Portugal Lithuania Israel Romania Morocco Italy Russia Netherlands Jordan Serbia Norway Latvia Slovak Republic Poland Lebanon Slovenia Portugal Lithuania South Africa Romania Morocco Spain Russia MSD Europe Sweden Saudi Arabia Netherlands Switzerland Serbia and Montenegro Norway Tunisia Slovak Republic Poland Turkey Slovenia Portugal Ukraine Spain Romania United Kingdom Sweden Russia Switzerland Saudi Arabia Grants and Donations— Turkey Serbia & Montenegro 2nd half of 2011 Ukraine Slovakia Algeria United Kingdom Slovenia Austria MSD Headquarters South Africa Belgium Spain Bosnia and Herzegovina Grants and Donations— Sweden Bulgaria 1st half of 2011 Switzerland Canada Algeria Syria Croatia Austria Tunisia Cyprus Belgium Turkey Czech Republic Bosnia Ukraine Denmark Bulgaria & Macedonia United Kingdom Egypt Canada Estonia Croatia Grants made in 2010 Finland Cyprus Algeria France Czech Republic Austria Germany Denmark Belgium Greece Egypt Bosnia and Herzegovina Gulf Estonia Bulgaria and Macedonia Hungary Finland Canada Ireland France Croatia Israel Germany Cyprus Italy Greece Czech Republic Jordan Gulf Market Denmark Latvia Hungary Lebanon Iraq Ireland MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 19 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Egypt Grants made in 2009 Grants made in 2008 Estonia Algeria Algeria Finland Austria Austria France Belgium Belgium Germany Bulgaria Bulgaria Greece Canada Croatia Gulf Croatia Cyprus Hungary Cyprus Denmark Iraq Denmark EMEAC Headquarter Ireland EMEAC Headquarter Estonia Israel Estonia Finland Italy Finland France Jordan France Germany Kazakhstan Germany Ireland Latvia Ireland Israel Lebanon Israel Italy Lithuania Italy Jordan Morocco Jordan Latvia Netherlands Kazakhstan Lithuania Norway Kuwait MSP Europe Poland Latvia Netherlands Portugal Lebanon Norway Romania Lithuania Poland Russia Morocco Portugal Saudi Arabia Netherlands Romania Serbia and Montenegro Norway Schering-Plough Slovak Republic Poland Serbia Slovenia Portugal Slovenia South Africa Romania South Africa Spain Russia Spain Sweden Saudi Arabia Sweden Switzerland Serbia Switzerland Syria Slovenia United Kingdom Turkey South Africa Ukraine Spain United Kingdom Sweden MSD Headquarters Switzerland Turkey United Kingdom MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 20 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT work that they are doing in the context the delivery of quality healthcare PAYMENTS TO U.S.of the research on behalf of the entity/ institution. by supporting investigator-initiated original research that will enhance the BASED HEALTHCARE understanding of disease entities and Later, Merck will be implementing their treatment. This program is open the Physician Payments Sunshine Act to all academic and community-based PROFESSIONALS provisions of the U.S. Affordable Care Act, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to annually disclose physicians and researchers worldwide who are interested in conducting their own research. Learn more at: www. information on certain additional merckiisp.com We believe in broad disclosure payments and other transfer of value of financial relationships furnished to U.S. licensed physicians and Merck is very committed to the discovery between physicians and the U.S. teaching hospitals to the Department and development of important new pharmaceutical industry. of Health and Human Services. drugs and vaccines through collaboration with scientific leaders from academic As an early supporter of the Physician • Payments made in 2012 (A-M) and scientific organizations from Payments Sunshine Act (PPSA), we around the world. Advice in the form of • Payments made in 2012 (N-Z) believe in broad disclosure of financial consulting engagements with external relationships between physicians and • Payments made in 2011 Medical and Scientific experts results the pharmaceutical industry. In October • Payments made in 2010 in meaningful, scientific exchanges that 2009, we began voluntarily disclosing bring to Merck real-world knowledge and • Payments made 3Q-4Q of 2009 all payments to U.S.-based healthcare perspectives. These critical exchanges professionals who speak on behalf of contribute to advancing both science The Importance of Engaging with Merck about our products and other at Merck and in the broader scientific Medical and Scientific Leaders within healthcare issues. community, and ultimately help benefit the United States human health. Merck also engages In April 2012, Merck expanded its physicians as speakers in the U.S. Merck engages with healthcare payments report to include post-merger through Merck Medical Forums which professionals around the world to conduct speaking activities related to legacy are designed to deliver balanced medical Merck-sponsored clinical studies on the Schering Plough, Merck/Schering Plough and scientific information to healthcare safety and effectiveness of our products. and Inspire Pharmaceutical products. professionals so patients have access to We conduct these studies in accordance the medicines and vaccines they need with strict regulatory requirements with As of June 2012, reports are posted and use these products correctly. These “real world” physicians and their patients quarterly reflecting payments and programs are structured consistent in order to learn more about our products transfers of value to U.S.-based with PhRMA Code on Interactions and bring new medicines and vaccines to physicians including those engaged in with HealthCare Professionals and are patients who need them. Once a product clinical research activities. We include conducted in compliance with FDA is approved for marketing, we continue both direct payments to individual regulations, to help ensure that any Merck to conduct studies in order to monitor physicians, as well as “indirect” product information is presented in an ongoing safety and effectiveness. payments to the research entity/ appropriately balanced manner, with institution with the name of the respect to potential benefits and risks. Merck also engages with healthcare associated principal investigator(s). The professionals through the Merck latter does not imply a direct payment to Investigator Studies Program (MISP) the individual but rather support for the where the mission is to advance MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 21 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Compliance Program. We recognize that other consumers about diseases and SALES & MARKETING both our reputation for integrity and the trust that our stakeholders place in us are dependent on our ethical practices. available treatments that they may wish to discuss with their doctors. For this reason, we want to make certain We also market our products directly We know that doctors and that the ways in which we market and to consumers at times. We believe patients look to us to provide sell our products to our customers— direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising accurate and balanced information healthcare professionals, health insurers contributes to greater awareness about about our products. and governments—provide accurate, conditions and diseases, which can balanced and useful information so that benefit public health by increasing We adhere to strict, ethical sales and prescribers can make the best decisions the number of patients appropriately marketing practices for all our businesses, for their patients. Our high ethical, sales diagnosed and treated. whether pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and marketing standards require that consumer health or animal health. scientific information is the predominant We believe that our marketing, sales and factor in prescribing decisions, which advertising activities make an important Merck believes the best way to provide helps to reinforce our reputation for contribution to medicine by informing our this product information is for healthcare providing high-quality products and customers about treatment options that companies to maintain informative, for contributing to improvements in are based on the most current scientific ethical and professional relationships with public health. information and findings from rigorous healthcare providers. Our interactions clinical studies. We take our marketing, with providers, other customers and Our professional sales representatives sales and advertising responsibilities consumers are governed by laws and and other employees inform our seriously and evaluate these activities regulations, and by our long-standing customers about our medicines and regularly to ensure they are consistent global Code of Conduct, Our Values and vaccines and their appropriate use. In with laws and regulations and with Standards. We enforce these external some countries, where permitted by law, company policies and values. and internal standards through our Global we may also directly inform patients and MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 22 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT I N T E R AC T I N G W I T H • Promotional and/or educational Our program prohibits the offer, promise H E A LT H C A R E P R O F E S S I O N A L S meetings sponsored and organized or giving of any payment or benefit at by Merck any time to an individual or entity for Ethical relationships with the purpose of improperly influencing healthcare professionals are critical We also provide non-promotional decisions or actions with respect to information through educational and Merck’s business. This applies to direct to our mission of helping patients scientific activities, including: engagements (e.g., those driven by be well. Merck) as well as indirect engagements • Scientific presentations at (e.g., those managed through a thirdAn important part of achieving this medical conferences party intermediary or partner). mission is ensuring that healthcare professionals have balanced and accurate • Support of independent continuing Merck conducts anticorruption/antiinformation about our products. medical education (CME) bribery training with relevant employees, • Articles and related scientific which is supplemented with e-learning All Merck sales and marketing activities studies published in peer-reviewed and/or face-to-face training with all are conducted in accordance with our scientific journals employees that engage with non-U.S. Guiding Principles for Ethical Business • Web-based tools such as government officials. In many countries, Practices involving the Medical and MerckMedicus.com healthcare professionals are considered Scientific Community. These principles government officials because of their are aligned with national regulations and Our interactions and informational employment by a government hospital or worldwide industry codes, including materials must provide truthful, balanced are advisers or decision-makers for the the International Federation of and non-misleading information to government on matters that could affect Pharmaceutical Manufacturers healthcare professionals. All of our our business. & Associations (IFPMA) Code of interactions with healthcare professionals Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices are highly regulated by the government Continuing Medical Education and the World Health Organization’s through laws such as the U.S. Anti(CME) and Continuing Education Ethical Criteria for Medicinal Drug Kickback Statute; the Food, Drug & (CE) Programs Promotion. To learn more about our Cosmetic Act; the U.S. Foreign Corrupt ethical business practices, click here. Practices Act (FCPA); and anti-bribery Merck’s CME/CE Grant Program laws in other countries. supports independent educational These principles serve as a bridge programs to maintain, develop or enhance between country laws and regulations, Merck’s robust anti-bribery/anticorruption the knowledge, skills and/or professional industry guidelines, and the company’s program and corporate policy ensure that performance that a healthcare Our Values and Standards, enabling all employees have the awareness and professional uses to provide services for us to interact with the medical and knowledge to comply with applicable patients, the public or the profession. We scientific communities, meet our ethical laws and regulations, and understand that are committed to ensuring that our CME/ and legal obligations, and contribute to the company will not tolerate any act of CE programs are educational and not improvements in human health. impropriety. Our activities must comply promotional. Through them, our goal is to not only with company policies but with increase physician knowledge about the We provide promotional information in applicable laws, including the laws of latest scientific data and healthcare topics several ways, including: the U.S. and other countries in which we that result in improved patient care. do business. • Product discussions between our The environment in which we sponsor or professional representatives and support educational programs worldwide healthcare professionals MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 23 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT is complex, governed by a multitude of By attending a Merck Medical Forum, Prescription Product Samples laws, regulations and medical or industry healthcare professionals participate in association guidelines. We are committed interactive learning on therapeutic and Where sampling is permitted, Merck has to honoring them all in the countries in healthcare industry topics. The goal of established country-specific guidance and which we operate. these interactions is to help attendees policies on providing prescription product achieve improved medical results for samples to healthcare professionals. CME programs that we support or their patients. This guidance specifies the appropriate sponsor are governed by an internal policy distribution and use of samples to and also must be aligned with appropriate With our strict standards for conducting safeguard against the potential for misuse standards such as the Accreditation Merck Medical Forums, we comply with or abuse of our products, or the diversion Council for Continuing Medical Education the PhRMA Code on Interactions with of our products to inappropriate channels. (ACCME) standards for commercial Health Care Professionals as well as In accordance with the law and ethical support of CME in the United States, FDA regulations, which make sure that practices, we do not provide product the International Federation of any product presentation is appropriately samples to reduce or discount the price Pharmaceutical Manufacturers balanced with information regarding paid or reimbursed, or in exchange for & Associations (IFPMA) Code of the product’s potential benefits and prescribing, purchasing or contracting for Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices, risks and is consistent with approved a Merck product or for recommending a and European Federation of product labeling. Merck product for formulary status. Pharmaceutical Industry Associations (EFPIA).These standards specify Merck discloses certain payments to U.S. Unapproved, or “Off-Label,” Use of independence, financial disclosure and medical and scientific professionals who Our Medicines and Vaccines other requirements applicable to CME speak on behalf of the company. For a list programs sponsored by commercial of these disclosures, click here. In accordance with laws, regulations, entities, including pharmaceutical internal policies and ethical practices, our manufacturers. Click here for a list of Obtaining Services from External professional representatives and other grants of more than $500 made to U.S. Healthcare Professionals members of our sales and marketing organizations by the company’s Global team are not permitted to promote Human Health Division in support of Merck engages the service of external product uses that are not consistent with independent, accredited educational healthcare professionals only when we the approved product label, sometimes programs for healthcare professionals. do not have the specialized talent or referred to as “off-label” promotion. expertise internally, or when an external We have policies and training in place Merck Medical Forums viewpoint is critical. Compensation to address violations, and we ensure provided to these healthcare that physicians are aware that we do not Merck delivers balanced medical and professionals is based on fair market encourage off-label use. scientific information to healthcare value of the service. Merck ensures professionals within the U.S. through that compensation provided to external its Merck Medical Forums, which healthcare professionals is fair and are conducted by external speakers. reasonable, and is aligned with fair market Speakers are selected based on their value of the service in the home country expertise in the relevant subject matter. of the healthcare professional providing the service. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 24 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT I N T E R AC T I N G W I T H PAT I E N T S • Be appropriately balanced, consistent ETHICAL SALES & with FDA regulations, and use M A R K E T I N G P R AC T I C E S Merck believes that direct-toappropriate “taste and tone” consumer (DTC) advertising can • If on television, run at appropriate We believe that our marketing, be an important and helpful way times of the day or night and during sales and advertising activities to inform patients about diseases appropriate programs make an important contribution that may be relevant to them • Be approved by Merck’s Promotion to medicine by informing our and about therapeutic options Review Team (PRT), a governing body customers of treatment options consisting of a team of reviewers based on the most current they may want to discuss with and approvers (including job owner, their physicians. scientific information and findings attorney, physician, Office of from rigorous clinical studies. Promotion and Advertising Review Such advertising is conducted by Merck (for U.S.), Regulatory, and a product only in countries where direct-toWe take our responsibilities related to our scientific specialist) who ensure that consumer advertising is permitted. marketing, sales and advertising activities promotional material is clinically and seriously and evaluate these activities scientifically accurate, compliant Merck tries to help consumers achieve on an ongoing basis to ensure they are with applicable laws and regulations, better health outcomes by delivering consistent with laws and regulations as and compliant with company policy. accurate, relevant and understandable well as Merck policies and values. In addition, we include information information on disease prevention, on Merck’s Patient Assistance identification and potential treatment. Our sales and marketing practices are Programs, along with a toll-free To remain true to this goal, Merck governed by external laws, regulations phone number for more information, adheres to the letter and spirit of FDA and industry codes of conduct, and in all new U.S.-based DTC print and regulations and guidelines governing by our own global Code of Conduct, television advertisements. DTC promotion, meets or exceeds corporate policies and procedures, and all Pharmaceutical Research and our Global Compliance Program. Merck’s We inform healthcare professionals Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) Compliance Program seeks to prevent about our products before we advertise guidelines on DTC advertising, and or address inappropriate practices, and them to consumers, and we do not follows a comprehensive set of internal we evaluate our policies and practices as launch DTC advertising in the U.S. until policies and practices when engaging in appropriate. Our practices are monitored at least six months after a new product DTC advertising within the U.S. and compliance is enforced to ensure has been approved. We also implement that our interactions with customers and comprehensive programs to educate Merck has a long-standing policy of consumers help inform their decisions physicians and other prescribers about voluntarily submitting new U.S.-based accurately and in a balanced manner. a new product before starting productDTC advertising campaigns to the FDA for We believe that compliance with all specific DTC broadcast advertising its review and comment before running policies governing scientific, business in the U.S. These principles and our them. Under Merck’s DTC policies and and promotion-related activities, in letter practices are reflected in the PhRMA practices, the information provided in our and spirit, is a corporate and individual Guiding Principles on Direct-toDTC advertising must: responsibility of the highest order. Our Consumer Advertisements about ethical behavior strives to ensure that Prescription Medicines. • Contain appropriate product benefit scientific information predominates in and risk information prescribing decisions. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 25 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Mechanisms for Fostering Ethical in a venue and manner conducive to our medicines and vaccines based Sales & Marketing Practices informational communication. on the merits of our products and the science. • A Merck representative may offer The key principles of Merck’s Guiding occasional modest meals to healthcare • Maintaining strict control Principles for Ethical Business Practices professionals in connection with an over promotional materials: Involving the Medical and Scientific informational presentation; however, Every promotional claim we make Community are as follows: such meals must be in accordance throughout the world has to be with local codes and regulations. approved by our medical and legal • We provide current, accurate and experts for accuracy and balance, in balanced information about Merck Our sales representatives must accordance with legal requirements products; we transmit sound provide truthful, non-misleading and ethical considerations. In the scientific and educational information; information in their interactions with U.S., we also submit new promotional and we support medical research the medical and scientific community. materials for new product approvals and education. Our compliance program is consistent and new indications to the FDA prior • Merck employees are prohibited from with applicable laws and regulations, to use. offering healthcare professionals and is aligned with the International • Ensuring strong medical, legal items of personal benefit, such as Federation of Pharmaceutical and compliance oversight: Merck’s tickets to sporting events, support for Manufacturers & Associations medical and legal teams are active office social events or gift certificates (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical partners that help foster ethical to stores or golf outings. Where Marketing Practices, as well as promotional practices, helping to permitted, we may occasionally with regional and country industry achieve business goals by reducing provide healthcare professionals with codes, such as the Pharmaceutical risk and increasing compliance approved educational items that are Research and Manufacturers of with laws and guidelines in a highly not of substantial monetary value America (PhRMA) Code and the regulated environment. Our medical, and that are intended primarily for Compliance Program Guidance for legal and compliance teams are also educational purposes. Such materials Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, involved in training the sales force may include medical textbooks, published by the Office of the Inspector to provide balanced information medical journals or anatomical models. General, U.S. Department of Health and to physicians and other healthcare Human Services. decision-makers. • Merck employees and others speaking on Merck’s behalf may provide • Implementing a promotional In addition to our global Code of Conduct presentations specifically designed to approach that reflects customer and Guiding Principles for interactions provide the type of information that input: Our sales and marketing teams with healthcare professionals, Merck has practicing healthcare professionals actively seek input from healthcare several mechanisms in place to minimize have indicated to Merck is needed professionals, consumers and payers noncompliance and foster ethical and most useful in the treatment to understand their needs regarding promotional practices: of their patients, in accordance our common goal of improving with U.S. FDA regulations and the patient outcomes. We incorporate regulations of other countries in which • Hiring people with the right values and then reinforcing them: We their feedback into training efforts the presentations or discussions and promotional activities in order to are taking place. In connection with look for people who believe in a similar value system. In our interview build trustworthy partnerships with such presentations or discussions, our customers and to achieve our occasional modest meals may be process, we try to ascertain how candidates make decisions. We want common goal. offered to attendees and must occur people who will want to commercialize MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 26 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Enforcing a performance Training of the employee’s responsibilities to management system that rewards ensure compliance with applicable laws ethical behavior: Our companywide As a condition of employment, all of and regulations. annual performance management our sales and marketing employees are system considers not only what an required to be certified periodically on Sales representatives in the U.S. are employee has achieved but also how sales and marketing practices. required to understand, among other he or she has done so, with a specific things, their responsibilities under focus on ethical behavior. In the U.S., for example, employees who the Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. • Working to raise marketing do not satisfactorily meet these training Prescription Drug Marketing Act and all standards industrywide: Merck requirements may not conduct specific applicable FDA promotional regulations. is active in numerous industry activities on their own and must complete Sales representatives are trained on antiassociation committees that address the training again until they meet bribery and anticorruption laws such as marketing standards. the requirements. the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act. • Conducting continuous oversight, All new employees receive training monitoring and risk assessment: and testing and must be certified on After this initial training, we require We conduct ongoing oversight and relevant policies and Merck’s ethical periodic training aimed at recertifying monitoring of our key risk areas operating standards. And although employees on relevant policies and and of any activities that have been many of our employees who market practices according to local and identified through our annual risk and sell our medicines and vaccines functional requirements. In addition assessment process. have advanced scientific or medical to mandatory training on our Code of degrees and backgrounds, all of our sales Conduct, employees receive training on representatives must complete general other levels of business practices and sales and product training. Training compliance, according to their roles and is specific to the country where an responsibilities. We evaluate and update employee is based and covers the scope the content for all marketing and sales training periodically to ensure it remains relevant and current. INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL MEDIA STANDARDS Industry Codes of Conduct The pharmaceutical industry as a whole The review and approval of global promotional and educational materials recognized that more needed to be for healthcare practitioners follows a comprehensive and strict process as done to address concerns raised by outlined in the International Medical Media Standards (IMMS) guidance public officials and stakeholders in the document. The IMMS principles are followed by Merck employees on a healthcare community. Self-regulated worldwide basis and define the concept of fairness and balance in the industry codes of conduct such as the communication of scientific/educational information. At Merck, all such IFPMA, EFPIA, and PhRMA codes set materials are reviewed and approved by medical and legal personnel, the standards that govern the industry’s captured in a global database, and assigned a unique identifying number sales and marketing practices and ensure and expiration date. All regional and country medical personnel involved that companies have adequate policies in the review and approval of promotional/educational material receive and procedures in place to comply with comprehensive training on corporate policies, IMMS, the medical-reviewer the codes. role, and the required database functionalities. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 27 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT KEY COMPONENTS OF THE PHRMA CODE Among the PhRMA Code’s key components is an annual requirement for company CEOs and chief compliance officers to certify personally that they have processes in place that foster compliance with the Code. The Code also encourages companies to obtain third-party verification of their compliance policies and procedures. Merck has completed PhRMA Code certification in each of the last three years. Other requirements of the Code have previously been incorporated into Merck’s already-strong ethical business practices. For example, the company follows the standards for commercial support of continuing medical education established by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME), and our Compliance Program already required that company representatives be periodically assessed to make sure they comply with relevant company policies and standards of conduct. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 28 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT only independent directors serve on Compliance CORPORATE these committees. Merck’s Board of Directors and senior GOVERNANCE The Board has a balanced membership, management, including the company’s representing relevant areas of experience, chief ethics and compliance officer and types of expertise and backgrounds. Corporate Compliance Committee, While it is Merck’s philosophy that the full oversee the company’s global compliance Corporate governance structures Board should consider and act on matters program. Merck’s compliance program are established to make sure of significance, the committees assist is designed to maintain a culture that corporations are accountable to it in carrying out its responsibilities and promotes the prevention, detection and provide greater focus in key areas. resolution of potential violations of law their owners—the shareholders. or company policies. The program is Board Independence & Performance dynamic, involving regular assessments In exercising our fiduciary duty to our to ensure the program is responsive to shareholders, the company takes a Some shareholders believe that the Board the company’s evolving business and long-term perspective on shareholder should be completely independent. Our associated compliance risks. The Global value that takes into account both the policy is that the Merck Board should Compliance Organization (GCO) is led company’s relationship with society as consist of a substantial majority of by the executive vice president and a whole and the interests of our many independent directors, in accordance chief ethics and compliance officer, who diverse stakeholders. with the standard for independence reports directly to the CEO. The chief established in our Policies of the ethics and compliance officer presents The Board Board. As noted above, Mr. Frazier is a quarterly report on the state of ethics the only member of the Board who is and compliance at Merck to the Audit Our Board represents and protects the not independent. Committee of the Board. long-term interests of the company’s shareholders. The Board meets a For additional details on our Board’s Environment, Health and minimum of six times per year and as leadership structure, please see page 15 Safety Governance otherwise needed to provide strategic of Merck’s 2013 Proxy Statement. direction and review our progress We are committed to full compliance on a wide variety of measures. In Corporate Management with all environmental and employee overseeing the affairs of the company, health and safety laws and regulations, including our governance, the Board Merck’s chairman, president and chief to engaging with our stakeholders has four committees to help fulfill our executive officer Kenneth C. Frazier is concerning these issues, and to actively obligations to Merck shareholders. accountable to the Merck Board. Merck’s identifying, understanding and addressing Executive Committee, an internal potential environmental, health and safety Kenneth C. Frazier, Merck’s Chairman management committee of Merck (EHS) risks. and Chief Executive Officer, is the only executives who report directly to Mr. Merck executive serving on the Board. Frazier, meets monthly and as needed Merck’s Executive Committee has William B. Harrison, Jr., serves as the to review the company’s progress and established an EHS Council to provide Board’s lead director. As lead director, Mr. to attend to other matters affecting enterprise-wide leadership and Harrison confers with management on the company. governance of our EHS compliance matters involving the Board and serves and performance. In addition to a as a liaison to shareholders on investor corporate EHS policy, we are continuing matters. Mr. Frazier is not a member to implement and sustain a robust of any of the Board’s committees; MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 29 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT compliance management program compensation when making future responsibility to manage or monitor that effectively oversees and manages decisions relating to the compensation conduct or risks appropriately. The formal EHS issues affecting the company, of the Named Executive Officers; which policy will be finalized later in 2013 and in order to meet our responsibilities includes the Chief Executive Officer, the will become effective January 1, 2014. It and commitments and to improve Chief Financial Officer and the three other will supplement our existing recoupment our performance. most highly paid executive officers; and policy which is triggered by a significant our executive compensation program financial restatement caused by executive Risk Management and policies. fraud or willful misconduct. Merck’s Corporate Audit and Assurance In 2013, shareholders continued Additional information on executive Services group is accountable to their strong support of our executive compensation can be found in the the Audit Committee of the Board compensation programs, with over 88 company’s 2013 Proxy Statement. for assessing the adequacy and percent of the votes cast for approval of effectiveness of the company’s the “say on pay” proposal at the 2013 Governance of Our Research Agenda control environment related to financial Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The reporting and operating processes. This Compensation and Benefits Committee The Research Leadership Team, headed includes the appropriate management believes that the voting results conveyed by the president of Merck Research and oversight of key company risks, in our shareholders’ strong support of the Laboratories (MRL), develops the accordance with our corporate policy on philosophy, strategy and objectives of divisional strategy, allocates resources audit, control and risk management. our executive compensation programs. and manages the research and Furthermore, we continue to engage development portfolio. The Research Disclosure in constructive dialogue with our Leadership Team is made up of the heads shareholders regarding our executive of functional areas within MRL. Each We are committed to a policy of full, compensation programs and policies area provides expert, efficient support accurate and timely disclosure of all to ensure that investors understand the of our drug candidates—ushering them material information in order to keep manner in which our policies support our from drug discovery through product-lifeshareholders and the investing public long-term strategic objectives. cycle management. informed about the corporation’s business and operations. Accordingly, During 2012, Merck, along with several Safety Monitoring we have established a corporate of our pharmaceutical peers, engaged disclosure policy that articulates the in thoughtful discussions with a Merck has an efficient global standards, processes and governance group of shareholders that led to the pharmacovigilance organization that for the company’s disclosure practices. Compensation and Benefits Committee’s collects, medically reviews and evaluates Pursuant to the policy, Merck’s adoption of a set of principles for a new and reports adverse experiences to global Disclosure Committee oversees the incentive compensation recoupment health authorities in compliance with company’s disclosure practices and policy. This new policy will provide the global regulatory reporting requirements. disclosure obligations. Compensation and Benefits Committee Our global product safety teams within with full discretion to recoup certain MRL are responsible for monitoring the Executive Compensation incentive awards in instances of material evolving safety profile of our medicines violations of company policy that cause and vaccines. In parallel, at the country Each year, the Compensation and significant harm to Merck. This policy will level, local pharmacovigilance teams Benefits Committee of the Board of apply to senior executives who engaged at our subsidiaries worldwide are Directors considers the outcome of in the misconduct that led to the material responsible for ensuring that adverse shareholder advisory votes on executive violation or who failed in their supervisory experience information is collected MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 30 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT and reported to our global product PERFORMANCE safety staff at headquarters and to local regulatory authorities. Corporate Responsibility Governance Merck’s Office of Corporate Responsibility identifies corporate responsibility issues that are important to our business success and our stakeholders, and formally manages targets and performance for those issues. To learn more, click here. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY | AUGUST 2014 31 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK To help improve the health and well-being of people around the world, Merck supports qualified nonprofit organizations and innovative programs that are finding solutions to key global challenges. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 1 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Giving Priorities GIVING PRIORITIES & Our giving priorities aim to strengthen GUIDELINES the effectiveness and impact of Merck’s philanthropy while also aligning our programs with areas of global need in which Merck has substantial expertise Philanthropy is an and capability. important component of Merck’s commitment to The following strategic priorities guide Merck’s philanthropic corporate responsibility. program investments. Through our philanthropic programs, • Health: Improve healthcare quality we have the ability to make a positive and capacity as well as increase difference in addressing complex global access to care for underserved health challenges, advancing STEM populations in selected disease areas (science, technology, engineering, of global need—HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C mathematics) education, and improving and chronic conditions such as the quality of life in communities where diabetes and cardiovascular disease Merck has a presence. • Education: Enhance the quality of Guiding Principles STEM education at the graduate and post-graduate levels and contribute to Several key principles guide Merck’s advancing women and minorities in philanthropic investments and program the sciences portfolio. We seek to: • Community: Provide financial support and share the expertise of • Address critical global health needs Merck employees through grant and and social issues where Merck can volunteer programs that address have meaningful impact critical health and social issues in • Collaborate successfully with key communities where Merck has partners for optimal impact and a presence effectiveness in advancing progress around these issues • Leverage not only cash and product donations but also expertise and capabilities across our company MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 4 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck’s health philanthropy concentrates INFECTIOUS DISEASES HEALTH on select disease areas of global need: HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C, and chronic conditions such as diabetes African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships (ACHAP) and cardiovascular disease. Our As a global healthcare company, program investments in these areas Merck believes it has a In 2000, the Merck Foundation/Merck focus on innovative ways to improve responsibility to help increase and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation healthcare quality, capacity and access established the African Comprehensive access to medicines, vaccines and for underserved populations who are HIV/AIDS Partnerships to support quality healthcare worldwide. particularly burdened by these diseases. Botswana’s national HIV/AIDS strategy for preventing new HIV infections In this effort, we are committed to and reducing morbidity and mortality discovering smart, sustainable ways to associated with HIV/AIDS. The N C D s /C H R O N I C C O N D I T I O N S expand access, especially in parts of comprehensive approach includes the world where there is limited or no prevention, treatment, care and support. Merck Childhood Asthma Network healthcare infrastructure and resources. (MCAN) Given the immensity of this challenge, China-MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership we believe we can make the strongest (CMAP) With funding from the Merck Foundation, contribution by working in partnership MCAN supports programs that help with others—governments, donors, increase access to and improve the This partnership between the Merck patient organizations, healthcare quality of asthma healthcare for children. Foundation and China’s Ministry of professionals, nongovernmental These programs also advocate for Health is implementing a comprehensive organizations, academic institutions, and recommend public policies that program to address HIV/AIDS in Sichuan multilateral organizations and the private can expedite the implementation, Province, China. CMAP focuses on sector. Through these partnerships, dissemination and sustainability of developing effective approaches for we provide our expertise, human and science-based asthma care. Learn more. delivering prevention, care, treatment and financial resources, and products to support services. improve the quality and capacity of global Alliance to Reduce Disparities healthcare. Our support helps advance in Diabetes HIV Care Collaborative the quality of health services delivery, strengthen training for healthcare With funding from the Merck Foundation, To help improve HIV care in the U.S., the providers and foster efforts to empower Alliance program partners are working to Merck Foundation established the HIV patients as active participants in decrease disparities in diabetes outcomes Care Collaborative for Underserved managing their health. and improve the quality of healthcare Populations in the U.S. This three-year for underserved adults living with or at initiative supports the efforts of local risk for diabetes in five communities health departments in Atlanta, Georgia; in the U.S.: Camden, New Jersey; Houston, Texas; and Philadelphia, Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Memphis, Pennsylvania; to connect more people Tennessee; and Wind River Reservation, living with HIV to the care and treatment Wyoming. Learn more. they need to stay healthy. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 5 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Population Services International The Management and Leadership C A PAC I T YB U I L D I N G (PSI)—HCV Prevention and CapacityAcademy of the BroadReach Institute Building Program in Vietnam for Training and Education African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control (APOC) With a three-year, $650,000 grant from With a $4 million commitment from the Merck, PSI is implementing a multiyear Merck Foundation, the BroadReach APOC was established in 1995 by the program in Vietnam to strengthen Institute for Training and Education World Health Organization (WHO) to capacity in hepatitis C (HCV) prevention (BRITE) is implementing its Management use a sustainable strategy to control programming across multiple healthcare and Leadership Academy (MLA) onchocerciasis (river blindness) in Africa sectors. This program aims to improve program in Zambia, which teaches using Merck’s MECTIZAN® (ivermectin), access to HCV prevention information critical management and leadership a broad-spectrum antiparasitic medication and education among at-risk populations skills to healthcare professionals in order that treats and prevents the spread to help motivate the adoption of HCVto build and strengthen the capacity of of river blindness. In 2008, Merck preventive behaviors. Through advocacy their local health systems. This program committed $25 million over eight years and capacity-building efforts, this aims to equip healthcare workers with to the World Bank in support of APOC’s program also aims to raise awareness the knowledge and skills to lead, own continued development of country-led and build support for the expansion and and, ultimately, transform the delivery of river blindness efforts. In 2012, the integration of HCV prevention services healthcare in their own countries. MLA APOC partnership led to an estimated into national public health programming. teaches “results-based” management, 90 million people treated. However, focusing on solving current challenges this number will increase because In its first year of implementation, PSI by combining on-site workshops with emerging evidence demonstrated that reached nearly 4,500 at-risk individuals case studies and extensive mentoring of onchocerciasis transmission could be with HCV prevention education through program participants. eliminated using MECTIZAN, resulting a series of outreach events and face-toin the transition from a control to an face communications. PSI also designed BRITE is also working with Abt elimination strategy that will require and implemented an HCV Prevention Associates in implementing this MLA broader treatment coverage. Master Training Program in collaboration program and is receiving additional with the National Hospital of Tropical support under the USAID-funded Zambia While APOC developed the Community Diseases. The 14 Master Trainers then Integrated Systems Strengthening Directed Treatment with Ivermectin trained 105 service providers from Program (ZISSP). BRITE and ZISSP (CDTI) system to distribute and multiple provinces with a high prevalence are working in close partnership with administer MECTIZAN, the delivery of HCV and HIV. These training the Ministry of Health and the National infrastructure established by this workshops were designed to promote the Institute of Public Administration program is also being used to deliver integration of HCV prevention counseling, (NIPA)1 in Zambia to support the other health interventions including and referral for diagnosis and treatment, ministry’s ongoing efforts to develop Vitamin A, cataract identification, bed into routine HIV services delivery. management and leadership capacity nets, immunizations, and more. The at different levels of the health system. Government of Nigeria was the first to Through the MLA program, BRITE and announce national guidelines in February its partners aim to conduct training 2014 to integrate the distribution of bed for healthcare professionals in all nine nets and the distribution of MECTIZAN. provinces, across 27 target districts, of Zambia. Since the launch of the Learn more about the MECTIZAN Donation Program. 1 NIPA is the national academic institution whose mandate is to build capacity in the Zambian civil service. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 6 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT program in 2011, the MLA program has In each region, EngenderHealth works outreach facilities, using standard enrolled a total of 646 participants. To in close collaboration with Ministry of checklists to assess and ensure that date, almost 60 percent (379) of these Health (MoH) partners to strengthen quality standards are being met in participants have graduated, completing the capacity of health-program delivering services. To help institutionalize the four workshops in the MLA training managers and service providers. These and sustain mobile outreach services series. Of these 379 graduates, capacity-building efforts facilitate the delivery, the district-level MoH partners approximately 47 percent (177) graduated introduction and sustainability of highwill continue to engage Health Extension with accredited higher diplomas in quality family planning services through Workers in efforts to mobilize clients and management and leadership from NIPA, regular outreach at decentralized health strengthen referral linkages. which has led to national recognition of facilities that otherwise could not offer the MLA program. The MLA certificate these services. EngenderHealth also To date, the Mobile Outreach Program and, in particular, the NIPA Diploma, works with selected community-based has provided services to more than 2,150 is an accredited health professional organizations in each of the three regions underserved women residing in some of qualification that counts toward to conduct trainings for communitythe most remote districts in Ethiopia. promotion within the civil service. level health providers and volunteer “health agents.” The trainings help The Community Health Worker BRITE is assessing the effectiveness and equip community health providers and Training Program of the Earth outcomes of the MLA program through volunteers to provide information and Institute’s Millennium Villages Project both qualitative and quantitative methods. counseling on effective family planning Through its program evaluation efforts, through peer-group discussions. Since 2009, with the support of almost BRITE aims to assess the impact of MLA $2 million from the Merck Foundation, training on health workers’ management In 2013, 18 family planning service the Earth Institute at Columbia University and leadership knowledge, skills and providers received training to strengthen has been conducting a community practices as well as the impact on their counseling skills as well as their health worker (CHW) training program to services delivery and health outcomes. provision of mobile outreach services. strengthen community health services for An additional 83 health workers received more than 400,000 people in 10 African EngenderHealth—Mobile basic training on effective family countries, as part of the Millennium Outreach Program planning methods, counseling skills, Villages Project (MVP). The initiative and demand-generation strategies to aims to advance the development of a With a three-year, $651,000 grant from help create a welcoming and productive professional cadre of CHWs to fill a critical the Merck Foundation, EngenderHealth environment at mobile outreach sites. gap in the delivery of primary healthcare is working to build the capacity of District reproductive health experts also for rural communities throughout Africa. health workers and implement mobile provided basic training on family planning outreach services in order to increase the counseling, client education and making The program helps ensure that availability and accessibility of effective referrals to any of the 180 available Health participating community health workers family planning and reproductive health Extension Workers (community-level are skilled, well-trained, properly services among underserved, rural providers) from the mobile outreach sites. remunerated, regularly supervised and populations in Ethiopia. This program fully integrated into their countries’ helps improve maternal and child health Additionally, district-level MoH managers healthcare systems. During 2013, MVP outcomes in 15 remote districts in three and project staff conducted regular trained approximately 875 CHWs, regions of Ethiopia: Amhara; Oromia; and monitoring visits to all host and mobile including 87 CHW supervisors, who are the Southern Nations, Nationalities and overseeing nearly 500,000 people across People’s Region (SNNP). 14 Millennium Villages. Additionally, the MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 7 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MVP-designed mobile health platform, Save the Children Federation, Inc.— training sessions have been conducted: CommCare, is being used to monitor Frontline Health Workers Program One provincial Training of Trainers, performance of the CHWs. Compiled 19 district Trainings of Trainers and six in a monthly performance report, these With a $5 million grant from the Merck LHW trainings. In Battagram District, “real-time” data allow managers and Foundation, Save the Children is Save the Children, in collaboration program advisors to identify areas for implementing frontline health worker with the Pakistan Department of improvement, such as the tracking of training programs in Pakistan and Nepal. Education, completed the planning and vital statistics or quality improvement of When properly trained and supported, conceptualization of the Accelerated case management, and to implement community health workers, midwives Education Program, which will help 100 targeted CHW trainings. These data and health assistants can help reduce women reach the eighth-grade education also facilitate the assessment of the rates of maternal and infant mortality level so that they can be eligible for individual CHW performance, allowing caused by preventable and treatable training as Lady Health Workers. managers to incentivize or promote the diseases, such as pneumonia, malaria highest-performing CHWs and to target and diarrhea, and from complications In Nepal, this program focuses on performance-improvement efforts for of pregnancy and birth. Funding also increasing the quality and coverage lower-performing CHWs. provides support for Save the Children’s of maternal, newborn and child health Newborn and Child Campaign. services by training frontline health More recently, many of the program workers in two districts (Baitadi and activities have focused on sustainability In Pakistan, this project is reaching Bajura) of the Far-Western Region. The and government scalability. For example, seven remote and underserved districts project also focuses on strengthening in early 2014, the Nigerian government (Shangla, Battagram, Haripur, Malakand, national-level activities to improve the launched a National CHW Scale-Up Swabi, Buner and Charsadda) of Khyber quality of pre-service frontline health initiative in Abuja, based on the MVP’s Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) Province to increase worker training on maternal, newborn and advisory work over the past two and access to quality, lifesaving maternal, child health at Nepal’s health institutes. a half years with the Government of newborn and child health services. To date, 574 frontline health workers, Nigeria. The MVP program also helped This program also supports the National traditional healers, Female Community lay the foundation for a major campaign Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Health Volunteers and other stakeholders to expand CHWs and their efforts to program of the Pakistan Ministry of have been trained for the Communityhelp countries achieve the health-related Health. During 2013, 3,796 frontline Based Newborn Care (CBNC) Program MDGs. In 2013, the Earth Institute health workers were trained on essential in the Bajura District. To date, in the launched the One Million Community newborn care (ENC); and 393 frontline Baitadi District, 186 health workers Health Workers Campaign to expand health workers completed their training have participated in the CBNC Program and accelerate CHW programs in subon community case management (CCM) training; 74 health workers at the Baitadi Saharan Africa. of pneumonia, diarrhea and malaria. Public Health Office and 831 Female Overall, 211 ENC training sessions have Community Health Volunteers at the local been conducted: 25 district Trainings level also have received training in the of Trainers and 186 trainings of Lady CBNC Program. Health Workers (LHWs) in the seven project districts. Additionally, 26 CCM MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 8 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT During 2013, Save the Children As of 2013, the program has trained a from the CDAI (Centre Départemental continued to advance its advocacy total of 5,046 health workers in Nicaragua d’Approvisionnement en Intrants) efforts through the Newborn and Child and 1,675 in Honduras. As of the end warehouse in Les Cayes. The second Survival Campaign, raising awareness of 2013, 100 percent of the donated training included staff responsible for and mobilizing support to help reduce the doses of PNEUMOVAX® 23 have been procurement and inventory management number of children dying of preventable distributed and more than 95 percent for the same clinics and facilities. Seventy and treatable diseases around the of doses have been administered to participants from 48 different consignees world. A part of this campaign includes patients in both countries. The program attended the trainings. In addition, Every Beat Matters™, a public service in Nicaragua officially concluded in personnel from the Ministry of Health campaign done in partnership the Ad June 2013 and the program in Honduras co-facilitated the trainings with CMMB. Council in the U.S., to provide Americans officially concluded in May 2014. The The end result of the workshops was with a concrete way to help in the effort project has also fostered cross-border improved knowledge around the policies to end preventable child deaths through sharing of best practices and lessons and procedures of the CDAI (current the training of frontline health workers. learned between the National system as well as new Ministry of Health Immunization Program counterparts tools) as well as reinforcement of best Pneumococcal Disease Prevention in each country. practices in inventory management. A and Capacity-Building small portion of the Merck funding also CMMB–Global Health Systems supported facility upgrades at the Les Over the course of three-year, Strengthening Program Cayes facility. phased programs in Nicaragua and Honduras, Merck committed to donate In late 2011, Merck provided $100,000 in 1.7 million doses of PNEUMOVAX® 23 funding to the Catholic Medical Mission OTHER GR ANTS (Pneumococcal Vaccine Polyvalent) and Board (CMMB) for its Global Health provide charitable grants amounting Systems Strengthening (GHSS) program. CARE USA—Bridging Health and to $1 million to Project HOPE to The goal of the five-year (2012–2016) Education Programs for Children support efforts to vaccinate vulnerable program is to increase the demonstrated populations against pneumococcal organizational capacity of 25 of CMMB’s With a $3 million grant from Merck, infections, a major cause of pneumonia. developing country partners to manage CARE USA is continuing its collaboration their pharmaceuticals and supplies in a with Save the Children to serve young In partnership with the Nicaraguan cost-effective and sustainable manner. children and their families in resourceand Honduran ministries of health, and The program contributes directly to poor areas through the “5×5 Model” utilizing grant funding from Merck, Project the World Health Organization’s stated for early childhood development and HOPE has improved the capacity of each health-system strengthening (HSS) care (ECDC), which addresses child national immunization program by training goal of improving norms, standards, development, health, nutrition, child health workers to plan and implement procurement, policies and quality protection and economic empowerment. successful vaccination campaigns. standards for medical products. As part of this three-year initiative, CARE Project HOPE also provided vital created The Essential Package, which equipment and supplies to each ministry As in 2012, Merck funding supported provides a framework and specific tools of health, including refrigerators required GHSS training activities in Haiti in 2013. to address the needs of vulnerable for the proper storage of vaccines and The first of two training sessions young children from conception through computers to help monitor and evaluate targeted administrators of clinics and primary school. immunization activities as the initiatives facilities who would receive product progress in both countries. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 9 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Over the past three years, the ECDC (ISNA) through a series of trainings Since its opening, The Inn has hosted project has adapted Essential Package on ECDC, child nutrition and strategic more than 11,500 children from all over materials and developed culturallyplanning to improve their implementation the U.S. and from more than 80 other relevant intervention packages that are of The Essential Package. Additionally, countries. The Merck Foundation helps being implemented in Chhattisgarh, India; Save the Children in Honduras and ISNA cover The Inn’s operating costs, and El Salvador; and Honduras. In India, in have delivered more than 32,000 neonatal also provided a grant of $3.7 million to 2013, 200 anganwadi workers (AWWs) kits to 12 hospitals across the country. build a 22-room addition, completed in from all 200 project-area anganwadi 2004, increasing The Inn’s capacity to centers (AWCs) received two rounds Both CARE and Save the Children 59 rooms. Merck employees also have of training on ECDC, early childhood work closely with communities and generously supported The Inn through stimulation approaches and skills for governments to build capacity and personal contributions as part of Merck’s planning preschool education. Through strengthen their approach to integrated Partnership for Giving (P4G) program. more than 4,000 AWW home visits, care. For example, in India, CARE mothers received individual counseling participated in discussions to formulate The Merck Foundation pledged $5 million regarding early childhood development a national policy framework for early over five years (2009–2013) to support and techniques to ensure their children’s childhood development and care. In the establishment of a transitional home future developmental and academic 2013, a national ECDC policy was adjacent to the NIH campus, called success. More than 2,900 women introduced, and CARE, along with The Woodmont House. This home can participated in self-help groups (SHGs) other agencies, is working closely with accommodate up to five families at a to improve their leadership and business the Government of India to promote time whose children are no longer in the skills and awareness of early childhood successful implementation of this policy. acute phases of illness yet still require development. Members of the SHGs In El Salvador, Save the Children’s work treatment at the NIH Clinical Center. now support anganwadi workers during with the Ministry of Health informed the Families stay free of charge and may home visits. national plan to reduce neonatal morbidity participate in all of The Inn’s activities and mortality and the developmental and programs. To date, The Woodmont In El Salvador and Honduras, The screening tool for children under five, House has served more than 116 children Essential Package was adapted to which is now being implemented at the and their families from 11 U.S. states and meet specific community needs and national level by the MoH. Puerto Rico, and eight other countries. implemented at five levels: national, community, child care settings, The Children’s Inn at NIH In early 2014, the Merck Foundation households and with individual children. pledged an additional $5 million over five During 2013, the project team trained Merck provided $3.7 million through a years (2014–2018) to help support the more than 1,826 health workers in public-private partnership for the initial operations of The Woodmont House as strategies to reduce neonatal morbidity construction of The Children’s Inn at well as a new pilot “isolation” project and mortality rates, including the the National Institutes of Health (NIH), that is underway at The Woodmont Helping Babies Breath (HBB) strategy, the world’s premier biomedical research House and The Inn. This pilot project is the Neonatal Resuscitation Program center, in Bethesda, Maryland. The Inn designed to accommodate families with (NRP), and the STABLE program for the opened in 1990 and, since then, seriously children who must be isolated from the stabilization and care of premature babies. ill children involved in treatment at the general pediatric population to avoid The project also helped strengthen the NIH have had a place to call home. potential infections that would severely skills of 2,707 staff at the Salvadoran impact children with compromised Institute for Children and Adolescents Most children who come to the NIH for immune systems. treatment are facing life-threatening illnesses that resist conventional therapy. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 10 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT experience for all students. InquiryK–12 EDUCATION Merck Institute for Science Education based teaching and learning imitate the thinking and practices of scientists and help students explore and understand (MISE) the natural world. The MISE approach to Fostering the next generation instructional reform rests on the premise of scientific leaders is a key part The Merck Institute for Science that when students are engaged in of Merck’s overall commitment Education (MISE) was established legitimate inquiry, they develop a greater in 1993 as a nonprofit organization to science. interest in and deeper understanding of dedicated to improving K–12 science science than is possible through more education through teacher and Merck has a long history of promoting conventional instructional approaches. program development. science education at the precollege, MISE also takes a long-term, systemic undergraduate, graduate and postdoctoral approach to science education reform, MISE collaborates with teachers, school levels, and we have provided longwhich focuses primarily on professional administrators and parents to improve term support for programs that expand development to enhance the knowledge science education in the classroom and training capacity in the biomedical and and skills of educators. MISE works in to build consensus around the urgency health sciences. Our support continues partnership with the New Jersey school for reform. The Merck Foundation has through public-private partnerships with districts of Elizabeth, Hillside, Linden, provided more than $50 million to support local, regional and national organizations Newark (the state’s largest school district) MISE since its inception. MISE has that are committed to evidence-based and Rahway, and the Pennsylvania district become a model for how corporations approaches to learning. of North Penn. can support the nation’s STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) In 2012, Merck completed a strategic MISE Transition education objectives and make a lasting review of its giving history and program difference in education reform by portfolio, including its participation in The Merck Foundation has shifted its focusing on the specific goals of: the area of STEM (science, technology, focus within STEM education to address engineering, mathematics) education. pressing needs at the graduate and post• Developing and delivering researchAs a result of this review, the Merck graduate levels. Because of this change based professional-development Foundation has narrowed its focus in in focus, the Foundation is phasing opportunities to enhance teachers’ STEM education to support efforts that down its support of MISE in grades K–12 knowledge and skills enhance the quality of STEM education by October 2014. The Foundation, in at the graduate and post-graduate levels, • Providing access to high-quality collaboration with MISE, has developed a and contribute to advancing women and curriculum materials and resources transition plan to ensure that the work of minorities in the sciences. In 2013, the • Building communities of teachers and MISE will continue with its partner school Foundation developed transition plans to administrators that are committed to districts during this transition period. phase down its K–12 science education strengthening science teaching and Through the summer of 2014, MISE will programs and identify new partnerships learning within and across schools and fulfill its commitments, including the aligned with these strategic priorities. school districts completion of its signature professional development program, the Academy for • Promoting local, state and national Leadership in Science Instruction, and policies that support effective the continuation of the Peer Teacher science education Workshops. In addition, MISE is developing a suite of tools that will draw The work is guided by a vision of on 20 years of professional development science education in which inquiry is an experience. These tools will be integral and regular part of the learning MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 11 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT disseminated to its partners, as well as to implementation of UPGRADE, often Additionally, principals reported an the K–12 science education field at large, serving as mentors to the teacher trainers. increased appreciation of various to advance continuous improvement in To date, approximately 50,000 students instructional approaches for building the teaching of science. have received science instruction from an students’ understanding of science as UPGRADE teacher. a process. Because principals are the Key MISE Programs instructional leaders of schools, their The MISE partner IN-STEP activity also understanding is crucial to supporting an The Academy for Leadership in has influenced other STEM-education effective science program. Science Instruction is a three-year projects in Thailand. In particular, the TEL professional-development program (Technology Enhanced Learning) Project, Public Policy through which teachers, principals developed by a MISE partner organization, and district administrators are able integrates information and computer While MISE has concentrated its efforts to work in schooland district-based technology into curriculum through in local school districts in New Jersey and teams to deepen their understanding effective teaching strategies. Most of Pennsylvania, it has also sought to have of the fundamentals of leadership the strategies used in the TEL curriculum a broader impact on state and national and strong science instruction in were derived from IN-STEP. Five of the education reform through its public policy classrooms. The program was launched 12 TEL Project master teachers are also and stakeholder efforts. in August 2008, with 380 educators IN-STEP master teachers. currently participating. MISE played a leadership role in the For more information, visit MISE. 2009 revision of the current N.J. Core The Peer Teacher Workshop is a Curriculum Content Standards in Science. weeklong professional-development Evaluation of MISE Impact These standards continue to guide the program focused on building teachers’ planning and instruction for K–12 teachers capacity to engage in inquiry-based MISE has had a significant impact on throughout the state. science instruction. During the past the teaching and learning of science in 18 years, MISE has offered close to its partner school districts, according to MISE has played a significant role in the 400 workshops attended by more than research performed over a 20-year period forthcoming Next Generation Science 5,000 educators. by the Consortium for Policy Research in Standards, the new national standards in Education (CPRE), Horizon Research, Inc. science instruction. MISE participated as The Peer Teacher Workshop program (HRI), and Westat. a reviewer of the 2012 National Academy has served as a model for professional of Science publication A Framework for development in Thailand. Known there The most recent reports from Westat K–12 Science Education, which served as UPGRADE, this program is in its focused on the impact of MISE’s work as a foundation for the standards. MISE fourth year of implementation. Although on science instructional practices and staff also provided feedback to the state MISE is no longer directly involved, the ways in which schools and districts of New Jersey as official reviewers of local agencies have taken the lead and support science instruction. These the standards, providing support for its expanded the program. UPGRADE is findings suggest that an increased status as the lead state in creating and active in 280 schools in seven provinces, number of teachers and principals know implementing the new standards. with 429 Thai educators qualified as and appreciate the practices shown teacher trainers. The legacy of the work of by research to be effective. Teachers Currently, MISE is providing support to MISE is most apparent in the 40 master reported being prepared to use these the National Research Council (NRC) as it science and mathematics teachers from practices and to collaborate with their finalizes its study of effective professional IN-STEP (Inquiry based Science and peers to do so. Teachers also reported development for teachers. The report Technology Education Program), who that they had access to the materials and will be published in Fall of 2014. Previous are now key to the development and equipment they needed to teach science. NRC studies have compiled and MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 12 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT provided insight into research that has and fauna, engineering and architecture. jump-starts long-term support that had a significant effect on schools and Through Young Learner Lab sessions, includes five years of “pre-college” organizations nationwide, including MISE. children can develop early theories about advising, instruction, tutoring, mentoring, scientific concepts that may stimulate on-campus summer activities and winter Other K–12 Programs their imaginative talk and play. Over seminars with Rutgers faculty. Since time, children are able to reflect on their 2008, 1,200 students have received Girls Inc. Eureka Expansion Program theories by evaluating evidence and support through the RFS program. With a two-year (2012–2013), $365,000 constructing new theories. In 2013, grant from the Merck Foundation, Girls, Liberty Science Center offered 105 Nearly 100 percent of RFS participants Incorporated, implemented the Eureka Young Learner Lab workshops, reaching have been retained for each cohort, program in Memphis, Tennessee. This 1,383 students and 323 adults. Liberty excluding those who have moved out program engaged young women in Science Center engaged the Joseph C. of state. Data from the first cohort of hands-on STEM educational experiences Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies, RFS show that 97 percent of the group on a college campus over the course of Rutgers-Newark (the Cornwall Center), graduated high school in June 2013. This their middleand high-school academic to assess the immediate and long-term figure exceeds the high school graduation experience. The grant served as a impact of the program on the teachers rate, which is as low as 57 percent in catalyst for additional national and local and their students. Initial results from some RFS districts, and the 86 percent investment, making it possible to expand this assessment are expected in the Fall average graduation rate across the state Eureka from four to 10 communities of 2014. of New Jersey. Ninety–six percent of over the grant period. The partnership the Class of 2017 (i.e., 99 percent of leverages the participation of Merck Rutgers University Future those who graduated) matriculated at employees by serving as guest speakers, Scholars Program post-secondary institutions in the Fall facilitating experiments, providing The Merck Foundation committed of 2013, and 60 percent of those who tours of Merck facilities and serving as $750,000 over five years (2008–2012) graduated are currently enrolled at informal mentors. Following two years to support the Rutgers University Future Rutgers University. of participation in the Eureka program, Scholars (RFS) program. This program over 85 percent of Eureka participants is designed to address the critical National Academy of Sciences expressed a desire to attend a four-year educational needs of promising but The Merck Foundation awarded a college and more than 80 percent of underserved students in New Jersey, by three-year (2012–2014), $1 million grant participants reported a more favorable identifying at-risk, low-income and firstto the National Academy of Sciences view of math and science. generation students before they enter to support a consensus study titled the eighth grade. Merck’s investment Strengthening K–12 Science Education Liberty Science Center’s Young in the RFS program served as a catalyst through a Teacher Learning Continuum. Learner Lab for the university’s acquiring additional The purpose of this study is to bring National science leaders note that young funding from corporate, private and together experts who will review and children need opportunities to explore family foundations, thus ensuring the synthesize available research on how to science by participating in enriching sustainability of the program. provide coherent support for elementary, programs that help develop literacy middle and high school teachers across skills. The Young Learner Lab sessions Every summer since 2008, the program their careers. An expert committee will at the Liberty Science Center in Jersey has selected 200 rising 8th graders—50 consider existing programs for induction City, New Jersey, designed for children each from New Brunswick, Piscataway, and professional development. The between the ages of 3 and 8, provide Newark and Camden public schools— committee also will outline a coherent developmentally appropriate learning based on their financial need, academic professional-growth continuum for sessions on such topics as elementary records, teacher recommendations science teachers that is integrated with geology, simple machines, local flora and personal statements. Selection and supported by the school, district and MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 13 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT state-level contexts in which teachers The 2013 XSci Africa cohort successfully in science, technology, engineering and work. The final report will be published completed its journey to Tanzania, which, mathematics (STEM). Launched in 2008 in 2014. through a partnership with the Jane with a $4 million commitment from the Goodall Institute, also included work with Merck Foundation, Ciencia is ensuring University of Colorado Foundation the Gombe Stream chimpanzee research that Hispanic students with promise for The Merck Foundation awarded a threestation. The educators also completed study in the STEM fields are receiving the year (2011–2013), $900,000 grant to the their Teacher Documentaries and showed support they need to realize their dreams. University of Colorado Foundation to them at a film festival that was open to support a transformative professionalthe public. XSci researchers have begun Every year, a Cohort of 10 Ciencia development program for teachers—Xsci to examine the effects of the experience Scholars are selected from high schools Extraordinary Educator Experiences— on the teachers and their work in in Brownsville, Texas; Elizabeth, New through experiential learning. classrooms. All teacher cohorts are now Jersey; and Los Angeles, California. interacting through the project’s online Selected Scholars receive support of The Foundation’s grant supports three community of practice, www.xsciafrica. up to $20,000 in scholarships over their primary activities: (1) The XSci Africa com. It is on this website that teachers four years of college, up to $22,500 to Science Learning Journey, in which can share stories, resources, journals, support summer research opportunities, two cohorts of urban, K–12 educators videos, curricula and classroom ideas. and the mentors from the Alliance Ciencia participate (one group from Colorado and Planning for the X2014 STEM conference network. A total of 50 Ciencia Scholars the other from Michigan). On the journey, is well under way, in collaboration have been supported since the inception the teachers climb Mount Kilimanjaro with newly established partners, REI of the program. During 2013, the first (studying volcanology and ecosystem Education, Lego ® and the STEMxTM class of Ciencia Scholars graduated and variation), experience the wilds of the national network, (www.stemx.us). This became the first group of Ciencia alumni, Serengeti (studying biodiversity), and collaboration now includes 17 U.S. states most of whom are pursuing advanced visit AIDS orphanages and guest-teach in working to improve STEM education. degree programs. local schools (studying health and culture in Tanzania). Additionally, the teachers Ciencia Scholars are connected by each make personal documentary videos online networks and attend an annual U N D E R G R A D UAT E of their experiences, which serve as symposium conducted in partnership both a rich data source for the grant’s with the American Association for the research component and a powerful The Alliance/Merck Ciencia Advancement of Science (AAAS), the tool for making science exciting and (Science) Hispanic Scholars Food and Drug Administration (FDA), relevant to their students; (2) Research Program is a pioneering the Howard Hughes Medical Institute that examines the effects of these partnership with the National (HHMI), the National Institutes of Health experiences on teachers’ understanding (NIH) and the National Aeronautics and Alliance for Hispanic Health of how they learn science and Space Administration (NASA), among (the Alliance) dedicated to consequently the way those new insights other partners. The symposium offers influence their science teaching; and supporting a new generation of the scholars the opportunity to learn (3) the XSTEM conference—a new Hispanic scientists. new skills, share their research and national gathering that explores and support each other’s personal and promotes a higher level of collaboration Providing scholarship, summer research professional paths. and support around experiential STEM experiences, and the support of an learning theory and practice in both extraordinary network of mentors, the formal and informal education. effort is expanding Hispanic student access to higher education and careers MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 14 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The NAHH/Merck partnership also awards 25 scholarships each year to Hispanic college students with a declared STEM major. The Ciencia National Award provided a one–time, $2,000 scholarship to help students complete their education. To date, a total of 125 Ciencia National Awards have been supported. By preparing a new generation of scientists, through their dissertation research and Ciencia is helping secure a brighter future G R A D UAT E / P O S TG R A D UAT E postgraduate students entering their not only for these students, but for our postdoctoral training. To date, Merck has nation and world. African Americans currently awarded a total of 700 fellowships. hold fewer than 3.2 percent The table below represents the of all Ph.D.s in the U.S. in the Awardees are selected through a national demographic profile of the Ciencia biological sciences and chemistry. competition open to all eligible students program award recipients: at colleges and universities throughout To help address this disparity, the United States. The awards provide The Alliance is collaborating with Harvard Merck joined with UNCF in 1995 financial support, hands-on training, University to conduct an external to establish the UNCF/Merck mentoring relationships and institutional evaluation to assess the impact of the Science Initiative (UMSI). support to help the UMSI Fellows Ciencia program. Data sources include devote their attention to education. surveys, focus groups and interviews This groundbreaking program seeks to Undergraduate scholars also may receive with leaders of partner organizations, support the training and development of paid summer internships at Merck. the Ciencia Scholars and the program African American research scientists in manager. The results of the program the biological, chemical and engineering Mentoring and Networking with evaluation will be available in the autumn fields, and in so doing, to enhance Past Fellows of 2014. economic competitiveness in the United States. Each year, the UMSI provides A key component of the UMSI program is For more information on the National scholarship and fellowship support the mentoring that UMSI Fellows receive Alliance for Hispanic Health, click here. to 37 outstanding African American from Merck scientists and external For more information on the Alliance/ students who are pursuing studies and scientists working in the life and physical Merck Ciencia Hispanic Scholars careers in the biological and chemical sciences. Mentors share their expertise, Program, click here. sciences. Since its inception, Merck and and career advisers and colleagues the Merck Foundation have committed help to ensure that the Fellows move a total of $47 million to support the seamlessly from one educational level to UMSI program. the next. UNCF/Merck Science Initiative awards Each year, the program also invites all are made at the undergraduate, graduate current awardees to participate in Fellows and postdoctoral levels. The initiative Day. This event brings together Merck is aimed at key transition points in scientists and Fellows to share their education: undergraduate students research through scientific symposiums entering their final academic year, and poster sessions. graduate students who are midway MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 15 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Outputs of the UMSI Program Since its inception, the UMSI program has continued to support the career development of African-American students and postdoctoral fellows pursuing careers in the biomedical sciences. Through the program’s support, UMSI Fellows are conducting research at some of the world’s leading research institutions while developing peer-to-peer and professional networks. UNCF is currently constructing a comprehensive survey of UMSI fellows from 2011 to the present. The survey PERFORMANCE will explore the quality of their fellowship experience, including the mentorship, peer–to–peer networking, the quality of the laboratory research experience and their ability to navigate the career development ladder. Data collection will begin in June 2014. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 16 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our community involvement programs social issues in communities where COMMUNITY reflect the priorities that Merck shares with local stakeholders. We provide financial support and share the expertise Merck has a presence. In a variety of ways, these programs help address local community needs and enable our of Merck employees through programs employees to contribute to the wellAt Merck, we aspire to have that focus on solving critical health and being of their communities. a positive impact on the communities in which we Learn more about our economic impact operate worldwide. on communities. C O M M U N I T Y G I V I N G S U M M A RY MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 17 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Merck’s Elkton, Virginia, site provided a NEIGHBOR OF CHOICE grant to the Harrisonburg Rockingham Free Clinic to support the development Our signature Neighbor of Choice community program supports the work of patient education materials, expand of local nonprofit organizations that strive to improve the quality of life of clinical services and hours and promote the residents in communities where Merck has a presence. the well-being of vulnerable patients. Established by Merck in the 1990s, the Neighbor of Choice (NOC) program helps to build The Somerset Medical Center in New relationships of trust and support with local nonprofit organizations and residents of the Jersey utilized grant funds to support the communities in which we operate by responding to needs identified by the communities El Poder Sobre Diabetes, a community themselves. Merck takes seriously the shared responsibility of helping to improve the outreach program that provides diabetes quality of life of neighbors in need. prevention and disease management education and services to underserved Hispanic populations. Social Services With support from Merck, the Center for Educational Advancement in Hunterdon County, New Jersey, initiated training for staff to meet the needs of In 2013, Merck invited nonprofit United States students with autism. A team of Merck organizations located in 19 communities employees also volunteered at the school in which Merck has a major presence Health to prepare the grounds for the spring to apply for support. In accordance Merck partnered with the American graduation ceremony. with NOC program guidelines, a Cancer Society Puerto Rico chapter to total of $2.3 million in grants was provide financial support to recently Merck’s Pennsylvania site partnership awarded to 181 nonprofits in support diagnosed cancer patients in Puerto with Manna on Main in North Wales is of a wide range of arts/cultural, civic, Rico. As a result, in 2013, more patients one of the success stories of the NOC educational, environmental and health have received financial support and program as an example of a partnership services initiatives. access to programs and services. Merck with both financial resources and employees at the Puerto Rico site have employee support. In 2013, Manna Below are examples of projects also volunteered to support the American served over 20,000 meals to needy supported through the Neighbor of Cancer Society’s “Relay for life” fundfamilies in Montgomery County, with Choice grants program. raising activities. approximately 200 Merck employees volunteering throughout the year. With funding from the NOC program, the Circle of Life Children’s Center Pediatric Merck partnered with the United Way Palliative Care in Elizabeth, New Jersey, of Greater Union County, New Jersey, was able to retain two clinical positions, to support the Girls Today, Leaders a bilingual pediatric nurse and a social Tomorrow project, a mentoring program worker, to provide direct services to seriously ill children and their families. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 18 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT designed to provide opportunities that A grant to the Omaha Zoo Foundation in International empower adolescent girls and give Nebraska enabled the zoo to expand and them the tools they need to succeed improve its comprehensive educational In 2013, Merck offered the Neighbor in today’s world. More than 300 young program by designing an innovative of Choice program at MSD sites in the women between the ages of 13 and curriculum for preschool-aged children. following countries: France, Ireland, Italy, 17 participated in the program, which The preschool curriculum aims to help Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore included structured workshops that close the achievement gap between and the United Kingdom. Below are focused on improving self-esteem and children living at or below the poverty examples of projects that we supported self-empowerment, and positive lifelevel and their middle-class peers. at various locations. style decisions. The workshops also featured presentations by TV personality Our partnership with the North Carolina Ireland and talk show host, Wendy Williams, Central University aims to increase the MSD Ireland partnered with the Irish Assemblywoman Annette Quijano, number of female and underrepresented Heart Foundation, Ireland’s only national actress Kim Coles and professional stylist minority students who graduate from charity working to reduce premature Jane Carter. STEM (science, technology, engineering, death and disability from heart disease mathematics) majors and pursue a and stroke. This partnership aims to A grant to Big Brother Big Sister of graduate degree and/or career in a STEMtackle the increasing rate of obesity Delaware, Inc., supported a mentoring related discipline. among children and encourage local program at Frederick Douglass young people to establish a healthy Elementary in Seaford. This program also A grant to the 21st Century Science by lifestyle. This project supported direct offered Merck Animal Health employees iPads enabled teachers at the Michigan engagement with nine local elementary opportunities to mentor students. Avenue Elementary School in Cleveland, schools and a community-based healthy Tennessee, to use technology to engage living campaign that reached nearly Education students in effective science instruction. 3,000 elementary school students Our partnership with Reach Out and Read Merck has a strong relationship with the and engaged MSD employees in enables Merck employees to help create Elementary School, which has served volunteer opportunities. literacy-rich health clinic waiting rooms many of the low-income families in the in low-income communities. Employee surrounding community for over 15 years. England volunteers model reading behaviors MSD UK partnered with Fareshare to by sharing picture books with children. Animal Health tackle food insecurity and waste in Program data reveal that caregivers are the region. It is estimated that over four times more likely to read with their The NOC program provided a grant to 70,000 children in the North East of child after participating in this program. the Nebraska Humane Society to help England experience food insecurity. support veterinarians and medical staff Fareshare is working to provide surplus In Memphis, Tennessee, a grant to along with kennel workers who are food to charitable projects that support the Brinkley Heights Urban Academy responsible for the day-to-day operations people who are facing food insecurity. supported the Run, Run Readers! associated with caring for the animals. While the Fareshare partnership Program, to create a literacy-rich The key objectives of the program represents a new relationship for MMD environment for students. are to provide medical care for every Cramlington, employees are excited animal that enters the shelter in a costabout the potential opportunities to effective manner. volunteer for this worthwhile project. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 19 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Mexico relief component of the Merck Medical DISASTER RELIEF During 2013, MSD Mexico selected Outreach Program. In major disaster projects that were likely to have a situations, donations of Merck medicines Merck provides disaster-relief meaningful impact on the Xochimilco may be made directly by the local Merck community. Casa de la Amistad, an assistance during major disasters subsidiary or manufacturing facility. organization dedicated to supporting and supports efforts in disaster children with cancer, has implemented preparedness and recovery. Our goals in providing disaster relief a nutritional program to strengthen are to: the health of children receiving cancer Merck global headquarters serves as treatment. MSD Mexico also partnered the central clearinghouse for information • Respond in a timely and with Metamorfosis, A.C., to support regarding Merck’s companywide appropriate manner seven therapists who help individuals response to major disasters, and makes • Meet the needs of relief agencies and with disabilities integrate effectively decisions related to the company’s affected communities into society. The Metamorfosis program donations of cash and/or medicines and also offers volunteer opportunities for vaccines in a disaster situation. • Provide consistent and coordinated MSD employees. companywide relief efforts At Merck, we follow the long-standing • Facilitate communication and Singapore recommendation by the Office of dissemination of information among MSD Singapore partnered with the U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance that employees and key external groups, National University of Singapore (NUS) a company’s response be made on customers, Merck neighbors and Medical School to support the expansion the basis of a firsthand assessment relief agencies of the Interprofessional Education (IPE) of need by local authorities and/or • Evaluate continued assistance through program. The goal of the IPE program is a designated relief agency. Where recovery stages to promote coordination and collaboration appropriate, and in consultation with among healthcare professionals, including local Merck management, Merck may • Evaluate the need for, and feasibility doctors, pharmacists, nurses and donate pharmaceuticals and vaccines of, providing support for important therapists, to provide more efficient and through the disaster and emergency disaster preparedness efforts patient-centered care. S U P P O R T I N G T Y P H O O N H A I YA N R E L I E F E F F O R T S (P H I L I P P I N E S) (N OV E M B E R 2 013) In response to the unprecedented devastation in the Philippines, Merck provided financial contributions and product donations valued at more than $2 million to support immediate and long-term relief efforts. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 20 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In collaboration with colleagues in MSD policies and investments that are needed Since 2012 ICDDR,B achieved Philippines, Merck responded quickly to protect the community in the future. the following: to the crisis, simultaneously confirming To address this critical need, the Merck the safety of MSD employees in the Foundation partnered with New Jersey • Partnered with AmeriCares to Philippines and providing direct support Future to support a local recovery distribute cholera medicines and to relief agencies working to address the planning manager to focus on localsupplies to treat 15,000 patients immediate needs of the Filipino people. level planning and rebuilding. In 2013, • Responded to the cholera outbreak Merck provided financial support to the Merck awarded a two-year grant to New in Sierra Leone in October 2012, following international NGOs: Jersey Future to continue the long-term providing supplies to treat 5000 community recovery and rebuilding goals patients, building capacity of Ministry • American Red Cross in two New Jersey communities. of Health and government laboratories, • World Vision and training clinicians in the hardest-hit American Red Cross districts. As a result of the ICCDR,B • Save the Children intervention in Sierra Leone, the • The International Rescue Committee Merck is a long-standing member of case fatality rate declined nationally the American Red Cross Annual Disaster from 1.6% to 1.4% at the end of the • The U.S. Fund for UNICEF Giving Program (ADGP). The Merck month, with sharp declines in most Foundation has pledged $2 million over of the hardest–hit districts, which had In additional, Merck partnered with four years (2010–2013) to support the experienced case fatality rates as high Direct Relief International, AmeriCares, ADGP and to help ensure that the Red as 7.9%. MAP International and Project Hope to Cross can be on the scene of a disaster distribute donated Merck medicines. • Performed follow-up training in the as soon as possible. When disasters occur, the Red Cross is there to provide Horn of Africa We are committed to working with MSD essential relief services for those in need. • Performed training in the Philippines Philippines to provide additional support Our support helps the Red Cross deliver on the management of cholera, as the needs of the long-term recovery assistance immediately across affected diarrhea and other food and efforts evolve. areas, in partnership with local agencies. waterborne diseases and provided train-the-trainer sessions to over 60 Hurricane Sandy (United States), International Support local health personnel and public October 2012 health professionals In 2012, the Foundation awarded the To support the immediate relief efforts • Provided technical assistance to lead International Centre for Diarrhoeal as a result of Hurricane Sandy, Merck partners in a recently formed Diarrhea Disease Research Bangladesh (ICDDR,B), made cash and product donations that and Pneumonia Working Group, led by the world leader in cholera/acute watery exceeded $1.3 million to nonprofits and UNICEF and the Clinton Health Access diarrhea (AWD) management, with a twofirst responders. In the months following Initiative, in 10 countries with a high year, $743,000 contribution. This grant Hurricane Sandy, affected communities burden of diarrhea—India, Nigeria, was envisioned to ensure timely response struggled to manage immediate relief Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), to international requests for support— and long-term rebuilding efforts. Many Pakistan, Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, through standing capacity of appropriate of these towns lacked the capacity to Tanzania, Bangladesh and Niger supplies and expertise—during the simultaneously manage recovery issues • Continued to use the Dhaka Hospital critical early stages of a cholera outbreak. and take a long-term view regarding as a dynamic laboratory for testing and refining effective treatment protocols MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 21 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2013, Merck partnered with the OTHER COMMUNIT Y GR ANTS Kimmel Center for the Philadelphia International Festival of the Arts (PIFA) New Jersey Performing Arts Center 2013, a month–long celebration of (NJPAC) Philadelphia’s vibrant cultural sector involving over 50 arts and cultural NJPAC is the home of one of the partners. With Merck support, the nation’s largest and most comprehensive Kimmel Center works to “transform arts education programs. Each year it lives daily through the arts” across a provides exposure and training to tens of broad spectrum of artistic disciplines thousands of young people throughout and venues that appeal to a diverse New Jersey who are interested in Philadelphia community. the performing arts through formal study, experiential learning and public New Jersey Symphony Orchestra performance. NJPAC has served over (NJSO) 1 million children, families and educators since its inception in 1992. The Merck Foundation continued its support of the New Jersey Symphony Merck’s support in 2013 marked the Orchestra in 2013 with a multiyear grant fifth year of a multiyear, $1 million grant to nurture young minds, inspire creativity to help NJPAC offer a wide range of and promote lifelong learning through the programs for young people: in-school experience of live music. Merck support and after-school performances, in-school fuels the NJSO Broadcast Series, which residency programs, and arts training and provides entertainment and expands scholarship for children throughout the access to the arts for a national audience. Garden State. In total, the Broadcast Series has reached more than 572,000 listeners nationally. Kimmel Center for the NJSO education and engagement Performing Arts initiatives through the Broadcast Series serve more than 40,000 young Merck is also a supporter of the arts in people and their families from largely Philadelphia. The Kimmel Center operates underserved communities each season a world-class performing arts center that throughout New Jersey. engages and serves a broad audience throughout Greater Philadelphia. The center, composed of three facilities with a total of 8,000 seats, attracts an annual audience of nearly 1,000,000 with almost 200,000 coming from outside of Philadelphia. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 22 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Health Education FOUNDATION We strive to improve healthcare quality and capacity as well as increase access We seek to enhance the quality of STEM (science, technology, engineering, to care for underserved populations in mathematics) education at the graduate The Merck Foundation— select disease areas of global need—HIV/ and post-graduate levels and contribute a U.S.-based, private charitable AIDS, hepatitis C and chronic conditions to advancing women and minorities in the foundation established in 1957— such as diabetes and cardiovascular sciences. Key initiatives include: is funded entirely by the company disease—through strategic collaborations and is Merck’s chief source of and program investments. Key • Alliance/Merck Ciencia (Science) funding support for qualified initiatives include: Hispanic Scholars Program nonprofit charitable organizations. • Girls, Inc.—Eureka • African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Expansion Program Partnerships (ACHAP) Since its inception, the Merck Foundation • Merck Institute for has contributed more than $785 million to • Alliance to Reduce Disparities Science Education support initiatives that address important in Diabetes • National Academy of Sciences— societal needs in a manner consistent • BroadReach Institute for Training Strengthening Science Education with Merck’s overall mission to help the and Education—Management and world be well. The Foundation supports Leadership Academy • United Negro College Fund/Merck organizations and innovative programs Science Initiative • China/MSD HIV/AIDS Partnership that are aligned with our three focus • University of Colorado— (CMAP) areas: health, education and community. XSci Extraordinary Educator We also share the outcomes, lessons • Children’s Inn at NIH Experiences learned and best practices from our • EngenderHealth—Mobile initiatives to contribute knowledge and Outreach Program Community help advance progress in these areas. • HIV Care Collaborative We provide financial support and share The Foundation’s strategic priorities aim • Merck Childhood Asthma Network the expertise of Merck employees to strengthen the impact of our giving (MCAN) through grant and volunteer programs while also aligning our programs with that address critical health and social • Millennium Villages Community areas of global need in which Merck has issues in communities where Merck has Health Worker Program substantial expertise and capability. a presence. Key initiatives include: • Save the Children—Frontline The following strategic priorities guide the Health Workers Initiative • RTC Fellowship for World Health Foundation’s program investments. • Neighbor of Choice Program • Partnership for Giving • Join My Village MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 23 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • The Merck Medical Outreach PRODUCT DONATIONS Program is the primary mechanism through which Merck donates our pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer health products At Merck, we believe that it’s not for humanitarian assistance in the enough to discover and develop developing world and in support new medicines and vaccines. of disaster relief and emergency We believe that we also need to response worldwide. help get them to the people who • The Merck Patient Assistance need them. Programs have provided Merck medicines and adult vaccines free to One important way to achieve this people who do not have prescription goal is through product donations that drug or health insurance coverage and address specific health needs, whether who, without our assistance, could not in communities with a fundamental lack otherwise afford them. of access to healthcare and services or in acute or protracted humanitarian crises. Our product donation programs and initiatives include: • The Merck MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) Donation Program is one of the most significant initiatives undertaken by Merck to help improve access to medicines in developing countries. Established over 25 years ago, the Merck MECTIZAN Donation Program is the longest-running disease-specific drug donation program and public-private partnership of its kind, and is widely regarded as one of the most successful publicprivate health collaborations in the world. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 24 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We manage our philanthropic giving Charitable Grants GOVERNANCE through three mechanisms: • The Merck Foundation serves We report the charitable contributions made through the Office of Corporate as the company’s chief source Philanthropy and the Merck Foundation We recognize that our customers, of funding support to qualified on this website. Information provided communities, neighbors and nonprofit charitable and philanthropic includes the names of recipient investors have an interest in how organizations whose initiatives organizations, program names and we conduct ourselves and how address important societal needs and descriptions and amounts of the grants we support our commitment whose goals are consistent with our provided. Merck updates this information to society. giving priorities. Established in 1957, quarterly. Learn more. the Merck Foundation is a U.S.-based Our philanthropy must reflect efficient, private foundation funded entirely responsible and ethical judgment and by Merck. behavior. This is why the Office of • The Office of Corporate Philanthropy Corporate Philanthropy and the Merck supports charitable programs through Foundation are periodically audited to cash donations and employee ensure consistency in our giving criteria volunteerism. These programs and grant-making as well as adherence contribute not only to the health and to compliance and transparency well-being of people around the world, requirements. Additionally, the Merck but also to Merck employees, our Foundation’s Board of Trustees provides neighbors and others in communities oversight and strategic direction for the where employees live and work Foundation’s program investments. and where the company conducts business. The Office of Corporate We use an online grants management Philanthropy also coordinates Merck’s system, which is global in reach. It disaster-relief assistance throughout allows qualified nonprofit organizations the world. that are seeking cash contributions to • The Merck Medical Outreach electronically submit proposals and Program (MMOP) is the primary supporting documents. It also facilitates mechanism through which Merck the submission of all required compliance donates its pharmaceuticals, documentation and helps ensure vaccines and consumer products consistent review of grant requests. for humanitarian assistance in the developing world and in support of disaster relief and emergencies worldwide. The Office of Corporate Responsibility manages the MMOP, the Merck MECTIZAN® Donation Program and vaccine-access programs in the developing world. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 25 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT by providing a single Web-based portal its nonprofit partners, thereby helping MERCK GIVES BACK through which employees can search for volunteer opportunities and log their volunteer hours. On the site, employees to improve access to healthcare for underserved populations. also can share their volunteer experiences Learn more about the Richard T. Clark At Merck, we believe that through photos and stories and find tools Fellowship for World Health. employee giving benefits our and information related to all of Merck’s employees, their communities and employee-giving programs. Signature Volunteer Programs our company. The Richard T. Clark Fellowship for Merck’s Pro Bono Legal Program Around the world, Merck employees World Health has been nationally recognized for its take an active role in giving back to leadership in providing legal services their communities through a variety of The Richard T. Clark Fellowship to the poor and disadvantaged. Begun programs offered by the company. Merck for World Health is a global Merck in 1994, today the program includes is proud of its employees’ dedication program designed to leverage the skills more than 150 attorneys, paralegals to serving others, and our leadingand talents of Merck employees to and administrative associates providing edge Global Employee Volunteerism help build and support the efforts of pro bono legal services to residents and Policy provides each employee with the humanitarian organizations addressing nonprofit organizations in the U.S. and opportunity to take up to 40 hours of the health needs of the underserved. internationally that could not otherwise paid time off each year to engage in a Since the program’s inception in 2012, afford legal representation. Merck legal variety of volunteer opportunities that 47 Richard T. Clark Fellows from nine professionals are currently handling pro support eligible nonprofit organizations. different countries have worked in bono cases in the areas of guardianship, Additionally, Merck offers a dollar-for16 nonprofit organizations. landlord-tenant disputes, bankruptcy, dollar matching gift program for U.S. and family law, domestic violence, military Puerto Rico active and retired Merck This Merck program aims to: veteran benefits, Social Security disability employees, as well as our Dollars for benefits and special-education law. Doers volunteer rewards program, • Strengthen the capacity and reach of which provides contributions to eligible eligible nonprofit organizations with Making Positive Choices is an initiative organizations based on employee technical and human capital support Merck created in partnership with the volunteer hours. Street Law organization. The program • Provide rich professional development engages Merck employees interested experiences for Merck employees in using their unique professional • Bring together the passion, purpose knowledge to make a difference in VO LU N T E E R I N G and commitment of dedicated, the lives of children and young adults talented people to achieve by teaching law, health, community Each year, thousands of Merck measurable outcomes safety, career planning and advocacy to employees volunteer during work hours middleand high-school students and and on their personal time to give back to While providing unique careeryouth who are “aging out” of the foster their communities. development opportunities that help care system. The program focuses on expand Merck employees’ understanding helping young people understand the In 2013, Merck launched the Merck Gives of critical health needs in different importance of being a good citizen and Back program—a newly branded global parts of the world, this program encouraging personal, academic and volunteer program and website—to works to increase the efficiency of professional growth. support the efforts of our employees operations, effectiveness and reach of MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 26 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT For years, MSD France employees • Merck Canada employees participated with Girls Inc. and their Eureka have supported the ARTZ Alzheimer’s in the fourth annual Merck Community Program, sponsored through a grant Program, which is committed to Action Day. Across Canada, working from the Merck Foundation to aid teen improving the quality of life for people with organizations such as the YWCA girls in recognizing the importance living with Alzheimer’s disease or in Vancouver to Elizabeth House in of and contributions made through other forms of dementia by providing Montreal, 126 Merck employees STEM careers. opportunities to experience art through aligned their efforts with the Merck for • Volunteer efforts by employees visits to museums in Paris. In 2013, we Mothers program, volunteering at 19 at the Arecibo and Barceloneta, initiated plans to pilot this program with nonprofit community organizations to Puerto Rico, Merck sites resulted in U.S. Merck employees through the Arts paint, garden and help prepare meals. 320 employees helping out at the and Minds organization in the spring community Elementary School Jose • MSD employee Joel Perez in of 2014. Cordero. Among their numerous Xochimilco, Mexicom volunteered his time at Formando Sonrisas (Creating tasks, volunteers cleaned, painted Merck Gives Back is one of our and redesigned the science lab, Smiles), a camp dedicated to assisting numerous employee volunteer programs converted a warehouse into a poor children throughout Mexico by in place that address a variety of societal classroom, and repaired the sports and enhancing their education and building challenges. Through these programs, recreational equipment. their values. Merck employees around the world to support important causes and programs • MSD Hong Kong employees • A group of 120 employees from the in their own communities, donating their participated in walks, runs and other Merck Vaccines Northeast Region time to build homes and playgrounds, fund-raising events for organizations (U.S.) volunteered its time to assemble harvest farm vegetables, stock food-bank such as Diabetes Hong Kong, World “build-a-bears” for children of pantries, serve meals to the homeless, Cancer Research Fund Hong Kong, wounded warriors and write letters visit the elderly and more. and the Hong Kong College of for veterans in partnership with Cardiology World Heart Day event. the Fisher House Foundation and Below are selected activities from 2013 Operation Gratitude. • Merck employees from the League of in which individual Merck employees Employees of African Descent (LEAD), • During MSD Netherlands’ employee and teams around the world, from Pennsylvania chapter, participated in volunteer program “Roll Up Your Sales, Marketing, Finance, Research, a four-day volunteer activity, serving Sleeves,” over 800 employees lent Manufacturing, Information Technology, meals and cleaning up after service, a helping hand at various charities Global Support Services, Legal and to support Manna on Main Street, a in Haarlem and Oss. They improved many other divisions and departments, nonprofit organization that provides nursing home and day care center volunteered their time throughout meals to families in need. gardens and organized day trips the year. for children and elderly men and • Twenty Merck employees from the women that seldom go outdoors. Global Compliance Organization in • Echoing the Merck for Mothers spirit, The volunteers also supported youth Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, MSD Taiwan also spearheaded MSD activities and maintenance projects for participated in a volunteer activity for Women: Love & Help. Employees prominent monuments. benefiting the Community Food Bank co-organized volunteer initiatives of New Jersey. The volunteers sorted, with the Pearl S. Buck Foundation to Overseas Volunteering—Merck and categorized and packed food items support immigrant mothers in Taiwan MSD have an ever-growing commitment for distribution. by increasing their access to health to overseas service and volunteerism, information and education. • In Memphis, Tennessee, Merck during which employees commit a few Consumer Care and Global Human Health Field Sales have been working MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 27 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT days or several weeks to serving others from regions other than their own. • Kristin Baird and Tamara Hayden were among 22 people from the First Presbyterian Church of Ambler, Pennsylvania, who traveled on a mission trip to Port au Prince, Haiti, organized by Haiti Outreach Ministries (HOM). Tamara had an opportunity to work with schoolchildren, and Kristin worked in the pharmacy where, with the help of an interpreter, she filled more than 500 prescriptions for local Haitians. • Born in Zimbabwe, Lydia Matombo always dreamed of returning to Africa to give back in some way. This year, Lydia volunteered her time for a twoMerck employees from Primary Care Vaccine and Women’s Health sorted and packed boxes of week mission to Michura, Kenya, to medical supplies at the MedShare warehouse in San Leandro, California. These surplus supplies work with 410 Bridge, a public charity are sent to hospitals and clinics in 95 countries for the benefit of underserved populations. that connects organizations and people with communities in Kenya, Haiti and Uganda for the purpose of community-initiated development. Lydia volunteered at a clinic and participated in a community education day where local women and children received HIV training, prenatal care and/or vaccinations. Merck employees from Portland, Oregon, sport their hard hats for a group shot in front of the house they helped build with Habitat for Humanity. Seventeen volunteers helped Habitat’s mission by framing houses and constructing raised garden beds in the community green space. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 28 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MSD Taiwan employees roll up their sleeves and endure burning hot temperatures and sand to build a fence to protect the coastal sandbank and habitat in Southern Taiwan. Lorraine Schell of Merck Research Labs (left), with other volunteers in front of the Africa Mercy, a they support. The Merck Foundation’s floating ship hospital, as they join the crew of people PA R T N E R S H I P F O R G I V I N G Dollar for Doers program matches from 31 nations. Lorraine worked in the purser’s office, where she handled immigration issues and employee volunteer hours with up to two performed housekeeping chores. As part of the The Partnership for Giving (P4G) cash contributions per calendar year for Mercy team, she also packed up tents and supplies is Merck’s year-round matching employees who invest 40 hours or more in preparation for the ship’s scheduled departure. gifts program. of service with an eligible organization. To recognize and thank the many people It enhances the ability of active and and organizations that have made a retired Merck employees in the U.S. and difference in our own lives and the lives Puerto Rico to support eligible health of our families, employees in the U.S. and human services agencies; accredited and Puerto Rico are invited each year to educational institutions; arts and culture; nominate nonprofit agencies to receive and animal welfare and environmental a $1,000 “thank you” grant through the organizations of their choice by doubling Foundation’s “Touched by an Agency” their financial gifts. program. Employees share their personal stories about these nonprofits, and each As volunteers, Merck employees in the year the Merck Foundation awards these Luis Elizondo, a member of the Service Management U.S. and Puerto Rico are eligible to earn special contributions to approximately 15 Team in Charlotte, N.C., spent three weeks volunteering in Casa Hogar el Nuevo Amanecer, a cash contributions for the organizations of the nominated organizations. clinic for recovering alcoholics and drug addicts in Cuzco, Peru. Luis volunteered through United Plante, an international nonprofit organization. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 29 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT J O I N M Y V I L L AG E PERFORMANCE Join My Village (JMV) is a partnership between the Merck Foundation, the General Mills Foundation and CARE. Through this social change initiative, Merck/MSD employees helped Merck’s efforts in making charitable donations that increase access to healthcare and provide education and economic development opportunities for women and girls in India to help mitigate the effects of poverty. JMV empowers women and girls by increasing access to classroom education, economic opportunities and better healthcare. In India, JMV supports two CARE programs: one in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, where more than half of the women and girls suffer from anemia and malnutrition; the other in Haryana, where healthcare is likely to be withheld from girls and women with limited means. Since the start of this program in 2010, Merck has donated over $5 million to support Join My Village. To learn more about Join My Village, you can visit its Facebook page. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 30 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The programs aims to: RTC FELLOWSHIP • Strengthen the capacity and reach of FOR WORLD HEALTH nonprofit organizations with technical and human capital support, not just funds • Provide rich, professional development Merck’s mission to improve experiences for Merck employees and save lives underpins the • Bring together the passion, purpose idea behind the Richard T. Clark and commitment of dedicated, Fellowship for World Health. talented people to achieve measurable outcomes In recognition of retired Chairman and CEO, Dick Clark, and his philosophy of While providing unique career “Passion, Purpose and Commitment “What really excites me is the development opportunities that help to Corporate Responsibility,” Merck’s chance the Fellowship gives expand employees’ understanding of Office of Corporate Philanthropy created employees to apply their critical needs in different parts of the the Richard T. Clark (RTC) Fellowship for world, the program works to increase dedication, skills and abilities World Health—a global program designed the efficiency of operations and the to leverage the skills and talents of Merck to put Merck’s mission into effectiveness and reach of the nonprofit and MSD employees to help build and action. Working with humanipartner, thereby helping to improve the support the efforts of humanitarian tarian organizations around health outcomes of the populations organizations to address the health needs the world in this way allows they serve. of the underserved. us to have a truly unique effect on people’s lives and Since the program’s inception in 2012, better understand the future 47 Fellows from 9 different countries have worked for 16 nonprofit organizations. of healthcare.” In 2014, Merck will be developing a Richard T. Clark measurement and evaluation framework Retired Merck Chairman & CEO for the RTC Fellowship program to assess its impact on the RTC Fellows, the nonprofit partners and Merck. We anticipate that information from this assessment will be reported in 2015. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 31 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT M E E T T H E F E L LOW S Adam Martin Nicole Buist GHH—Whitehouse Station, N.J., USA MRL—Kenilworth, N.J., USA “Go the Full 40” Marketing Strategy Training of African Medical Institutions The Association of Women’s Health, BIO Ventures for Global Health Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses (BVGH)—USA (AWHONN)—USA I am honored to have such a rare I am very excited to represent Merck opportunity to step away from my in supporting AWHONN’s “Go the Full 40” campaign. I was role in drug discovery and gain a different perspective on why shocked to learn that the U.S. is ranked 47th in the world for we do what we do here at Merck. Supporting BIO Ventures maternal mortality, despite relatively high standards in healthcare. for Global Health will give me unique insight into the interface I am proud to help AWHONN work to educate parents and between science and philanthropy. It’s always been a privilege providers on reducing risks, and I am grateful for being given the to work in an environment where I am constantly learning. The opportunity to make a difference. At the same time, I will get opportunity to give something back by sharing that knowledge greater exposure to the healthcare system in the U.S. and a better with researchers in Africa as they carry out their important work in understanding of the challenges faced when trying to influence neglected diseases will be a beautiful and rewarding experience. behavior change in practitioners and patients. Katherine Young Nancy Singer MRL—Kenilworth, N.J., USA Human Resources—Upper Gwynedd, Pa., USA Training of African Medical Institutions “Go the Full 40” Marketing Strategy BIO Ventures for Global Health (BVGH)—USA The Association of Women’s Health, I am proud to work for a company Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses that prioritizes philanthropy. From (AWHONN)—USA the donation of medicine for river blindness, to the incredibly Did you know that maternal mortality has doubled in the U.S. generous matching-gifts program, to 40 hours of charitable leave over the past 10 years? I didn’t until recently. My Fellow partner each year, Merck is a model in corporate responsibility. Having and I will be learning more as we work with AWHONN to help spent 32 years within Merck’s walls, I am excited to apply my decrease maternal mortality and increase neonatal health in the headquarters and drug-discovery-team-lead experiences in a U.S. I am thrilled to work with AWHONN, a Merck for Mothers firsthand field relationship on behalf of BIO Ventures for Global grantee, whose mission is to promote the health of women and Health. As a Fellow, I will bring back to Merck the impact of newborns through excellence in nursing, education, developing interacting with partners in the field and enthusiasm for drug standards of care and various outreach programs. I look forward discovery for those in greatest need! to being a part of this vitally important work. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 32 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Kim Fazio Dave Proven GHH—Upper Gwynedd, Pa., USA Finance—West Point, Pa., USA Marketing Strategy Country Operating Strategy Catholic Medical Mission Board Catholic Medical Mission Board (CMMB)—USA (CMMB)—USA As an Richard T. Clark (RTC) Fellow, I’m excited to serve as an RTC Fellow. I anticipate broadening my global I believe I can add value to the work perspective and experiencing firsthand the work that improves being done by the Catholic Medical Missions Board because lives, which is what our organization strives to achieve every day. I bring a passion for applying lean principles to business This Fellowship experience is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and processes. Additionally, I’m eager to experience the challenges a chance to make an impact on underserved populations. My goal faced by our customers. The Fellowship is a great opportunity is to make a significant contribution on behalf of our organization to gain vision from a different street corner—learning from new by partnering with CMMB, as well as challenging myself to business partners in a new environment. enhance my leadership abilities throughout this assignment. It is my hope to return to Merck greatly inspired, committed and agile with a more holistic view of healthcare. Salome Riley GHH—Temecula, Ca., USA Rose Hanley Marketing Strategy Corporate Strategy Office— Whitehouse Station, N.J., USA Catholic Medical Mission Board (CMMB)—USA Country Operating Strategy I am very fortunate and thrilled to participate in the Richard T. Clark Catholic Medical Mission Board Fellowship program. It has been a lifetime endeavor of mine (CMMB)—USA to help others and share their joy of accomplishment and I am grateful and excited for the achievement. The Fellowship program provides me with the extraordinary opportunity to be an RTC Fellow. This experience opportunity to leverage my skills, community involvement and will allow me to apply the skills I have been fortunate to acquire enthusiasm to help an organization further its mission and vision in my 18 years at Merck to the pressing challenges of a nonprofit of helping others. I want to make a difference, in a meaningful organization that may not otherwise have access to such way, for CMMB and the people it serves, as well as Merck, by resources. I hope to make a meaningful impact on the Catholic supporting the community we work and live in, and helping Medical Mission Board through its strategy deployment, and I others live their best life. hope to further my professional development by expanding my external perspective and gaining a greater understanding of the global healthcare environment, needs and challenges. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 33 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Siva Murthy Jill Croucher GHH—North Wales, Pa., USA GHH—New York, N.Y., USA MoM-Qc Knowledge Management and Health Communications Strategy The Centre for Development and Population Activities (CEDPA) India Jacaranda Health—Kenya and White Ribbon Alliance for Safe “You cannot plough a field by turning it Motherhood India (WRAI)—India over in your mind.” –Author unknown I am humbled to be part of a new cohort of Merck RTC Fellows I have always thought that if everyone did his or her part, the who are on a mission to make a difference for human health. world would be a much better place. It still seems impossible The focus of the CEDPA team to lower the burden of maternal that the Merck RTC Fellowship is affording me the ability to take mortality in rural communities by addressing preventable causes part in such a worthy endeavor. Every year, over 250,000 women is inspiring. I look forward to a transformative experience over die in childbirth in Africa. I’m honored to work with Jacaranda this summer. Health to help reduce this number. I hope to return with learnings and experiences that will be inspirational to others. Agam Sheth MRL—West Point, Pa., USA Leigh Anne Good GHH—Atlanta, Ga., USA MoM-Qc Knowledge Management and Health The Centre for Development and Communications Strategy Population Activities (CEDPA) India and White Ribbon Alliance for Safe Jacaranda Health—Kenya Motherhood India (WRAI)—India I am thrilled to be a part of the fifth I am excited to be selected as a Merck Global Health Fellow, cohort of the RTC Fellowship. I am and I look forward to the opportunity to improve the health of so proud to work for Merck—a company truly committed to its people in greatest need. This international experience will enable values and mission of helping to solve community health issues me to bring learning from patient insights and customer needs for every patient around the globe. While working with Jacaranda back to my functional area. I will gain a greater appreciation of Health this summer, I hope to leave a sustainable footprint the importance of emerging markets to Merck’s mission and that will contribute to the organization’s vision of expanding its some of the issues we face to increase patient access and network of private maternity clinics in resource-poor settings by adherence in such markets. As an ambassador for the company, combining quality patient-centered care with affordability. I’m I hope to make people aware of Merck’s commitment to give sure I will experience inspirational learnings that will translate back to the communities we serve. Ultimately, this Fellowship into expanding my knowledge of global health needs, the power will empower and educate me to make a difference in the world of diversity and how to get more done with less. I can’t wait to while also immersing me in an experience from which I will reap get started and continue this wonderful legacy of the Fellowship lifelong benefits. during the summer and after I return! MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 34 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Joanna Keiller Virgina Blandon GHH—Hoddesdon, U.K. GHH—Mexico City, Mexico Marketing and Branding Social Franchising Jhpiego—India Marie Stopes International I am very proud to work for a company (MSI)—Kenya that fights every day to improve patient Throughout the years I have been with access to healthcare around the world. Merck, I have learned many useful To have the chance to use the skills I have developed at Merck things that I am excited to share at Marie Stopes International. to further make a difference to patients’ lives and to see these I feel that being on the same boat with such a versatile team is changes up close really excites me. going to make us shine as a company committed to improving health around the world. Hold on Nairobi, here we come! James Matteucci GHH – Tacoma, Wash., USA Christina Calandra GHH—Los Angeles, Ca., USA Marketing and Branding Social Franchising Jhpiego—India I’m thrilled to be joining Jhpiego as an Marie Stopes International RTC Fellow this summer in New Delhi, (MSI)—Kenya and humbled by the opportunity to play I am exhilarated that I have the a role in its efforts to reduce maternal mortality. It’s a unique opportunity to be part of the honor to be a part of Merck’s global philanthropic commitment to RTC Fellowship and to work with MSI to help others. The improving access to quality care for the world’s most vulnerable. Fellowship will allow me to expand my horizons by living and I can’t wait to arrive in India, meet my colleagues, roll up my working in another country, and to make a difference for sleeves on the project, and start making a contribution to the lives others around the world—now and in the future. During my of women who hope to bring healthy children into the world and assignment, I will apply my expertise in marketing and project live to see them thrive. management towards creating field team standard operating procedures for clinics that provide cost-effective services to women in underserved areas. The Fellowship shows how Merck proactively works to help the world’s population ‘be well.’ I hope this program serves as a model for other like-minded companies to create similar programs. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 35 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Barbara Wieser Gowri Murthy GHH—Vienna, Austria MRL—Kenilworth, N.J., USA Social Franchising eCompliance Marketing Marie Stopes International Operation ASHA—India (MSI)—Kenya Through the RTC Fellowship, we I want to live in a world where every are given an amazing opportunity to child is wanted. That’s why I’m thrilled participate in global health projects and to be working with MSl this summer to further its mission of collaborate with nonprofit organizations such as Operation ASHA. providing quality family planning and reproductive healthcare. As a Merck employee selected for this project, the greatest I look forward to a very demanding assignment in Kenya, benefit is the ability to directly contribute to the improvement of during which our team will do the utmost to provide support people’s lives. The opportunity to share and gain experiences in to, and improve the health and well-being of, mothers and a different, diverse setting is an honor. I am excited to begin the families on-site. I am well aware of the challenges awaiting Fellowship, gain insight and knowledge through collaboration us in Kenya—a place where 20 percent of all pregnancies are with co-Fellows and NGO partners, and, upon my return, apply unwanted. Making a change might seem like an impossible this knowledge to my role at Merck. task and a constant struggle, but we must never give up on our dreams to shape the world we want to live in. I truly believe in Nelson Mandela’s wise words, ‘It always seems impossible until Hugues Poulin it is done.’ It humbles and inspires me to have been chosen as a GHH—Canada Fellow and to be given the chance to truly make a change. Communications and Marketing Strategy Tamara Hayden GHH—Upper Gwynedd, Pa., USA Pathfinder International and World Health Partners (WHP)—India eCompliance Marketing The Richard T. Clark Fellowship program embodies the core values of Merck for improving life. Operation ASHA—India I am honored and grateful for this amazing opportunity to take It is truly a privilege to be a 2014 RTC an active part in a project that aims to strengthen and expand Fellow and to work with Operation access to maternal and neonatal health services to vulnerable ASHA in New Delhi. I’m incredibly populations in India. Supporting the collaborative efforts of grateful that Merck is giving us this opportunity to leverage our NGO partners in the fight against maternal mortality and skills we have developed as employees and to partner with morbidity will elevate my awareness of and sensitivity toward NGOs across the world on improving access to care. Learning these global health challenges. I am thrilled and eager to embark from OpASHA on how it delivers ‘last-mile connectivity’ at the on this amazing journey, and to contribute to making a difference doorstep of the underserved, and at the same time contributing in the world. my skills, will be a once-in-a-lifetime experience. I expect to return with a broader world view and a better appreciation of how each of us can make a difference. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 36 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Bryan Baylis Nardi Odijk MMD—West Point, Pa., USA MMD—Haarlem, Netherlands Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Strategy Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Strategy Possible (formerly Nyaya Possible (formerly Nyaya Health)—Nepal Health)—Nepal Life is short, so making a positive impact I am very much looking forward to while we are here is what it’s all about. the Fellowship experience, and I feel The Richard T. Clark Fellowship is a gift and will be a truly lifeprivileged to be taking part in such wonderful program. This is changing experience. I am honored to have the opportunity to Merck at its best: bringing quality healthcare to even the poorest ensure life-saving medicines are delivered to some of the poorest people. It’s great that we are getting the support from leadership, patients in Nepal. It’s hard not to wonder what George W. Merck our peers and our colleagues, who all help us make this happen. would think of the Fellowship program. Something tells me he It gives us the chance to give a little bit back from all we have would approve. learned in our careers. Merck has created the opportunity for us to help others, because all people are entitled to have a fair share of health and happiness. Philip Kuhl MMD—West Point, Pa., USA Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Strategy Possible (formerly Nyaya Health)—Nepal I’m feeling very grateful for the opportunity to be an RTC Fellow. I’m particularly glad that I’ll able to use my professional skills and experience in the service of an organization that is at the front lines of delivering healthcare in an extremely challenging setting. While Possible Health will benefit from the dedicated attention of three experienced supply chain professionals to its specific needs and problems, we will have the opportunity to learn what it takes to deliver primary healthcare in a remote, rural, underresourced setting. The solutions we develop together in such an environment should be robust enough to work anywhere. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 37 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT A LU M N I Darrell Penn Adrienne Robinson Senior Specialist, Director, Business Affairs & Market Research & Analytics Alliance Management Africare—Zambia CEDPA India and WRAI—Delhi, India The Fellowship afforded me a unique Being an RTC Fellow has been the opportunity to step outside of my most enriching experience of my career personal and professional commitments because I was able to closely align with in order to give my full attention to patients and their challenges. However, the worthiest of endeavors. My work with Africare in Zambia what I have learned extends beyond the assignment experience. on maternal waiting homes opened my eyes to the impact that Today, I feel surer than ever that there is more we each must do, healthcare providers and a global health leader, like Merck, and can do, to improve circumstances around us; it only requires can have on people’s lives by increasing access to lifesaving a little extra effort to see this and act on it. We have many gifts interventions. What’s more, I developed a true admiration for my to share, and you don’t have to be an RTC Fellow to do it. I hope new colleagues at the host organization, as well as a deep sense to spread that type of energy to get others involved in making a of empathy for those who live with very little material wealth. difference in the things that are important to them. Although my work as a Fellow allowed me to impact the lives of others, what I did not realize is how much the experience would impact me. Paul Schaeffer Associate Director, Project Management Lisa Meehan Director, Shared Services Marketing CEDPA India and WRAI—Delhi, India Working with CEDPA India and my Africare—Zambia Fellowship partner Adrienne Robinson The RTC Fellowship opened my eyes! was an unforgettable experience. It was My journey helped me to discover a part extremely rewarding to apply the skills of the world and challenges that are far and knowledge that I have acquired in my 16 years at Merck to from my everyday experience. At the improving maternal health in rural India. The Fellowship was by same time, it helped me to appreciate far the most rewarding accomplishment of my career. I learned that I can play a role in developing solutions that can impact local, and grew in ways that I never expected. This experience was a regional and global challenges. The program is empowering gift, and it has changed my life forever! and inspiring. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 38 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Jaron Link Dan Baioni Director, Shared Services Finance Specialist, Information & Analytics The Center for Global Health Hindustan Latex Family Planning & Development (CGHD) at Promotion Trust (HLFPPT)— Boston University Delhi, India The most important thing Merck makes I view the Fellowship as a pivotal is a difference. The Richard T. Clark moment in my lifetime. The team at Fellowship program is the best example the HLFPPT does incredible things, of this—in a short period of time we can really make a difference and I feel honored to have been a part of those efforts. It was in people’s lives. The Fellowship was really a once-in-a-lifetime truly amazing to see the impact MSD for Mothers is making on experience, and it was a great privilege to work with Boston women’s lives throughout India. Interacting with these women University on a project to reduce maternal mortality in Zambia. and seeing the gratitude in their eyes is something I will never The perspectives gained and impact of helping others truly forget. I am honored to have been chosen and I’m proud to be made this a unique opportunity. The program is well-organized part of a company that is not only a donor of money, but also and delivers more than expected. I’m very grateful that the RTC leverages the skills of its employees to improve the lives of Fellowship provided me with the opportunity to further Merck’s patients around the world. mission to help others be well. Umesh Patel Pamela Polino Regional Marketing Leader, Acute Director, Scientific Affairs Hospital Business Asia/Pacific Region CGHD at Boston University—Zambia International Centre for Diarrhoeal There are really no words to express the Disease Research, Bangladesh depth of my gratitude to Merck and the (icddr,b)—Dhaka, Bangladesh Richard T. Clark Fellowship program. I was fortunate enough to have the Developing opportunities like this for opportunity to work in Bangladesh employees is only accomplished when for an amazing institution dedicated to improving the health a company has a very deep sense of obligation for the health and of people living in poverty around the world. Since graduating well-being of the world. Merck is one of those companies. Merck college, I have only ever worked for Merck, so it was a great marches on and makes a difference in so many lives every day, chance to challenge myself outside of my comfort zone. I must and it has never been clearer to me how much the world needs confess that with the delicate political situation in Bangladesh, I Merck. I have come back to the office renewed and revived to definitely got myself a challenging work environment! I feel much carry on with our mission. May the work that we started ensure was accomplished in a short time, and Merck can be proud that the safe future for the mothers of Zambia. we left a lasting legacy. None of this could have been achieved without the responsiveness of the staff at the icddr,b and their desire to partner with us. I feel privileged to have been selected for the RTC Fellowship, and I am confident that I have developed insights and skills that will benefit Merck moving forward. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 39 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Joie Garfunkle Maggie Keane Associate Principal Scientist, Chemistry Director, Medical Affairs Medicines for Malaria Venture Pathfinder International and World (MMV), Switzerland Health Partners (WHP)—Delhi, India It has been an honor to be an RTC The RTC Fellowship experience was all Fellow working with MMV for three that I imagined it would be and more. months. My eyes have been opened to It was a privilege to help advance the the world of neglected disease research MSD for Mothers initiative in India and the effect an organization as small as MMV (approximately working alongside our amazing partner organizations, Pathfinder 60 employees) can have on the greater underserved healthcare International and World Health Partners. There was no better communities. I return to Merck with a new zeal for my work way for me to learn more about the world, another country, and with inspiration that each and every one of us can make global healthcare and myself than living and working in a different a difference. country and work environment for three months. And now, I have the distinct honor of being a member of an exclusive group of RTC alumni Fellows and kindred spirits. For all of those who are Andreas Verras thinking about participating in an RTC Fellowship, I encourage you Associate Principal Scientist, Chemistry to dive in! You won’t regret it. MMV, Switzerland Working at a small non-profit Patrick Shores organization on malaria drug discovery Senior Specialist, Marketing was an amazing experience, and I am truly grateful to Merck for allowing this Franchise-in-a-Box Programme for opportunity through the RTC Fellowship. Accessible health, Communication I was based in Geneva at MMV, which is a small company of and Education (PACE)—Uganda 60 people. The work being done at MMV is really exceptional, The RTC Fellowship was a great but like many non-profit organizations, they work in a resourceopportunity to experience Merck’s constrained environment. This Fellowship allowed me to apply global mission of improving health and not only my skills and expertise, but also Merck’s significant well-being around the world. It was exciting to apply and stretch computing power (software and IT support) to the projects. the skills I’ve learned throughout my career to contribute in such During the three months, I really felt embedded at MMV, but at a meaningful way in a short period of time. The perspectives I’ve the same time able to call upon the network of knowledge and gained from my new friends in Uganda will have a lasting impact considerable expertise at Merck. That, I think, is the beauty of on me personally and my career at Merck. this Fellowship. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 40 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT David Gilbert Rose Kessler Director, IT Architecture Senior Specialist, Medical Affairs PACE—Uganda PACE—Uganda You’re immersed in a totally foreign Three months went by in the blink of environment. You’re working with an eye, but the Fellowship experience new people, in an unfamiliar culture, certainly endures. It was remarkable with new rules. You’re part of a small to be at the intersection of scientific team, backed by big resources, driven and cultural exchange, to be inside the by a single objective to achieve specific results. You have three worlds of an NGO, Ugandan health clinics and rural villages. An months. You strive to flourish, you strive to accomplish and enduring understanding, one of my core learnings was finding you strive to have an impact. You will be passionate, you will ways for tacit knowledge to become shared knowledge. PACE, be focused and you will succeed. You will make a difference to Ugandans and I have very different backgrounds, but that those around you, and to those in need that you may not see. was the beauty of our teamwork. It’s that exact diversity that You will change, and you will effect change. You will adapt, you drove our project. We expanded, built and fortified our ideas will live and you will seek. You will hear stories, and you will live into sustainable action with a singular purpose, striving for the new stories. You will laugh, you will feel tears and you will grow. underserved. How vital and large it is to transfer your knowledge You do this so others can seek their own stories, laugh their own and individual and collective experiences with those who live on laughs and cry their own tears. This is how I found my stories and the front line day in and day out. My world is so much bigger. my growth, in Uganda, creating an innovation strategy for PACE. I thank the RTC Fellowship for being the perfect conduit for Your stories are waiting. Reach beyond your boundaries. Tread such powerful exchange. It’s unforgettable to be a part of our new paths. Find your stories. Seek them out. Bring your growth corporate social responsibility in Uganda. back to Merck. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 41 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Julie Holt Hanne Wessel Lund Associate Director, Clinical Research Manager Learning & Development Physicians for Peace (PFP)—Norfolk, PACE—Uganda VA and Dominican Republic The RTC Fellowship offered my team Participating in Merck’s RTC Fellowship the privilege of spending our threehas been a unique and challenging month assignment in Uganda, where experience, both professionally and we partnered with PACE. We worked personally. I was thrilled to see the to see the healthcare limitations through Ugandan eyes, and impact my host organization, Physicians for Peace, has by then applied our diverse skill sets to our learnings. My role improving and restoring people’s lives in underserved countries. was to create standards and resources that are now an integral I have met with volunteers who dedicate their spare time to component of the credentialing process for healthcare clinic training and supporting colleagues in countries with limited franchising in Uganda. As a result of the efforts of the PACE— access to healthcare, and I am truly impressed by these Uganda Fellowship team, Ugandans may soon have increased courageous professionals. During my 90 Fellowship days, I was access to quality care within their communities. My Fellowship involved with a mentoring program for pregnant teenagers and experience continues to impress upon me the insurmountable developed a toolkit for replication of the program. Improving value that can come from such an opportunity. I lived outside maternal health and empowering adolescent girls is a challenge of my own culture and familiarity, learning more about myself that needs more attention from the global community. I am in the process, which has affected me both professionally delighted to see Merck’s commitment to improve maternal and personally. As a result, I have been able to improve how I health, and I am thankful to Merck for giving me an opportunity tactically approach various projects, leading to a more impactful that has enlightened my vision and desire to continue to strive for outcome. This was a life-changing experience for which I am world health. immensely grateful, and I am proud to be a member of the Merck organization. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 42 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Nicole Weidner Dinesh Pethiyagoda Senior Specialist, Senior Specialist, Marketing Financial Planning & Analysis Communications/Channels PFP—Norfolk, VA and Project HOPE—Windhoek, Namibia Dominican Republic My initial understanding of the I’m grateful to Merck for providing RTC Fellowship was that it would a once-in-a-lifetime development be a life-changing experience. In opportunity through the Richard T. Clark retrospect, it was all that and more; Fellowship program. Working with the passionate and dedicated definitely something I will cherish for the rest of my life! I had a staff and volunteers at PFP taught me invaluable lessons, both phenomenal experience working with Project HOPE to enhance personally and professionally. I witnessed firsthand the unique the visibility of the organization’s work in the Africa region. We synergy that results when private and public organizations unite developed and implemented a comprehensive marketing and to achieve the shared goal of improving health for people around communications strategy in order to secure new donor funding. the world. Even though it’s complete, this challenging experience Working in four countries in sub-Saharan Africa, I saw firsthand continues to significantly impact my life. I’m proud of all that my how Project HOPE’s efforts were truly saving and improving lives colleagues at PFP and I were able to accomplish in just 90 days, in some of the most remote and needy areas by ‘helping people and I am excited to see the operational plan implemented. help themselves.’ This experience really engaged and motivated me to continue to focus on the patient and the impact we have on patients’ lives. I feel a deep sense of pride to work for a company that through the Merck Foundation is committed to doing so much good in the world, even during tough times. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 43 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Jessica Carideo Darwin Cox Associate Director, Global Marketing Director, Business Consulting PSI PFP Before I departed, I can’t tell you This Fellowship experience has opened how many times I was told that the my eyes to the personal aspect of Fellowship experience would change healthcare. I can see how one person my life. That’s a big expectation for can truly make a difference in helping a short-term experience, but I can restore lives. It’s a beautiful thing honestly say that my time with PSI and in Cambodia was to witness a person’s life being restored to normal activity just that—life-changing. Working with the people at PSI who after suffering a calamity. It is invigorating to step back and demonstrate such passion and enthusiasm for the work they look beyond what it is we do each day and see what is being do has given me a newfound energy and connection to Merck’s accomplished as a result of what we do. I’m astounded by the fundamental mission of serving patients. I am so proud of what impact one small nonprofit can have in the world, in combination my Merck colleagues and I learned at PSI, and, more importantly, with its partners and volunteers. I am grateful to Merck, my what we were able to develop and contribute to support manager and my wife for allowing me to participate in such a the organization’s efforts in such a short period of time. My life-changing experience. I am charged and excited to see what perspective, both professionally and personally, has expanded, lies ahead. Imagine the possibilities and excitement when tens of and I’ve made such strong bonds with the other Fellows. I’m thousands of people realize the difference we are making and can so grateful for the experience. I feel lucky to call myself an still make in this world. RTC Fellow! Hilde Jagers Associate Director, Learning & Development PSI I am proud to have been part of the PSI family for three months during my Fellowship. This entire experience changed my perspective on so many things, as I worked with an organization that provides lifesaving products, clinical services and behavior-change communications to empower the world’s most vulnerable populations to lead healthier lives. I was at the height of ‘customer centricity’ while working as part of a team that makes it all happen in the field. This experience forced me to get out of my comfort zone, and I brought back learnings that are invaluable to me in my daily responsibilities at MSD. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 44 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Skipper Kozelsky Nancy Pietroski Customer Manager, Sales Senior Specialist, Medical Affairs PSI MMV What a privilege it has been to work Living in a different country for a time with PSI and help further its mission opens up your global perspective of improving the lives of the poor and beyond compare, and especially living vulnerable populations around the world. in a city as multicultural as Geneva. The passion, motivation and focus on Going into this with a very open mind, doing what’s best for the patient are contagious, and I am still in I asked many questions and quickly shed my ethnocentric awe over the extraordinary work that PSI does. The Fellowship perspective. I now know that taking a chance and moving to a has really been an experience of a lifetime. The memories made, new country and culture takes courage, but it also makes you far perspectives gained and impact of helping others truly make more knowledgeable and engaged. Working with the nonprofit this a unique opportunity. I’m grateful that the Richard T. Clark Medicines for Malaria Venture, which operates under a Product Fellowship allowed us another opportunity to further Merck’s Development Partnership (PDP), brought my experience full mission to help others be well. circle: first as a clinician participating in clinical research along with our patients; then in the pharmaceutical industry, then albeit for a short period, a bridge between industry and patients—the Myla Maloney PDP. Through these channels, we endeavor to deliver better Associate Director, healthcare to all people, which should be a basic human right and Learning & Development not taken for granted. PSI Since joining Merck in 2001, I have often found myself ‘waiting’ to truly make a direct and positive impact on patients in need of healthcare. Not only did the RTC Fellowship afford a unique and significant way for me to do that, it also provided me with the important realization that, as employees of Merck, we help patients every single day. It felt unbelievably fulfilling to be able to contribute to the greater need of global healthcare by partnering with PSI to enhance its provider-engagement programs. The people I met and the experiences I had during the Fellowship taught me a tremendous amount that I will take with me in every future role that I have. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 45 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Pamela Rizos Marjorie Waters Specialist, Project Management Director, Financial Planning & Analysis PSI Save the Children The Fellowship experience has touched The three months I spent with Save my life in a unique, invaluable way. I was the Children were challenging and fortunate to work alongside PSI field rewarding, both professionally and staff and observe firsthand the power personally. It was eye-opening to work of communication skills in influencing in an organization that is continually healthcare in underserved areas. It was incredible to be part of a challenged for resources, and yet is working to solve some of the diverse team of Merck and PSI colleagues that worked together most difficult and important issues in the developing world. The cohesively to create a comprehensive training toolkit for PSI field Fellowship may end after three months, but the experience does staff to further strengthen provider interactions and impact the not. My connection to Save the Children and the amazing people lives of people around the world. Through our work, I was able to I met while there continues through e-mail. As we integrate back expand my own skill set as I learned more about communication into our roles, I’ve realized how much I have changed. I have a techniques, developing marketing materials, conducting new appreciation for what it means to do more with less and the impactful training and developing staff. During our stay in Nepal, need to focus efforts where they will deliver the most value. The it was eye-opening to see how resources, despite being very Fellowship has strengthened my commitment to making sure limited, are being used flexibly and creatively to drive family that ‘what we do matters.’ planning and improve women’s lives. I am thankful for everything I learned, for the amazing friendships that I made and for being a small part of changing the world. Andreas Berg Managing Director, MSD Norway Phieng Siliphaivanh CEDPA Principal Scientist, Chemistry I believe all of us working for Merck/ MSD feel motivated by the fact that MMV at the end of the day, our business I feel very fortunate to have been models are focused on “doing good” chosen as an RTC Fellow having been for people. Being a Fellow in the RTC given the opportunity to work with Fellowship program took the dimension of “doing good” even colleagues at MMV who came from all further for me. It was very fulfilling to know we could add value over the world. During my three months for a nonprofit organization and by strengthening them, many at MMV, I found new ways to build collaborative relationships less fortunate women in India would benefit. It is a huge privilege with external partners. I also learned that the resources and skills to be able to complete this type of assignment and still be an that I have acquired at Merck can be translated into a therapeutic employee who can return to my daily job more highly motivated area that was unknown to me before the start of the Fellowship. than before. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 46 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Nicole Roggendorf Sugandha Chauhan Associate Director, Associate Specialist, Policy/Government Relations Policy & Communications CEDPA Safe Water Network (SWN) The time I spent as an RTC Fellow in I always fall short of words when I India was one of the most valuable have to describe my experience as in my life. I have learned a lot from an RTC Fellow. The time I have spent the people at CEDPA, and from India, working with SWN has truly been a that I use daily in both business settings and my personal life. rewarding experience, personally and professionally. The support CEDPA´s work to improve women’s and girls’ lives in India is of and guidance we received from Merck, MSD India, SWN and extreme importance. The RTC Fellowship program gave me the our consultants has been outstanding and overwhelming. I opportunity to be a part of this for a short time. I am proud to truly believe that this opportunity makes you a better person have been part of a team that helped CEDPA gain more visibility for life and we learn to appreciate life more than ever. The most while continuing to expand their important work in India. important thing I have learned in the three-month fellowship is to appreciate the opportunities we have and our ability to impact the lives of others. My best teachers have been the women I met Mehrdad Doustdar in the villages who have taught me a great deal about life. I hope Specialist, Marketing that with our continuous efforts, we will be able to improve the lives of these people. CEDPA The RTC fellowship experience has enriched my life in countless ways. I Swapna Purani have broadened my horizons by getting Associate Director, Marketing to know a new and wonderful culture. I have also learned to look at business SWN strategy not only from a for-profit view but also from a nonprofit I will cherish my Fellowship experience perspective. However, my most important learning was to for a lifetime. I am proud of the work understand how important it is to have a value-based leadership we did to further Safe Water Network’s and life. People working for nonprofit organizations like CEDPA mission and support Merck’s purpose India have tremendous enthusiasm and motivation for their of improving and saving lives. The work, because they realize that they are working for a greater extent of my personal and professional growth is priceless, and cause. At Merck, we should always keep in mind that we are also I’m honored to have served with my other Fellows. Although working for a greater cause every day. We are helping patients my Fellowship assignment is over, my commitment is not. I will and underserved men and women all over the world, and not only continue to work with the Safe Water Network’s mission so that in developed countries. We are giving people a hand wherever we can continue to reach and enrich more lives. support is needed! The RTC Fellowship program is the best example for demonstrating this. I truly believe that taking part in the RTC Fellowship program will be a life-changing experience for many, as it was for me! Thank you again for this great opportunity and experience! MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 47 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Irfan Tarajia Alicia M. Bartolozzi Associate Director, Specialty Account Executive, Market Research & Analytics Managed Markets & Policy SWN PSI My Fellowship assignment was I am struck how similar Merck is to undoubtedly unique and wonderful. a smaller nonprofit organization. At It allowed me to be immersed in a the end of the day, people, process, nonprofit organization for three months, strategy, structure and culture rule during which time I came to truly understand the challenges the day! that millions of people face for their basic needs (like walking 10 km every day to fetch fresh water). Despite these difficult circumstances, the people I came into contact with stay Rob Dribbon energized and motivated because they have hope that things U.S. Strategy & Planning Lead, will get better. I am very proud of the Company’s commitment Strategy & Commercial Model to philanthropy and appreciate the opportunity I had to dedicate Innovation, U.S. Market my heart and mind to developing a sustainable, affordable model which guarantees safe water access for more than PSI 35,000 people. My Fellowship experience has enriched me in so many ways. Living and breathing the cultures of another Nand Kumar organization, and of the countries we visited, has given me new Specialist, Marketing Operations perspectives that I can apply both personally and professionally at Merck. I am proud to have represented Merck along with icddr,b my amazing Fellow colleagues, and to have contributed The Fellowship experience was an to PSI’s mission of improving the health of people in the amazing journey—exciting, pulsating developing world. and inspiring. Perhaps the most invigorating part of the experience has been the opportunity to wear many hats while doing meaningful work to help the world’s poor… everything from global marketing to brand positioning and communications, stakeholder advocacy, international relations and media outreach. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 48 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Matt Lucas Julia Shoff Health Science Team US Regional Marketing Leader, Leader, Thrombosis Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) PSI I’m very proud of our accomplishments PSI with PSI this summer. The guidance that Our Fellowship experience was we developed will help PSI to optimize certainly ‘fair trade’—we learned as their Social Franchising Business Model, much as we shared! Drawing on our which is their mechanism toward expanding access to high collective business experience, we were able to help PSI chart quality, affordable health care to underserved populations. This a course to meaningful improvements in its social franchising will have clear impact on the healthcare system, the providers, strategy and operations. In exchange, we made unique, firsthand and most importantly the consumers (or patients). Additionally, contact with the healthcare ecosystem of the developing world elements of our guidance centered around PSI putting processes and the governmental and nongovernmental organizations in place to train and develop the skill sets of their sales operating there. representatives and managers (people native to the developing nations), helping them to become less dependent on foreign assistance. Working with PSI has been incredibly rewarding for me. It’s a Win-Win for all. Jan Nissen Established Products Business Unit Leaders, U.S. Market PSI Not only was the Fellowship an unbelievable experience for me personally and professionally, but it also offered a great developmental opportunity for the individual who filled in for me during the three-month assignment. Upon my return, I appreciated the warm welcome from colleagues, and I feel energized to be back. I have kept in touch with our colleagues at PSI, and I am very encouraged and excited that the work we developed is heading into the implementation phase. It has been wonderful to talk with a few of the employees who will be in the next round of the Merck Fellowship program. It is apparent that their excitement matches our experience. It is so gratifying to see the company continue to invest in these programs that have such a dramatic impact on human life. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 49 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PA R T N E R S DNDi is a collaborative, patients’ needsSave the Children is a leading driven, nonprofit drug research and Physicians for Peace (PFP) engages independent organization for children development (R&D) organization that is compassionate world citizens to deliver in need, with programs in 120 developing new treatments for patients training and support to healthcare teams countries, including the United States. suffering from the most neglected in underserved regions. They work with The organization aims to inspire communicable diseases. Acting in the local health professionals to introduce breakthroughs in the way the world public interest, DNDi bridges existing skills and fill specific training gaps, while treats children, and to achieve immediate R&D gaps in essential drugs for these mobilizing targeted equipment and and lasting change in their lives by diseases by initiating and coordinating supplies that are scarce in the developing improving their health, education and drug R&D projects in collaboration with world. Regardless of the country or economic opportunities. In times of the international research community, region, their goals are the same: selfacute crisis, Save the Children mobilizes the public sector, the pharmaceutical sufficiency and better health. rapid assistance to help children recover industry, and other relevant partners. from the effects of war, conflict and natural disasters. Medicines for Malaria Ventures PSI is a global nonprofit organization (MMV) is a nonprofit public-private dedicated to improving the health of partnership, established as a foundation people in the developing world by in Switzerland in 1999. Its mission focusing on serious challenges like a lack is to reduce the burden of malaria of family planning, HIV/AIDS, maternal in disease-endemic countries by health, and the greatest threats to discovering, developing and facilitating children under five, including malaria, delivery of new, effective and affordable diarrhea, pneumonia and malnutrition. PSI antimalarial drugs. has operations throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America and has more than 16,000 franchises delivering services to 6.4 million clients. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 50 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Center for Global Health & Development (CGHD) at Boston University is a multidisciplinary research center that engages faculty from across Hindustan Latex Family Planning the university to help solve the critical Promotion Trust (HLFPPT) is a global health and social development nonprofit organization founded to design challenges of our time. The mission of the and implement social interventions center is not only to conduct high-quality in the areas of reproductive health, Africare is the oldest and the largest applied research, but also to advocate for encompassing maternal health, family African American–led organization in the use of this research to improve the planning, child health, HIV/AIDs and the development field, and is a leader health of underserved populations around adolescent sexual health. HLFPPT works in development assistance to Africa. the world. Through collaborative work to increase access to quality healthcare Since its founding in 1970, Africare with scientists worldwide, it also seeks products and services. Over the last has delivered more than $1 billion in to strengthen individual and institutional two decades, HLFPPT has reached out assistance to millions of beneficiaries capacity to conduct and utilize research. to more than 420 million people across across the African continent. Africare’s Over 90 employees and field staff are rural and urban India to provide quality staff has unparalleled knowledge of engaged in center-based research healthcare services at their doorsteps. the continent—its challenges and activities in more than 20 countries. opportunities—and has nurtured valuable relationships with key figures, ranging from community leaders and traditional authorities to presidents and prime ministers. Africare centers its development approach on active community participation, and partners with local organizations to ensure institutional strengthening and capacity building. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 51 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Pathfinder International and World icddr,b, or the International Centre Programme for Accessible health, Health Partners (WHP) are two for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Communication and Education (PACE) nonprofit organizations collaborating in Bangladesh, is an international health is a nongovernmental organization in Uttar Pradesh, India, to: research institution located in Dhaka. Uganda that implements programs Dedicated to saving lives through aligned with the ministry of health in the • Establish a network of private health research and treatment, icddr,b areas of HIV/AIDS, malaria, child health providers and referral centers that offer addresses some of the most critical and reproductive health. PACE, an affiliate antenatal care, emergency obstetric health concerns facing the world of Population Services International care and family planning services today, ranging from improving neonatal (PSI), builds partnerships and works in for women; survival to HIV/AIDS. In collaboration collaboration with the government of with academic and research institutions • Strengthen the capacity of and Uganda, and district local governments, throughout the world, icddr,b conducts linkages between rural privateand as well as with national and communityresearch, training and extension public-sector health providers in based organizations (CBOs) to implement activities, and program-based activities to order to offer high-quality maternal its programs. develop and share knowledge for global healthcare aimed at preventing and lifesaving solutions. treating postpartum hemorrhage; and • Improve community awareness of pregnancy risk factors, how to access maternal health services and how to access emergency transportation. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 52 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Founded in 1958, Project HOPE The Centre for Development and BIO Ventures for Global Health (Health Opportunities for People Population Activities (CEDPA) India (BVGH) is a non-profit organization Everywhere) is dedicated to providing helped form the White Ribbon Alliance whose mission is to engage private lasting solutions to health problems with for Safe Motherhood India (WRAI). industry in global health initiatives. BVGH the mission of helping people to help The White Ribbon Alliance is a global aims to accelerate the development of themselves. Identifiable to many as the network of maternal health advocates new drugs, vaccines, and diagnostics SS HOPE, the world’s first peacetime campaigning for more resources and the that address the unmet medical needs hospital ship, Project HOPE now provides right policies to prevent the needless of the developing world. It works at the medical training and health education, deaths of women, while holding crossroads of the biopharmaceutical and conducts humanitarian assistance governments and politicians accountable industry and global health to find the programs in more than 35 countries. Over for their promises of action. common ground between the aspirations the past five decades, Project HOPE of the global health community and the has demonstrated its ability to develop strategic priorities of companies. and permanently institute long-term solutions to pressing health problems, the true essence of helping people help themselves. Project HOPE remains as committed as ever to addressing the world’s health threats by playing a The Association of Women’s Health, leadership role in forging new alliances Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses among those on the frontlines of health (AWHONN) is a 501(c)3 nonprofit Catholic Medical Mission Board and by seeking new solutions together. membership organization that promotes (CMMB) is a leading faith-based the health of women and newborns. Its NGO improving global health care mission is to improve and promote the for the world’s poor, by building health of women and newborns and healthy, sustainable communities to strengthen the nursing profession through community engagement and through the delivery of superior partnerships. Now entering its second advocacy, research, education, and century, CMMB is committed to other professional and clinical resources integrating and focusing its programming to nurses and other health care around saving the lives of children professionals. and mothers by concentrating on leading causes of mortality in targeted communities throughout Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean. MERCK 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GIVING AT MERCK | AUGUST 2014 53 Copyright © 2014 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. All rights reserved.
