UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Santa fe group Statement from the ceo The Santa Fe Group is pleased to present its fourth Communication on Progress report affirming our continued commitment to supporting the ten Global Compact principles. In the the Santa Fe Group we see sustainability as everyone’s responsibility therefore we continue to engage with our customers, staff, suppliers and other stakeholders to fully embrace and support our policies in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. We are fully aware of the responsibility we bear towards our stakeholders LARS LYKKE IVERSEN and the communities in which we operate. Therefore, we have estabCEO lished a Code of Business Conduct for our employees, managers and those who we do business with. It has been an exciting year with the opening of new environmentally friendly warehouses, the launch of The Academy online, engaging with our suppliers to combat corruption and the extraordinary efforts by our offices to provide support by means of financial and logistical contributions to charities and local communities. We take the principles of the UNGC on with great enthusiasm, our teams globally are fully united under the Santa Fe brand and we thank our teams and partners for their continued support. Together we look forward to sustaining our support to this initiative and fulfilling our duty as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Lars Lykke Iversen CEO of Santa Fe Group Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 2 Santa fe group about santa fe group Santa Fe Group is a worldwide provider of employee relocation and BUSINESS STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION workplace services that support multinational businesses and their Santa Fe Group is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with international growth. regional hubs in key global locations. In a world where the search for talent is not confined by geography, and Our core competence is our ability to provide services to a consistent, where the transfer of these skills is key to achieving competitive advanunifying high standard, locally and globally a key aspect of this is our tage, Santa Fe Group provides mobility services that enable organisaown offices, delivering services in critical locations that multinationals tions to transfer their employees between their multinational business find most challenging. units as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. These services are delivered via World Link, our global network, consistThe illusive goal sought by most multinational organisations is their ing of own offices and Approved Partners. ability to achieve consistency across their locations. We consider it a strength of our business. Interdean‘s network of offices cover the EMEA region. Santa Fe Asia‘s network of offices cover the Asia region. Wridgways‘ network of offices cover the Pacific region. Our Vision Our Vision is to deliver sustainable value through innovation • We expand our geographic coverage to remain an attractive supplier of moving, relocation, assignment management and records management services • We engage directly with our corporate clients and customers to better provide service and support • We help customers to fulfil their commitment to social, environmental and economic sustainability by operating in a way that respects and contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit. • We envision responsible moving and relocation services with minimal negative impact on the environment. Our Mission Our Mission is simple. ”We make it easy” • We will make it easy for corporate clients, individuals and partners to do business with us • We will make it easy for our internal organisation to work efficiently and effectively • We will make it easy to continuously contribute to social, environmental and economic sustainability based on our business model, competencies, innovation and technology Our Values Quality, Efficiency, People, Safety, Respect and Ethics – define the basic behaviours of our people and the way we do business • We will strive to have the highest quality standards in the industry • We will attract, develop and retain the best people in the industry • We will offer equal, attractive and flexible career opportunities. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 3 Santa fe group GOVERNANCE PROCESS Santa Fe Group’s corporate responsibility strategy contains five prioriSanta Fe Group’s governing structure ensures that we are directed and tised areas: controlled in a responsible manner, to ensure long-term sustainability and transparency. Ethics and behaviour Binding guidelines with the aim of ensuring that all employees perform We transparently report our performance annually in terms of financial, their duties in accordance with our business ethics. social responsibility and operational aspects of our business. Supplier standards Our objective is to ensure our business remains sustainable in every Ethical standards that our suppliers must follow, and we will ensure that meaning of the word. Which means that we are able to provide our custhese standards are, at a minimum, in compliance with the UN Global tomers with a service that both offers value and continuity. It also means Compact. that through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC principles our Company contributes and Health and safety benefits economies and societies globally. Ensure a healthy working environment for our employees CSR is an integral part of daily business operations and decision making Environment in the Santa Fe Group. The governance structure has been strengthened Assume responsibility for reducing our environmental footprint. with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best practices. The team consists of members in Anti-Corruption each region with overall responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group CFO. Maintain a zero tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms. RESPONSIBILITY People People are at the center of everything we do. H That is why we do everything we can to attract, BUSNES develop and retain the best people in the industry. SG PEOPLE LENCE RO Respect CEL RESPECT W EX Each other, the environment and the values of others. T ETHICS SAFETY Ethics An ethical and transparent approach to working. EFFICIENCY QUALITY Safety N A duty of care to our employees, our customers, LO TA S G SU IN T E D community and each other. AB R M O V E CY R N ILI TY I M P ICIE Efficiency & Quality EFF Achieved through continual improvement through refinement and innovation. Proactive Respectful Innovative Diligent To work proactively, through reguTo show respect for our cusTo strive for continual improveTo spend time to fully understand lar communication, anticipating tomers, work colleagues, our ment and find new and better the needs of our customers and outcomes and planning ahead. community and the environment. ways of doing things. To embrace the requirements of each situaNever assume or leave anything To understand how each of our change and learning. To promote tion. To pay attention to details to chance. roles are part of something much ideas that create value and enand perservere in the pursuit of larger and that every action has hance the Santa Fe experience. excellence. an outcome. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 4 Santa fe group OUR COMMITMENTS TO 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES People – Social Sustainability Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Support elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We commit to • C ontinuous monitoring of our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our organization and those with whom we interact • Compliance with national legislation Planet – Environmental sustainability Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies We commit to • R educe the negative impact of our business on the environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve high standards. • Monitor and Reduce carbon emissions. • Reuse 100 % of packing material where quality is not compromised. Profit – Financial Sustainability Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We commit to • A  pply a zero tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 5 Santa fe group CONDUCT Santa Fe launched a Managers Code of Business Conduct in 2012, The Code contains global requirements of both the Company and all which outlines how Managers should deal with ethical dilemmas and employees to comply with good business ethics and fulfil our stakeholdhow they can assist and guide their staff in remaining compliant to ers’ expectations including compliance with the ten principles of the UN Santa Fe’s policies. Continuing with this, 100% of Managers made an Global Compact. To ensure clarity the Code is available to employees in annual declaration reaffirming their commitment to Santa Fe’s business 19 languages. conduct. In 2013, the recipients of the Managers Code of Business Conduct was extended to Santa Fe’s middle management team. Implementation included 100% employees, with the target to strengthen Santa Fe Group employees’ ability to handle ethical dilemmas. A key focus for Santa Fe Group was developing and implementing guidelines on ethics and conduct, a set of binding guidelines describing In 2014 we will continue to collect annual declarations from managehow employees should handle ethical dilemmas. This gave rise to Santa ment teams and formally introduce training on the Code of business Fe’s first Code of Business Conduct, Staff Guidebook which applies to conduct as part of Santa Fe’s induction program. all employees of Santa Fe Group. It describes the Company approach to responsible business behaviour in the areas of People, Planet and Profit. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 6 Santa fe group PEOPLE, LEARNING & CULTURE Santa Fe Group believes in maintaining a workforce that’s engaged and Santa Fe Group continues to monitor gender ratio to ensure that we are productive, as such we are firm believers in devoting time, investment an attractive employer to both male and female prospective employees and attention to creating environments in which employees can flouras well as our current employees. The female gender ratio increased ish. During the latter part of 2012 Santa Fe Group appointed a Director in 2013 for the employment levels of Middle management and Senior of People, Talent and Culture to focus on the development, diversity Management whilst the overall gender ratio remained static. and cultural exchange of all 2,945 employees of the Santa Fe Group. In 2014 Santa Fe Group will start collecting information on gender ratio In 2013 we launched a global eLearning platform, a web based point by operational and office based employees. By doing this we will be in of need video training portal, which also allows sharing of Powerpoint a position to truly monitor the diversity of our workforce in relation to training presentations, documents and book summaries, toolkits and the type of jobs performed. job aids. The Academy Online is our first global initiative for learning and social collaboration. Our continuous investments in our people have positively affected our absolute employee turnover and we obtained a significant reduction in The Academy Online leverages the concept of ‘Blended learning’ the 2013. idea that learning comes in many different forms. Santa Fe Group has acknowledged that the majority of learning is on the job, experimental; Retaining employees remains an important aspect of our business, our but there is also significant value in learning when colleagues and goal is to remain an attractive employer respecting, supporting and managers share with each other in addition to more structured learnadhering to internationally proclaimed human rights including the basic ing in workshops, webinars, conferences and courses. The Academy principles of the International Labour organisation’s Declaration of Online supports all these areas, allowing our employees, the learners, Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. to manage their own learning and control their own success. In 2014 Santa Fe Group will pilot an employee engagement survey with In 2013 the reported formal classroom based training hours decreased the intent to gauge feedback from all employees in 2015. This will alto an average of 10.4 hours per employee however, this was an low every employee to provide feedback about the company and ways expected result with the launch of The Academy Online. As Santa Fe in which we can improve it. Furthermore, the survey will provide an Group moves away from the traditional definition of learning and evolve indication on how engaged employees are with the company. the way in which we develop and engage with employees, encouraging the opportunity for employees to ‘learn, share and grow’ we expect to HEALTH AND SAFETY see a reduction in formal classroom learning. Taking care of people in our operations globally and when working with partners and suppliers is essential for us. Santa Fe Group’s Health In 2014 we aim to put into place a system which will allow us to and Safety Policy outlines our commitment to focus on continuous quantify The Academy Online engagement and how this translates to improvements through effective management systems. Our Occupaemployee learning and development. tional Health and Safety management systems are certified according to OHSAS 18001. Santa Fe Group recognises that we work in a richly diverse community and understand the strategic importance of achieving a diverse workIn the field of occupational health and safety, both the number of acciforce, which reflects that community. We undertake to recruit, develop dents with time loss and the number of lost workdays per accident has and retain the most talented people by valuing the varied skills and decreased. A major factor in this positive development is the integraexperiences they bring to Santa Fe Group; by investing in their training tion of health and safety considerations in decision-making processes, and development; by treating employees fairly and equitably; by comalong with more cooperation and improved coordination across the bating harassment and discrimination at work, and by encouraging an organisation. honest and open culture which values the differences between us. LAUNCH OF GLOBAL eLEARNING PLATFORM IN 2013 In 2013 we launched a global eLearning platform, a web based point of need video training portal, which also allows sharing of Powerpoint training presentations, documents and book summaries, toolkits and job aids. The Academy Online is our first global initiative for learning and social collaboration. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 7 Santa fe group Facts on people Santa Fe Gender Ratio 2012-2013 % 80 70 60 50 2012 40 2013 30 20 10 0 Total workforce Total workforce Middle management Middle management Senior management Senior management Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of work accidents Turnover with days lost per 1.000 employees Days lost per 1.000 employees % Employees Days 25 50 100 20 40 80 15 2012 30 2012 60 2012 10 2013 20 2013 40 2013 5 10 20 0 0 0 Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 8 Santa fe group CORPORATE CITZENSHIP Santa Fe Group remains active in a variety of ways in support of comCOMING TOGETHER TO BRING RELIIEF munity events and charitable organisations. We believe that, in supportOn 8th November 2013 Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines, one of ing charities and community events, we not only improve the communithe most intense tropical storms to ever make landfall anywhere in the ties and world we live in, we also motivate staff and create goodwill. world. Santa Fe Asia offices came together to pledge their support to those suffering. Offices contributed through various means from donatSanta Fe Group sees itself as a company that can provide not only finaning emergency supplies to employees voting to forefit Christmas parties cial contributions but also time, expertise, resources and experience to and use the money to help those in need. our communities. Our offices in The Philippines were on hand providing support and 2013 CHARITY COMMITMENTS logistical services by distributing food and essential supplies. The Hong Santa Fe Group financially contributes towards three main charities. Kong office undertook various fundraising activities to donate to charities providing aid and matched all funds raised. This raised enough to feed Santa Fe Asia contributed USD 5.00 per booked move to John Hopkins 175 families for an entire month. Medicine in Baltimore, Maryland. John Hopkins is one of the world’s pre-eminent health care institutions, and its researchers have made a UK offices partnered up with Reason Global and arranged a shipment tremendous contribution in deciphering the mechanisms of cancer and with essential aid supplies to help charities involved in the relief aid. discovering new treatments. A total of USD 72,000 was raised through booked move donations. Santa Fe Group also sponsored the 10th AnLOCAL ENGAGEMENTS niversary Fun Run in Vancouver, Canada where the Fun Run was held Santa Fe Group and our employees remain active in supporting local alongside the International Association (IAM) Conference. Attendees communities. We believe that whilst we provide financial contributions were also invited to attend an evening cocktail party where further donawe can also contribute our time, expertise, resources and experience. tions were collected and doctors from John Hopkins were in attendance Santa Fe Group continues to make trucks available for disaster relief to talk about some of the research they have been undertaking. All the when tsunamis, earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters strike. proceeds and money raised were donated to John Hopkins cancer care. In addition Santa Fe Group provides logistical services to charities and local communities for a variety of events. Various activities took place Interdean contributed USD 5.00 per booked move to Bertram’s Junior in 2013 such as donating furniture to charities, fun runs, education School in Johannesburg, South Africa which is a Charity set up to help sponsorships, tree planting, volunteering to name a few. Santa Fe Group make a difference to the lives of its children many of whom have had continues to promote a culture whereby we care about our communities their family lives destroyed by conflict or by social disasters like HIV/ not just as an organisation but also as individuals. Aids. These donations will help to develop a school expansion and to provide necessities such as books and food for the students. In 2013 Flood relief in Thailand Interdean’s contributions totalled USD 82,560. Santa Fe Thailand started collecting cash donations for people living in areas affected by floods in Thailand in October. The team raised enough Wridgways Australia contributes to Red Kite, a charity that supports chilmoney to prepare 100 bags with rice, milk, noodles, canned goods, dren and young people with cancer. Red Kite support services include mosquito repellent, toiletries, etc. The goods were delivered to Prachinfinancial assistance, emotional support and educational assistance. buri, where eleven of our staff made sure the goods were delivered into Wridgways contributed AUD 5.00 for every international outbound the hands of people desperately in need of help. The team rented boats relocation performed and raised a total of AUD 16,420. Santa Fe Group and took the bags to three different locations in Prachinburi. will continue to support these charities throughout 2014. santa fe fun run – 10th anniversary Santa Fe Group also sponsored the 10th Anniversary Fun Run in Vancouver, Canada where the Fun Run was held alongside the International Association (IAM) Conference. Attendees were also invited to attend an evening cocktail party where further donations were collected and doctors from John Hopkins were in attendance to talk about some of the research they have been undertaking. All the proceeds and money raised were donated to John Hopkins cancer care. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 9 Santa fe group Hong Kong provides internships London support Marie Curie Santa Fe Hong Kong is proud to support Project Share, a non-profit Interdean London was a proud sponsor once again of the annual organization aimed at connecting and empowering Hong Kong’s youth. Rugby 7s Tournament in support of Marie Curie Cancer Care. To date, Project Share places students aged 16 to 19 from remote or economiInterdean has raised more than USD100,000 in support of Marie Curie cally challenged districts in summer internships at organizations like through the annual Rugby 7s tournament. Santa Fe. The students also participate in workshops to improve selfawareness, confidence, and interview skills. Wridgways employees take a walk in the park for charity Ten Wridgways employees participated 5 May in a 6km walk around Vietnam blood drive the grounds of Perth’s Burswood Park. Wridgways also participated as Santa Fe Vietnam believes in supporting people in need and on 2 Aucourse marshals and of course brought along an army of family and gust some of our team members donated blood as part of the American friends. More than 500 people attended the event; it was the biggest Chambers of Commerce’s (AMCHAM) World Blood Donor Day 2013. turnout ever for the MND Association which focuses on Motor Neurone The event benefits people in Vietnam. All in all, the blood drive resulted Disease care and research. in 751.5 blood units. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 10 Santa fe group REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT CERTIFICATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUSTAINABLE WAREHOUSES Santa Fe Group complies with all the environmental regulations and Melbourne warehouse standards that apply to its various office locations and has formally The latest addition is the Melbourne depot which boasts various environimplemented ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (or its mental advantages. The warehouse was designed to provide various equivalent) in 20 locations. greenhouse gas emission savings. Some of the key features of the Melbourne warehouse include, low wattage motion sensor activated and ISO 14001 certification continues to be an important management automatic short delay switch off lighting, skylight roof panels to minimise system allowing ownership at the executive level. Being certified has the need of artificial lighting, storage tanks which capture rainwater from allowed locations to actively think about their contributions to preserving the roof to provide irrigation for the gardens and supply water for the the environment and seek ways to improve. truck wash bay. In 2013 Santa Fe’s Geneva and Madrid sites became formally certified Indonesia warehouse to ISO 14001. 2013 saw the opening of a newly built warehouse in Jakarta. It became the first industrial building in Jakarta to be assessed for GBCI (Green A key achievement in 2013 was Santa Fe Hong Kong’s Award for Building Council of Indonesia) certification. The warehouse boasts storm Environmental Excellence. The Hong Kong office successfully won the water underground harvesting tanks, solar tube natural lighting in the Transport and Logistics certificate of merit awarded by the Environmenoffice areas, LED energy efficient lighting around the perimeter and in tal Campaign Committee (ECC). This was in recognition of the efforts to the warehouses, waterless urinals, bamboo flooring. promote environmental practices and management. Paris Warehouse In 2014 Santa Fe Group plans to launch an environmental awareness The Paris facility was newly built during the latter part of 2012 and the course via The Academy Online. The goal will be to introduce employlast 12 months have seen some fantastic environmental initiatives impleees to some of the bigger environmental issues the world faces and to mented such as motion sensor lighting, auto switch off air conditioning strengthen our awareness and contributions to reducing our environif a window is opened and dedicated recycling areas for various types of mental footprint. waste. WASTE ENERGY The industry in which we operate continues to be heavily reliant on As the Santa Fe Group continues to grow we are mindful of the energy natural resources in particular materials such as paper, cardboard, we consume to run our operations. We encourage all employees to plastic etc. Whilst the Santa Fe Group offices continue to make efficient conserve energy where possible to compliment some of the investments use of materials by reusing them where possible where quality is not made to reduce overall consumption. Many locations switched to energy compromised a longer term sustainable solution is needed. saving lighting, utilising natural light where possible, motion sensor lighting, printer and PC powering down and air conditioner etiquette. These Santa Fe Group have taken the Reduce, Reuse, Recycle approach efforts have contributed to a reduction of 6 % in electricity consumption and 2013 saw an increase in office collaboration, new processes and per employee. increased awareness in order to realise these goals. With a fleet of 593 trucks and vans globally, road transport is and will The ‘Enviro wrap’ Project continue to be a major environmental impact area for the Santa Fe Enviro wrap is a material based alternative to cardboard packaging Group. We are always looking for innovative ways in which we can imwhich reduces the amount of cardboard and tape used during packing. prove the efficiency of our fleet in order to reduce our fuel consumption. The project lead by Wridgways has been piloted in collaboration with offices in EMEA and Asia to assess the quality and durability of the European offices have continued to manage a centralised transport materials. department where the objective is to consolidate transport, to reduce the number of empty trucks on the road. Australian offices have also The results of the pilot have seen some promising results and in 2014 implemented a similar project whereby import containers are reused for the pilot will be extended to additional offices throughout the Santa Fe export shipments. This removes the need to return the import containers Group.” to shipping companies only to collect a different container for an export shipment. Both initiatives have resulted in a reduction on vehicle activity The Santa Fe Group offices have also various processes in place for thus reducing fuel consumption and thereby the amount of greenhouse reusing packing material such as cardboard boxes, bubble wrap and gas emissions emitted. wooden crates. In many locations these are reused either as packing material, or donated to local charitable events. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 11 Santa fe group A decrease in the the fuel per tonnage was a positive and encouraging GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS result. The results are a reflection of the consolidation of road shipments Over the past years Santa Fe Group has been monitoring our GHG where possible but it is also believed that as Santa Fe Group offices emissions. Throughout 2013 we have been working on improving the become better at accurately reporting we are starting to see a true data quality to allow us to be able to report our scope 1 and 2 GHG reflection of our energy consumption performance. emissions. Fuel is the biggest contributor to the Scope 1 and 2 emissions and we are committed to continue working on initiatives and ways in which we can reduce the impact of our fleet. To evaluate our overall greenhouse gas impacts in 2014 the Santa Fe Group will begin to collect data that will allow reporting of relevant Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Facts on environmental footprint Electricity consumption per employee (KWh) Fuel per tonnage (MJ/m3) Greenhouse gas impacts kWh/empl MJ/m3 Ton CO2e 2200 120 8000 2100 110 6000 2012 2012 Scope 1 2000 100 4000 2013 2013 Scope 2 1900 90 2000 1800 80 0 Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 12 Santa fe group RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS – AND OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our main activities covering the principles in UN Global Compact reSUPPLIER PROGRAMS garding Anti-Corruption is detailed within our Code of Business Conduct, In 2013, the Santa Fe Group outlined various expectations of our supply Staff Guidebook and Managers Code of Business Conduct, all Santa Fe chain via the Santa Fe Group Service Level Agreement. The expectaGroup employees are expected to: tions highlighted included the minimum performance requirements in accordance with the 10 Principles of the UNGC. 100% of business • A pply a zero tolerance approach towards corruption, extortion and agents confirmed their commitment by signing the Service Level agreebribery ment. • Behave honestly, are trustworthy and set a good example • Do not pay or except bribes in any form. Anti-corruption and health & safety • Do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages which could create In order to aid our supply chain in conforming to our requirements the a possible conflict of interest. Santa Fe Group made a mandatory requirement for our business agents • Ensure that they do not engage directly or indirectly in fraud against to under­take an external eLearning training program on the UK Bribery any of our partners, or government entities. Act. • Ensure that they do not engage directly or indirectly in bribery. • Refuse to pay any bribes, including small amount bribes or facilitation To ensure that we are engaging in responsible business activities our payments. suppliers have been required to complete quarterly declarations. The • If a bribe is demanded, they should refer to the Code of Business declarations required suppliers to declare if there were any instances Conduct, Staff Guidebook and immediately report to their manager. of corruption within their organisation and if so the details of such incidents. In addition, suppliers were required to declare any other WHISTLEBLOWING instances of accidents that took place. By doing this it is ensured that The whistle blower system is aimed at identifying corrupt practices or we work with suppliers who fulfil our requirements and share our ethical suspected violations of laws and regulations, extortion, fraud, bribery and sustainability beliefs. and other forms of corruption. All employees have been trained on the whistleblowing procedure and the Santa Fe Group has ensured that all The Santa Fe Group shall continue to partner with suppliers in 2014 employees have access to and are aware of their responsibilities and to ensure that through partnership, shared experiences and training a rights when blowing the whistle. mutual contribution to sustainability and commitment to the ten UNGC principles are reflected in all that we do. DATA SECURITY The Santa Fe Group continues to follow the requirements of ISO 27001 Data Security Management to ensure that all data and information that interacts within our company is secure. Santa Fe Group undergoes regular audits via certification bodies, internal audits and also audits by our corporate customers. ISO 27001 is the internationally recognised standard for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continuously improving Information Security Management. It demonstrates our ability to deliver secure reliable solutions for both the Santa Fe Group and our customers and 11­ locations have received formal certification to ISO 27001. The Santa Fe Group demonstrates an ability to efficiently handle data through robustly managed processes. By achieving and maintaining certification it has allowed us to strengthen the levels of trust between ourselves and our customers, improving our ability to securely manage their data and at the same time providing assurances that we are following ISO 27001 information security best practice. We believe that an open and honest dialogue will benefit our Stakeholders as well as our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts, and we invite you to participate. Feel free to contact us with any questions or comments on certification@thesantafegroup.com Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 13
