United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress, 2014 TrustWorks Global Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 1 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 16th December, 2014 To our Stakeholders, As Director of TrustWorks Global (TrustWorks) and Chief Executive Officer I, Josie Lianna Kaye, commit to continue to support the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact – both in terms of the essence of our mandate, and in terms of the way we work as a company. This report is, therefore, TrustWorks’ first Communications on Progress and covers the period of 2013-2014. It features TrustWorks’ efforts to address the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. TrustWorks supports businesses in natural resource-related sectors to operate in a socially, politically and environmentally responsible manner. As such, our goals are fully aligned with those of the Global Compact. We strive to ensure that businesses, especially those operating in conflict-affected contexts, are able to minimize the negative and maximise the positive impacts of their operations by providing tailored analysis, training and mediation services – drawing upon our expertise in the fields of conflict sensitivity, conflict resolution, mediation, natural resource management, stakeholder engagement and strategic planning. Nonetheless, like all the other companies who form part of the Global Compacts’ vast network, we are also a learning organisation – continually looking to adapt and improve ourselves, both in terms of the services we offer to our clients, and how we operate as a company, as expressed in our principles, processes and working methods that make up what we stand for on a day-to-day basis. This report, therefore, provides a moment to reflect on what we have achieved since joining the Global Compact, and to identify areas where we can continue to improve in the months and years ahead. We look forward to remaining a member of a community of businesses committed to the Global Compact’s principles. Yours sincerely, Josie Lianna Kaye Director and Founder TrustWorks Global Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 2 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 TrustWorks’ Disclosure on UN Global Compact Principles 1. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and, Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses a. Assessment, Policy and Goals on Human Rights TrustWorks is implicitly concerned with human rights in its core business operations. Within its sphere of external influence, the company focuses on addressing non-technical risks facing oil, gas and mining companies that operate in conflict-affected, fragile and developing contexts, and therefore helps ensure companies are in conformity with internationally proclaimed human rights principles. TrustWorks believes in the potential of the private sector to collaborate with governments and communities to achieve peace-building, state building and sustainable development that establish/re-establish the conditions for the enjoyment of social, political and economic rights, and therefore to actively contribute to an environment where human rights are respected and promoted. Due to our mandate to help businesses improve the way they work, TrustWorks upholds a policy to not preclude any company accused of human rights violations from receiving our services and support on the basis of that accusation – as we feel these companies need our services in many ways more than others in order to rectify their operational practices. However, when we are approached for support by businesses who may have been accused of human rights violations we do our due diligence in order to decide whether to work with such companies and to ensure that we do not become ourselves, complicit. Due diligence involves an honest assessment of:  The political will within the company to address these violations and commitment from senior managers that the initiative will be implemented;  The access we will have to staff and stakeholders to help the company to address these violations;  Whether we are able to help the company address the issue that may have given rise to accusation of human rights violations, while also putting in place mechanisms for the long-term that will enable stakeholders to seek redress; and,  Whether our engagement can be reasonably expected not to cause harm to any persons or any contexts and if the security of TrustWorks personnel will not be jeopardised. In terms of our own operations, TrustWorks only hires staff who have a proven track record in field related to our domain of business; we work with credible suppliers (web designers, accountants, lawyers etc.) who have been recommended to us by dis-interested third parties. TrustWorks also partners with swisspeace and the Conflict and Research Unit at Clingendael, both of whom share a commitment to the principles enshrined by the Global Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 3 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 Compact. We are working with these entities to develop discussions series and training programmes which bring together diverse actors from business, international organizations, NGOs and think-tanks to discuss cross-cutting issues concerning business operations in fragile and conflict affected contexts, including human rights violations. b. Implementation TrustWorks has developed country profiles that highlight the various socio-political, economic and/or environmental risks faced by prospective clients, and possible linkages between these dynamics and human rights abuses. The country profiles have been used to identify companies which may benefit from our services in terms of our ability to help them minimise the negative and maximise the positive impact of their operations. When we are approached by a new client, we usually take 1-2 weeks to do our due diligence on the company and to complete our assessment of whether we are in a position to assist, or not. Through our website and our very active twitter account, we also communicate our views and opinions on how companies can improve the commitment to human rights and avoid being implicated in human rights violations. In the year ahead, we hope to begin a blog and/or short “white papers” on topics of relevance. c. Measurement of Outcome Emerging awareness and brand: TrustWorks has over a 1500 hits on its website in over 30 countries on every continent, and we have increased our followers on twitter to over 500 in the course of the last year. The entity is known by major institutions including the UN, the OECD, EEAS, the EIB, the World Bank, USAID, the Center for Humanitarian Dialogue, Mercy Corps, Thales, TD-International and various NGOs, amongst others. Every member of the company is charged with engaging with our clients through a human rights lens, amongst others. 2. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolishing of child labour; and, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation a. Assessment, Policy and Goals on Labour standards TrustWorks fosters inclusiveness internally by bringing together individuals with diverse nationalities, cultures, thinking styles and expertise who work collaboratively to address clients’ needs and to achieve personal and professional development aspirations. Mutual respect, integrity and trust are key values of interaction among the people within the TrustWorks network. TrustWorks pools and develops talents by providing six-month internship opportunities for students enrolled in Masters programmes who have keen interest in its sphere of operation. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 4 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 Interns are subjected to the same confidentiality agreement as TrustWorks’ Senior Advisors, and they work directly with the Director and Business Consultants in executing their roles; interns are encouraged to offer their views on the business, based on the understanding that they have as much to contribute as they do to learn. Given that they are students, all interns are expected to communicate transparently about the constraints on their side, and to prioritise their studies if ever there is a conflict. While internships are voluntary, TrustWorks does not believe in free labour and thus, maintains a policy to provide interns a small bonus upon successful and satisfactory completion of the internship where possible. Senior Advisors are remunerated in the contexts of projects only, and Business Development Consultants are remunerated on a commission basis. Within its sphere of influence, TrustWorks is committed to boosting the reputation of companies operating in conflict affected/high risk contexts by helping them to develop conflict-sensitive employment policies that avoid any discrimination against minority groups or working conditions that fuel latent resentment. b. Implementation TrustWorks has developed comprehensive contracts and confidentiality agreements with its entire staff and its partners which outline the rights and obligations of all “Staff”, no matter their actual status within the company. The Director at TrustWorks communicates transparently to all team members as and when required. A monthly update is sent to all team members, and team members are invited to offer their comments and insights as and where required. Bilateral calls are held with individual staff members on a regular basis, and teams working together on projects speak regularly on the phone and/or meet in person. Team members are invited to an annual staff meeting which takes place in New York and provides an opportunity to strategize on the year ahead and share any ideas or concerns. When working with Clients, we maintain a commitment to ensuring businesses do not discriminate and/or are not perceived to discriminate against any group, and we offer services that help companies internally with labour related disputes. We are able to design collaborative processes that enable staff to jointly separate fact from perception when it comes to differential treatment, and to then co-design processes to deal with both in a fair, equitable and transparent manner. c. Measurement of Outcome TrustWorks employees, including interns, come from different nationalities across Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. There is 50-50 male-female representation. The average age of the TrustWorks employee is 38. TrustWorks is a woman-run business as the Director, a woman, is the only shareholder. The all-female composition of current interns has been an opportunity for TrustWorks to empower young women to pursue their passion and to develop leadership in business, taking inspiration and support from the Director. It must however be noted that the current all-female composition of TrustWorks interns is not intentional and does not suggest that the company Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 5 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 discriminates against males. As internships are purely voluntary but competitive, the most qualified candidates (decided upon CVs and an interview process) were women. We want to emphasise that the company and its Director is open to receive applications from anyone –male or femaleinterested in internship positions in the next business year and the years ahead. 3. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. a. Assessment, Policy and Goals on Environmental standards TrustWorks believes that oil, gas and mining companies have a particularly important footprint in countries in or emerging from conflict and that environmental damage are more likely to provoke significant tensions between companies and communities as the communities most affected are often those whose livelihoods depend on land, water and other natural resources. TrustWorks therefore supports companies to grow a perception and reputation of being socially and environmentally responsible by engendering an internal culture that genuinely reflect these principles. This way, companies can maintain their license to operate amongst communities, and can behave as “partners” rather than opposing sides in conflict. By building relationships between companies and communities on environmental issues, it is easier to prevent environmental disasters, and to address them as and when they do arise, in a way that is efficient but also respectful of the local way of life. b. Implementation Since environmental protection is one of our core services, we prioritise conflict and environmental concerns in the context of our promotional materials and our twitter feeds. We have therefore developed a 90 second animation that can be viewed on-line here or on USBs keys which we are able to distribute to interested potential clients and partners; our brochure is also available on line here. As a company, our work requires significant travel, but when meetings or mentoring occasions can be held via video conferencing this option is often preferred in order to reduce our carbon footprint. We also minimize our printing: most of our materials are only available in electronic format, and we have only very limited printing brochures and other materials in order to reduce paper waste (as mentioned above). In the past year, the Director of the Company co-authored two articles/guidance notes on environmental-related issues. These are: “Mediating climate-change induced conflicts over natural resources: Towards a toolbox for policy makers in Africa” in Conflict-sensitive adaptation to climate change in Africa and, “Natural resources and conflict: a guide for mediation practitioners.” The former is edited by Urmila, Bob, and Bronkhorst, Salmoe and published by Accord and BWV Berliner Wissenschafts-Verlag and Adelphi; the latter is copublished by the Department of Political Affairs and the United Nations Environment Programme, and due to be launched in 2015. c. Measurement of Outcome Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 6 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 By September 2015, TrustWorks aims to reach over 100 oil, gas and mining companies to, among other reasons, reinforce their awareness of environmentally sustainable practices in their operations and to provide capacity-building and mediation services when required. We also plan to actively promote the afore-mentioned papers co-authored by the Director through our website, twitter and facebook accounts in the New Year. TrustWorks also expects to take part in discussions and conferences organised around the topic of environmental protection, especially in conflict contexts, and shall continue to prioritise environmental protection in its engagements with clients. 4. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. a. Assessment, Policy and Goals on anti-corruption TrustWorks acknowledges that tax revenue from natural resource wealth provides governments in fragile contexts with the resources to be able to provide and improve basic service delivery. However, development objectives are often not achieved due to the failure to generate transparent and accountable processes, which in turn contributes to mass distrust for companies, greater income disparities, conflicts and ultimately constrain bottom line growth. TrustWorks seeks to work with companies to communicate effectively and transparently, thereby avoiding the negative optics and impacts of being associated with corrupt practices. TrustWorks operates as an impartial, independent company which uses independent, impartial analysis; targeted, comprehensive capacity-building; and, inclusive mediation processes to build trust. However, we work actively and openly with companies wishing to address corruption, and welcome requests from clients wishing to address this problem in a proactive manner. As with issues of human rights violations, TrustWorks does its due diligence with companies who have been accused of corruption to be sure that we are in a position to assist. Anti-corruption is one of the most important clauses in the contracts signed between the company and staff, and TrustWorks has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption internally. b. Implementation In the year ahead, TrustWorks intends to work with companies working in conflict-affected and fragile states to help them address issues related to corruption. When working with clients, we encourage transparent communication between operational staff and management, and encourage companies to put in place processes which allow staff to report instances of corruption without fear of reprisal. The company shall institute and continuously review its operational guidelines on anticorruption internally, as well as due diligence in dealing with current and prospective clients. c. Measurement of Outcome Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 7 +44(0) 20 7873 2237 TrustWorks is yet to initiate a programme with a client specifically on anti-corruption issues, although dealing with accusations forms part of the projects under development and other on-going engagements. In the year ahead, the company intends to identify and partner with existing anti-corruption initiatives driven by private sector entities to complement government efforts in fighting corruption in resource-rich developing and/or conflict-affected regions. It is TrustWorks’ objective to also actively engage with policy-makers and civil society to contribute to policy development that boosts investor confidence to promote socioeconomic development and political stability. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com 8 +44(0) 20 7873 2237
