Communication on Progress 2014 Participant • IETV AB Published • 2014/01/21 Time period • January 2013 – January 2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am glad to confirm that IETV fulfill its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Krister Karlsson CEO Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals • IETV is a small company in Sweden that only has Swedish employees. In IETV:s company policy includes respecting of Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) Implementation • We have during 2013 analyzed and implemented our equality policy to fulfil Swedish requirements for this (from DO). Was finished 2013. Measurement of outcomes • We have a report system where we document issues related to Human Rights and abuse. The management analyze this one’s a year together with a Safety Inspection and a management meeting. No incidents have been reported during 2013. Labour Assessment, policy and goals • We have an equality policy to fulfil Swedish requirements for this. Implementation • We have during 2013 analyzed and implemented our equality policy to fulfil Swedish requirements for this (from DO). Was finished 2013. Measurement of outcomes • We have an report system where we document issues related to Labour. The management analyze this ones a year together with a Safety Inspection and an management meeting. No incidents have been reported 2013. Environment Assessment, policy and goals • Environmental Policy IETV is a company in the automation industry that manufactures steering and control systems for various clients behalf. Internally, there is always systematic environmental work. Our environmental work should be guided by: Efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our products A continuous improvement in order to prevent the occurrence of emissions to air, water and land. Monitoring and, if possible, exceed applicable laws and requirements that affect our business. Influencing our suppliers so that an adjustment is made to our environmental work. To provide our customers with information to the environmental impact from the use of our products will be minimal. With information and where training is needed, motivate all staff to actively participate in the company's environmental efforts. Implementation • Environmental review IETV has identified environmentally sensitive areas within the company: Travel (with company cars overnight when longer than 100km from office) Shipments (if possible material orders direct to site) Purchases of materials (eg. halogen free cable, other electrical materials) Recycling (cable losses, copper, cardboard, paper, batteries, fluorescent lamps) In connection with any major projects, make an environmental analysis. In current operations, such as service, the persons performing a task strive to keep the environmental impact. Measurement of outcomes • We have a report system where we document issues related to Environmental. The management analyze this one’s a year together with a Safety Inspection. In our project we have tools and templates to fulfill our customers’ environmental requirements. No incidents have been reported 2013. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • IETV is a small company in Sweden that only has Swedish employees. We work in countries in Scandinavia where the corruption is very low. The goal for the company 2014 is to not have any corruption at all. • IETV has an audit company that investigates the economy and the anti-corruption of the company each year. Measurement of outcomes • The management analyses the anti-corruption when the economic report for the year is finished.
