Acting responsibly Bringing people closer to their dreams Global Compact Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2: MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHT ABUSES ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ COMMITMENT road users, we’re pursuing since 1995 a highly voluntarist safety policy through our To operate each and every day everywhere Safe Driving Plan which purpose is: across our business in the respect of internationally proclaimed human rights. to implement at all levels of the Company the principles of the “defensive driving” To make sure that our sub-contractors with the aim of avoiding at all time road operate everywhere in the respect of accident; internationally proclaimed human rights. to take in charge every single To promote inside our organization respect professional driver from his start within of rules, legislation and internationally proour Company to his leaving through on the claimed human rights. road and off the road trainings for 2 weeks at the very beginning, then every 6 months To promote within our profession and to for the 2 first years and finally every 18 increase customers awareness of rules, months (or more in case of minor or major legislation and internationally proclaimed accident) for the rest of his career within human rights. the Group all those training actions coming on the top of each country’s legally SYSTEMS AND TOOLS compulsory safety trainings; Safe Driving Plan to train and increase awareness of road In a business where the exposure to road rules, legislation and risks of every single risks both for our employees and for third Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations employee having to some extent a direct or due diligence procedures have been set up indirect influence on our drivers of which a whole chapter dedicated to management; human resources management standards and rules, regulations and human rights to increase year after year the number of compliance. kilometers our drivers run without any accident. Each time the Group is opening a country where it wasn’t yet established, we Sub-contractors procedure systematically have recourse to local legal which makes every sub-contracted advisor to make sure that we comply with business subject to prior standardized local rules and regulations. checking in order to make sure of the compliance with rules, legislation and General common HR principles human rights; and policy Our business being highly widespread and which encourage every operational parceled and our model being also based manager to certify regular sub-contractors upon external growth with all the and to make regular audits. consequences in terms of integration of new people with new practices and new Code of ethics Delegation of values common general principles, authority and key procedures policies and standards in human resources Each newly hired or integrated (through management all based on the respect of new company acquisition) employee is rules, regulations and human rights have given a Code of ethics and a Delegation of been set up. authority and key procedures handbook which they have to strictly apply. ACTIONS AND PERFORMANCE Those two documents gather practices and Nearly 700,000 kilometers (440,000 miles) principles which are compliant with rules, driven without an accident; the equivalent regulations and human rights that we of 55 times a round the world trip. expect every single employee to respect. More than 60% of our drivers received Internal audit safety training in 2011 and 2012. The internal audit department dedicates part of its missions to verify that On the average, each country is audited at everywhere within the Group internal least once every 2 years. procedures and policies relative to rules, 100% of companies newly acquired are regulations and human rights are fully and being audited pre and post acquisition and efficiently enforced. It also verifies that 100% of them are fully aligned with our HR common standards, principles and standards in human resources management, policies apply everywhere. with rules, regulations and human rights (where there were issues) at the latest 6 Due diligences procedures (for months after the acquisition. companies takeover) External growth operation playing a significant part in our business, specific Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PRINCIPLE 4: THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5: THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6: THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ COMMITMENT child labor within its organization or its subcontractors’ organization. Our Group considers its human resources as its first and main asset and as such is Our Group considers that it can play a committed to manage them in respect of 3 significant role in social integration (due to values: fairness, respect and trust. the profile of its jobs) and invest on developing its human resources through Our Group considers differences as an asset training and through a voluntarist policy of and opportunity and as such encourages internal promotion. diversity. SYSTEMS AND TOOLS To guarantee freedom of association and expression of employees’ ideas and opinions General common HR principles and through social dialogue and close local policy management. HR policies have established proper pre-hire checks and work contract as the absolute Our Group will never tolerate any form of minimum requirement everywhere across the forced and compulsory labor nor any form of business. Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations HR principles set clearly the restrictive compliance checking everywhere within the criteria upon which decisions on human Group. resources (hiring, salary increase, promotion, disciplinary sanction, assessment, access to ACTIONS AND PERFORMANCE training…) can be based: facts competences track records and experience. On the average, each country is audited at least once every 2 years. Management and social dialogue principles More than 50% of our managers have been The responsibility of leading the social trained to improve their management, dialogue is given to local operational communication and social dialogue skills managers. through a specific training program called By empowering local managers we bring “Red Management Program”. quick, relevant and adapted answers to local Training efforts on this topic are going on employees’ concerns and issues in coherence with the objective of 100% of Managers with the activity’s local reality this is the trained. guaranty of the quality, fairness and efficiency of our social dialogue. Every single employee receives at least one day of training every two years. Our Group is giving its social partners a wider voice and a wider picture of the Group, 60% of our key positions are fulfilled through its activities, its economic health and its internal promotion. perspective in terms of activity and employment through a European body of Most of the countries in which the Group is social dialog the Norbert Dentressangle’s established do have local employees’ European Work Council and through a representation bodies with whom they have French body of social dialog covering the regular and constructive dialogue (the whole Group the Norbert Dentressangle’s absence of formal employee’s representation Group committee. bodies is due to very limited number of employees in some countries). Code of ethics Delegation of authority and key procedures: Newly appointed or hired (or integrated) Managers are especially made aware of their responsibility in the respect and enforcement of HR principles, standards and policies. Newly appointed or hired (or integrated) managers are especially made aware of their responsibility regarding the building of a social dialogue of quality. Internal audit Internal audit reviews encompass HR common standards, principles and policies Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ COMMITMENT To foster internal promotion, our Group’s gives the priority for any recruitment need Our Group is committed since 2002 to reduce arising to internal candidates and to maximize CO2 emissions to manage road risks and to its chance to get internal applications our foster internal promotion. Group also leads a voluntarist training policy. SYSTEMS AND TOOLS To control and meet the highest standard in the environmental field our Group is engaged To reduce CO2 emissions, our Group works in an ISO 14001 certification process. on vehicle, driver, flows organization and energy. ACTIONS AND PERFORMANCE To manage road risks, our Group has created A 13% reduction of our CO2 emissions its own tool: the Safe Driving Plan which is reached in 2013 after a first step of 8% guiding induction, training and working for reached in 2011. all employees dealing directly or indirectly with road risks (from drivers to top More than 600,000 kilometers are run managers). without responsible accident (690,000 km in 2012). Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations Half of our recruitment needs are covered by internal promotion. 100% of our drivers are trained to the Safe Driving Plan and to the eco-drive (rational driving) techniques. Our Group has the most modern fleet within Europe (95% compliant with EURO IV & V standards) and demonstrates voluntarism on new technology trial (such as hybrid dieselelectric trucks). Our Group includes whenever possible alternative greener transportation means in its commercial offer (rail / road – river). Since 2005 Norbert Dentressangle has developed a partnership with the French government agency ADEME with the aim of reducing its carbon footprint. The Group introduced its own CO2 calculator in its commercial offer in 2009. More than 120 sites of the Group are now ISO 14001 compliant and certified. All new sites built by the Group are lowenergy buildings or high performance energy buildings. Norbert Dentressangle GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress United Nations ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ COMMITMENT Commercial policy Newly appointed or hired (or integrated) Our Group is committed against any forms of commercial staff is given the Group’s corruption coming from inside the Group or commercial policy which clearly banned any outside the Group (from providers, customers forms of corruption to win a new business. or any other organization). ACTIONS AND PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS AND TOOLS Our governance rules and procedures include Code of ethics Delegation of the protection of our Company against authority and key procedures: corruption cases. Newly appointed or hired (or integrated) managers are especially made aware of the As a result of these no case of corruption or Group’s strict rules against any forms of no suspicion of corruption has occurred so corruption. far. More widely newly appointed or hired (or Managers asked for advice for the rare times integrated) managers are made sensitive to they’ve been confronted to potential any forms of gifts they could receive from corruption cases which shows that they’re any organization and are asked to refuse any sensitive to this issue. gifts over a given reasonable amount. 100% of our commercial staff has been given Every decision making or selection process is and explained the commercial policy. submitted to different levels of validation which prevent from any forms of corruption. On the average, each country is audited at least once every 2 years.
