1.0 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 8 Oct 2014 Colleagues: I am pleased to confirm that Novitas Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. With Respect and Admiration, Chris Taylor CEO 2.0 HUMAN RIGHTS 2.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Novitas supports the Human Rights values of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and all internationally-accepted standards for the protection and defense of human rights, because we believe our purpose is to empower humanity. We have a zero tolerance policy for human trafficking in any form and condemns human rights abuses. Our employees will not engage in, directly or indirectly, any activity that exploits another individual or any minor for labor or sex. We require everyone with whom we conduct business to similarly respect human rights. Our values and support for the Global Compact principles on Human Rights apply to every employee, as well as to Novitas “third parties” (which includes independent contractors, subcontractors, agents, consultants, and anyone else representing or acting on behalf of Novitas). While our policies were written for direct employees, we expect subcontractors, consultants and others performing work on behalf of Novitas to abide by this policy in connection with their work with us. Our risks associated with human rights are relatively low, at this early stage in our business. We have less than 10 employees, all of whom work in the United States in close coordination with one another. Our small, local team allows for strong accountability and oversight. 1 Our goals for furthering our commitment to Human Rights and the associated UNGC principles include further formalizing our training program for both new employees and annual refresher training for existing employees. We are nearing our two-year anniversary and are committed to developing standards and policies that better define and promote the Novitas position regarding the respect and protection of international human rights and our zero-tolerance policy toward human rights abuses. 2.2 IMPLEMENTATION & INITIATIVES Novitas believes we all have a collective responsibility to behave ethically and with integrity, to uphold our standards with respect to Human Rights issues, and to demand that others do the same. At the time of employment, employees are required to certify that they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies, as described in our Code of Conduct. These certifications are documented and contained in each employee’s HR folder. Employees are also required to participate in annual refresher training that includes topics related to Human Rights. Novitas training includes harassment and violence-free workplace, human trafficking, and equal employment. As a government contractor, particular attention is given to Federal Acquisition Regulations that strictly govern the behavior of our employees and our organization. Employees are required to speak up when they witness a real or perceived Human Rights violation. Employees have access to several methods of communication to report such incidents: Ethics email, Ethics Officer, and their direct supervisor or department head. We are confident that our employees will use good judgment and discretion when making ethical decisions in all of their dealings with, and on behalf of, Novitas. We have a zero tolerance policy as it relates to human rights, harassment, and discrimination. 2.3 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Novitas monitors and evaluates our performance in the area of Human Rights through several measures. We have an employee dedicated to serving the company as the Ethics Officer, responsible for monitoring the ethics email and immediately communicating with senior management if any ethics issues, or potential issues, arise. In the past reporting period we have officially made the Ethics Officer a position within the company. We have established the ethics email for communication of any real or potential ethics violations. We have developed policies related to harassment-free workplace and equal opportunity employment. We have developed an entire corporate Code of Conduct and Ethics that addresses human rights issues and responsibilities and expectations for our employees as it relates to human rights. We recognize the value of dedicating the assets toward development of strong corporate policies, procedures, and values in this area and we are proud of the work we have done in this past year to support these targets. 2 3.0 LABOUR 3.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Novitas supports the values of the ILO Core Convention, as well as any other international organization promoting fair and equal labor rights. Novitas offers equal employment opportunities to qualified persons without regard to race, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, pregnancy, age, veterans' or military status or physical or mental disability or other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. Our written policies clearly state employee rights and responsibilities, as well as fair employment practices regarding non-discrimination, compensation and benefits. Our values and support for the Global Compact Labour principles apply to every employee, as well as to Novitas “third parties” (which includes independent contractors, subcontractors, agents, consultants, and anyone else representing or acting on behalf of Novitas While our policies were written for direct employees, we expect subcontractors, consultants and others performing work on behalf of Novitas to abide by this policy in connection with their work with us. We comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act and all other equal opportunity state and federal requirements. Novitas will make reasonable accommodations for qualified individuals with known disabilities and will make all reasonable accommodations to meet our obligations under laws protecting the rights of the disabled. Employees who have a concern involving actual or potential discrimination or harassment based on any protected characteristic are encouraged to talk to their supervisor or use the Ethics email ethics@novitasgroup.com. Any and all complaints of discriminatory behavior will be investigated promptly, in a fair and discreet manner to ensure confidentiality to the fullest extent possible. Given that Novitas is a new business, and still quite small in size, our risks associated with labour rights are limited. We have not done a large amount of hiring and therefore our exposure to potential labour violations has been minimized. Our industry, particularly the government contracting segment, is governed by U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations that mandate strict compliance to all U.S. and internationally-recognized labour laws from companies operating in this sector. Due to this oversight and governance, Novitas is confident that our corporate policies and standard procedures uphold the UNGC principles surrounding labour. Our goals for furthering our commitment to Labour Rights and the associated UNGC principles include further formalizing our training program for both new employees and annual refresher training for existing employees. We have just reached our one-year anniversary and are committed to developing standards and policies that better define and promote the Novitas position collective bargaining, forced labour, child labour, and discrimination. 3.2 IMPLEMENTATION & INITIATIVES Novitas believes we have a collective responsibility to maintain a healthy and secure workplace, to promote safe working practices, and to uphold our standards with respect to labour rights. 3 Employees are required at the time of employment to certify that they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies. These certifications will be documented and contained in each employee’s HR folder, both in hard and soft copy. Employees are also required to participate in annual refresher training that includes topics related to Labour laws and principles. We are confident that our employees will use good judgment and discretion when making ethical decisions in all of their dealings with, and on behalf of, Novitas. However, employees who violate Novitas policies will be held accountable for his / her actions. Employees are also encouraged to speak up when they witness a real or perceived labour violation. All employees have access to several methods of communication to report such incidents: Ethics email, Ethics Officer, Human Resources Manager, and their direct supervisor or department head. 3.3 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Novitas monitors and evaluates our performance in this area through several measures. We have developed policies related to equal opportunity employment and a safe workplace. We have developed an entire corporate Code of Conduct and Ethics that addresses the responsibilities of our company and our employees as they relate to labour, hiring, equal opportunity, discrimination, and maintaining a safe and secure work environment. Employees receive these policies upon employment and receive annual refresher training on our policies and code of conduct. Every employee signs acknowledgement statements that they have received, read, and understand the policies and our code of conduct and agree to abide by and uphold these standards. We recognize the value of dedicating the assets toward development of strong corporate policies, procedures, and values in this area and we are proud of the work we have done in this past year to support these targets. 4.0 ENVIRONMENT 4.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Novitas believes that a safe and secure environment enhances collaboration, promotes innovation, and produces results. Our policies encourage the responsible use of energy throughout our business, as well as the conservation of natural resources by natural resources by reusing and recycling materials, purchasing recycled materials, and using recyclable packaging and other materials. All Novitas personnel are properly trained and have appropriate safety and emergency equipment. Our values and support for the Global Compact environmental principles apply to every employee, as well as to Novitas “third parties” (which includes independent contractors, subcontractors, agents, consultants, and anyone else representing or acting on behalf of Novitas). While our policies were written for direct employees, we expect subcontractors, consultants and others performing work on behalf of Novitas to abide by this policy in connection with their work with us. Every Novitas employee is expected to follow this policy and to report any environmental, health, or safety concern to Novitas management. 4 4.2 IMPLEMENTATION & INITIATIVES Employees are required at the time of employment to certify that they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies regarding environmental protection. These certifications will be documented and contained in each employee’s HR folder, both in hard and soft copy. Employees are also required to participate in annual refresher training that includes topics related to the environment. 4.3 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Novitas monitors and evaluates our performance in this area through several measures. We have developed policies related to work environment, behavior in the workplace, and responsible use of resources. We have developed a corporate Code of Conduct and Ethics that addresses the responsibilities of our company and our employees as they relate to maintaining a safe and secure work environment, limiting waste, preventing fraud and abuse, reducing accidents, and minimizing any negative impact our work and our company has on the environment and on our surroundings. Every employee signs acknowledgement statements that they have received, read, and understand the policies and our code of conduct and agree to abide by and uphold these standards. We recognize the value of dedicating the assets toward development of strong corporate policies, procedures, and values in this area and we are proud of the work we have done in this past year to support these targets. 5.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION 5.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Novitas will not offer, provide or accept bribes, kickbacks, or other improper behaviors that could be considered corruption. Our reputation and credibility require protection from any suggestion of corruption. Novitas does not tolerate violations, or perceived violations of any forms. This includes bribery, improper gifts, gratuities, and kickbacks, or perception of these activities. No employee may give a gift or other business courtesy for the purpose of persuading an individual or to receive favorable treatment. Any behavior that violates our ethics or any applicable law / regulation is expressly prohibited. Additionally, Novitas complies with all laws regarding money laundering and supports the UN Convention Against Corruption. We do not condone, facilitate, or support corruption, and employees will not engage in money laundering and will report any suspicious financial transactions or irregularities to the Ethics Officer immediately. Our values and support for the Global Compact anti-corruption principles apply to every employee, as well as to Novitas “third parties” (which includes independent contractors, subcontractors, agents, consultants, and anyone else representing or acting on behalf of Novitas). While our policies were written for direct employees, we expect subcontractors, consultants and others performing work on behalf of Novitas to abide by this policy in connection with their work with us. 5 Employees who have knowledge or information regarding corruption, actual or potential, must report them immediately to the Ethics Officer or through the Ethics Email: ethics@novitasgroup.com. Given that we operate as a government contractor responsible for upholding the U.S Federal Acqusition Regulations requirements, our guidelines for ethical behavior are quite clear. We understand that the impact of corruption in our industry can be disastrous for both the U.S. Government and the people, countries, programs, and missions we may support. As such, Novitas takes our responsibility to prevent corruption in our company, and by our employees, very seriously. We have comprehensive anti-corruption training materials that will be delivered to new employees and reviewed annually as a refresher. Each employee signs an acknowledgement statement that they have received the training and understand their obligations and agrees to adhere to our code of conduct and standards for ethical business. While training materials for this are have been developed over the course of this past year, we are now reaching the implementation stage. Our goal is to roll out a formal training program for new hires and employees annually. We anticipate monitoring employee training by maintaining records in their files. 5.2 IMPLEMENTATION & INITIATIVES Novitas believes we all have a collective responsibility to behave ethically and with integrity, to uphold our standards with respect to Anti-Corruption, and to demand that others do the same. Employees are required at the time of employment to certify that they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies. These certifications will be documented and contained in each employee’s HR folder, both in hard and soft copy. Employees are also required to participate in annual refresher training that includes topics related to Anti-Corruption. We are confident that our employees will use good judgment and discretion when making ethical decisions in all of their dealings with, and on behalf of, Novitas. However, employees who violate Novitas policies will be held accountable for his / her actions. Employees are also encouraged to speak up when they witness a real or perceived Anti-Corruption violation. All employees have access to several methods of communication to report such incidents: Ethics email, Ethics Officer, and their direct supervisor or department head. 5.3 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Novitas monitors and evaluates our performance in this area through several measures. We have developed policies related to anti-corruption, bribery, the Truth in Negotiations Act, hiring former government employees, gifts and courtesies, and standards for ethical business conduct. We have developed a corporate Code of Conduct and Ethics that addresses the responsibilities of our company and our employees as they relate to conducting all business operations with integrity and avoiding even the perception of unethical behavior. Every employee signs acknowledgement statements that they have received, read, and understand the policies and our code of conduct and agree to abide by and uphold these standards. We recognize the value of dedicating the assets toward development of strong corporate policies, procedures, and values in this area and we are proud of the work we have done in this past year to support these targets. 6
