building the cities of the future 2012 sustainable development report 16 Get to know our road ahead on infrasturcture >> 10 28 Read how CEMEX is creating Learn how we are living and working spaces for converting waste into the future >> value >> Table of contents 3 Company Snapshot 6 Message to Our Stakeholders 8 Our Approach to Sustainability 9 Progress Towards Our Targets 10 Built to Last, Built to Serve * 11 Smarter and Greener Buildings 16 The Road Ahead Infrastructure 20 Delivering more Affordable Housing 23 Empowering Communities 28 From Waste to Value 31 Managing Today for Tomorrow 32 Carbon Strategy 37 Environmental Management and Biodiversity 44 Health and Safety 48 Stakeholder Engagement 55 Embedding a Culture of Sustainability in our Business www.facebook.com/cemex 61 Our Performance in Detail Contact Information 66 Awards and Recognitions www.twitter.com/cemex CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Corporate Communications and Public Affairs 67 Advisory Panel Members and Statement Av. Ricardo Margain Zozaya 325 69 PWC’s Limited Assurance Report www.flickr.com/cemex San Pedro Garza Garcia, NL. CP 66265 Mexico 70 A+ Statement GRI Application Level Check www.youtube.com/cemex Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 71 About this Report www.cemex.com/sustainability sd@cemex.com * CEMEX has been listed in the Sustainability Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange < previous | contents | next > (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores) every year since it was first published in 2011 2 2012 global operations Company snapshot Founded in Mexico in 1906, CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. is a global building materials company that provides high quality products Other: and reliable services to customers and comUSA: 3.1 (including Corporate) munities throughout the Americas, Europe, 17.1 / 9.8 Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. We proNorthern Europe: Mexico: 11.9 / 11.2 duce, distribute, and sell cement, ready-mix 29.3 / 9.7 concrete, aggregates, and related building Mediterranean: South, Central materials in more than 50 countries, and 12.0 / 3.9 America and the we maintain trade relationships in approxiCaribbean: Asia: mately 100 nations. 18.8 / 5.0 5.7 / 1.2 cement production capacity (million metric tons/year) employees (thousand) Sales by product (%) CEMEX by the numbers 15 as of December 31, 2012 47 Cement CEMEX, S.A.B., de C.V. (NYSE: CX/BMV: CEMEX), a holding company, is a public stock corporation with variable Ready-mix concrete capital (S.A.B. de C.V.) organized under the laws of Mexico. Aggregates 38 50+ 43,905 94.8 55 159 countries where employees million tons of million cubic meters million tons Sales by region (%) CEMEX has presence worldwide cement, annual of ready-mix concrete, of aggregates, 4 and trade relations in production capacity approximate annual approximate annual 14 23 Mexico approximately 100 production level production levels USA Northern Europe 57 1,899 371 221 69 10 Mediterranean South, Central America & the Caribbean 21 Asia cement plants plus ready-mix aggregate quarries land-distribution marine terminals 28 12 with minority concrete facilities centers participation < previous | contents | next > 3 Financial Highlights in millions of US dollars1, except per-ADS data 2011 2012 1 For the reader´s convenience figures are presented in US dollars. For statements of operations accounts, these figures Net sales 15,215 14,984 result from translating the local currency amounts into US Operating Earnings before Other Expenses, net 967 1,308 dollars at the average exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso Operating EBITDA 2,372 2,615 results for 2012 and 2011 using the average exchange rates of the year of 13.15 MXN/US$ and 12.48 MXN/US$, Controlling interest net income (loss) (1,986) (904) respectively. For balance sheet accounts, US dollar figures result from translating the local currency amounts into US Earning (loss) per ADS 2 (1.78) (0.80) dollars at the closing exchange rate for the year, which Free cash flow after maintenance capital expenditures 191 169 approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso amounts at the end of each year using the end-of-year Total assets 38,800 37,258 exchange rate of 12.85 MXN/US$ and 13.96 MXN/US$, respectively. Total debt plus perpetual notes 17,986 16,644 2 Based on an average of 1,117.0 and 1,108.5 million Total controlling stockholders’ equity 11,110 10,981 American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Direct Economic Impacts in millions of US dollars Mex Gaap IFRS 2010 2011 2012 Customers: Net sales1 14,069 15,139 14,984 Suppliers: Cost of sales and operating expenses2 9,240 10,283 10,088 Employees and their families: Wages and benefits 3 2,516 2,524 2,281 Investments: CAPEX plus working capital 4 601 485 820 Creditors: Net financial expense 1,118 1,278 1,388 Government: Taxes 335 287 393 Communities: Donations 5 (3.02%) (0.85%) (0.55%) As % of pre-tax income 1 Excludes sale of assets. Shareholders: Dividends6 0 0 0 2 Excludes depreciation and amortization. Others (156) 34 21 3 Wages and benefits include non-operational and operational employees. Free cash flow 387 237 (8) 4 Capital Expenditure for Maintenance and Expansion. Net income (loss) before taxes (946) (1,271) (390) 5 Donations as percentage of loss before taxes. 6 Dividends paid in cash. < previous | contents | next > 4 Product Portfolio Services and Solutions We are increasingly positioning our company as a provider of value-added services and solutions to assist our customers in identifying and Cement: addressing trends that affect their industry and Cement is the main ingredient in ready-mix concrete. in maximizing the sustainability attributes of our CEMEX offers a portfolio of high-quality branded cement products. Among these services are bioclimatic products, including Gray Ordinary Portland Cement, architecture and engineering, modeling of White Portland Cement, Masonry or Mortar, Oil-well energy performance of buildings, building Cement, and Blended Cement. certification (e.g. LEED, BREEAM, Passive House), development of customized sustainable building solutions and affordable housing solutions. Aggregates: Materials such as stone, sand, and gravel are the primary Our trading network is one of the largest and ingredients in ready-mix concrete. Additional aggregates most widely recognized in the industry. We maininclude asphalt and mortar. tain relationships with more than 100 nations. Additionally we strive to provide customers with top-level technical assistance and creative solutions in a wide range of areas, including financReady-mix concrete: ing, communication, branding, and intelligence. Made from a mixture of cement, aggregates, water and admixtures, ready-mix concrete is an extremely durable building material that can be cast into many different shapes. Other related products: Include granulated blast furnace slag, gypsum, fly ash, asphalt, concrete blocks, roof tiles, architectural products, concrete pipes, and other precast products such as concrete floors, box culverts, bridges, drainage basins, barriers and parking curbs. For more information about our company, brands and financial performance, please visit our corporate website at Long lasting paving solutions www.cemex.com < previous | contents | next > 5 building the cities of the future To our stakeholders: During 2012, CEMEX achieved two important milestones: On one hand, we consolidated our recovery from the crisis that had affected the global building materials industry, and on the other, we significantly strengthened our commitment to sustainability through a wide range of investments, programs and achievements. “Building the Cities of the Future”, the theme of this are already firmly on that path, and I am confident year’s report, illustrates our concept of sustainability. that we will continue to build on this commitment in More than half of the globe’s population already lives in the years to come. cities, and the United Nations estimates that by 2050 the world population will be 9 billion people, and 70 During 2012 we completed 315 infrastructure projects, percent of them will be living in cities. Unfortunately, contributing to more than 8 million square meters of many of these people are likely to live in substandard highways, mass transit projects, airport runways and housing. Today, nearly 1 billion people live in urban city streets. We also launched new energy efficient slums, and that number could grow by as much as half products and services that help builders reduce by the end of this decade. resource consumption and construction times. This growth produces other challenges as well. The To help customers better understand how these World Economic Forum estimates that increasing products and solutions can contribute to sustainability, urbanization will require construction of the same we also introduced a new labeling system that allows amount of housing and infrastructure in the next 40 builders to identify the emissions associated with the years as was built over the past 4,000 years. Cities alproducts and services we deliver. ready contribute to roughly 70 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, 75 percent of resource consumption, Last year we continued our efforts to improve access to and two-thirds of energy use. Accelerating urbanizaaffordable, quality housing by accelerating our Patrimotion has the potential to cause an environmental disasnio Hoy program, which touched the lives of approxiter if not managed wisely. mately 43,000 new families. CEMEX has an obligation to help create the sustainWe also created a new initiative to provide people Lorenzo H. Zambrano able housing and infrastructure that society will need with the financing, materials and expertise needed to Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in the coming years. Indeed, as this report details, we build their own homes – the Assisted Self-Construction < previous | contents | next > 6 Integrated Program. This encompasses our Productive provide its industry-leading technical expertise in clean Message to our Stakeholders Self-Employment Centers, ConstruApoyo and social asenergy generation to all of the fund’s projects. sistance, and it is already deployed in Mexico, with plans to expand throughout Latin America and, potentially, elseCEMEX proudly continues with its tradition of working where in the world. Since 1998, all of our social initiatives with leading wildlife and nature organizations. One partogether have benefited more than 2 million individuals. ticular highlight is the incorporation of the Biodiversity Action Plan Standard, developed in partnership with CEMEX is also taking a leadership role in solving loBirdLife International, in six pilot projects. We expect cal challenges such as transforming municipal waste to implement similar programs –which are unique in into useful resources. During 2012, alternative fuels represented 27.1 percent of our total fuel mix includour industry– to preserve biodiversity at all our priority sites by 2015. CEMEX has an obligation to help create the ing biomass, tires, RDF, and other materials. We are sustainable housing and infrastructure that well on-track to reaching our goal of a 35 percent Of course at the center of all that we accomplish are society will need in the coming years. substitution rate by 2015 and in some countries such the people who interact with our products and operaas Egypt, we are literally creating the waste recycling tions on a daily basis. While it’s a common expectation market to achieve our substitution objectives. that industrial companies will experience accidents, at CEMEX that expectation is unacceptable. During 2012 By necessity, the building industry has a large carbon we reduced our lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate by footprint, but as a leading building materials supplier, 13 percent and reduced fatalities related to our operaCEMEX is determined to do all we can to minimize our tions by 59 percent. Progress in the right direction, but contribution, with efforts that have us on track to reduce only one goal matters: ZERO. our specific net CO2 emissions by 25 percent in 2015. Sustainability is critical to our business model. As we contribute to the sustainable development of the comAn important component is our increased use of renewhave worked to make CEMEX leaner, more flexible, and pany and of our planet. able energy sources to power our operations. In 2012, more agile, we have also invested in making our operawe commissioned our first wind project in the U.S. that tions more sustainable. The two efforts are intertwined. Sincerely, will produce energy equivalent to the amount needed The effort also includes engaging with global and local to power more than 200 average-sized American partners who share our vision and our commitments. households annually. In Mexico, our EURUS wind farm in Oaxaca provides up to 25 percent of the energy I want to personally thank the members of our Sustainneeded to run our Mexican operations, preventing able Development Advisory Panel for their valuable almost 600,000 tons of CO2 emissions in 2012. input to our efforts as well as all the organizations and communities with whom we work on a daily basis. I In addition, we are participating in a Clean Energy value those associations and the feedback we receive Fund that is expected to raise approximately US$300 from them and the rest of our stakeholders. Lorenzo H. Zambrano million through a public offer with proceeds invested in a series of clean energy projects in Mexico. CEMEX will Finally, on behalf of CEMEX’s board, our management Chairman of the Board of Directors and our employees, I also want to thank all of you who and Chief Executive Officer < previous | contents | next > 7 As the world’s largest concrete producer and leading supplier of building our approach to solutions, CEMEX understands the critical role it can play in addressing the challenges related to world population growth, increased urbanization sustainability and the need to protect precious natural resources and ensure quality of life. That is why we are incorporating sustainability practices into all of our day-to-day operations and decision-making processes worldwide. CEMEX’s Sustainability Model Our Seven Priorities This stakeholder-centric approach is critical MANA FOOTGE O We have three main sustainability objectives: The definition of these priorities has followed because when our stakeholders prosper, our PR IR a structured process of both internal and excompany prospers. This philosophy forms U T N Enhance our Value Creation: CEMEX aims ternal consultation where we have measured the basis for our vision to be the company of HANCE OU EN UE CREAT R to deliver the innovative, high-performing the impact that the main sustainability issues choice for: SUSTAINABILITY products, services, and solutions that our have on our stakeholders and on CEMEX opL I ON AT CEMEX resource-constrained society requires in order erations. Our priorities are aligned to each of • Our People: We aim to be the employer VA to create a growing and profitable low carbon our three objectives and with our stakeholdof choice in our markets. We seek to economy. By fulfilling the needs of the coners’ concerns which were identified through provide the most attractive opportunities R R U struction sector in its efforts to adopt more materiality analysis exercises. for employees’ personal and professional EO S ENGAG LDE sustainable operating practices, we aim to development. STAKEHO create long-lasting competitive advantages. Enhance our Value Creation: • Our Neighbors: We are a good neighbor. 1. Lead in Sustainable Construction We participate with communities openly Manage our Footprint: CEMEX strives 2. Affordable Housing & Infrastructure and directly in order to build trust and adto minimize the ecological impacts of its dress their concerns. operations in the communities in which we Manage our Footprint: • Our Business Partners: We work to be operate. Such impacts are carefully identified 3. Enhance Our Carbon Strategy the business partner of choice. We seek and measured so that we can continuously 4. Excellence in Environmental & to help our suppliers and customers build reduce our footprint to the lowest level that Biodiversity Management their businesses and to create enduring is both technically and economically feasible. value for our shareholders. We also have a robust pipeline of projects Engage our Stakeholders: • Our World: As a global company, we work that provide carbon offsets to further reduce 5. High Priority to Health & Safety to contribute to international efforts to our net impact. 6. Strengthen Local Communities address some of the world’s most complex 7. Partnership with Key Stakeholders challenges, including climate change, acEngage our Stakeholders: CEMEX fosters cess to housing and community infrastrucpositive, long-term relationships with key ture, and the conservation of biodiversity. stakeholders to address the pressing needs and concerns of society. With highly comBy building strong long-term relationships mitted and empowered employees, CEMEX with our key stakeholders, we increase our closely collaborates with a broad variety of responsiveness to their needs and concerns, institutions that allow us to complement our we find new ways to reduce our impacts, core competencies and enable us to generwe contribute to sustainable development ate social benefits that contribute to the worldwide, and, ultimately, we make CEMEX strengthening of local communities. a more competitive and profitable enterprise. < previous | contents | next > 8 progress towards our targets Independent 2010 2011 2012 Target 2015 Progress Assurance Lead in Sustainable Construction Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 60 87 100 100 ✔ Cement 100 100 100 100 ✔ Aggregates 50 83 100 100 ✔ Ready-Mix 41 83 100 100 ✔ Enhance our carbon strategy Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 629 612 612 594 ▲ ● Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) 20.5 22.7 22.7 25 ▲ Alternative fuel rate (%) 20.3 24.7 27.1 35 ▲ ● Excellence in Environmental and Biodiversity Management Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions: 74 80 80 100 ▲ ● Dust, NOx and SOx (%) Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) (1) 89 101 78 120 ✔ ● Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) (1) 1,134 1,094 1,025 1,600 ✔ ● Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) (1) 334 335 257 520 ✔ ● Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plan (%) 85 89 91 100 ▲ Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiversity action 38 38 41 100 ◗ plans are actively implemented (%) Operations with an Environmental Management System Implemented (%) 76 86 89 100 ▲ Health and Safety Lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate, employees (per million hours worked) 2.6 2.3 2.0 0.5 ◗ ● Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (%) 64 79 85 100 ▲ Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (%) 63 82 90 100 ▲ Operations with a Health and Safety Management System Implemented (%) (2) 98 99 100 100 ✔ ✔ Fully achieved target ▲ On track to achieve target ◗ Extra effort required to achieve target (1) New targets under revision (2) During 2012 we worked on creating a holistic Health and Safety Management System that integrates our previous safety management system and our health management system previously reported as separated indicators. < previous | contents | next > 9 built to last, built to serve As the world population grows and improves quality of life for all citizens more people choose to live in urban and minimizes the environmental imsettings, there is an increasing demand pact of urban construction and infrafor affordable housing and efficient structure use. transportation, and an even greater need to manage the interaction beWith decades of experience delivering tween built and natural environments tailor-made solutions for projects in to ensure resources are available to developed and developing economies sustain future generations. —from wind farms in North America to highways in China and affordable vertiCEMEX is focused on delivering socal housing in the Middle East— CEMEX lutions to the increasingly complex is working with cities around the world and inter-connected infrastructure to build communities that will thrive demands of society in a manner that today and well into the future. < previous | contents | next > 10 built to last, built to serve smarter and buildings Buildings account for 40 percent of worldwide energy consumption and about 21 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions. WE Introduced Ecoperating, a unique seal to distinguish our most sustainable products, services, building solutions and initiatives < previous | contents | next > 11 According to life cycle and cost analyses by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Concrete Sustainability Hub (CSH), concrete has fundamental attributes that improve the affordability and sustainability of buildings. New Product As part of our Research and Development • Homes built with insulated concrete forms can see life-cycle energy savings of five to eight percent result in a lower total cost of ownership over the lifetime of the building. efforts to create more sustainable products compared with their wood-frame counterparts – and solutions, in 2012 we launched Insubenefits derived from concrete’s higher thermal Delivering Sustainable Solutions laris®, a global product that enhances thermal mass which reduces the energy requirements for Project costs and construction time must be balefficiency and energy conservation. heating and cooling. anced with a full understanding of the long-term benefits of building materials, their practicality and New Solution • While concrete-intensive homes may require impact on quality of life. At CEMEX, we are conhigher up-front investments than alternatives, stantly investing in research and development to Introduced a new modular, lightweight MIT’s research confirms that the money spent produce solutions to construction challenges, estabbuilding system for affordable vertical on concrete is a sound investment as better lishing a global innovation initiative to create new housing construction in Mexico and the energy efficiency and low maintenance costs products and learn how to use our resources better. United Arab Emirates (UAE). Solutions CEMEX Technology Offers Addressed New Services Launched CEMEX Green Building ConsultanPromptis®: A rapid hardening/high early strength development concrete designed for fast formwork removal. Unique characteristic: workability retention up to at least 90 minutes. Hidratium®: Significantly reduces water consumption as the need for external curing is eliminated. Ease of cy Services in Mexico with a starting portfoapplication and important savings in labor costs. lio of three LEED Certification projects. CEMEX Fortium ICF: Designed to reduce the time and material needed to build vertical concrete wall systems, while providing substantial savings in long-term maintenance and energy costs. Incorporates engineered mineralogy and nanotechnology to improve performance. Each home build with CEMEX Fortium Urban ICF reduces building emissions by a total of 170 metric tons of CO2 over the course of 30 years. Insularis®: Improves energy efficiency of buildings by enhancing thermal insulation of cement wall and floor construction systems. Development Led the first project of the World BusiStormceptor: A concrete-based system to collect rainwater and treating it to remove sedant and hydrocarbons. Treated water is then re-used in the development. Pervious concrete: Combining alternative mix design approaches and admixture to develop pervious conness Council for Sustainable Development’s crete that is very effective in reducing storm water and runoff drainage. (WBCSD) Urban Infrastructure Initiative in Cement produced with low energy consumption: Cements produced with low temperature clinkers, Latin America, advising the city officials of thereby reducing CO2 footprint and fuel usage. Increased reactivity of the clinker can lead to reductions in Guadalajara, Mexico. clinker factor. Self compacting concrete (SCC) with low CO2 footprint: A concrete that offers all the advantages of conventional SCC, but with lower CO2 footprint (-40%). A combination of special admixtures designed by CEMEX researches and a unique mix design approach. Concrete pavement: Higher durability and lower maintenance requirements make concrete pavement a sustainable and economic solution. < previous | contents | next > Land use Water management Energy & emissions 12 Our CEMEX Research Group (CRG), strategically located Building System Enables Low Income Housing to Rise Up As a leader in delivering concrete in Switzerland, is responsible for CEMEX Research and Issues with land availability and construction infrabuilding solutions, CEMEX is workDevelopment initiatives, and owning and deploying the structure within urban areas often drive up housing ing with governments and the conresulting Intellectual Property portfolio across our busicosts, reducing access to affordable housing within struction industry to take a holistic ness units worldwide. In CEMEX we believe that solutions city centers and increasing the time and transportation look at building materials and pracare only truly sustainable when everyone can access costs for low income residents to commute to work. tices to design smarter, more livable them, and when they can be delivered in a reliable and and greener buildings and cities. reproducible way. That is why CEMEX Research Group CEMEX offers a low cost, lightweight modular buildstrives to create products that lead to the industrialization ing system that allows the construction of a four-story of its innovations. multi-family building in less than half the time and at significant less cost than alternatives. The system Low-Cost, Lightweight Modular Building System Enhanced Thermal Properties Improve Energy Efficiency consists of lightweight expanded polystyrene (EPS) In 2012 we launched Insularis®, a global product with panels that are easily transported to the construction enhanced thermal properties that improves energy effisite using small trucks. Once assembled, the panels ciency. This new brand offers a portfolio of construction are covered onsite with Gunite, a specially formulated solutions and ready-mix concrete products designed to cement-based material, to create a sustainable, durable improve the energy efficiency of buildings by enhancing and well insulated structure. An entire four-story resithe thermal insulation of cement wall and floor construcdence can be completed in three weeks, as compared tion systems. With a lower thermal conductivity (better to eight weeks for a brick structure, and at significantly insulation properties) than other concrete products, less cost. The system was piloted for two-story buildInsularis® can help deliver up to 20 percent in energy ings in Mexico and four-story structures in the United Construction Time: Concrete System vs Traditional savings and significant acoustic insulation. Arab Emirates (UAE) in 2012 and will be rolled out to 100 additional regions in 2013. 80 Concrete and Thermal Insulation Percentage Current Market Offer Ecoperating: A Seal of Commitment 60 Structural 2.0 A key to building more sustainable buildings and citDensity [Kg/m3] 40 Conventional concrete 2,600 ies is greater transparency about the materials and 1,400 20 Thermal Conductivity [W/m-k] techniques used for construction. In 2012, CEMEX 200 Increasing 1.5 Thermal Insulation launched Ecoperating to aid the construction industry in identifying the most sustainable products, services, 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 solutions and initiatives in our portfolio. Weeks Light Weight 1.0 concrete — Concrete System — Traditional System Ecoperating is a unique seal developed through a rigor0.06 ous internal process that uses a methodology based 0.5 Foam concrete Insularis® on global standards to measure the environmental and Insulation Technology 0.3 social impact of our offerings. 0.07 2.0 20.0 25.0 40.0 CEMEX products and building solutions with the EcStrenght [MPa] operating seal help builders optimize the performance < previous | contents | next > 13 of projects by reducing The full set of consulting services offered to facilitate countries where green building is poised to become a their ecological footprint or the design and implementation of tailor-made sustainrelevant market segment. providing particular in-use able solutions include: characteristics that reduce Urban Infrastructure Initiative the environmental impact of • Development of bioclimatic architectural designs Implementing a multi-company, multi-sectorial approjects, optimizing the use • Project engineering and commissioning proach, CEMEX is collaboratively engaging with cities of natural resources and re• Building-energy modeling in the earliest stages of urban planning, to bring the ducing emissions and waste • Energy audits necessary external perspective to help city authorities generation. • Green building certifications (LEED, BREEAM, etc.) turn their visions into action. • Renewable energy supply In 2012, Ecoperating was • Specialized construction solutions development In collaboration with the World Business Council for launched in Croatia, PhilipSustainable Development (WBCSD) and a group of pines, UAE and Egypt. In 2013 we expect to extend With this additional support to our clients, CEMEX global companies, CEMEX co-chaired the Urban Infrait to Germany, Mexico, Costa Rica, Colombia, Panama, aims to increase the total value of buildings while structure Initiative (UII), a project that conducted asFrance and Guatemala. creating economic, social and environmental benefits sessments with city leadership to identify sustainabilfor the entire construction value chain and society. We ity issues and carried out transformation studies that To achieve the Ecoperating label, products must meet are currently carrying out three projects in Mexico and offered solutions and ways to implement them. CEMEX multiple criteria specific to their product category. are preparing to test the service in the Central Euroalso participated in the annual WBCSD roundtable on Further information on each criteria can be found on our pean market, after which we can gradually offer it in all cities in Seoul, Korea. website. Promoting Sustainable Building and Urban Design Green Building Services To meet the increasing demand for sustainability expertise in construction markets, CEMEX is partnering with national and international experts to provide a complete array of services specialized in sustainOngoing Green able construction. Uniting complementary fields such Building Projects as architecture, engineering and consulting, we are Sofia Residential Esfera Citelis San Bernabe expanding our capabilities by incorporating bioclimatic Project Tower Shopping Center Community Center design, project engineering, energy modeling, project [NL, Mexico] [NL, Mexico] [NL, Mexico] commissioning, energy audits, and LEED certification, Building type Mixed use Commercial Education & Recreation among others, to generate added value to our projects. Working collaboratively, we integrate all members of Buildable area 90,000 m2 276,925 m2 29,150 m2 the construction value chain, optimizing results and Certification target LEED Silver LEED Platinum LEED Certified maximizing profits. CEMEX Services LEED Certification LEED Certification Architectural Design LEED Certification Project Supervision Photos provided by: PCHP architects, Sordo Madalero, 72pi. < previous | contents | next > 14 In 2012, UII teams worked collaboratively with 10 citCEMEX has started to work with local organizations, ies around the world – Guadalajara (Mexico); Philadelsuch as CESPEDES in Mexico, to develop models to adphia (US); Yixing (China), Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara in Gujarat State (India); Kobe (Japan); Turku dress the complexity and dynamics of Latin-American cities. Further studies might take shape in cities such Challenges Ahead (Finland); and Tilburg (The Netherlands). This novel as Queretaro, Torreon, Puebla, and Merida. In 2013, exercise demonstrated the clear potential and capabiliadditional partnerships will be established with key > Continue research and developties of business to advance the sustainability agenda organizations to progressively replicate and adapt the ment to deliver innovative sustainby serving as strategic partners for cities. It revealed urban design methodology to other CEMEX markets. able building solutions that are acthat leading businesses are aware of the challenges and constraints that cities face and can be key players Recognizing Excellence cessible to everyone everywhere. in helping cities find solutions to succeed. Each year, CEMEX recognizes building projects that make positive impacts through superior innovation. > Have a larger impact by creating CEMEX assumed the leading role during the assessThe 2012 winner of the CEMEX Building Award in the new alliances with strategic partment in Guadalajara, the first Latin American city to Sustainable Construction Category was the Atmosfera work with the UII. Through a series of workshops held ners and expand our green buildbuilding, located in the city of Guadalajara, Mexico. in the city, the UII defined specific boundaries and The LEED Silver-certified building takes every measure ing services portfolio to a greater worked at different levels to properly address key topto optimize the use of energy and to reduce environnumber of countries. ics that demanded attention in the city in four areas: mental impacts, for example cross-ventilation systems and a rooftop garden that provides insulation. The > Educate the marketplace about the • Mobility & Logistics: A comprehensive plan addressing building is also equipped to provide access for disabled inadequate public transport and a roadmap to consolipeople throughout. Ecoperating seal and how sustaindate and improve the existing road network, including able products can add value to rehabilitation of 70 km of existing roads and construcThe winner of the Sustainable Infrastructure Category their building projects. A particular tion of more than 45 km of new roads. was the Baluarte Special Bridge, the largest cable• Buildings & Housing: A low-cost housing program for challenge is to manage the critestayed bridge in Latin America. Built as part of the the relocation of dwellings in high-risk areas (those Highway Corridor Numria in a way that they reflect local prone to natural disasters such as flooding), benefitber 5 that will connect conditions while still fitting into ing 500 to 1,000 families annually. Tampico with Sinaloa, the our global framework. • Security & Social Development: Reinforce and stanbridge has a 520-meter dardize the self-sufficiency training programs in the central span and reaches city’s network of community centers, and rehabilitate a height of 402.6 meters. > Find the right mechanisms to those community centers that can accommodate largThis massive civil engireach more cities through our er amounts of people in the communities they serve. neering project connects work with urban initiatives, and • Waste Management: An integrated solution to reduce marginalized and isolated the volume of waste disposed of in landfills while alprovide them with practical suscommunities, reactivating lowing for larger amounts of materials to be recycled their economies and creattainable solutions for their urbanand/or used as alternative fuels by nearby industries. ing greater opportunity ization challenges. for personal development. Atmosfera building < previous | contents | next > 15 built to last, built to serve the road infrastructure From a sustainability standpoint, roads are very influential in the use of fossil fuels and emission of greenhouse gasses (GHG), and are one of the main facilitators of efficient mobility in and between cities. US $ 15.6savings potential Billion per year in fuel costs from concrete road use in the USA < previous | contents | next > 16 In its third year of Life Cycle Assessment work, MIT’s Concrete Sustainability Hub (CSH) found that pavements that are stiffer and more durable, like those made of concrete, can reduce vehicle fuel consumption by as much as 3 percent in the US. These savings could add up to 273 million barrels of crude oil per year, and result in an accompanying an2000 Emissions Associated with PVI Deflection vs Pavement nual decrease in CO2 emissions of 46.5 million metric 1800 Production, Maintenance tons. For drivers, this could collectively translate to a and Repair 1600 savings of US $15.6 billion per year in fuel costs. 315 1400 ■ PVI Deflection 95% GHG Emissions (Mg CO2e) Confidence Intervals According to Professor Franz-Josef 1200 Infrastructure ■ Production + M&R projects completed. Ulm, director of CSH, the reason 1000 concrete can help conserve fuel is due to more efficient pavement-vehicle 800 5 BRTs In 2012, CEMEX added new Bus interaction (PVI). While the effect of pavement roughness on fuel con600 400 sumption has been understood for Rapid Transit (BRTs) lines in Acapulco Concrete Asphalt Concrete Asphalt quite some time, the MIT researchers for the first time 200 and Puebla, bringing the total number of BRT lines implemented by quantified the impact of pavement deflection which is a CEMEX to five. consequence of road surface elasticity. HighArterial Volume CBR3* CBR3* Ulm compares deflection to walking on sand —as your +8 Million *CBR: California Bearing Ratio feet sink, they create a valley from which you have to Impact of PVI deflection on GHG emissions is shown for emerge to move forward. The same happens when tires 50 years lifetime of roadways at the 95% confidence Square meters of pavement for highinterval. Source: Model Based Pavement-Vehicle ways, mass transit projects, airport Interaction Simulation for Life Cycle Assessment of runways, and city streets. Pavements, MIT, April 2012. contact pavement, albeit on a smaller but no less significant scale. According to the study, tires create less of a “valley” on concrete roads and therefore expend less energy to get up to speed. In fact, on high-volume roadways, the fuel and emissions savings associated with pavement-vehicle interaction (PVI) surpass the impacts from materials, construction, and maintenance phases of the pavement’s life-cycle. < previous | contents | next > 17 Overcoming “Short-termism” To read the full interview with Professor Ulm about PVI While research shows that concrete inand its impact on fuel consumption, visit our website. frastructure has many long-term benefits related to cost of ownership and reduced If extrapolated to most of the markets where CEMEX environmental impacts of use, a mindset operates, stiffer and more durable roads could translate that values short-term cost savings often to significant fuel savings and CO2 emissions reducmust be addressed. tions worldwide. Sustainable development requires a hoPaving the Way to Greener Highways listic analysis that accounts for all inputs Concrete is an essential component for the sustainand outputs related to structures; and able development and use of infrastructure. In 2012, Lowe’s Distribution Center research shows cement lowers the cost CEMEX continued to be a supplier of building materiof ownership of roads and buildings and als and construction expertise for projects around reduces the environmental impact of use the world that serve as critical connections between by vibratory rollers. It requires less cement, (therefore compared to popular alternative materials. residents, their city and their world. less clinker), water and no steel reinforcement. While For example, based on historical data, MIT not suitable for high speed traffic situations, RCC apcalculates that over a 50-year time frame, Faster Concrete Solution is also Resource Efficient pears to be an excellent option for residential streets the mean “real price” of asphalt roadways and industrial applications. Our largest project in 2012 can be expected to increase by 95 percent Total Paved Area Projects was the construction of the Lowe’s Distribution Center Thousands of square while the mean “real price” of concrete meters in Georgia, US. This facility is 279,233 m2 and will be roadways would decrease by 20 percent. Mexico 7,839,000 189 handling 400 trucks per day. Nicaragua 237,529 73 CEMEX is using research and education to Cost-Effective, Efficient Mass Public Transport System Costa Rica 75,000 25 help government officials, designers and For most city residents, public transport is the only Panama 70,000 4 construction firms better account for the practical means to access employment, education, and entire life-cycle of urban infrastructure Colombia 63,500 11 public services, especially when such services are beprojects to ensure the most cost effective Puerto Rico 46,500 9 yond a reasonable walking or cycling distance. and sustainable solutions. Dominican 6,729 4 Republic Total 8,338,258 315 CEMEX began fieldwork in 2012 to validate the promise of Roller-Compacted Concrete (RCC). This technology consists of 100 percent concrete, but it can take less time to lay at a very competitive cost. The application process is similar to asphalt paving; material is delivered by dump trucks or conveyors, spread by specially modified asphalt pavers, and then compacted BRT Puebla < previous | contents | next > 18 Challenges Ahead > Change embedded behaviors in the construction industry and government that are barriers to more sustainable and long-term solutions. For example, government authoriMetrobus Vallejo, Mexico City ties need to factor in the long-term CEMEX is helping to reduce the amount of resources In 2012, CEMEX added new BRT lines in Acapulco and cost of ownership when designing associated with transportation infrastructure by buildPuebla, bringing the total number of BRT lines implebids for roads to fully appreciate ing high-occupancy, affordable, low-emissions conmented by CEMEX to five. These two new dedicated bus crete Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems. These systems lines together benefit more than 300,000 users, reduce the financial and sustainability combine exclusive express lanes for public busses and the number of motorized vehicles by more than 50 perbenefits of concrete versus altercomfortable boarding stations to approach the service cent in the area of impact and save commuters a valunative materials. quality of rail transit while delivering the cost savable amount of time; 35 to 40 minutes in the case of ings and flexibility of bus transit. BRTs are especially Puebla, for example. With full responsibility for the raw > Provide cities with innovative, cost important for cities in developing nations where poor materials, construction, and oversight for these projects, public transit service needs must be corrected without CEMEX is demonstrating its broad range of solutions to efficient infrastructure solutions causing high municipal debt. become the partner of choice for BRT projects. that solve mobility problems while conserving resources and improvCEMEX BRT’s Projects to Date ing quality of life. Project Year State Km Metrobus Vallejo 2010-2011 Mexico City 16 Mexibus Chimalhuacan 2011 Estado de Mexico 15 Ecovia Monterrey 2011-2012 Nuevo Leon 30 BRT Acabus 2012-2013 Guerrero 18 BRT Puebla 2012 Puebla 19 < previous | contents | next > 19 built to last, built to serve delivering more housing By collaborating with individual governments and an international network of developers, CEMEX has been able to help expand the affordable housing market while securing a position as a leading vendor of streamlined, low-cost housing solutions. CEMEX is also work2,942 ing to meet increased demand for direct-to-consumer building services by providing individual home buyers and builders with the materials and technical assistance needed to accelerate their construction projects. homes for families in developing countries < previous | contents | next > 20 Wherever possible, CEMEX also engages local governments and lending institutions to develop favorable financing options for potential homeowners. In 2012, we contributed to the construction of 2,942 m2. We have expanded the initiative to Dominican affordable homes in Latin America, representing more Republic, Puerto Rico and Colombia. With a backlog of than 131,000 m2. This brings the total for the first 8,262 homes, we are well on our way to adding more three years of our Affordable Housing initiative to than 10,000 high quality low-income homes to the almost 7,800 units with a surface exceeding 315,000 global market by 2015. +8,000 In 2012 our Affordable Housing Program received more than 8,000 orders for additional houses. 3 New Countries CEMEX’s affordable housing solutions were made available in three new countries – Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Colombia; expanding its presence to a total of nine countries. ■ Affordable housing program in place Existing: Nicaragua, Haiti, Guatemala, Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Puerto Rico, Intended area of expansion for: Colombia and Dominican Republic. ■ CEMEX’s Affordable Housing Intended area of expansion for: Program CEMEX’s Affordable Housing Program: Egypt, Philippines and Bangladesh. ■ CEMEX’s Sustainable CEMEX’s Sustainable Housing Program: UAE, UK, France, Poland, Czech Republic, Housing Program Croatia and USA. Notable affordable housing projects in 2012 include: • The start of construction and sales in the multi-year, 700-unit Higuamo project in the Dominican Republic. • The government of Colombia awarded CEMEX four high rise projects with a total of more than 5,000 units. • USAID granted CEMEX a project to build 156 brand new units for the victims of the 2010 earthquake Home beneficiaries in Haiti choosing their home preferences that struck Haiti. < previous | contents | next > 21 Challenges Ahead CEMEX Helps Area Recover from Earthquake with Affordable, Sustainable Housing > Close deals with developers in In March 2012 a 7.4-magnitude earthquake took a timely manner and provide place in the States of Oaxaca and Guerrero in Mexgovernments with solutions for ico causing damage to more than 13,500 houses across 56 municipalities. affordable housing that can be easily implemented. To help get these cities back in working order, CEMEX has engaged in a reconstruction project > Develop strategies for expanding based on a monolithic structure that provides safety and resistance against future earthquakes and fires. the availability of affordable and sustainable housing in 21 The structure uses a combination of special concrete countries, and expand product products to improve strength and livability of the portfolio to help reduce costs and rebuilt homes, providing better thermal isolation for Finished house improved temperature control, comfort and antibacincrease efficiency of housing. terial properties that improve hygiene and reduces the growth of odor-causing fungi and bacteria. > Close the financing gap by finding innovative channels that allow us to Products used include: Antibac® concrete for floors, Hidratium® for walls and ceilings, Insularis® for reach people who do not have acceilings and our multi-plast system for interior and cess to formal lending mechanisms. exterior finishing. These technologies provide the opportunity for the dwellings to be expanded by a “self-construction” system. Combined with our Productive Centers for Self-Employment initiative, this effort is creating stronger buildings while giving residents the knowledge and skills to build a stronger future. For more information visit our website. Productive Center of Self-Employment Beneficiaries < previous | contents | next > 22 built to last, built to serve EMP WERING communities Bringing together economic, educational and people resources, we are creating innovative solutions to social challenges in the developing world and +2 working to create more sustainable communities by supporting people in becoming more self-sufficient. In collaboration with community members, CEMEX strives to identify the needs and concerns of the communities where we operate. Leveraging our MILLION INDIVIDUALS strengths and experience, we jointly develop project BENEFITED FROM CEMEX’s SOCIAL PROGRAMS* SINCE 1998 proposals that are relevant to the unique concerns of each community. *Includes Patrimonio Hoy, ConstruApoyo and Productive Centers of Self-Employment < previous | contents | next > 23 Enabling Home Ownership and Self-Sufficiency Empowerment and self-sufficiency springs from access to knowledge as well as physical and financial resources. Through partnerships with private enterprises, governments and academic institutions, CEMEX supports programs that help people in emerging markets gain the knowledge to save money for housing, start a business, 453,538 Latin American families benefited build homes and infrastructure and help improve community services. from Patrimonio Hoy, Productive Centers Patrimonio Hoy Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) and the of Self-Employment and ConstruApoyo Patrimonio Hoy is our flagship social business that Kellogg School of Management to enlarge and update programs, up to 2012. helps low-income families to improve their quality of life its offer, and we expect a significant increase in our through improved and dignified housing, realizing their market penetration for 2013. 42,989 dream of home ownership through a well-planned savings scheme. Combining the global presence of CEMEX Latin American families benefited from distribution with the power of microcredit, the program Patrimonio Hoy in 2012, encompassing more offers integral solutions to families by providing finanthan 1.9 million individuals since 1998. cial and technical assistance in the construction of their homes. With more than 100 offices in Latin America, 39 Patrimonio Hoy enables families to build or improve their homes quicker, more efficiently, and with more durable New Productive Centers of Self-Employment and insulating materials – concrete, cement blocks, and bringing the total number of centers to 76. steel – that would otherwise be beyond their means. Employment During 2012, we reached more than 42,900 families and built more than 447,000 m2 livable space. Since 2011, Patrimonio Hoy has worked together with the Patrimonio Hoy beneficiaries CEMEX became founding partner of New Employment Opportunities (NEO), a multilateral initiative to prepare young people, particularly disadvantaged ones, for entry level Expansion of the Patrimonio Hoy Program jobs in Latin America and the Caribbean. Dom. Rep. Mexico Colombia Nicaragua Costa Rica Total New partners 2011 168 41,692 2,520 998 167 45,545 New partners 2012 226 38,099 3,762 821 81 42,989 Total partners 493 373,964 15,145 6,434 809 396,845 (# accumulated) Total square meters built 2,866 2,919,980 94,027 21,643 1,974 3,040,490 (# accumulated) < previous | contents | next > 24 Productive Centers of Self-Employment (PCS) Enabling self-sufficiency is the main focus of our Productive Centers of Self-Employment (PCS). These are community spaces where individuals manufacture concrete blocks and other precast forms, keeping half of their production for personal construction purposes while selling the other half to state and municipal governments. The program helps participants improve the quality of their housing while also realizing income. The card is proving to be a more efficient way In 2012, we added 36 new PCS in Mexico and three in for governments to fulfill their promises of Colombia. There are now a total of 76 PCS serving these increased housing countries and we plan to expand the program to Nicaragua in 2013. ConstruApoyo Building upon its history of collaborating with gov2013. CEMEX plans to expand the program throughernments and private enterprise, CEMEX is helping out Latin America to every place a PCS exists. to increase the transparency of financial schemes for housing. Through its ConstruApoyo program, CEMEX CEMEX-BANAMEX Partnership facilitates the distribution of funds for the construcA highlight in 2012 was our new partnership with tion, repair or extension of homes with a prepaid debit BANAMEX, a subsidiary of Citigroup and one of card system, creating a transparent process through Mexico’s largest banks, to build a curriculum for our which aid recipients are able to purchase the building community centers that will foster a savings culture materials they need. in the communities surrounding our cement plants in Mexico. The program consisted of three courses: In 2012, 1,053 families in Mexico benefited from this program and there are plans to expand it into Colombia • How to Start a Business in 2013. • How to Save Money • How to Use Credit Assisted Self-Construction Integral Program In order to provide people all the necessary tools to This program was delivered to eight of our commubuild their own homes (financing, materials and expernity centers in 2012 and will be expanded in 2013 to tise), CEMEX has created the Assisted Self-Construcinclude more. Some participants have been motivated tion Integral Program. This is an umbrella initiative that to create micro-businesses as a result of the courses integrates PCS, ConstruApoyo and social assistance. and all are better equipped to be more self-sufficient. In The program is currently being implemented in Mexico 2012, 439 people benefited from the curriculum. and Colombia made its first investment in order to start an Assisted Self-Construction Integral Program in < previous | contents | next > 25 New Employment Opportunity Initiative ment services on a large scale. In addition to CEMEX, A community can only be sustainable when its resifounding partners include the Multilateral Investment dents are gainfully employed. To help increase the Fund (MIF), the International Youth Foundation (IYF), number of youth prepared for entry-level jobs in the the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) Social Latin American and Caribbean region, CEMEX cofounded New Employment Opportunity (NEO), a multistakeholder, region-wide initiative dedicated to increasSector, Caterpillar, Microsoft and others. NEO’s strategy for reaching one million youth on a NEO Is a multi-stakeholder, region-wide ing job entry by disadvantaged young people. region-wide scale calls for governments, companies, initiative dedicated to increasing civil society, and youth themselves to agree to a comjob entry by disadvantaged young people. Created in 2012, NEO is bringing together key private, mon strategic agenda and to act collectively, through public, and civil society leaders to provide youth with multi-stakeholder partnerships based in each of the high-impact, market-relevant job training and placeparticipating countries. “Without this program I would be the typical housewife, in her home cleaning and taking care of household duties only. Now I have a better NEO’s 10-Year Goals: future. I can help more at home, not just with finances, but in all aspects. • Train one million disadvantaged Personally, this has given me a lot of confidence and I feel better about youth, ages 16–29, using models that incorporate best practices of job trainmyself. I feel more useful.” ing programs • Achieve job placement rates of at Empowering Community Entrepreneurs least 50% for its graduates Lenny Guadalupe Paredes believes that in a household, “if mom is doing well, everyone at home is doing well.” Thanks to the CEMEX community • Ensure that 50% or more of the youth center in Merida, Yucatan, Mexico, the 37-year-old mother of two is dotrained are girls and young women ing well as a mom and as an entrepreneur. Despite no previous business • Promote the adoption of high-impact training, she brought her ambition and dreams to the community center training models in the government and became an instrumental leader in creating a local micro-company. programs of at least 10 countries in the region Through the BANAMEX financial curriculum, Lenny and other area women learned the financial and personal skills necessary • Mobilize 1,000 companies to offer to start and manage a business and opportunities to sell their internships and employment opportuproducts. The program helps improve self-confidence and the nities for youth personal finances of women in the community. • Strengthen the capacity of 200 job training providers < previous | contents | next > 26 Supporting Community Heritage and Education In all the markets CEMEX does business throughout the world, we work with local communities to identify ways to contribute to the development and quality of life of residents. These include promoting education and the preservation of history. For example: Poland’s Educational Program for Young People In late 2012, we began offering a series of educational Challenges Ahead trips for high school students from the city of Chełm, Poland, to help them better understand cement produc> Expand the scope of our programs tion, the importance of alternative fuel use and the in order to reach and impact more principles of sustainable development. CEMEX Poland people and strengthen more comorganizes the program which includes interactive presentations, factory tours and knowledge competitions. munities around the world. Upon completion, the students have a better under> Uncover innovative mechanisms standing about the entire cement production process that allow people to finance their and the initiatives undertaken by CEMEX Poland to own homes without causing ecocontribute to sustainable development and the success of their city. Students visiting CEMEX Chełm Plant in Poland nomic distress so home ownership can be realized by more people CEMEX Germany Reconstructs a Piece of Celtic faster. History The remains of a wooden bridge from the La Tene period (which occurred from 450 BCE to 1st Century BCE) were discovered at the Kirchhain-Niederwald quarry in Hesse, Germany. CEMEX took the area where the preserved relics were found out of the gravel mining process so that reconstruction of the “Jochpfahlbrücke”, which represents important archaeological evidence of the late Iron Age Celtic history in Germany, was possible.* *For further information: Meiborg, C, 2012. p.p. 49-59 ISBN: 978-3-941171-47-3 The remains of a wooden bridge from the La Tene period < previous | contents | next > 27 built to last, built to serve from waste to Cities of the future will need to be closed looped systems, mimicking ecosystems where waste for one entity delivers value for another. That is why our carbon strategy is not only designed to help reduce the environmental impacts of our own 27.1% operations, but also to drive the development of a low-carbon economy. CEMEX’s use of alternative fuels increased to 27.1 percent of the total fuel mix from 20.3 percent in 2010 and 24.7 percent in 2011 < previous | contents | next > 28 One key effort is the diversion of solid wastes from landfills to fuel our cement facilities. These solids which contain recoverable energy are predominantly residues or byproducts from industrial, domestic, agricultural, and forestry processes including: Alternative Fuel Substitution Rate • Used tires for cement operations • Spent solvents and waste oils 30 • Processed municipal solid waste • Household wastes 25 27.1 • Agricultural wastes such as rice, peanut shells and 24.7 Percentage 20 coffee husks and animal meal 20.3 76.5 CEMEX has significant• Sewage sludge 15 ly increased its usage of alternative fuels as 10 a percentage of total Clinker content in our cement has been The process reduces our reliance on fossil fuels while reduced to 76.5 percent, down from fuel, companywide by also alleviating the burden on municipal landfills to ac5 investing more than 84.3 percent in 1990. 0.8 commodate these solid wastes. 5.1 US$182 million since 2005. 1990 2005 2010 2011 2012 Nine Plants burning alternative Leading Industry in Use of Alternative Fuels CEMEX is the leading user of alternative fuels in the waste-to-fuel programs are monitored and CEMEX leadcement industry, with a goal to reach an alternative fuel ers are held accountable for their engagement efforts. fuels surpassed a 50 percent substitution rate of 35 percent by 2015. In 2012, 96 alternative-fuel rate. percent of our cement plants burned alternative fuels, Recycling Aggregates avoiding the use of 2.3 million tons of coal and eliminatAdditionally, in order to comply with state-of-the-art legTwo Plants achieved a rate ing the equivalent of 1.8 million tons of CO2 from entering the atmosphere. Nine of the plants burning alternative islation in some countries and green building standards such as LEED and BREEAM, CEMEX strives to replace fuels surpassed a 50 percent alternative-fuel rate, with primary aggregates with other discarded materials (e.g. above 75 percent. two achieving a rate glass and demolished concrete) and reusing and recyabove 75 percent. Five cling, as much as possible, the fresh concrete returned Five Plants increased their rate cement plants located in the US, Spain and from construction sites. From country to country, the scope and potential for the use of recycled aggregates Colombia increased depends on many factors ranging from regulatory more than 10 percent. their rate more than 10 frameworks to material availability. The most representapercent in one year. tive examples within CEMEX are our Northern Europe operations with demolition wastes recycling in Germany, Because there are a number of issues involved with diAustria, and France and coal shale trading in Poland. verting solid wastes for fuel use − including community CEMEX is undertaking many actions across the globe to education, permitting and transportation − CEMEX has increase the use of recycled aggregates and make it a developed a model of engagement to help city leaders substantial part of our business. To learn more about our understand the logistical, technical and financial variposition on aggregate recycling, please visit our website. ables involved with our sourcing of alternative fuels. All < previous | contents | next > 29 However, the technique cannot be used when temperaClinker Reduction tures are below freezing. As an alternative, CEMEX UK Challenges Ahead Waste streams from industrial processhas developed a washout and scrape up method where es also help us reduce our reliance on trucks are washed out into a wedge pit and the mate> Reduce the clinker factor in our fossil resources* for clinker. In 2012, our overall rial is recovered the next working day and blended cement products is a never-ending clinker factor (the ratio of clinker content to total with fresh aggregate. effort; we must strive to challenge cement production) was 76.5 percent – down from 84.3 percent in 1990. This is a result of our These waste reduction efforts have helped CEMEX the limited market acceptance of continuous effort to increase the use of alternative UK reduce costs from US $912,000 in 2010 to concrete products using clinker cementitious materials, many of which are derived US $623,000 in 2012. substitutes as well as the high from the waste streams of other industries. Materials that are replacing clinker include: fly ash Reusing Neighbor’s Waste Water Reduces Costs costs associated with the transporfrom power plants, blast furnace slag from pig iron Morata, a CEMEX ready-mix plant in Bogota, Colomtation of alternative raw materials. production and volcanic ash. bia, was purchasing the majority of its water from the local municipality. However, it was located next to an > Continue increasing our alternative *Though we strive to maximize our usage of alternative raw materials, ice cream factory that was paying for the treatment the reduction of our clinker factor depends largely on market demand fuels substitution rate by securing for our products—some of which require higher clinker content than of wastewater that could safely meet the needs of the others. Additionally, the supply of high quality clinker alternatives is ready-mix plant. Seeing an opportunity to reduce costs suppliers that provide us with the generally lower than the market demand for cement. and reuse water rather than extract potable water from right amount and quality of materiIndustrial Ecology: Uncovering Environmental and the community supply, local CEMEX leaders created a als as well as by identifying new Economic Synergies symbiotic relationship with the ice cream factory. ToThroughout the world, CEMEX takes significant strides day, more than 30 percent of the water required by the materials that could potentially be to find innovative solutions that allow us to recover CEMEX ready-mix plant is used as alternative fuels. and reuse waste resources and drive out costs. supplied by the neighboring factory’s grey water, > Spot opportunities for resource opReady-Mix Washout Decreases Costs, Increases reducing the cost of water timization, reutilization and waste Aggregate Recovery for CEMEX from US $3/m3 CEMEX UK has implemented systems that help to to US $0.5/m3 while reducreduction. reduce concrete wastes and related costs while maxiing the ice cream factory’s mizing the recovery of aggregate for reuse. The first treatment costs as well. > Raise awareness among stakeholder method uses GINCO, our comprehensive ready-mix groups about the societal benefits of operations software platform, to provide a recipe of Turning Heat Waste into Megawatts stone, water and Truckclear® Admixture which delays In the Philippines, CEMEX reached an agreement in incorporating waste streams into our the setting of returned concrete. The wash out mix is 2012 with Sinoma Energy Conservation Ltd. to develop production process. left on the truck overnight or between batches and the a six-megawatt waste-heat-to-energy facility to produce GINCO software deducts the amount of waste from the usable electricity from captured waste heat from our next batch of aggregate. The result is reduced washout cement plant in Antipolo City in the province of Rizal. costs and increased use of aggregate. < previous | contents | next > 30 managing today for tomorrow Excelling in our performance as an Committed to collaboration within our employer, business partner and corpoglobal operation and externally with a rate citizen makes for a sound foundawide variety of stakeholders, we are tion for long-term business success. identifying and addressing critical enviTherefore, sustainability at CEMEX is ronmental and social issues while also embedded in our business strategy, our helping to educate others about leading day-to-day operations and our interacpositive change in their own businesses tions with the communities in which and communities. we operate. < previous | contents | next > 31 Managing Today for Tomorrow strategy CEMEX operates in an energy-intensive industry that accounts for around five percent of the world’s carbon emissions. Our carbon strategy is designed to help reduce the environmental impacts of our operations, create economic value, advance new solutions and drive the development of a low-carbon economy. 7.2 million tons of CO2 avoided in 2012 due to a 22.7 percent reduction in specific net CO2 emissions from our 1990 baseline < previous | contents | next > 32 As a result of our initiatives to reduce our clinker factor and increase the use of alternative fuels we avoided 7.2 million tons of CO2 direct emissions when compared to our 1990 baseline. $300 million Participating in a Clean Energy Fund that is Avoided Direct CO2 Emissions vs. 1990 Baseline Our combined efforts to reduce direct emissions, and indirect emissions through the use of renewable sources of electric energy, repreThousand tons expected to raise approximately US$300 million sent more than 7.8 million tons of avoided CO2 emissions compared to implement projects in Mexico. 8,000 with our 1990 baseline -including emissions avoided through the 7,072 7,239 Eurus wind farm in Mexico. 6,483 -2 million tons Registered five new projects under the Clean 6,000 That’s equivalent 4,000 Development Mechanism (CDM) and one new Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) project in the 2,199 to offsetting the average annual 2,000 US. The overall portfolio now includes 14 registered initiatives, with the combined potential to reduce CO2 emissions by more than 2 million tons annually. 2005 2010 2011 2012 emissions of 1.5 million ■ Through clincker factor passenger vehicles. ■ Through alternative fuels Best in Disclosure Carbon Disclosure Project recognized CEMEX for Carbon Strategy Progress 1990 2005 2010 2011 2012 Best Disclosure and as a Top Ten Performer in its Clinker factor (%) 84.3 81.4 75.9 75.1 76.5 2012 Latin America Climate Change Report. Alternative fuels rate (%) 0.8 5.1 20.3 24.7 27.1 Direct emissions CO2 emissions avoided 1,943,054 4,909,144 5,316,862 4,717,703 5 Energy from clinker factor (tons) CO2 emissions avoided 256,468 1,574,212 1,755,724 2,521,083 Star® Plants Five CEMEX USA cement plants earned ENERfrom alternative fuels factor (tons) Total CO2 emissions avoided vs. Business-as-usual 1990 2,199,522 6,483,355 7,072,586 7,238,786 GY STAR® certification from the US Environmenbaseline (tons) tal Protection Agency (EPA). Indirect emissions CO2 emissions avoided from 440,939 489,169 581,953 Eurus Project (tons) < previous | contents | next > 33 Five US Plants Recognized for Energy Efficiency Cement plants in the states of Florida, California, Ohio nation’s top 25 percent of cement plants with regards and Georgia were recognized in 2012 by the US Envito energy performance. The plants also participated in ronmental Protection Agency (EPA), earning ENERGY Utility Demand Response and Load Shedding programs STAR® certification. to help prevent blackouts and boost local grid stabilization in cases of emergency. All of the recognized plants improved their energy performance using the ENERGY STAR® guidelines for EnThe ENERGY STAR® program is an EPA initiative that ergy Management developed by the EPA. Throughout focuses on strategic energy management and emphathe year, these plants invested in energy conservation sizes the importance of demonstrating environmental and monitoring technologies, and ranked among the leadership for future generations. CEMEX Louisville Cement Plant Alternative Energy Powers Operations in a series of energy projects in Mexico, beginning with CEMEX continues to increase its use of renewable sourcthe construction of the Ventika wind-powered energy Registry CERs/ Project es of energy, such as wind, to power its operations. In park in the northern state of Nuevo Leon. With a minorYear Year 2012, CEMEX commissioned its first wind project in the ity equity stake not exceeding 10 percent, our primary EURUS Wind Farm 2007 599,571 US at its Cache Creek Quarry located in Madison, Califorrole will be to provide technical expertise for the develCosta Rica Alternative 2008 42,040 nia. The one megawatt (MW) wind turbine will produce opment of projects sponsored by the Fund. Fuels Ibague Alternative Fuels 2008 169,565 energy equivalent to powering more than 200 averageZapotiltic Alternative sized American households annually. The turbine, which Valuing Carbon Reductions 2010 47,043 Fuels has zero emissions, will prevent more than 1,500 tons CEMEX has been particularly successful in developEgypt Alternative Fuels 2011 416,528 of CO2 emissions each year. Additional wind projects are ing projects that generate Certified Emission ReducPanama K1 Alternative being developed in California that will be available in tions (CERs). Issued under the Clean Development 2011 29,212 Fuels 2013 and reduce indirect emissions even further. Mechanism (CDM) scheme, a provision of the Kyoto Tepeaca Alternative Fuels 2011 103,359 Protocol for emissions-reduction projects in developMerida Alternative Fuels 2011 41,513 The EURUS wind farm in Oaxaca, Mexico, generates ing countries, CERs can be sold on the open market to Dominican Republic Alter2012 99,797 250 MW of electricity, providing 25 percent of the enoffset emissions in those countries with obligations to native Fuels ergy needed to run our Mexican cement operations. In mitigate carbon emissions. Structured in this fashion, Tamuin Biomass 2012 47,853 2012, approximately 582,000 tons of total CO2 were the CDM plays an important role in supporting the susHuichapan Biomass 2012 51,357 avoided by this project. tainable development of participant nations by rewardCucuta Biomass 2012 42,307 ing projects that go above and beyond basic efforts to Atotonilco Alternative 2012 68,579 CEMEX is also participating in a Clean Energy Fund manage direct emissions. In 2012, five new initiatives Fuels that is expected to raise approximately US$300 milwere accredited as Clean Development Mechanisms inReduction Potential 2012 1,758,724 lion through a public offer of Certificados de Capital de cluding projects located in Dominican Republic, Mexico (tCO2/year) Desarrollo (CKDs, or Capital Development Certificates) and Colombia. Our full CDM portfolio now includes 13 on the Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (Mexican stock exprojects officially registered with a total potential to change). The proceeds from this offering will be invested mitigate around 1.76 million tons of CO2 per year. < previous |I contents contents |I next next >> 34 CEMEX UK First to Label Cement Products to CEMEX also pursues Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) Recognized Standard initiatives in the US with four projects currently underCEMEX UK is using the results from the CO2 way. We registered our first project at our cement plant Footprint Tool to generate the information required in Louisville, Kentucky. The initiative aims to substitute to achieve a certified carbon label for cement to fossil fuels with alternative fuels and has the potential the standard PAS2050. This is the first and only to reduce emissions by as much as 300,000 tons of instance globally where a company has labeled its CO2 per year. cement products to a recognized standard. Carbon Footprint Tool A key pillar of our CO2 reduction efforts is our Carbon Footprint Tool (CFT) that helps us to quantify the direct and indirect amount of CO2 emitted during the production process of cement, concrete and aggregates up until the product leaves our facilities. Embedded carbon dioxide in raw materials and contributions by suppliers are included in the tool’s calculations. Developed in accordance with international protocols, designed routes with the largest loads possible and find the tool and its methodology have been verified by innovative solutions to reduce fossil-fuel consumption. DNV, an independent foundation and one of the world’s leading assessment and certification organizations that We operate more than 16,000 mobile equipment provides services for ensuring the protection of life, units around the world that use diesel; approximately property and the environment. 12,000 on-road and 4,000 off-road. CEMEX has started pilot tests in eight countries with a fuel additive Implementation of the CEMEX CFT has grown from 29 that potentially reduces diesel consumption by approxipercent of our sites in 2010 to 100 percent of cement, mately four percent. The use of this additive will allow aggregate and ready-mix sites under our operational CEMEX to reduce its CO2 emissions and achieve cost control in 2012. Through this effort we are now in a posavings, even when international fuel prices increase. sition where we can provide CO2 footprint information on all of our cement, concrete and aggregate products According to the US Environmental Protection Agency, to customers in all countries where CEMEX operates. burning one gallon —3.78 liters— of diesel fuel emits 10.18 kg of CO2. Through this initiative, CEMEX looks Transportation Strategy to reduce transportation-associated CO2 emissions by We recognize the need to pay special attention to the around 35,000 tons per year. potential impacts that our transportation activities may have on the environment and society. Therefore, we strive to have a sustainable transportation strategy that helps us increase our fuel efficiency by creating well< previous |I contents contents |I next next >> 35 Carbon Disclosure Project Recognizes Complying with the Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol, CEMEX for Excellence Third Version Challenges Ahead In 2012, CEMEX was named by the Carbon DiscloIn 2012, we aligned our reporting with the third versure Project (CDP) as the best Latin American comsion of the CSI Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol which > Find innovative solutions to pany in terms of climate change data disclosure, incorporated additional key performance indicators and one of the top ten in overall carbon emissions (KPIs), and improved accounting including: diminish our carbon emissions performance. through clean and efficient energy • KPI based on equivalent cement production alternatives. The rankings were announced during the launch • A new definition of kiln fuels of the “CDP Latin America Climate Change Report • An accounting for climate-neutral CO2 emissions from > Better inform our clients about the 2012”, which disclosed data on the emissions of the biomass content of mixed fuels greenhouse gases from 32 major companies in • More thorough accounting standards for on-site value of the information in our carArgentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and Peru. The power generation bon footprint tool and in this way CDP is a UK-based independent noncontribute to reducing the footgovernmental organization (NGO) that possesses the world’s largest print of the projects incorporating database on corporate impact on our building materials. climate change. > More accurately understand, account for and mitigate the impact of our transportation activities. < previous | contents | next > 36 Managing Today for Tomorrow environmental management and CEMEX continues to create a culture of environmental awareness, both internally and externally. By systematically monitoring, managing, minimizing and mitigating the impacts of our activities and sharing best practices we help ensure natural resources are used efficiently and that biodiversity is preserved. EMS Implemented the global Environmental Management System (EMS) with all country operations completing implementation roadmaps to ensure full compliance by 2015 < previous | contents | next > 37 In 2012, CEMEX launched a new Environmental Management System (EMS) to facilitate the consistent, complete implementation of risk-based environmental management tools across our global operations. Centrally developed, but locally impleIncident mented, the system focuses on increasing awareness, collaboration and alignment in Tracking Implemented a global, web-based incident the reporting and management of environmental risks. reporting system to track all major The EMS is fully compatible with the ISO 14001 The next stage of the incident reporting system is and minor environmental incidents standard and the EU Eco-Management and Audit creating a searchable knowledge library that includes as well as complaints. Scheme (EMAS) and is designed to ensure full legal good practices and feedback on operational reports. and regulatory compliance in the countries in which As the severity of incidents is reduced, we are beginCEMEX operates. ning to incorporate near-miss reporting and root cause -74.8% analyses on a country-by-country basis to help improve Implementation of the EMS consists of identifying gaps environmental risk identification and incident prevenReduction of specific dust emissions between existing regional or country systems with the tion even further. vs our 2005 baseline. Corporate EMS and developing roadmaps to close any gaps identified to ensure full compliance with the new EMS by 2015. In 2012, all countries completed EMS Water training, gap analyses and implementation roadmaps. Implementation is faster in countries where a mature Footprint regulatory environment exists; emerging markets require more assistance. Monitoring and reporting of water withdrawals and discharges, completing six pilot programs to evaluA critical component of the CEMEX EMS is the Global ate methodology and costs of metering. Incident Reporting System. This web-based reporting tool is designed to help leaders identify and remove, reduce or mitigate environmental risks in their operaBiodiversity tions. All Category 1, 2, 3 Incidents and Registered Complaints are collected and shared monthly in a Action Plan Carried out six pilot tests, one in each CEMEX report to the Executive Board and country leaders. Providing statistically accurate data about the location, type, nature and cost of environmental incidents, this Region, to implement our Biodiversity Action Plan reporting system is helping to reduce the overall num(BAP) Standard in collaboration with BirdLife Interbers of incidents and reducing the severity of those national, completing two projects and creating work plans for the other four. that still occur. < previous | contents | next > 38 Reporting & Analysis Leads to Action Managing our Air Emissions Incident reporting in CEMEX in the UK showed The cement-manufacturing process involves significant Improved Monitoring an increase in Category 3 Incidents involving mireleases of atmospheric pollutants, including nitrogen In 2012 we developed a new tool to record and nor releases of cement during deliveries to readyoxides (NOx), sulfur compounds (SOx), and dust. Other benchmark all the different types of atmospheric mix plants. While the releases were small in napollutants, released in very small or negligible quantiemissions produced by our kilns. This tool is ture, they were increasing in number. An analysis ties, include dioxins, furans, volatile organic compounds, similar to the one already developed by the revealed that the increase in incidents coincided poly-aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and heavy metals European Cement Association (CEMBUREAU) with deliveries being changed to night time to (including mercury). and serves as a recording mechanism for kilns improve logistics efficiency and avoid traffic conto upload data so we can identify gaps in the gestion during peak travel times. Subsequently, With continuous monitoring of NOx, SOx and dust at parameters being recorded and create a plan for CEMEX implemented a driver training program to all of our cement sites in 2012, we began developing capturing additional data in the future, allowing address the night time related incidents. a monitoring-and-control tool for all particulate emisus to have a complete picture of kiln stack sions from our kilns, including mercury, PAH, hydrogen emissions. The root cause analysis demonstrated the value chloride and hydrogen fluoride. of data transparency in helping CEMEX UK learn and adapt before the repetition of minor incidents 2012 reduction turned into larger concerns. Target Emissions 2010 2011 2012 vs. 2005 2015* baseline (%) Dust specific emissions Environmental 500 89 101 78 120 74.8 (g/ton of clinker) incidents trend NOx specific emissions 450 400 1,134 1,094 1,025 1,600 35.9 ■ 2011 426 (g/ton of clinker) ■ 2012 300 SOx specific emissions 323 334 335 257 520 50.6 (g/ton of clinker) 269 200 *New targets under revision 100 We have made several investments to improve our per52 82 74 74 formance as well. For example, in the U.S. and several 0 1 other countries we have invested in: Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Complaints Total Incidents by type • Installing active carbon injectors to fix mercury in kiln exhaust gases and reduce release of dioxins, $139 million In 2012 we invested US$139 4% 1% 9% furans and PAH million in sustainability related Dust • Building new clinker silos to avoid fugitive dust when projects at our operations 12% Site operating conditions opening storage all over the world. & disturbance Fuel and chemical • Reducing chlorines with lime injections Process waste and material • Installing bag filters to reduce dust emissions 56% Water 19% Other • Installing non-catalytic reduction systems (injection of ammonia) to reduce NOx < previous | contents | next > 39 Standardizing and Aligning Water Footprint Calculation based on data processed by the World Business Council In 2012, we marked the second year of a three-year for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool. engagement with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). As part of our materiality Although the cement industry is not, relatively speakanalysis, we sought to better understand the water ing, a high consumer of water, CEMEX is committed to availability context in which CEMEX operates. We first reducing its impact on water resources. In 2012 we folooked to benchmark the water use of our industry cused on gaining a better understanding of water flows against others. We discovered that while the cement within our operations, developing a protocol to stanindustry is typically perceived as a high water impact dardize water measurement and management. Starting sector, in reality we are relatively low consumers of this year, the methodology will be rolled out to our water compared to other industries such as power cement operations and then to all countries in which and chemicals and compared to other building materiCEMEX operates. The methodology contains a set of als such as iron and steel. In fact, our analysis found key performance indicators (KPIs) and their definitions, that water demand of the concrete value chain (cewhich are in line with those being currently agreed to ment, concrete and aggregates) represents around one within the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI). It also percent of the total industry demand for water and 0.2 defines operational boundaries, four levels of accuracy percent of global water demand. for water measurement, guidance on how to report the information and recommendations for meter calibration 2012 Water Footprint Million cubic meters We also discovered that the context of water availability and maintenance. 40 varies widely from location to location across our opera39.1 tions. Currently, nine percent of CEMEX operations are We pilot-tested our water protocol in Spain and the 35 located in officially designated water stressed zones, UK, using a cement, aggregates and ready-mix site in 30 each country for a total of six pilot projects. These pilot Relative Water Stress Index (WSI) projects helped illustrate the water protocol with real 25 for CEMEX Operations examples, as well as defined technical requirements 26.4 Source: UNH, 2000 and costs for improving existing monitoring techniques 20 and identified CEMEX’s good practices on water man20.6 18.5 18.5 15 2% agement that were already in place. Total sites 7% 11% 70% 10% 10 In 2013, we aim to: 10.5 0.6 9.9 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 7.9 1% • Roll out CEMEX Water Protocol to all sites (giving Cement Ready-Mix Aggregates Aggregates 12% 9% 71% 7% priority to cement operations) 2% ■ Total withdrawals Ready-mix 6% 11% 70% 11% • Identify sensitivities to water and gaps in data and ■ Total discharges measurement ■ Total consumption 2012 water consumption 3% Cement 9% 12% 62% 14% • Improve the quality of our KPIs 305 l/ton Cement 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 184 l/m3 Concrete • Create a Corporate Water Strategy for CEMEX, ■ Scarce ■ Low ■ Stress ■ No data to gradually reduce water consumption 139 l/ton Aggregates ■ Medium < previous | contents | next > 40 Clearly Defined KPIs for Waste Management 2012 Waste Disposal Transparent Communications Address Our processes generate waste that is classified and Tons Biodiversity Concerns ■ Hazardous disposed of according to our own standards and the The Society for the Protection of Nature in 483,338 Waste Disposal 122,618 requirements of local regulations. To help ensure that ■ Non-Hazardous Israel (SPNI), the country’s BirdLife Partner Waste Disposal waste-related KPIs are clearly understood throughout and an IUCN member, approached CEMEX the organization, in 2012 our Environmental Council about concerns regarding the potential for made revisions to more clearly define waste streams 20,000 non-native invasive plant species disrupting for cement-kiln dust and ready-mix waste. the delicate balance of the biodiversity around our Modiin quarry in Israel. CEMEX had a long 15,000 Kiln Waste Streams: history of managing the presence of invasive 14,930 • Volume reused as raw material in the kiln alien species at the site and invited SPNI to • Volume recovered (e.g., in production of cement) 10,000 tour the quarry. The open and transparent 3,640 1,854 10,662 • Volume recycled ( e.g., sold as agriculture soil amendcommunication led SPNI to commend our ment to improve soil fertility) significant efforts to eradicate the invasive • Volume to waste (e.g., landfill) Cement Ready-Mix Aggregates species at the site and to begin encouraging other Israeli companies to follow CEMEX’s Ready-Mix Waste Streams: Implementing Biodiversity Action Plans model in preserving biodiversity. • Volume reused in plant for manufacture of new concrete In 2011, CEMEX and BirdLife International created a • Volume recovered (e.g., separated into components standard for the development of biodiversity action with water and aggregates recycled) plans (BAPs) to ensure individual operations are able to • Volume recycled (e.g., secondary material to produce thoroughly and systematically produce their own BAPs a secondary recycled aggregate) tailored to the particular biodiversity values they pos• Volume to waste (e.g., landfill) sess, and challenges they face. In both cases, waste is then classified according to its In 2012, the BAP standard was piloted in a quarry within disposalmethod: Internal or external and as hazardous each of the six CEMEX regions: South America and the or nonhazardous as defined by local country regulations. Caribbean, Asia, Northern Europe, the Mediterranean, Mexico, and the US. This process followed the CEMEX– The volume of returned concrete material as a percentage BirdLife Scoping Study recommendations where practiof the total volume we delivered was 0.95 in 2012, comcable, meaning that the majority of CEMEX sites selected pared to 0.76 percent in 2011. Secondary and recycled were proximal to areas of high biodiversity value. aggregate used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates as a percentage of the total volume sold was 0.33 CEMEX funded a dedicated BirdLife International Program percent in 2012, compared to 0.27 percent in 2011. Manager to coordinate national BirdLife Partners and to help with implementation and evaluation. The pilot projects will allow CEMEX to apply the BAP methodology to a cross-spectrum of sites in real world situations to assess challenges associated with implementation, the value of the process and the time required for execution. < previous | contents | next > 41 Overview of 2012 progress with CEMEX regional BAP pilots BirdLife BirdLife Project BAP Process Region Country Partner Partner Input Plan Initiated South America Dominican and Caribbean Republic ✔ ✔ ▲ Little Grebe (Tachybaptus ruficollis) in the SotoPajares quarry (photo: Luis Martinez, SEO/BirdLife) Asia Malaysia ✔ ✔ ✔ Success through Collaboration – SotoPajares, Spain Northern United The Spanish BirdLife Partner (SEO/BirdLife), a loEurope Kingdom ✔ ✔ ✔ cal NGO (Grupo Naumanni) and CEMEX Spain are collaborating on a conservation project informed by the CEMEX—BirdLife Biodiversity Action Plan Mediterranean Spain ✔ ✔ ✔ Standard developed in 2011. In 2012, the project partners developed a biodiverMexico Mexico ✔ ✔ ✔ sity baseline for SotoPajares, a CEMEX quarry that delivers aggregates to the market in Madrid, Spain, identifying and prioritizing habitats and appropriate USA USA ✔ ✔ ✔ measures to protect or enhance priority species. ▲ Actions underway ✔ Target achieved SEO/BirdLife and Grupo Naumanni then teamed-up to review risks and opportunities and develop priority actions for implementation at the site in 2013. 2012 BAP Implementation Progress • Ninety-one percent active quarries with rehabilitation Actions range from measures to control invasive plan in place species, steps to increase inter-lake connectivity of • Ninety-four active quarries identified within or adan on-site reed bed, and educational activities for jacent to high biodiversity value areas, of which 41 the promotion of wildlife to local communities. percent have a BAP in place CEMEX national operations played a key role in Overall, CEMEX is on track to further advance the BAP the BAP process, coordinating both partners as KPIs during 2013 and we look forward to continuing well as reviewing and agreeing on actions and to work with BirdLife Partners in national relationships, next steps with them. CEMEX will continue to and initiating new partnerships, particularly in home support and encourage the project as it enters the countries of “high priority” CEMEX sites as identified Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) in the SotoPajares quarry (photo: next exciting stage of action implementation. by the 2010 CEMEX–BirdLife Scoping Study. Luis Martinez, SEO/BirdLife) < previous | contents | next > 42 Creating a Culture of Conservation El Carmen, a private trans-boundary conservation area Challenges Ahead owned and managed by CEMEX, serves as a living laboratory for better understanding environmental ser> Fully embed the Environmental vices and biodiversity. With a motto of “everything we Management System across all of learn can be shared,” the El Carmen staff are dedicated our operations by 2015. to helping train the next generation of conservation scientists, providing university students opportunities to study wildlife ecology and the environmental services > Continue to reduce and better that El Carmen provides, such as CO2 sequestration monitor our air emissions. and watershed recharge. For more information please visit our website. > Implement and comply with our new global water protocol throughout our operations. Conservation Book Celebrates 20 Years In 2012, CEMEX commemorated 20 years of The 2012 CEMEX Conservation Book, A Gift of > Implement Biodiversity Action publishing its Conservation Book series as part of Nature, is a synopsis of the last 20 years of the Plans in all of those active quarries its commitment to promoting a culture of biodivergroundbreaking series. This title gathers the most sity awareness and conservation. For two decades prestigious scientific authors and world-renowned that overlap with high value biodithe books have illustrated strategies and diverse photographers to create an engaging book that versity areas across our operations approaches to foster the protection of our natural encapsulates inspirational messages and advanced by 2015. world, complemented by powerful images from the conservation thinking that our innovative books world´s best nature photographers. Since 1993 have highlighted. we and our partners have distributed more than > Reduce waste produced by our op200,000 books to a great variety of stakeholdCEMEX is greatly honored to have collaborated erations and increase its recycling ers, including businessmen, NGOs, government with a number of highly-respected organizations in and reuse. representatives, academics and leaders around the the publication of this book, including Conservation world, who have also used them as valuable referInternational, International Union for Conservation ence for decision making. of Nature, The Wild Foundation, BirdLife International, among others. The book is available in electronic and printed versions. < previous | contents | next > 43 Managing Today for Tomorrow health & Leadership, collaboration and the sharing of good practices are the keys to building a culture that puts health and safety at the forefront. GLOBAL Health and Safety Management System implemented in all CEMEX operations < previous | contents | next > 44 In 2012, CEMEX continued to implement a new global Health and Safety Management System (HSMS) to bring alignment and structure to health and safety (H&S) activities while empowering leaders to choose solutions that work best locally. that any loss of life occurred in association with our operations and cannot be satisfied until there are no fatalities to report, we are encouraged that in 2012 we achieved a 59 percent reduction versus 2011. Of the 18 fatalities recorded in 2012 -1 employee, 11 con13% Our employee Lost-Time Injury tractors, and 6 third parties13 were related to driving. In total, there were 214 Employee LTIs in 2012 comrate (per million hours worked) decreased to 2.0, a 13 percent pared to 236 in 2011, an 9 percent decline. Contractor reduction vs. 2011. LTIs were reduced by 17 percent, with 103 recorded in 2012 versus 124 in 2011. Overall, the 2012 CEMEX Employee LTI Frequency Rate improved 13 percent compared to 2011. Twenty-one countries achieved a 21 zero Employee LTI Frequency Rate in 2012 and 18 To strengthen the collaboration and exchange of inforimproved on their 2011 rate. Countries achieved a zero mation globally, CEMEX embedded an initiative to proEmployee LTI Frequency Rate. mote and share the good practices relating to H&S that There was also an eight percent improvement in the our operations have implemented. To date, more than 2012 CEMEX Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 200 global good practice examples have been circulated. compared to 2011, with a rate of 6.0 compared to 6.5 the year before. However, the Sickness Absence Rate 75% Incidents: Lost-Time Injuries and Fatalities for CEMEX increased from 1.8 to 2.5 when compared Ensuring the safety, health, and well-being of our to 2011. Of countries implemented employees, contractors, and the third parties affected Visible Felt Leadership by, or interacting with, our operations is a core comtraining course. mitment for CEMEX and an ongoing challenge that we 8% work to address in the moment-to-moment decisions we make each day. improvement in the 2012 In 2012, we saw a decrease in Lost-Time Injuries CEMEX Total Recordable (LTIs) and fatalities. While we are extremely saddened Injury Frequency Rate compared to 2011. < previous | contents | next > 45 Leadership Drives Commitment tions on a daily basis following regular training-needs Bee Careful CEMEX finds that leadership driven initiatives are having assessments. Some training takes place through eThe value of global collaboration and good the greatest impact on our H&S performance with most learning, but many are in a more formal training room practice sharing is that inventive, easily implecountries seeing significant improvement in their KPIs. environment and we have an increasing number of mented health and safety procedures often “toolbox talk” programs taking place which are simple, surface what would otherwise be a novelty at LEGACY, our H&S leadership training course, has conshortened versions of training and are usually provided one specific location. tinued to be a success across our worldwide operations locally by managers. with courses being run on a regular basis for managers One example is the use of large stone “bees” at all levels. The seven leadership behaviors that are by a CEMEX aggregate quarry in Poland to promoted during the training are helping to continually PROMOTING A HEALTHY WORK improve traffic management – such as keeping develop our health and safety culture in a positive way ENVIRONMENT material delivery trucks segregated from 96% and we are seeing that reflected in our day-to-day H&S loading shovels until the point of loading. performance. The staff at the quarry painted oversized Of operations have a qualified stones in black and yellow stripes. The stones, health professional onsite or LEGACY Seven Key Leadership Behaviors which resemble gigantic bumblebees, are have access to an external • Personally manage safety every day highly visible to drivers. This inexpensive health provider • Know your processes and your people solution that improves traffic safety and site • Communicate with your employees appearance can be easily implemented at other • Hold yourself and your employees accountable Improving H&S Among Contractors quarries and the practice is being adopted in • Train and motivate your employees to work safely Contractors disproportionally represent the greatest other CEMEX countries of operation. • Apply discipline equitably and consistently number of fatalities related to CEMEX operations, • Lead by example and actively care mainly involving transportation services. We have also continued to run a Visible Felt LeaderCEMEX expects all contractors working across our ship (VFL) training course, which is designed to provide worldwide operations to perform to the same high H&S leaders with methods they can use to successfully standards we expect from our own employees. To help transmit their sincere commitment to health and embed this mindset into contractors, we are implesafety in a way that can influence behavior within our menting the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) Drivoperations. This training has been made available to all ing and Contractor Safety Initiative across all regions. CEMEX operations with almost 75 percent of countries In 2012, all regions completed gap analyses and action implementing the VFL program so far. plans for driving and contractor safety and management teams are continuing to work at closing gaps that Relevant Employee Training may currently exist. Our progress by region is being Training for our general workforce is mainly developed reported back to CSI as part of our ongoing commitand provided at a local level to ensure it is correctly ment to the initiative. tailored for the target audience and their work tasks. A wide range of courses are provided by our opera< previous | contents | next > 46 and safety. For example, in Mexico an employee is greeted by his/her family at work as a surprise when Challenges Ahead that person has achieved something special in H&S. Some of our operations are also recognized by external > Achieve zero fatalities by ensuring authorities and bodies. For example, our operations in all employees and contractors unPoland received a prestigious national award for their derstand, embrace and apply H&S approach to H&S leadership and our operations in the UK received industry awards for specific innovations in control measures across our entire the area of health and safety. worldwide operations. Safety Awards > Make further significant advanceCEMEX cannot think of a greater priority than ensuring Our countries continued with their health surveillance the safety and well-being of our employees, contracment in reducing all types of injury measures, which include periodic medical examinations. as we continue to strive towards tors, and communities we come in contact with in our These are carried out based on workplace hazards and managed locally. daily activities. For this reason we are glad to recognize the ultimate zero-target, by conthose operations that are excelling in health and safety, tinuing to develop a positive H&S Additionally, we have our Driving Essentials code of as well as those that are making the most significant conduct for drivers, which consists of 12 safe driving improvement. Our annual Global Awards program has culture through ongoing training behaviors to adopt and we are promoting those behavseen a record number of entries, with 138 submisand effective leadership. iors among drivers, holding them accountable for adsions; therefore, it was agreed that an additional Third herence to the requirements. We have also developed Place Award would be introduced to increase the > Hold all contractors accountable to common guidance for leadership to assist them when number of operations being recognized. Learning from engaging contract drivers and help raise awareness on their outstanding example and good practices, we look the same high H&S standards we the good practices required. forward to continually improving our safety perforexpect from our own employees. mance in the coming years. Recognizing Performance CEMEX recognizes and rewards positive H&S perforCountry Award Best Safety Performance Most Improved Performance mance. This might be for an improvement in statistics 1-500 Employees Austria Latvia or for an innovative practice that helped eliminate 500+ Employees Poland Spain a hazardous situation. Country Senior Management Country Award Best Safety Performance Most Improved Performance Teams hold celebratory events, for example when a Cement Ensenada, Mexico Assiut, Egypt local operation achieves 12 months without an inAggregates Western Arizona, USA Southern Region, Poland Concrete Ready-Mix Operations, UAE Ready-Mix Southern Region, UK jury, recognizing the important group achievement. In Road Transportation Logistics Aggregates Northern, UK New Line Transport, USA addition, some operations also recognize individuals Others Houston Pipe, USA Paving Solutions, UK who make a positive personal contribution to health < previous | contents | next > 47 Managing Today for Tomorrow TAKEHOLDER engagement Building infrastructure requires the collaboration of many parties to achieve success. We use a similar model of risk assessment, collaboration and best practice sharing as we interact with stakeholders to identify and address opportunities for, and challenges to, sustained 97% growth and responsible performance. Of sites have community engagement plans in place < previous | contents | next > 48 Engagement Redesigned Human Resources development In all our relationships, we strive to have respectful and honest interactions that allow us to contribute to the development of our communities; maintain a good reputaoffer to better align it to key performance tion with all of our stakeholders; and develop infrastructure projects and social initiameasures, while fostering employee engagement. tives that contribute to the growth and prosperity of our company and society. Employee Development The framework for our employee development efforts Leadership in focuses on three strategic priorities: Sustainability Launched online training tool to help • Building organizational capabilities • Establishing a “value mindset” among employees on how to contribute better to the company and create value top and middle management gain a solid • Continued dedication to compliance understanding of key sustainability issues. During 2012 we launched our engagement survey, 27,415 employees were invited to participate and we 89% Of CEMEX countries conduct reached a 75 percent participation rate. The survey results communicate what employees value most and lead to more informed actions to address local concerns regular customer satisfaction surveys. or needs. Central to empowering managers is sharing the results of our employee engagement survey with local business leaders and HR professionals. As a result +2,000 Suppliers surveyed on their of key findings we implemented 358 employee engagement initiatives that reached approximately 26,000 employees and operators not registered in the global tool, case managers provide career development and employees worldwide. performance reviews. sustainability practices. CEMEX also supported more than 250 employees Developing Leaders of Today and Tomorrow with various scholarship opportunities to further their Leadership development is essential to achieving our academic studies and we invested more than US$5.5 engagement and business goals. In 2012, we redefined New million to continue developing employee awareness about topics related to health and safety, human rights our Leadership Development and Training for Performance programs to foster a collaborative environment Collaboration and environmental awareness. where effective behaviors are identified and shared to help improve employee engagement, company perforAgreement With the Earth Engineering Center Nearly 10,000 of our executives and employees have access to a formal online system to register evaluamance, reduce attrition and create a seamless line of leadership succession. tions, and 96 percent report receiving feedback. For at Columbia University. < previous | contents | next > 49 One key program is and develop talent. First delivered in 2011, the proOur Global Workforce Leader-to-Leader, a gram is intended to reach 4,000 employees by 2015. mentoring program for Workforce by level (%) newly named directors Planning for succession is also critical to leadership where senior execudevelopment and consistent business operations. To Operational 60% tives serve as “faculty” help spot the leaders of the future, we identify key Non-Executive 35% Executive 5% and share their intalent based on a performance matrix. Special career sights about effective plans are designed for identified individuals to ensure leadership. We also retention and skill development. developed ACHIEVE, a managerial program Embedding Sustainability that helps ease the CEMEX has developed a user-friendly online learning Workforce by gender (%) transition from a mantool to help top and middle management gain a solid Male 89% Female 11% ager role to director so understanding of sustainability and key issues that new leaders have a shorter learning curve and more have an impact on executives’ decisions, the sector in productive relationships. Fifty-seven employees went which CEMEX operates and the implications for how through both programs in 2012 and 28 additional emwe manage and run our operations and provide value ployees participated in the Leader-to-Leader program to customers. Called Leadership in Sustainability Trainin 2012. The goal is to have 600 leaders complete the ing Program, the tool enables participants to: Workforce by type of contract (%) program within five years. Full time 99% Part time 1% A key focus in 2012 was to help CEMEX employees better understand and measure how they bring value to the company and how the company delivers value to its employees, customers and communities. • Acquire knowledge of relevant issues affecting the Workforce by seniority (%) Creating this “value mindset” helps improve the emoworld and the competitive environment in which Less than 1 year 21% tional connection employees have with CEMEX, making CEMEX operates 1-5 years 20% 5-10 years 21% for a more rewarding relationship and productive • Be able to discuss the theory and practice of sustainOver 10 years 38% environment while at the same time setting the tone ability with colleagues and key external stakeholders related to critical areas to focus our efforts. • Understand the sustainability attributes of our products and processes Acknowledging that an immediate supervisor impacts • Communicate how CEMEX initiatives address the engagement and employee retention the most, CEMEX social needs of communities Workforce by age (%) Under 30 16% is enabling managers to better support the develop31-40 31% ment of their teams and foster engagement of employIn 2012 the program received more than 38,000 visits 41-50 29% ees. A key program is our Manager Training Program and completed its roll out in four countries. 51 & over 24% that helps managers learn how to lead more effectively < previous | contents | next > 50 iHouse Project: Employee Input Drives Community Connecting with Customers Development Customer engagement is critical in our development In the Philippines, CEMEX leaders recognized that a of products and services as well as our drive to create shortage of quality housing was a threat to employee a low-carbon economy. We tailor our products and quality of life, their productivity and the company’s services to suit our customers’ specific needs, from ability to retain staff. With most employees travelhome and commercial construction, improvement, and ing approximately two hours each day just to reach renovation to infrastructure, agricultural, industrial and their workplace and a chronic shortage of affordable, other specialty applications. dependable housing in the Philippines, plant leaders engaged the CEMEX Research Group in Switzerland to We strive to create value for our customers by focusdevelop a customized housing solution based on input from the employees about their living preferences. ing on more vertically integrated building solutions rather than separate products and we constantly adapt Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct When Doing to our customers’ needs through innovative products The result was the Las Casas de Naga iHouse pilot and financing arrangements, ensuring that sustainable Business with Us was rolled out on a schedule defined by each of the different project. Serving as the community developer, CEMEX choices make sound business sense. CEMEX countries during 2012. is coordinating all aspects of planning, development and construction of 180 homes in a community that In addition to our many in-person touch-points with will feature playgrounds, urban agriculture, multicustomers, 89 percent of our countries conducted a purpose buildings and sports courts, sound roads, efcustomer satisfaction survey in 2012 to identify needs In 2012, we have promoted the third phase of our ficient water and waste management, a grocery store and concerns. Supplier Sustainability Program by issuing our Code of and transportation to and from the cement plant. Conduct When Doing Business with Us. Based on the We continue to focus on improving the satisfaction of result of a benchmark study analyzing industry best The customer-centric urban planning model will customers in our industry through the following: practices, the 10 UN Global Compact principles, and deliver a more livable urban environment for employthe procurement clauses contained in the Company´s ees while helping to lower the costs of housing by • Making construction easier for customers to plan for, Code of Conduct, the guidelines were rolled out to all approximately 12 percent and reducing the overall execute, and manage countries in 2012. Sustainability clauses consistent carbon footprint of the community. • Providing knowledge that gives customers and with the Code of Conduct When Doing Business with trades people the confidence to build Us are also being included in supplier contracts and CEMEX broke ground on the Las Casas de Naga com• Enabling an open and transparent platform for purchase orders. These clauses include requirements munity in 2012 and expects to turn the community matching skilled help with construction projects regarding confidentiality, anti-bribery, human rights, over to employees in late 2014. With affordable labor, health and safety, and environmental practices. housing shortages existing throughout the developing Promoting Supply Chain Excellence world, this pilot project will help guide future endeavBy listening to our supply chain partners, we gain valuAll procurement employees worldwide were invited to ors where CEMEX combines customer input with able local perspectives and unique industry expertise inform their own suppliers in their local languages to world class construction ingenuity to plan and design that helps us improve the sustainability of our sourcfacilitate a clear understanding of the Code. affordable housing that improves quality of life. ing and procurement practices. In turn we provide our suppliers with the feedback they need to improve the sustainability of their operations and to ensure consistency with our expectations. < previous | contents | next > 51 Supporting SMEs In early 2013, Global Procurement, CEMEX Germany In partnership with the Monterrey Institute and CEMEX France will be working with a third-party of Technology and Higher Education (ITESM) evaluator to conduct a pilot test with their suppliCEMEX Mexico has developed Empresarse, an ers to assess their environmental, social and ethical internet platform that transfers our Corporate performance via a customized questionnaire. We will Social Responsibility knowledge to small-to-mereview the results against our scorecard and provide dium-sized enterprises (SMEs) inside and outside feedback to the suppliers about how they can improve our supply chain. Empresarse makes available their performance. different resources and tools that allow Spanish speaking users to evaluate, assess, train and inUsing Procurement as a Catalyst for Improvement form themselves about sustainability issues. The CEMEX embraces local sourcing as a catalyst for site also offers documents, background informasustainable improvements in the economic wellbeing of tion and auto-diagnostics that allow them to communities and the life-cycle impacts of our products. improve their performance in different business By sourcing locally, we help create jobs and promote areas such as accounting and finance, marketing the development of new skills among local workers, and sales, quality, corporate governance, among stimulating economic activity and making the comothers. (www.empresarse.com) munity more attractive to other companies in need of skilled labor. We are also implementing the fourth phase of our Supplier Sustainability Program by introducing a supplier 95% of our purchases were scorecard, which is already in use in Colombia and made from national Spain. The scorecard guides sourcing decisions by takand local suppliers in 2012. ing into account sustainability considerations specific to each country. Specific content of the scorecards vary from counWhile some of our national suppliers are large comtry to country to be consistent with local needs and panies, our procurement teams participate regularly requirements, but generally they take into considerin events to identify new local suppliers, especially ation: Industrial safety, environmental protection, risk small-to-medium-sized enterprises with revenues of less coverage, employee recruitment principles, sustainable than US$50 million. We also provide training and depractices and promotion of the principles of the UN velopment programs to help suppliers strengthen their Global Compact. business practices and integrate sustainability into their business processes. < previous | contents | next > 52 Strengthening Partnerships We leverage our knowledge and resources and promote our sustainability priorities and vision through strategic relationships with global and local organizations, including NGOs, trade associations, educational institutions, and intergovernmental organizations such as the United Nations. These include: 2012 Partnerships Partner Objective Activities in 2012 BirdLife International To address biodiversity challenges in CEMEX’s sites worldwide. Implemented a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) Standard in collaboration with BirdLife International at six pilot sites throughout the world, completing two key project stages and creating work plans for the other four. We have also continued to work in our partnership at a national level in those countries where we have an established collaboration with the local BirdLife Partner (e.g., France and UK). Clinton Global Network and collaborate with other companies/industries on social programs that are aligned Actively collaborated and shared best practices related to Inclusive Business. Initiative to our objectives and operations, strengthen our own social programs and initiatives, create new opportunities and provide access to advisors about effective corporate social responsibility and programs. Conservation Publishing Partnership for the Conservation Book Program. Launched 20th Anniversary edition of the CEMEX Conservation Book: A Gift Of Nature. Twenty International and Earth Years of Conservation and Photography. in Focus MIT Concrete Analyze and improve sustainability of concrete. Main achievement was the development and publication of a new mathematical model that Sustainability Hub1 allows to quantify the fuel use and emissions of vehicles using concrete pavements compared to less rigid alternatives. United Nations Global Shape global business practices, particularly in the field of climate change and human rights, Our CEO and Chairman Lorenzo Zambrano recently renewed our commitment to UNGC and its Compact beyond the scope of our own organization and sector. principles. Active member of the Steering Committee of the Caring for Climate initiative and the Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainability. Cement Sustainability Exchange best practices and develop sustainability-related management and policy tools Creating guidance for a Biodiversity Management Plan; completed and shared draft with Initiative (CSI) – World among leading cement companies. stakeholder groups. Working on developing a protocol for water accounting and on defining Business Council for the relevant water KPIs. Guidance on good practices for water accounting. Sustainable DevelopPublished the Product Category Rules (PCR) for concrete in the International EPD System. ment (WBCSD) Urban Infrastructure Develop and employ new models of public-private partnership in order to make the world’s In addition to acting as co-chair of the initiative, CEMEX participated in the work with selected Initiative (UII) of the cities more sustainable. cities and took the lead in the collaboration in Latin America. WBCSD International Union for Identify CEMEX’s water-related material issues in order to define a corporate strategy, work to Standardized monitoring and reporting of water consumption and discharge, completing six Conservation of Nature close identified gaps, mitigate risks, and share water-related best practices. pilot programs in two countries for our three main businesses to evaluate methodology and (IUCN) cost of metering. Wildlife Habitat Give students an exciting opportunity to learn in a setting that is far from traditional, with In 2012, seven of CEMEX USA’s sites received recertification through the Wildlife Habitat Council hands-on environmental education for its employees, students from local schools, and members Council’s (WHC) Wildlife at Work Program, and one of our sites received its first certification of the community that demonstrates how industry and nature can successfully coexist to in WHC’s Corporate Lands for Learning program. Our East Aggregate Division currently has benefit people and wildlife. 6 classrooms in Florida that are certified through WHC’s distinguished Wildlife At Work and Corporate Lands for Learning Programs. Earth Engineering Will conduct a year-long study of the life cycle effects of alternative fuels in cement kilns. This Signed collaboration agreement. Center at Columbia study will result in a better understanding of the role that alternative fuels play in society and University and City the environment. College of New York 1 Through the Portland Cement Association and The Ready Mixed Concrete Research and Education Foundation Contributing to the Global Conversation As an active member of the UN Global Compact’s best practices and also learns from the practices of anti-corruption and traceability. We informed the Steering Committee of the Caring for Climate initiative others. For example, in November 2012 we particidiscussion by sharing how CEMEX analyzes business and the Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainabilpated in a meeting in Berlin, Germany where several practices in relation to human rights in the supply ity, CEMEX shares insights about common issues and initiatives were reviewed related to human rights, chain when contract workers are employed. < previous | contents | next > 53 Informing Public Policy social and environmental responsibility around infraCEMEX participates in regional and international policy structure projects. discussions in connection with its business activities with the objective of sharing the company’s experiCEMEX Mexico also produced documents for newly ences on the attributes of its products and solutions, elected political leaders with ideas for improving the and promoting sustainable construction practices and country through sustainable urban development, production processes. education and democratic processes. For further information on CEMEX Position Papers please visit our CEMEX promotes fair and well-designed environmenwebsite. tal regulations that address key stakeholders’ considerations, leveraging the best regulation and policy Promoting Transparency with Investors Challenges Ahead practices across all the countries in which we operate. We hold ourselves to high standards of integrity and We also provide independent research and experitransparency, engaging our investors and industry ana> Continue to improve employee enced guidance to inform the creation of public-private lysts through a variety of communications channels. partnerships for the development of efficient and costFor example, in November 2012, CEMEX USA hosted a engagement. effective infrastructure projects. half-day audio webcast presentation in which members of CEMEX USA’s management team discussed the US > Surpass our customers’ needs and In the European Union, CEMEX is active in discussions market, its commercial strategy and cost manageexpectations. about the best way to evolve The European Union ment practices. Our 2012 financial results, corporate Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and the Clean Destrategy and business outlook, as well as an update on velopment Mechanism (CDM) platforms for emissions our various regional operations, were shared during a > Help our suppliers learn how they trading to ensure these market-based programs allow CEMEX Day investor event held in New York February can improve their sustainability companies to meet the standards through projects that 14, 2013. Approximately 101 analysts, investors and practices. make economic sense. CEMEX is also providing membankers attended the event and more than 500 people bers of the European parliament with a vital industry followed it via webcast. For further information on our > Engage in constructive dialogue perspective on climate change and other environmental CEMEX Day please visit our website. issues through participation with GLOBE EU and the with our stakeholders to receive European parliament intergroup on climate change, and internalize their feedback. biodiversity and sustainable development. CEMEX is sharing information gathered from studies by the Cement Sustainability Initiative and MIT Concrete Sustainability HUB with governments in North America to guide decisions about infrastructure improvement. In the US and Mexico, in particular, CEMEX is working to increase the understanding of the long-term cost savings and environmental benefits of concrete to better inform discussions about fiscal, < previous | contents | next > 54 Materiality analysis highlights embedding a culture of sustainability in • Distributed more than 11,000 surveys to stakeholders across all our business six CEMEX Regions • Translated survey into seven languages • Received positive feedback from specialized external analysts regarding structure, content and depth of the survey Aligning our strategy through materiality assessment CEMEX faces a range of challenges related Identification Prioritization Validation to our business and its impacts on society. To ensure we focus our attention on the Identification of the material topics takAnalyze the degree of concern that each Compared to our past assessments, four most important issues, we regularly conduct ing into account internal and external of these items have for our stakeholders new issues have been designated as a materiality analysis. This analysis helps to factors such as key opportunity areas and evaluate them accordingly to their highly material in 2012: Human Rights, reduce any gaps between business strategy identified by analysts, challenges for importance to our business in terms Economic Value Creation, Customer Enand sustainability by demonstrating the our sector, main risks for CEMEX and of risk and opportunities for our Top gagement and Satisfaction; and Lifestyle significance of environmental, social and key organizational values, policies and Managers. We partnered with a leadin Cities. We are analyzing these results governance (ESG) issues. It is a rigorous targets. The final list included 20 issues ing global research firm to distribute further, evaluating how they may impact and replicable process which enables us to which were framed within the three more than 11,000 surveys to a variety our priorities and strategy and their poprioritize issues, risks, and opportunities usobjectives of our Sustainability Model. of stakeholder groups in more than 26 tential for inclusion in our Sustainability ing stakeholder inputs and company insights countries where CEMEX operates. Model. A comprehensive analysis will be Our materiality assessment is conducted provided in our 2013 Sustainable Deaccording to the methodology developed velopment Report and on our webpage by the Global Reporting Initiative and when this evaluation is completed. consists of three primary stages: Stakeholders’ Representation (%) Materiality Matrix 1500 completed interviews + 1. Economic value creation Lower Medium Highest 3 2. Customer engagement & satisfaction materiality materiality materiality 3. Health and safety for our employees, contractors 1 & clients 4. Climate change & CO2 emissions management 5. Renewable & alternative energy sourcing 6. Corporate governance & transparency Stakeholder concern 2 7. Employees relations & engagement 8. Products, services and solutions to improve lifestyle in cities 4 9. Air quality management (SOx, NOx and other CEMEX Top Managers 6% emissions) Employees 13% 14 11 8 6 10. Human rights & ethics in business Clients 19% 17 15 9 5 11. Products, services and solutions for high energy Suppliers 43% 12 7 efficiency Analyst/Investor/Shareholder 1% 16 12. Community engagement and development Community/ 18 10 13. Risk management 19 13 Communication leader 6% 20 14. Quarry rehabilitation, biodiversity preservation Government/Administration 3% and ecosystems management 15. Responsible and sustainable management of the NGO/Association/ supply chain Foundation/Universities 9% — 16. Products, services and solutions for low income families Results weighted according to 4 main stakeholders categories (25% each one): clients, — Impact on CEMEX + 17. Water use and recycling suppliers, employees and community & others 18. Waste generation, disposal and recycling 19. Transport and logistic optimization 20. Environmental incidents management < previous | contents | next > 55 Embedding Ethical and Responsible Behaviors Accountability Hotline The CEMEX Code of Ethics addresses: Through the CEMEX Code of Ethics and Business ConETHOSline is our safe and confidential tool where our duct (“Code of Ethics”), we seek to ensure that all ememployees may ask questions and report potential vioRelations with Stakeholders ployees understand and share CEMEX’s high standards lations related to ethics, governance and compliance. • Employee and Human Rights of conduct. In 2012, almost 15,000 employee trainETHOSline can be accessed either online (intranet), or • Fair Dealing with Customers and ings were delivered in proper ethical behaviors relevant by telephone. The service is managed by a third party Suppliers to their position within the company and we launched that gathers information from any reported incident, • Government Relations approximately 250 campaigns throughout the comdocuments concerns, and relays the information to • Community Relations pany to foster expected behaviors. In addition, new CEMEX. For more about our ethics and compliance poliemployees are required to sign the Code of Ethics as cies, please visit our Ethics and Compliance page. Operations and Activities part of their orientation, and have access to it around • Antitrust Compliance the clock through our website and intranet. Ongoing Training • Anti-Bribery To help ensure that even inadvertent violations do not • Conflicts of Interest Clearly Stated, Accessible Company Policies occur, we provide regular training on human rights • Gifts, Services and Other Courtesies In addition to our Code of Ethics, we further communiissues and our policies. In 2012, we delivered 4,344 • Environmental Responsibility cate our expectations and set global standards through trainings about CEMEX’s Code of Ethics and Business • Political Contributions and Activities the following company-wide policies, which can be Conduct and more than 5,000 related to anti-trust and found on the CEMEX website: global competition, bribery and corruption; among other Safety & Security topics. Additionally, we conducted a significant number • Workplace Safety and Health • Health and Safety of internal audits with our executives in Mexico, Eu• Handling Confidential Information • Environment rope, Asia, South America and the Caribbean region on • Financial Controls and Records • Biodiversity antitrust and anti-bribery issues. This is a Global Annual • Preservation of Assets • Anti-bribery Compliance Program that will continue to be imple• Antitrust mented in future years, covering all relevant geographic • Insider Trading Policy regions where CEMEX operates. We also launched communication efforts focusing on: Antitrust, anti-bribery, customer relations, insider trading, workplace environment, giving/receiving gifts and information security. Topics Instructor Led Online training Total CEMEX’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 4,193 151 4,344 Antitrust & Global Competition 852 3,338 4,190 Preservation of Assets 2,937 0 2,937 International Bribery and Corruption 528 549 1,077 Workplace Harassment 1 1,044 10 1,054 Confidential Information 484 114 598 Conflict of Interests 461 26 487 Others 2 155 9 164 Total 10,654 4,197 14,851 1 The course covers harassment based on gender, race, ethnicity, age, disability, and other characteristics. 2 SOX (9) Leading by Example (155). < previous |I contents contents |I next next >> 56 CEMEX Israel Respects Oslo I Accord After being mentioned by U.N. Special Rapporteur RichParticularly, CEMEX Israel strictly applies and respects ture projects in the same area. In addition, CEMEX ard Falk in his “Report of the Special Rapporteur on the all relevant international and local laws, regulations and Mishor Adumim plant supplied materials in the city of situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories other legal provisions as well as the contents of the Jericho to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency since 1967,” CEMEX issued the following detailed existing agreements between Israel and the Palestinian (UNRWA) for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East. explanation, addressed to Mr. Falk regarding CEMEX’s Liberation Organization (PLO) regarding the Occupied operations in the Occupied Territories: Territory, namely the treaty signed in Oslo in 1993. Through Lime & Stone CO, CEMEX participates in a partnership with Kfar Giladi Quarries which exclusively “CEMEX is a global building solutions company extremely CEMEX Israel ready-mix operations located in Occupied operates the Yatir quarry. The CEMEX subsidiary is not concerned with sustainability, environmental protection Territories (Mishor Adumim, Mevoh Horon and Atarot) involved in the operation or management of the quarry and respect for human rights. Since 2004, CEMEX has operate in accordance with the relevant permits and where production, operations, logistics, sales, etc. are been a signatory member of the “UN Global Compact licenses and much of their concrete production is delivmanaged exclusively by the local partner. The quarry Group, and as such the company embraces, supports and ered to the city of Jerusalem and is used for residential operates under the permits issued by the Civil Adminiscomplies with the 10 principles and values of this group. and infrastructure projects meeting the demands of all tration in Judea and Samaria and royalties on the quarlocal communities – Jews, Christians, Muslims, Palestinrying activities are paid to these authorities. Much of CEMEX strictly applies a policy of awareness of, and ians and Israelis. the quarry’s production is sold to Palestinian building compliance with, international and local laws includcontractors and to customers living in the Judea and ing those on human rights as well as all regulations, Projects recently supplied with ready-mix concrete Samaria area.” standards, and other legal provisions in every country include two schools for the Arab residents of East in which operates. Jerusalem as well as residential and water infrastrucHuman Rights Our commitment goes beyond local employment We are committed to supporting and respecting the laws and our direct activities. We prohibit all forms protection of internationally proclaimed human rights of discrimination and we respect the economic, social as outlined in the International Bill of Human Rights and cultural right to human dignity and free developand the ILO Core Conventions on Fundamental Human ment of each individual’s personality. For example, in Rights, proactively ensuring we are not complicit in countries like Israel, Egypt, UAE and Malaysia where any human rights abuses. Our CEO and Chairman has workers from different religions and sectors of the reinforced this ongoing obligation by recently renewing population are employed, CEMEX respects their right our commitment as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We are also members of the Soria 21 Forum for Sustainable Development (Foro de Soria 21 to embrace and practice their uniqueness by allowing the observance of their religious holidays, dress code and language. 5,398 hours In 2012, a total of 5,398 one hour-long para el Desarrollo Sostenible), an international organitraining sessions were conducted with zation focused on social ethics and values; and we emMoreover, to ensure that human rights are respected employees regarding policies and procedures related to human rights, harassbrace the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Guiding by suppliers and contractors, we are including explicit ment and Code of Ethics. Principles on Business and Human Rights, also referred references to the Code of Ethics and our human rights to as the Ruggie Framework. commitments in vendor and supplier agreements. We are also enhancing the systems we use to screen suppliers’ social and environmental performance. < previous |I contents contents |I next next >> 57 Our compensation packages are based on the responAnti-Corruption sibility level of the position and not related to race, CEMEX abides by principles of fair trade gender, religion, age or any other protected traits. They and competition, and we do not tolerate are based on the responsibility level of the position, price-fixing, market allocation, predatory and designed to consider: pricing, or other illegal market practices. We also have zero tolerance for bribery in • The representation of the labor markets in which a any form. given CEMEX Business Unit competes for talent • Data from independent, professional, third party In 2012, there were no reported incidents surveys of corruption or bribery to government • Market base-pay and total cash compensation of officials. More than 1,000 hours of training comparable companies were provided for employees to understand and identify behavior that does not comply Comparative Wage Rate CEMEX entry level wage vs local minimum wage with our principles. ETHOSline is offered as Labor 2.0 a safe and confidential tool for employees Freedom to Associate to ask questions and report potential viola1.89 1.83 CEMEX / Local Wage Ratio We promote the right to freedom of association in all tions related to market practices (the option 1.5 our operations and have around 20,000 employees (46 1.54 to remain anonymous is available, except in 1.47 1.45 1.42 percent of all employees) represented by a union or France due to local legal requirements). 1.2 1.17 1.13 1.0 1.04 covered under a collective bargaining agreement. We 1.00 1.00 1.05 also engage employees through a variety of forums for them to share opinions and help improve our opera0.5 Colombia Philippines Germany Panama tions. These include: Collective bargaining, quarterly meetings with the board of directors, departmental Mexico Israel Croatia Egypt Spain France Latvia Poland USA meetings, surveys, ETHOSline, open dialogues and Country town hall meetings. For example, in CEMEX Philippines Child Labor the active involvement in employee councils and repreWe do not tolerate the use of child labor by anyone sentation are encouraged. This is manifested through associated with our business and we are strongly comtransparency in the communication of meetings as well mitted to protecting the rules regarding child labor in as projects initiated by the councils. every country where we operate. We require government-issued identification of contract workers in deEqual Opportunity and Just Compensation veloping economies. For example, in Egypt applicants We have a Job Opportunity Policy in place to ensure must submit a university degree or a governmentthat all employees are made aware of and have the issued ID, depending on job grade, which are registered opportunity to apply for open positions to support their and subject to review and validation by human resourcprofessional growth. Hiring decisions are made regardes. This is in addition to strict incumbent local policies less of race, color, age, religion, mental or physical disand Egyptian laws that prevent child labor. We extend ability, sex or national origin of any employee. this verification requirement to our suppliers in Mexico, Dominican Republic and other countries as well. < previous | contents | next > 58 Forced Labor & Safe Work Environment Risks are evaluated according to three factors: ProbWe do not require anyone to perform tasks against their ability of occurrence, velocity (length of occurrence) will or that are detrimental to their health or wellbeing. and impact to EBITDA. We provide industry-leading safety programs, including driving safety and safety training for contractors and The company’s sustainability-related risks are admanagers, to minimize workplace hazards and to raise dressed by our Enterprise Risk Management System, awareness of safe and healthy living practices among our which is ultimately supervised by our Board of Dipeople and contractors, inside and outside the workplace. rectors and the management team. The day-to-day Work-Life Balance responsibility for risk management at CEMEX has We also ensure employees do not fall into debt bondage Our operations are regulated by policies that been delegated to the Executive Vice President of through company loans. All employees are free to leave provide guidance to employees regarding overFinance and Administration, whose function in turn, the company at anytime and we never use benefits time. Our system process allows each country has been left in charge of the departments that have as leverage to force labor. For example, in Brazil loans to monitor and control over-time work, plus we the relevant skills and expertise such as the Process cannot exceed 30 percent of salary and in Colombia we comply with local laws regarding over-time. A Assessment Department, the Global Risk Department, offer loans only through the employee fund, analyzing good example is France where we have implethe Global Legal Department, and the Internal Control the worker’s borrowing capacity and guaranteeing a mented a timesheet that collects the number Department, among others. Also, the Global Ethics minimum wage. Also, in Israel the company pays comof working hours per day. In case of over-time Committee and the ETHOS committee reported regular pensation for dismissal even in cases where the employa notice is sent to the manager, assuring each meetings to review trends and plan actions to mitigate ee leaves the company by his own free will, even though employee is treated fairly regarding over-time identified potential risks. The ETHOS committee supthe company is not legally required to do so. work. Any issues are quickly resolved between ports the operative functions of the Global Ethics Comemployee and supervisor. mittee and includes representatives from Legal, Process Risk Management Assessment, Internal Control, Human Resources and We use sophisticated systems and tools to gather inWe also actively promote initiatives such as Corporate Security Departments. formation from a range of sources, analyze data, idenflexible work-schedule, sport fests, and outdoor tify and assess potential risks, and to develop plans for activities. In 2012 we implemented 127 workTo standardize efforts and share best practices for mitigation at each facility. life balance initiatives in 27 countries, reaching emergency response, CEMEX has created a Business about 14,000 employees. Resilience and Crisis Management Program (BR&CM) to We have several processes that test the robustness of prepare operations to rapidly respond in case a continour systems, evaluate compliance across all business gency or crisis occurs by: units, and encourage continuous improvements. These a risk agenda. Regional risk agendas are constructed processes include compliance training for employees, from the consolidation of relevant countries’ informa• Protecting the safety of employees and members of periodic reviews of our policies and procedures, and tion and the global agenda is determined by the conthe community regular internal audits. solidated regional agendas. • Preserving CEMEX’s image and reputation • Safeguarding our assets The risk management department is structured into Risks are constantly identified and investigated and a • Protecting the environment national, regional and global levels. Each country is reweekly report is issued and circulated to key people • Ensuring operational continuity sponsible for identifying all potential risks and creating throughout the organizations regarding identified risks. • Complying with laws and regulations < previous | contents | next > 59 The BR&CM requires business units to create and train Governance sustainability priorities performance, which is critical to Rapid Response Teams (RRT), integrate a communicaLed by our Chairman and CEO, Lorenzo H. Zambrano, the our ability to execute our business strategy. tion and response system, develop specific response CEMEX Board of Directors is responsible for supervising protocols and perform risk assessments and business the overall direction and operation of the company. Sustainability Committee impact analyses. The Sustainability Committee is comprised of 12 memOur financial culture and management style are open bers: nine members of our management team that report CEMEX Mexico began implementation in late 2011, and transparent. Through regular meetings, reports, to the chairman and CEO, the Senior Vice President of Encreating an active and trained network of 21 RRT guidance, conference calls, and personal interactions, ergy and Sustainability, the Senior Vice President of Global consisting of 225 members. Nineteen workshops for we vigorously work to keep our investors fully and fairTechnology, and the Corporate Director of Sustainability. contingency management and natural disaster rely informed of our activities and to ensure our financial This committee meets quarterly to assess and guide sponse were provided in 2012. As a result, contingendisclosures meet the highest ethical standards. CEMEX in its sustainability efforts. Through their work, cies declared and managed increased 70 percent in the sustainability priorities are defined and resources allocated first year of the program and those controlled within As of December 31, 2012 the board was comprised of 11 to initiatives that have the highest impact and provide the the first four hours increased to 75 percent. directors, eight of whom qualify as independent directors, most significant improvement opportunities. according to criteria specified under Mexican Securities Panama, Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador began Law (Ley del Mercado de Valores). On March 21st, 2013 Decisions made by the Sustainability Committee and BR&CM implementation in mid-2012 and Puerto Rico, CEMEX’s General Shareholder’s Meeting appointed 10 validated by the CEO, the management team and the Costa Rica, Dominican Republic and Colombia will begin directors to the board, seven of whom qualify as indeBoard of Directors are swiftly executed by the Senior implementation in 2013. The rest of the countries where pendent directors according to criteria specified under VP of Energy and Sustainability in coordination with CEMEX operates have already created their first RRT. Mexican Securities Law. The board is responsible for dethe different regional/country presidents and leaders of termining and overseeing our efforts to advance our seven other relevant corporate functions. Board of Audit Committee Directors Corporate Practices Committee CEO Finance Committee Define sustainability guidelines 1. Six regions: South, Central America and and priorities the Caribbean; Mediterranean, Asia, EVP Strategic PlanSuggests and defines global Six Regionals EVP Organization ning and Business EVP Finance and Mexico, Northern Europe and USA. Presidents1 and HR Administration sustainability initiatives through Development 2. Reports to President of CEMEX Sustainability Committee Northern Europe. Executes global sustainability 3. Reports to President of CEMEX Mexico. initiatives Senior VP Energy Senior VP 4. Reports to corresponding Regional Technology and — Management Team and Sustainability2 President. Safety3 — Sustainability Committee Corporate Director Six Regional Sustainability Sustainability Coordinators4 Corporate Country Sustainability Sustainability Team Teams < previous | contents | next > 60 our performance in detail Lead in Sustainable Construction 2010 2011 2012 Fuel Mix (%) 2010 2011 2012* Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 60 87 100 Total alternative fuels 20.3 24.7 27.1 Cement 100 100 100 Coal 25.3 26.9 22.3 Aggregates 50 83 100 Petroleum coke 45.0 38.5 37.2 Ready-Mix 41 83 100 Fuel oil 8.8 9.4 8.9 Sites covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 29 88 100 Natural gas 0.6 0.5 4.5 Cement 100 100 100 * Historic data shall remain unchanged because the previous protocol was closely aligned with the simple methods for reporting of the calcination CO2 emissions. Aggregates 42 84 100 Ready-Mix 22 89 100 Alternative Fuels Rate (%) 2010 2011 2012* CO2 Footprint Annual Average Alternative fossil fuels rate 15.7 20.1 20.7 Cement (kg CO2e per ton cement) 798 798 770 Biomass fuels rate 4.6 4.6 6.4 Aggregates (kg CO2e per ton aggregates products) 5.3 4.9 5.0 * Historic data shall remain unchanged due to that the previous protocol was closely aligned with the simple Ready-Mix (kg CO2e per m ) 3 298 275 277 methods for reporting of the calcination CO2 emissions. Waste Types Used as Alternative Fuels (%) 2010 2011 2012* Affordable Housing and Infrastructure 2010 2011 2012 Industrial and household waste 60.8 65.3 66.2 Number of houses built under CEMEX Affordable 1,572 3,259 2,942 Tires 16.5 16.2 14.2 Housing Program Animal meal 4.2 3.6 3.1 Square meters of concrete paving completed 7,907,968 8,045,350 8,338,258 Agricultural organic waste 13.9 10.0 9.7 Other biomass 4.7 4.9 6.7 Carbon Strategy 2010 2011 2012* * Historic data shall remain unchanged due to that the previous protocol was closely aligned with the simple Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 43.5 43.1 42.6 methods for reporting of the calcination CO2 emissions. Absolute net CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 41.0 40.0 39.4 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of 667 660 661 Other Carbon Strategy Indicators 2010 2011 2012* cementitious product) Alternative raw material rate 11.8 12.0 12.5 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of 629 612 612 Clinker/Cement factor (%) 75.9 75.1 76.5 cementitious product) Indirect energy consumption (GWh) 7,108 7,164 7,460 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious 20.5 22.7 22.7 product from 1990 baseline (%) Specific energy consumption, cement (kWh/ton cement) 118 118 117 Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production 3,696 3,757 3,876 Specific energy consumption, ready-mix concrete 3.3 3.3 3.1 (MJ/ton clinker) (kWh/cubic meter) * Historic data shall remain unchanged because the previous protocol was closely aligned with the simple Specific energy consumption, aggregates (kWh/ton) 6.0 6.9 6.2 methods for reporting of the calcination CO2 emissions. Direct energy consumption (TJ) 195,043 191,323 195,505 * Historic data shall remain unchanged due to that the previous protocol was closely aligned with the simple methods for reporting of the calcination CO2 emissions. < previous | contents | next > 61 Our performance in detail Air Quality 2010 2011 2012 Water Management 2010 2011 2012 Clinker produced with continous monitoring of 74 80 80 Total water discharge by destination 29.1 major emissions (Dust, NOx and SOx) (%) (Million cubic meters) Clinker produced with monitoring of major and 69 82 81 Surface Water 21.3 minor emissions (Dust, NOx, SOx, Hg, Cd, TI, VOC, Ground Water 6.7 PCDD/F) (%) Municipal Water 0.7 Absolute dust emissions (tons/year) 4,421 4,978 3,759 Sea Water 0.1 Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 89 101 78 Other 0.3 Absolute NOx emissions (tons/year) 56,239 54,182 49,396 Cement 7.9 Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,134 1,094 1,025 Surface Water 6.2 Absolute SOx emissions (tons/year) 16,556 16,601 12,385 Ground Water 1.2 Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 334 335 257 Municipal Water 0.2 Sea Water 0.1 Other 0.2 Water Management 2010 2011 2012 Ready-Mix 0.6 Total water withdrawals by source 76.0 Surface Water 0.0 (Million cubic meters) Ground Water 0.0 Surface Water 26.6 Municipal Water 0.5 Ground Water 39.3 Sea Water 0.0 Municipal Water 8.5 Other 0.1 Rain Water 1.0 Aggregates 20.6 Sea Water 0.0 Surface Water 15.1 Other 0.7 Ground Water 5.5 Cement 26.4 Municipal Water 0.0 Surface Water 10.8 Sea Water 0.0 Ground Water 14.0 Other 0.0 Municipal Water 0.8 Total water consumption (Million cubic meters) 46.9 Rain Water 0.2 Cement 18.5 Sea Water 0.0 Ready-Mix 9.9 Other 0.6 Aggregates 18.5 Ready-Mix 10.5 Total water consumption per unit of product* Surface Water 0.7 Cement (l/ton) 277 257 305 Ground Water 2.8 Ready-Mix (l/cubic meters) 202 213 184 Municipal Water 6.8 Aggregates (l/ton) 199 182 139 Rain Water 0.0 Operations with water recycling systems (%) 75 79 88 Sea Water 0.0 Cement 75 77 78 Other 0.1 Ready-Mix 86 89 89 Aggregates 39.1 Aggregates** 65 71 86 Surface Water 15.1 *Under the framework of the CEMEX´s Water Project, in 2012 we developed our own methodology to Ground Water 22.4 standardize the reporting of our water KPIs. In addition, our water definitions have been updated according Municipal Water 0.9 to the discussion that we are having within CSI, and that is trying to set common definitions for water KPIs in our industry. Rain Water 0.7 ** Considering sites where aggregates are washed as part of the production process. Sea Water 0.0 Other 0.0 < previous | contents | next > 62 Our performance in detail Waste Management 2010 2011 2012* Environmental Management 2010 2011 2012 Hazardous waste disposal (tons) 50,868 39,904 27,446 Operations with an Environmental Management 76 86 89 Cement 14,164 15,492 14,930 System implemented (%) Ready-Mix 1,272 1,784 1,854 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications (#) 367 448 586 Aggregates 35,433 22,628 10,662 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications (%) 18 23 30 Non-Hazardous waste disposal (tons) 385,977 414,600 609,596 Sustainability Investment (US Million) 93 95 139 Cement 66,139 96,372 122,618 Major environmental incidents (#) 2 0 1 Ready-Mix 313,515 315,476 483,338 Environmental non-compliance cases (#) 65 129 131 Aggregates 6,322 2,752 3,640 Associated fines (US million) 1.4 1.5 2.3* Volume of returned ready-mix concrete material * Puerto Rico will pay a US 2.1 million dollar fine to an Environmental Protection Agency due to violation Multi Sector General Permit in 2012. from total delivered % 0.73 0.76 0.95 Health and Safety 2010 2011 2012 Cubic meters 279,909 284,910 516,846 Total fatalities 46 44 18 Secondary and recycled aggregates used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates (tons) Employees, total 2 5 1 % 0.25 0.27 0.33 Cement 2 2 0 Tons 284,356 312,276 245,541 Ready-Mix 0 3 1 * The results for 2012 have increased due to an increase scope. Aggregates 0 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 0 Biodiversity Management 2010 2011 2012 Contractors, total 15 24 11 Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 85 89 91 Cement 7 10 10 Cement 82 87 89 Ready-Mix 7 4 1 Aggregates 86 90 92 Aggregates 1 8 0 Number of active quarries within or adjacent to 105 103 94 Other businesses 0 2 0 high biodiversity value areas Third-parties, total 29 15 6 Cement 12 14 11 Cement 7 7 5 Aggregates 93 89 83 Ready-Mix 7 7 1 Active sites with high biodiversity value where 38 38 41 Aggregates 0 1 0 biodiversity action plans are actively implemented Other businesses 15 0 0 (%) Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employed) 0.43 1.21 0.22 Cement* 58 43 45 Cement 1.71 1.75 0 Aggregates* 35 37 41 Ready-Mix 0 1.95 0.64 * We have updated our 2011 figures according to the definitions currently agreed by the Cement Aggregates 0 0 0 Sustainability Initiative. This modification does not affect the total number of sites. Other businesses 0 0 0 < previous | contents | next > 63 Our performance in detail Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Governance 2010 2011 2012 Employees, total 268 236* 214 Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ethics 184 221 325* Cement 52 44 48 received by local ethics committees (#) Ready-Mix 125 121 130 Reports related to employee relations 31 29 53 Aggregates 18 22 16 Reports related to a form of harassment 46 40 53 Other businesses 73 49 20 Reports related to discrimination 11 9 7 Contractors, total 123 124 103 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of reports 77 119 140 of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics, other Cement 32 50 56 policies or the law (#) Ready-Mix 27 38 24 Countries with local mechanisms to promote 90 100 100 Aggregates 12 8 4 employee awareness of procedures to identify and Other businesses 52 28 19 report incidences of internal fraud, kick-backs, Lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate, 2.6 2.3 2 among others (%) employees (per million hours worked) Investigated incidents reported and found to be true 0 0 0 Cement 2.1 1.7 1.6 related to internal fraud, kick-backs among others corruption incidents to government officials (#) Ready-Mix 3.3 2.9 3.4 * The results for 2012 have increased due to an increased scope. Aggregates 1.7 2 1.6 Other businesses 2.4 1.9 0.7 Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended 64 79 85 Practices (%) Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety 63 82 90 Recommended Practices (%) Operations with a Health and Safety Management 98 99 100 System implemented (%) Cement 98 99 99 Ready-Mix 99 100 100 Aggregates 97 99 99 Operations certified with OSHAS 18001:2007 9 8 9 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System)(%) Cement 32 34 35 Ready-Mix 7 5 7 Aggregates 16 15 12 Sickness Absence Rate (%) 2.5 1.8 2.5 Operations with a qualified health professional 96 96 96 onsite or with access to an external health provider * Following detailed review exercise, the number of LTI’s in 2011 has been adjusted, this did not impact the overall CEMEX LTI Frequency Rate. < previous | contents | next > 64 Our performance in detail Partnership with Key Stakeholders 2010 2011 2012 Partnership with Key Stakeholders 2010 2011 2012 Workforce 46,533 44,104 43,905 Sites conducting social impact assessments (%) 67 68 68 Mexico 11,409 10,333 9,697 Cement 75 75 75 United States 8,860 8,322 9,791 Ready-Mix 61 67 67 Northern Europe 15,054 11,679 11,162 Aggregates 67 70 70 Africa, Middle-East, Asia 3,646 N/A N/A Sites with community engagement plans (%) 97 97 97 Mediterranean N/A 4,404 3,946 Cement 96 96 96 Asia N/A 1,319 1,199 Aggregates 97 97 97 South/Central America and Caribbean 4,317 4,501 4,977 Operation with employee volunteering programs (%) 41 43 54 Others (including Corporate and Neoris) 3,247 3,546 3,133 Countries that conduct regular customer 84 86 89 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract (%) satisfaction surveys (%) Full time 99 99 99 Purchases sourced from locally-based suppliers (%) 93 94 95 Part time 1 1 1 Countries with a process to screen suppliers in 84 86 89 relation to social and environmental aspects (%) Breakdown of workforce by level (%) * Voluntary turnover. Executive positions 5 5 5 Non-executive positions 36 37 35 Strengthen Local Communities 2010 2011 2012 Operational positions 59 58 60 Number of families participating in Patrimonio Hoy 308,311 353,856 396,845 Breakdown of workforce by age (%) in Latin America Initiative (# accumulated) Under 30 19 17 16 Number of individuals benefited from Patrimonio 1,921,731 31-40 32 31 31 Hoy (# accumulated) 41-50 27 29 29 Total square meters built in Patrimonio Hoy 1,984,500 2,593,094 3,040,490 51 and Over 22 23 24 Initiative (# accumulated) Breakdown of workforce by gender (%) Total number of families participating in Inclusive 8,475 44,013 56,693 Male 87 89 89 Businesses (Construapoyo y PCS) * Female 13 11 11 Total number of families participating within all 453,538 social initiatives * Female employees by level (%) Total number of individuals benefited from all social 2,188,289 Executive positions 13 13 13 initiatives * Non-executive positions 24 23 25 * Accumulated years from all our social initiatives: Patrimonio Hoy since 1998, Construapoyo since 2005 and, Operational positions 6 4 2 PCS since 2006. Male to female wage ratio 1.02 1.04 1.04 Engagement level 83 N/A 88 Participation rate in engagement survey (%) 64 N/A 75 Empoyee turnover rate (%)* 6.0 5.0 6.6 Employees represented by an independent union or 54 54 46 covered by a collective bargaining agreement (%) Notice to employees regarding operational changes 30 40 40 (average days) Countries with practices to promote local hiring (%) 76 76 76 Training provided by operations (average hours) Executive positions 20 20 42 Non-executive and operational positions 22 15 20 Online courses through CEMEX Learning (#) 1,036 1,121 1,260 Employees with access to CEMEX Learning (#) 19,002 18,767 18,317 < previous | contents | next > 65 awards & recognitions Afnor Certification to the reduction of CO2 in concrete production and its The Council for a Beautiful Israel “Stars of Beauty” CEMEX in France was the first company in its sector commitment to high product quality. Awards of activity to obtain the “Maturity” level by the Afnor CEMEX in Israel’s Modiim aggregates quarry was Certification Organization. The certificate recognizes Latvian Sustainability Index 2012 awarded the maximum five “stars of beauty” and the the social responsibility of companies in relation to the CEMEX in Latvia won a silver award in the SustainabilGolani quarry received four stars by the Council for a ISO 26000 standard. ity Index 2012 and received the “Power of the Region” Beautiful Israel. The award recognizes companies that prize for environmental agency in the sustainable encourage quality of life, ecological preservation and CDP Outstanding Carbon Disclosure in Latin America development of society and the region. sustainability within the Israeli industrial sector. CEMEX ranked number one in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) report on 32 major companies throughMundo Ejecutivo Social Responsibility Award Wildlife Habitat Council Certification out Latin America in terms of climate change data CEMEX was awarded for its high social responsibilFive of CEMEX’s sites in the USA have earned certification disclosure and was one of the top ten in overall carbon ity score in Mexico’s Universidad Anahuac del Norte with the Wildlife Habitat Council for superior management emissions performance. survey of sustainability. The award recognizes environof wildlife enhancement and land conservation projects. mental, social and human rights efforts. The five sites are cement manufacturing plants in FairEnergy Star® Certification born, Ohio; Louisville, Kentucky; and the FEC Quarry, 474 Five of CEMEX’S sites in the USA have earned ENERGY National Biodiversity and Sustainable Development 2012 Sand Mine, and Brooksville Quarry in Florida. STAR® certification with the U.S. Environmental ProtecCEMEX’s SotoPajares gravel quarry in Spain was hontion Agency (EPA) for superior performance in energy ored by the Federation of Aggregates with the highest Wildlife Habitat Council for Education efficiency. The five sites are cement manufacturing award in the category of “Biodiversity and Sustainable Eight of CEMEX’s sites in the USA have received certifiplants in California, Florida, Georgia and Ohio. Development” for 2012. The award recognizes CEMEX’s cation through the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Corporate efforts to preserve the environment in the midst of minLands for Learning and Wildlife at Work Programs. The French Ministry for Ecology Recognition ing and industrial development. company’s operations in Knoxville, Tennessee; Lyons, CEMEX in France received official recognition by the Colorado; and in Brooksville, Miami, Clermont, DavFrench Ministry responsible for ecology for its enviPCA’s Overall Environmental Excellence Award enport, Lake Wales and Center Hill, Florida, received ronmental commitment to certify 183 quarries and CEMEX’s Louisville, Kentucky plant, the Kosmos recognition for creating, conserving, and restoring their ready-mix concrete production units, in line with ISO Cement Company, was named the recipient of the habitat with the involvement of employees and mem14001 standard. Portland Cement Associations Overall Environmental bers of the community. Excellence Award for 2012 in recognition for its wide Golden Pillar of Construction Sector Award range of innovative initiatives in land stewardship, CEMEX in Poland won the Golden Pillar of Construcenergy efficiency, community outreach and overall tion Sector award at the “Your House” International environmental excellence. The plant also received recConstruction Trade Show in southern Poland. The ognition in the Energy Efficiency, Innovation and Land award acknowledged CEMEX’s innovative approach Stewardship categories. < previous | contents | next > 66 advisory panel members and statement We are pleased to note the continued commitment of The use of the theme “Building the Cities of the Future” operations to society, to report a more integrated and CEMEX to sustainability and how integral sustainabilfor the sustainability report was risky as it could lead comprehensive view in the medium term. ity has become to its business strategy, including seekto the perception that the major concern of CEMEX ing leadership in sustainable construction and cement is the built environment. Nevertheless the theme has We are also encouraged by the clearer highlighting production. This report is a reflection of the significant worked rather well and CEMEX has been able to weave of challenges and look forward to learning in future progress being made by CEMEX. its general approach to social and environmental susreports how these were managed. tainability within the broad concept of cities, without Scope of our Review neglecting the impact on biodiversity, the sustainability The report describes the processes that CEMEX has in We reviewed an advanced draft of the CEMEX 2012 of its products and the concern for its employees and place to enhance its sustainability. However, it would Sustainable Development Report. We shared with the community. also be desirable to develop the information and data management our detailed comments and specific collection systems necessary for reporting on the resuggestions for improvement. Given the nature of the We like the use of the seven priorities as a reporting sults of those processes. This would be especially useprocess, some of our comments can be immediately instructure and are pleased to see its further develful in areas like the results of training and awareness corporated in the final report, others must wait for the opment in the 2012 report. The report covers the of sustainability issues, implementation of the code of development of the policies, processes and information. important topics defined as material by CEMEX and ethics, compliance of suppliers with CEMEX sustainGiven the experience of the last few years, we remain the extensive exercise initiated in this period to assess ability policies and the consequences of violations. confident that CEMEX will progressively incorporate materiality is welcomed and should be progressively reour suggestions in future editions of the report. We fined to ensure representativeness of all stakeholders. Human Rights list here our general observations and concentrate on The panel feels that it will lead to further enhancement We are pleased to learn that CEMEX has started to those aspects that will further enhance the company’s of the effectiveness of CEMEX’s sustainability actions broaden its approach to Human Rights along the sugreporting in the future. and their reporting and hopes that it will lead to more gestions of the UN’s Ruggie report and that in the comeffective stakeholder engagement. ing years it will produce an assessment of its policies Completeness and Clarity and processes to respect all human rights, which will in The panel is pleased to observe the considerable We encourage CEMEX to find ways to help the reader turn lead to a more comprehensive action plan and its progress achieved in focusing the report on the major understand better how it is implementing its sustaincorresponding report. sustainability issues facing the company and tightenability strategy and to provide more evidence of the ing its content to increase the relevance to the major effects. While the report includes the required GRI Safety stakeholders. The continuous reduction in size is also indicators, the text still contains many general asserWhile 2012 saw an improvement in the number of likely to enhance its effectiveness. Its readability has tions and should include more evidence and discussion fatalities and lost time, the number of fatalities still also been enhanced through its conciseness and its of performance, even though progress over the previremains a major concern. The number of fatalities, esagile design, eschewing unnecessary pictures. ous report must be recognized. While this is a complex pecially among contractors, is still unacceptable as the subject, CEMEX should consider collecting information President’s letter emphasizes. and performing analysis on the contributions of its < previous | contents | next > 67 Advisory Panel Members and Statement Monitoring and reporting of incidents are very well taken, Sustainable Construction Advisory Panel Members but the report should incorporate the processes, proceWe note CEMEX efforts to develop more sustainable dures and actions taken to manage the incidents and products and to promote sustainability labeling. We Irma Gomez avoid recurrence. In particular the panel welcomes the UK welcome its integral approach to sustainability, to move Undersecretary for Management, Ministry example and hopes it can replicated in other locations. beyond being a sustainable cement provider to being an of Environment and Natural Resources of actor in sustainable construction. In future editions of Mexico Emissions the report we would like to see how CEMEX adapts its We would encourage CEMEX to report on indicators strategies, structures and actions to address the chaland comment on the evolution of actual CO2 emissions lenges of sustainable construction services and systems. Felipe Pich in recent years, not just avoided emissions, reporting Founding Director of Pich-Aguilera on two of the three traditional scopes (direct and purIn the meantime, given that the major product of CEMEX Architects and President of GBCe, chased emissions). The early achievement of targets for is concrete it would be desirable for the company to Spanish Chapter of the World Green dust, NOx and SOx emissions seem to indicate the need consider, in the short and medium-term, measures to Building Council to update and strengthen them for future years. enhance the recyclability of cement to reduce waste. Biodiversity GRI Reporting Leon Bennun The report should note the future challenge posed by The panel encourages CEMEX to analyze the implicaDirector of Science, Policy and Informathe target of implementing biodiversity management tions for its information systems of the extensive y tion, BirdLife International at 100 key sites by 2015. The number of active sites complex reporting changes implied by the new G4 GRI with high biodiversity value where biodiversity action reporting guidelines and to prepare for their eventual plans are actively implemented remains rather low. We adoption, starting in 2014. Antonio Vives reiterate the call we made last year for CEMEX to deConsulting Professor, Civil and Environvelop a biodiversity strategy with additional clear and Overall we are pleased with progress being made by mental Engineering Department, Stanford quantifiable impact (not just process) targets, based CEMEX in their sustainability and its reporting and the University on an overall commitment to Net Positive Impact on positive trends we are observing. We hope the combiodiversity across the company’s operations. pany will continue to make progress in its contribution For more information on our Advisory Panel please to sustainable development. visit our webpage. Water Water is becoming an increasingly important environmental issue and we are pleased that CEMEX reports on its use of water. We look forward to more information in future reports on how it intends to improve its performance and report on efforts to recycle water or use water not suitable for human consumption. < previous | contents | next > 68 pwc’s limited assurance report Independent Limited Assurance Report on the CO2 emissions, safety, environmental incidents and other  At regional coordination level, we conducted Conclusions: emissions Key Performance Indicators reported by CEMEX for the year 2012 interviews withith the individuals res responsible for the KPIs reporting and performed analytical tests; Based on the results of our review, and taking into account our recommendations above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that:  We selected a sample of operations in order to To the Board of Directors of CEMEX perform site visits,, for which we performed the The KPIs have not, in all material respects, been Overall coverage rate following : prepared in accordance with “The Cement CO2 and At the request of CEMEX, we have carried out an Rate of clinker generated with continuous Energy Protocol”, the “Safety “ in the cement independent limited review of CO2 emissions, safety, monitoring of dust, NOx and SOx we reviewed site organization and procedures, industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting”, environmental incidents and other emissions Key Absolute and specific emissions data of dust especially those regarding KPIs reporting; the “Environmental Reporting procedure Environmental Incident Reporting” Performance Indicators (“the he KPI KPI’s”) reported by Absolute and specific emissions data of NOx we assessed control procedures on key and the “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and CEMEX for the year 2012.. This assurance process Absolute and specific emissions data of SOx parameters, and Reporting in the Cement Industry”. Industry” covers the KPI’ss disclosed in the 20 2012 Sustainable Wee performed reconciliation of reported data with Development Report identified with th the symbol : The KPIs have been prepared by, and are the the supporting documentation and verified o a misstatements The KPIs contain material misstatements. responsibility of, CEMEX Management. Our sample basis the arithmetical accuracy of  CO2 emissions,, as calculated according to “The responsibility consists of issuing conclusions about their calculations. The CO2 emissions, safety, environmental incidents Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol” (version 3.0, consistency and reliability based on our review work type 1 and other emissions missions contain material May 2011): paragraph and scope described in the next paragraph.  onsolidated KPIs reported by We analyzed the consolidated misstatements. Absolute gross and net CO2 emissions CEMEX in the 2012 Sustainable Development Specific gross and net CO2 emissions Bases, objective and scope of the verification Report to verify the coherence with the results of our Alternative fuels rates (alternative fossil and work. Mexico, March 27th, 2013 biomass fuels) Our work was performed based on verification Total indirect CO2 emissions standards established by the International Federation of Accountants, under the International Standard for  Safety indicators, as calculated according to the Assurance Engagement ISAE 3000 pertaining to limited guidelines “Safety in the cement industry: assurance. We planned and performed the procedures Guidelines for measuring and reporting” (version set out below to obtain limited assurance as to whether 3.0, updated October 2008): the he KPIs are free of material misstatements. A higher level of assurance would have required more extensive Enrique Alejandro Bertran Sánchez Fatality rate for directly employed procedures. Partner Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTI FR) for Sustainability Business Solutions directly employed We assessed CEMEX reporting procedures for The PricewaterhouseCoopers, S.C. Lost Time Injury Severity rate (LTI SR) for  directly employed KPIs with regard to their consistency with “The Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol”, Protocol” the “Safety in  Number of Environmental Incidents category 1, as the cement industry: Guidelines for measuring and defined by CEMEX Corporate in its operational and reporting”, the internal corporate procedure on administrative procedure “Environmental Incident “Environmental Incident Reporting” and the Reporting”. “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting in the Cement Industry”,, respectively;  Other emissions indicators (dust, NOx and SOx), as calculated according to the WBCSD WBCSD-CSI  At corporate level, we conducted interviews with the “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and individuals responsible for the preparation and Reporting in the Cement Industry” (version 1, execution of the reporting procedures as well as for March 2005): the consolidation of data. At this level we performed analytical procedures and verified, on a sample basis, the calculations and consolidation of data; PricewaterhouseCoopers, S. C., Mariano Escobedo 573. Col. Rincón del Bosque. 11580 México D. F. PricewaterhouseCoopers, S. C., Mariano Escobedo 573. Col. Rincón del Bosque. 11580 México D. F. Teléfono: 5263 6000. 0. Fax: 5263 6010. www.pwc.com Teléfono: 5263 6000.0. Fax: 5263 6010. www.pwc.com < previous | contents | next > 69 A+ statement gri application level check < previous | contents | next > 70 about this report Reporting History and Cycle more information as well as updates throughout the streamlining our processes and the way in which CEMEX began publishing annual environmental, health, year, please visit the Sustainable Development section we provide information. We include a statement and safety reports in 1996, and then in 2003 pubof our website. from PricewaterhouseCoopers, which verified our lished its first Sustainable Development Report. The data on greenhouse gas emissions; atmospheric company has been engaged in annual sustainability reUnless otherwise indicated, the information provided emissions; alternative fossil and biomass fuels rates; porting since then and published its most recent report in this report is for the company as a whole. We have environmental incidents; and safety indicators for our in April 2011. This, the company’s full 2012 Sustainincluded information for the operations in which we cement, ready-mix, and aggregates operations. able Development Report, is our tenth such report that have financial and operative control. If a plant is sold, covers the broad range of our environmental, social, its information is no longer included in our data or conIn addition, we engaged with our Sustainable Develand governance issues and performance. sidered in our targets. If we have restated certain data opment Reporting Advisory Panel, which provides feedsets from previous years because of improvements to back on our reporting. We applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 our data-collection systems or changes to our business, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – Mining & Metals each case is clearly marked. All monetary amounts are Data Measurement Techniques Sector Supplement to produce the full report, which reported in US dollars. All references to “tons” are to We employ the following protocols and techniques for meets an application level of A+ for the fifth consecumetric tons. measuring the key performance indicator (KPI) data tive year. that we report: The information for this report came from several Boundary and Reporting Period sources, including internal management systems and • CO2 Emissions. CEMEX reports absolute and specific This report covers our global cement, ready-mix conperformance databases and our Sustainable DevelopCO2 emissions following the latest version of the CSI crete, and aggregates operations, presenting our susment Report Survey, a questionnaire sent to all counProtocol, denominated: The Cement CO2 and Energy tainability performance, progress, achievements, and tries where we have operations. Data from this survey Protocol, version 3.0, published in May 2011. As challenges for the 2012 calendar year, which is also is then aggregated. This approach has enabled us to defined in the protocol, it considers direct emissions the company’s fiscal year. We have emphasized those report progress on our key performance indicators for excluding CO2 emissions from biomass fuels and issues identified as high-priority through both our the company as a whole. purchased electricity. Historical data shall remain materiality analysis and our sustainable development unchanged given that the previous protocol is closely strategic planning process, as reflected in the seven priWe aim to improve the transparency and aligned with the simple methods for reporting of the ority areas of our Sustainable Development Model. For completeness of each report that we produce while calcination CO2 emissions. < previous | contents | next > 71 About this report • Dust, NOx and SOx emissions. Absolute and speCSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet with informaWe welcome your feedback on our sustainability recific figures are calculated based on kiln emission tion obtained from the databases. porting and performance. Please send your comments measurements taken from Continuous Emissions and suggestions to sd@cemex.com, or write to us at: Monitoring Systems (in those sites where kilns are • Safety. An internal CEMEX safety database collects equipped with such technology) or spot analysis. all related safety information from each site and CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. These methods fully comply with the CSI Guidelines automatically provides the appropriate information to Corporate Communications and Public Affairs for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting. All inforcalculate the indicators. The database is configured Av. Ricardo Margain Zozaya 325 mation is reported to CEMEX databases, processed, using the WBCSD / CSI definitions. San Pedro Garza Garcia, NL calculated, and validated to provide a final group CP 66265 Mexico value. The values are calculated in Standard for 0ºC, Deviation from Protocols Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 1 atmosphere and 10% Oxygen (O2) content at meaWe have adhered to the GRI Protocols where applicable suring point. and feasible. As our data-collection systems are still in development, however, there are instances in which we • Energy. Fuel consumption indicators are reported to have not applied GRI protocols. In such cases the data internal CEMEX databases in which “conventional,” we have is the best manner in which we can currently “alternative,” and “biomass fuels” are classified accommunicate our performance. cording to the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet. Heat values are obtained from on-site analysis (where United Nations Global Compact applicable), value provided by supplier or standards Communication on Progress from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of This report constitutes our Communication on Progress Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement Manufacturtoward the commitments of the United Nations Global ing Process. Compact (UNGC). As a signatory to the Global Compact, we work to align our company’s operations and • Clinker factor and alternative fuels. All material constrategies with its ten principles. We are also commitsumption is reported to internal CEMEX databases ted to helping the world meet the targets of the Kyoto in which “alternative materials” are defined followProtocol and Millennium Development Goals. ing the standards from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in the The GRI index is cross referenced to the UNGC prinCement Manufacturing Process. The “clinker/cement ciples; it can be found on our website and is available factor” is calculated using the procedures from the for download on our website. < previous | contents | next > 72 www.cemex.com
