2013 KINROSS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS KINROSS 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS KINROSS 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Kinross has been a signatory to Governance of corporate In addition to the content listed the United Nations Global Compact responsibility is incorporated in below relating to specific aspects for four years. In keeping with our organizational structure at of our COP, our 2013 Corporate that commitment, I am pleased to the Board and Executive level, Responsibility Report outlines submit our fourth Communication and each of our operations Kinross’ overall vision and strategy on Progress. has designated functions for CEO Letter to Stakeholders (p. 1-3) environmental management, and summarizes key performance We have a responsibility to conduct workplace health and safety, indicators for 2012-2013. Performance our operations in a manner that is and community engagement. Highlights (p. 4-5). The report also safe for our employees, protective of We have established operationsbenchmarks our performance in the environment, and beneficial to level mechanisms for stakeholder key performance indicators against the host countries and communities engagement, including grievance that of our peers, showing that we where our operations are located. mechanisms and formal rank at or near the top of our sector. Through responsible mining, we consultation groups. Benchmarking our Performance believe we can generate sustainable (p. 21). We continue to be listed in the value in our host countries and This year, for the first time, we have Dow Jones Sustainability World and host communities. Our Ten combined our GRI (G3) based 2013 North American Indices, as well as in Guiding Principles for Corporate Corporate Responsibility Report with the Ethibel Excellence Register and Responsibility articulate our the requirements to provide an annual Corporate Knights’ Best 50 Corporate commitment in all critical areas – in UN Global Compact Communication Citizens in Canada. Awards and maintaining our licence to operate on Progress (COP). This COP report Recognitions (p. 124). with host communities, in accessing outlines specific content in the body and permitting new deposits with of our comprehensive 2013 Corporate We will continue to explore host governments, and in attracting Responsibility Report that addresses opportunities to improve how we investment from equity markets our progress in implementing the partner, monitor, mitigate and increasingly sensitive to risk factors Principles of the UNGC. An electronic measure our commitments and associated with environmental and version of our 2013 COP and a link impacts. I am proud of what we social performance. to our 2013 Corporate Responsibility have accomplished and, on behalf of Report are also posted on the Global Kinross, I can say we are committed Compact Website. to being the best partner, community member and employer we can be. J. Paul Rollinson Chief Executive Officer Kinross Gold Corporation NOTE: Page references indicate the location of information in the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report (PDF). > Download the complete 2013 CR Report at: http://2013corporateresponsibilityreport. kinross.com/files/4214/0449/6990/Kinross2013CRReport.pdf 1 KINROSS 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR STRATEGY, HUMAN RIGHTS • We updated our agreement with GOVERNANCE, MANAGEMENT indigenous peoples in Russia, AND ENGAGEMENT based on open consultations • Our commitment to protect • The Corporate Responsibility human rights is established in our and review of results from the Committee of the Board Code of Business Conduct and first five years of the agreement of Directors oversees the Ethics, Ten Guiding Principles for originally signed in 2008. development of the Company’s Corporate Responsibility, and our Working with Indigenous People, policies relating to environment, Supplier Standards of Conduct, Russia (p. 75). health and safety, and social and is implemented through our • Third parties completed performance. CR Governance and CR management systems. Human community health risk Organizational Structure (p.29). Rights, Assessing Our Policy assessments in Paracatu, Brazil, • Kinross implements a companyFramework (p. 26). which confirms that there is wide Corporate Responsibility • Kinross supports the Voluntary no increase in employee or Performance Metric to integrate Principles on Security and Human community health risk from our “first priorities” related to Rights and has implemented a arsenic due to Kinross mining CR obligations into corporate Human Rights Adherence and activities. Safeguarding functions and business units. In Verification Program (HRA & VP) Community Health in 2013, we expanded this metric to across the company. Security and Paracatu (p. 48). include community engagement Human Rights (p. 27). • We have implemented programs and community investment • In 2012 and 2013, we updated to support community livelihoods, performance. Corporate our Code of Business Conduct Case Study: Creating Jobs and Responsibility Performance and Ethics to increase our focus Empowering People in Mauritania Metric (p. 20). on human rights. Human Rights (p. 34), and encourage local hiring • We continued to implement our (p. 25). through workforce development Supplier Standards of Conduct, and training. Employee Training • We reached an agreement with and Development (p. 49), Case which were rolled out in 2012. the Rio Jorquera Colla Community Study: Developing a Skilled Managing Our Supply Chain regarding use of and impacts to Workforce at Kupol in Russia’s Far (p. 28). indigenous lands along the public East (p. 50), Local Employment • We issued our first Conflict-Free access road to the Maricunga Mine in Mauritania (p. 53). Gold Report, demonstrating we in Chile. Key Stakeholder Issues do not have operations in ‘conflict (p. 68), Working with Indigenous • We review our compensation affected or high-risk’ areas in People, Chile (p. 74). levels to ensure that they are accordance with the World Gold at least equal to or above • Although not required by law, we the minimum living wage. Council’s “Conflict-Free Gold consulted with the Rio Jorquera Compensation and Benefits Standard. Colla Community regarding (p. 56). • For the first time, Kinross has road repairs and upgrades on a sought independent limited portion of the public road that assurance of selected performance crosses their lands, leading to the indicators reported in our 2013 Maricunga Mine in Chile. Prior Corporate Responsibility Report. Consultation with Indigenous Assurance (p. 10). Communities (p. 76). 2 KINROSS 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LABOUR MANAGEMENT • We implemented retrenchment at each site. Our Strategy for programs (based on the IFC Environmental Stewardship • Our core value “Putting People Guidelines on Retrenchment) (p. 95). First” means not only creating an related to suspension of operating environment where we • We integrate environmental operations at La Coipa (Chile), never, under any circumstances, considerations early in the the cessation of our development compromise on health and project design process according project at Fruta del Norte and safety; it also means providing to the Kinross Way for Project reductions in planned production a rewarding and meaningful Permitting. Permitting the levels at Tasiast (Mauritania). livelihood to the 9,100 men and Kinross Way (p. 98). Retrenchment (p. 58-59). women worldwide who make • We continued to advance our up our Company. We recognize • We maintained a subcontractor company-wide water strategy, the core ILO conventions and compliance bureau at Tasiast, achieving reduced consumption have implemented policies to track, control, and audit rates at all of our mines located and programs to ensure these contractor compliance with their in water-scarce areas. Our Water are observed at all operations. obligations under the Kinross Strategy (p. 99-101). Labour Rights (p. 60). Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Supplier Standards of • We introduced a company-wide • We updated our Code of Business Conduct, and the applicable local Energy Efficiency Program, and Conduct and Ethics to strengthen legislation. Working Conditions in implemented 67 new energy anti-discrimination clauses. Mauritania (p. 61). initiatives which have reduced Ethical Conduct (p. 24), Nonenergy intensity and greenhouse Discrimination (p. 55). • We conducted our fourth global gas emissions at key sites. Global employee survey, which showed • In addition to achieving one of the Energy Efficiency Program improvement in 9 of 11 categories, best safety records in the mining (p. 108) Operational Energy over previous surveys. Engaging industry in 2013, we also have Efficiency Achievements (p. 109). Our Employees (p. 57). developed programs to strengthen • We were named a Carbon fatality prevention. Workforce ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosure Project Climate Health and Safety (p. 45). MANAGEMENT Disclosure Leader in 2013. GHG • We launched a formal in-depth • As responsible miners, we are Emissions (p. 112). needs assessment to better committed to protect biodiversity, • At our La Coipa Mine in Chile, understand the leadership air and water quality, and to we reduced mercury emissions landscape and identify leadership meet or exceed environmental from 22 kg in 2011 to less than gaps across the Company, and regulatory requirements wherever 1 kg through implementation of have developed a leadership we operate during all stages best practice emissions controls. strategy that will first be launched of a mine’s life cycle; and we Air Emissions (p. 105). on a pilot basis in the Toronto have implemented management office in 2014. Developing our systems to ensure we meet this • Our Chirano Mine in Ghana Leaders (p. 49). commitment. Our Strategy for attained certification under the Environmental Stewardship International Cyanide Management • We negotiated the first collective (p. 95). Code, leaving Tasiast as the agreement for our Tasiast only remaining Kinross cyanide operation in Mauritania. • We enhanced our environmental operation yet to be certified Labour Rights (p. 60). compliance management systems, (expected in 2015). Managing including an independent Cyanide (p. 116). assessment of our obligations 3 KINROSS 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ANTI-CORRUPTION • We maintained our commitment • Socio-economic monitoring in to the Extractive Industries communities near our operations • Our Code of Business Conduct Transparency Initiative and have in Mauritania, Creating Jobs and Ethics establishes policies reported additional information and Empowering People in for Kinross directors, employees, related to tax transparency. Tax Mauritania (p. 34), and Ecuador, and contractors, and applies to Transparency (p. 38), including Looking Back at Kinross in all Kinross operations and breakdowns of payments by Ecuador (p. 35), have identified Kinross-operated joint ventures. country and by type. Measuring tangible community benefits Ethical Conduct (p. 24). Our Benefit Footprint (p. 33). in poverty reduction, local • We completed annual and governance capacity, education, • We disclose the total value of quarterly acknowledgment and and livelihoods. political donations made by the certification of compliance with company. Ethical Conduct (p. 24). • Our social investments and the Whistleblower Policy; and philanthropy leverage in-kind Disclosure, Confidentiality and SUPPORT FOR BROADER contributions and mobilize Insider Trader Policy, by the UN GOALS AND ISSUES contributions by third parties, Senior Leadership Team and • We have reported on material Corporate Donations and their direct reports, including the issues tied directly to our Ten Sponsorships (p. 39); we corporate legal team and regional Guiding Principles for Corporate characterize each contribution General Counsels. Performance Responsibility. Materiality (p. 8-9), by category, Kinross Community Highlights (p. 4-5). Performance Highlights (p. 4-5). Focus (p. 80), and where feasible, • In 2013, Kinross established we track results in communitythe position of Vice-President, • In 2013, about 78% of total based quantitative indicators such Compliance to provide dedicated expenditure by our operations as improvements in health care, leadership and oversight of the was spent in host countries; when education, and/or community Company’s global compliance compared with total revenue from well-being. Community and Social program. Ethical Conduct (p. 24). gold sales, in-country spending by Development (p. 79-93). operations amounted to 88% of • We issued a Foreign Officials the total value we generated as a • As in past years, we have reported Payment Protocol and conducted company. Measuring Our Benefit on specific stakeholder issues training at all sites and regions. Footprint (p. 32-33). at each of our operations, as a Performance Highlights (p. 4-5). demonstration of our commitment to engagement and transparency. Key Stakeholder Issues (p. 66-71). 4
