COP 2014 General This COP covers the period: From: 31-10-2013 T0: 31-10-2014 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 Uniforms-skrædderi A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Management of our CSR and continuous work with global compact ten principles in 2014 has been a year with focus on the mapping and evaluation of our suppliers’ situation regarding social and environmental responsibility. Due to our type of specialised garments we have a rather large number of suppliers and as such due diligence of all our suppliers is not yet finished. In the coming year we will continue to undertake due diligence of our suppliers and work with the Global compact ten principles in our daily operations. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm.Director Human rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000’s policy confirms the Global Compact human rights principles and supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Principles: as well as the core conventions of the ILO. Atelier 2000 will not trade Principle 1: Businesses should with companies that do not comply with these principles and support and respect the standards. protection of internationally Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs proclaimed human rights through the use of our code of conduct and the requirement that all Principle 2: Make sure that our suppliers must follow this code. they are not complicit in Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes human rights abuses Atelier 2000 has in place procedures regarding human rights issues covering our internal operations as well as our business partners. We have worked with human rights issues since the company was established, and we have implemented policies and procedures regarding the employees’ rights and Atelier 2000’s expectations. We make sure that all new employees are informed of their rights our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights issues. We have clear policies regarding human rights issues concerning our suppliers and we are undertaking due diligence as a way of managing human rights issues. A planned risk assessment of Atelier 2000’s social and environmental risks in 2015 and the due diligence results will help us identify and define areas of opportunity in our human rights work. Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000 respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing Principles: equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful discrimination Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of The well being of our employees, both physically and psychologically association and the effective is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep improving our working recognition of the right to conditions and working environment to ensure this priority. collective bargaining Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Principle 4: The elimination of We work towards achieving our “employee wellbeing” priority by all forms of forced and conducting a work environment assessment yearly. This assessment compulsory labour identifies the areas of “improvement needed” and the measures Principle 5: The effective needed to rectify the identified areas. abolition of child labour An action plan is then formulated and communicated to all the Principle 6: The elimination of employees. An example of the action plan can be as follows discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Cause of Solution or Responsible Deadline problem(s) actions needed person The company also conducts 2 to 3 evaluation meetings a year to determine whether the solutions and actions have been successful, go through employee/management input and examine any new applicable laws and regulations on work environment issues. Some examples of improvements include the control room temperature, reducing intensive screen work through diversifying the work tasks and introducing ergonomic initiatives. Atelier 2000 has procedures in place regarding accidents and the registration of these. These above procedures are described in detail, and it is the job of the work environment representative with input from the management and the employees to implement these and to disseminate the results We have undertaken due diligence of our suppliers regarding labour issues and this work is expected to continue in 2015. Results are being evaluated and suppliers are informed of any non-compliance areas. Our view is that we will work with our suppliers towards improvement and we only terminate cooperation in cases of severe violations. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations Principles: We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws Principle 7: Businesses should and regulations that are applicable to their business. support a precautionary We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by approach to environmental using third party official certification schemes and standards. challenges; Principle 8: undertake Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes initiatives to promote greater One of the first initiatives has been to develop our environmental environmental responsibility; management system that includes our environmental policy, and environmental risk assessment, our goals, implementation responsibilities and communication. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of In addition, we have prepared two procedural documents on the environmentally friendly handling of waste and the handling of chemicals. These documents technologies. describe the action, the responsible persons, related laws and regulations and inputs/outputs-instructions Regarding our suppliers, we have prepared an environmental requirements document and it is used in our due diligence work. This document describes in detail our minimum requirements regarding environmental issues such as waste water treatment, use of chemicals, compliance to National laws and regulations and other environmental issues. We inform our suppliers about the Ecolabel possibilities concerning textiles. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000 makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not tolerate corruption in all its forms Principle 10: Businesses Implementation and Measurement of Outcome should work against We use a questionnaire accompanied with our code of conduct in corruption in all its forms, undertaking due diligence of our suppliers. The answers are including extortion and evaluated and our actions are then defined according to the results. bribery. We are formulating company rules and procedures regarding anticorruption as part of our 2015 action plan. Further Comments: Activities for the next year include: Due diligence: Due to the large number of suppliers, we expect that due diligence work regarding social and environmental responsibility will continue through to 2015 and 16. Formulation of our “Responsible purchasing” procedures. Formulation of our anti-corruption procedures and activities. A new risk assessment and evaluation of issues relating to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption.
