October 25, 2014 Mr. Georg Kell Executive Director UN Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Kell: Levi Strauss & Co. is proud to share with you our 2014 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. Our commitment to sustainability goes far beyond regulatory compliance or minimizing the social and environmental impact of our business practices. We build sustainability into everything we do so that our profitable growth helps restore the planet. Since our last communication on progress, Levi Strauss & Co. expanded our sustainability communications and continued to further our commitment to transparency. Levi Strauss & Co.’s corporate public website provides the latest information about our social and environmental sustainability strategies, policies and actions. The information found on our public website is supplemented by the sustainability portion of the Levi Strauss & Co. 2013 Annual Financial Report, which outlines actions taken by the company in the 2013 fiscal year to advance our corporate responsibility objectives and operationalize the principles of the Global Compact. Environment In the last twelve months, Levi Strauss & Co. continued to increase transparency and reporting on key environmental issues such as water, energy and climate, and chemicals. Aligned with our commitment to the Global Compact, our 2014 CEO Water Mandate Communication on Progress is available in the water section of our corporate website. Through engagement with the CEO Water Mandate, we have grown our commitment to water sustainability in the areas of supply chain, product innovation, direct operations, collective action, and consumer and community engagement. As part of our commitment to disclosing information on energy and climate, we issued our sixth Carbon Disclosure Report, which captured not only a summary of our 2013 emissions, but also our GHG reduction targets and strategies for achieving those reductions. This energy and climate reporting helps us assess progress, identify gaps in our program, and push for action. For example, our factory in Poland has begun purchasing renewable energy, which has significantly reduced its greenhouse gas emissions, as noted in our 2013 greenhouse gas emissions summary. We are committed to zero discharge of hazardous chemicals in the apparel industry by 2020. In the last year, we continued to work with the Joint Roadmap Toward Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals, an ambitious industry collaboration working to set a new standard for chemicals management and environmental performance for the global apparel and footwear industry, outlining together specific commitments and timelines for actions to meet the goal of zero discharge. Over the last year, we have been sharing progress towards meeting our commitments on chemicals in the chemicals section of our corporate website. In particular, we performed a benchmark study of chemical use and discharge of 11 priority groups of chemicals from more than 40 supplier facilities in key product markets (Mexico, China, India, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Vietnam, Egypt, Nicaragua and Lesotho). The results, which can be found here (May 2013) and here (December 2013), will help to establish a baseline understanding of Page 1 of 2 chemical use and discharge so we can focus on capacity building, process change, and policy change with suppliers, and together advance toward the goal of zero discharge of hazardous chemicals in the apparel industry. Labor and Human Rights In the last year, we have built on our commitment to human rights and worker rights in the apparel supply chain as we advanced implementation of Improving Workers’ Well-being, an initiative that identifies how the company can work with its suppliers, other organizations, and the apparel industry to improve the lives of people making our products. After an extensive external stakeholder consultation and making public a white paper summarizing the stakeholder input and our vision for this new approach, we began implementing pilot programs in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Egypt, Haiti, and Pakistan. We also shared and posted on our website Improving Workers’ Well-Being survey reports, making public what we learned through surveying apparel workers at our five pilot program locations. Cognizant of the value of engaging with diverse stakeholders who are knowledgeable on our industry, we continue to work closely with stakeholders on issues of importance in the apparel supply chain, often taking what we have learned from these conversations and adjusting our practices and policies accordingly. To that end, since our last communication, we have updated our Sustainability Guidebook, which outlines labor, health and safety, and environmental requirements for our manufacturing suppliers, with new sections on migrant workers, building and equipment maintenance, building integrity, and garment finishing guidelines. Anti-Corruption Our success as a company is built upon a foundation of integrity – a longstanding commitment to act with the highest ethical standards and conduct business honestly and legally. We make both our Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and our Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy publicly available for all stakeholders on our corporate website. LS&Co. remains an active and committed Global Compact member. This year, we continued our leadership role on the U.N. Global Compact U.S. Network by serving on its board and hosting the 2013 Fall Symposium at our San Francisco headquarters. Anne Rohosy, Executive Vice President and President of the Americas for Levi Strauss & Co., delivered the morning keynote address at the symposium, speaking about the business value of women’s empowerment and sharing insights from her years of experience as a business leader. Anne took this message to a wider audience, recently penning this article on Linkedin, which continues to engage readers in a thoughtful conversation on women’s leadership. We look forward to the years ahead as the Global Compact’s activities advance our company’s sustainability commitment. All the best, Charles V. Bergh President and Chief Executive Officer Page 2 of 2
