PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 27/08/2014 1 Table of Content  Corporate Profile 3-6  Executive Welcome 7-8  Vision, Mission and Corporate Value 9  Governance, Commitment & Engagements 10 – 17  Sustainability Report 18 – 35  Local Development 36 – 44  Awards 45 – 47  Our Report 48  GRI Index Summary 49 – 54 27/08/2014 2 CORPORATE PROFILE PT. Pangansari Utama (PSU) was founded in 1975. It operates as a food service and distribution company in the Asia Pacific and provides industrial, community, institutional and in-flight catering services, food processing, patisserie, manufacturing, storage and warehousing, shipping and handling, training, retail, facility management, maintenance, and remote site support services (2.1, 2.2). PSU organization is headed by a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) with three Executive Officers reporting to this position are Managing Director (MD), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Operating Officer (COO). Under these three officers are the division / Business Units (BU): Food Distribution BU, Marketing and Business Development BU, Catering BU, Financial & Administration BU, and FI Project BU. It’s Headquarter is at Jalan Raya Poncol No. 24 Ciracas, Jakarta 13740 – Indonesia. Branches and Representative Offices in Indonesia include Palembang, Pekanbaru, Batam, Surabaya, Balikpapan, Makassar, Timika and Tembagapura; while the Overseas Representative Offices cover Singapore, Vietnam, Australia, Africa. In addition to PSU’s operation in Indonesia, it also provides services to other countries as follows : Singapore; Vung Tau City, Vietnam ; Sana’a Yemen; Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia; and Luanda, Angola (2.3, 2.4, 2.5). 27/08/2014 3 PSU was incorporated under the laws of Indonesia , per the Deed of Establishment No. 28 dated 16th of December 1975 and legalized by the Department of Law No. Y.A.5/529/3 on November 12, 1976. Further change was made on August 29, 2013 per the Deed of Change No. 25 and was subsequently legalized by the Department of Law on October 16, 2013 per their letter No. AHU-AH.01.10-42146 (2.6). As a public catering company, PSU is owned directly by PT. Pangansari Utama Food Resources, Indonesia 77,50%, and the Great Wonder Investment Pte, Ltd, Singapore of 22,50 %. The organization of PSU comprises of the following:  President Director : Mrs. Lestari Moerdijat  Director : Mr. Daniel Andrew Bowman  Director : Mr. Bernard Eng Teck Lim  Director : Mr. Ma Lim Siong  President Commissioner : Mr. F.X. Bagus Ekodanto  Commissioner : Mr. Rachmadi Heru 27/08/2014 4 PSU primarily serves catering and housekeeping services for the oil and gas and mining companies, hospitals, airports, international schools, and also factories in Indonesia. PSU’s head office is in Jakarta with the branch offices spreading out from the west to the east parts of Indonesia such as at Palembang, Pekanbaru, Batam, Surabaya, Balikpapan, Makassar, Timika, Sorong, and Tembagapura; while the overseas services include Singapore and Luanda, Angola (2.7). It operates with it’s current work forces comprising of employees 4,300 employees. President Director and Chief Operating Officer (COO) controls the whole operation. (2.8) PSU has operationally changes during the last one year in terms of the structure of PSU since the addition of one of Director as Managing Director who control all operational matter in PSU and change of Company Head Office. For other changes in terms of the size, structure and ownership of PSU, there is no significant changes. (2.9) 27/08/2014 5 Organization Chart (2.3) 27/08/2014 6 EXECUTIVE WELCOME (1.1) PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA (PSU) was founded in 1975, in association with Greatways Group of Companies that operated extensively throughout South East Asia. This group of Companies was involved in Restaurants, Bars, Coffee Shops, Supermarkets, Bakeries, Offshore Services, Food Supply, Industrial Catering and Remote Site Support Services. Firstly, between 1976 and 1979, PSU started to develop its Food Supply activities for PT. Pertamina at the Bontang LNG plant in Indonesia. In 1980, when the government issued a Presidential Decree No. 14A concerning Procurement and Distribution of Products PSU has further constructed a complete set of Cold Storage and Warehousing Facilities in Balikpapan to cope up with wide range of services to the Clients throughout East Kalimantan including Hotels, Restaurants, Commissaries and Remote Construction Sites. During 1981, PSU enlarged its scope of activities into Industrial Catering and Total Remote Site Support Services for Projects throughout Indonesia ranging from Aceh to Papua. Soon thereafter, In response to client needs, PSU further turned out leading to the construction of complete cold storage, freezer and warehousing facilities in Jakarta, Surabaya, and Balikpapan. Each project presented its own unique challenges and required its own tailored solution. PSU then developed its professional expertise and modern infrastructure of supply chain that ensures excellent end product quality and choice by applying highly approved technology to track, trace and coordinate the entire distributions. PSU has rapidly become bigger and bigger ever since, and expanded its operations from Eastern to Western parts of Indonesia. The rapid size and complexity of PSU within the devised framework of its contractual agreements with a number of companies, variety of community including the native tribes, has compelled PSU to consider what is the impact of PSU operations to all of these stakeholders, and how to develop and maintain the sustainability of PSU among these groups. All of these parallel with the current governmental regulations whereby a corporation must put into practice a strong commitment to implement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in their daily operational activities. 27/08/2014 7 This decade, PSU has ultimately become a well known company from our stability, financial resources, experience and support infrastructures to professionally operate and manage any Catering, Food Supply or Camp Support Project in Indonesia and overseas. With our professional team that includes personalized management style and strong commitment to enable us to prosper within the Industry, we have served every corner of the archipelago from Aceh in the west to Timika and Tembagapura in the east providing fully-integrated food and distribution services, facility and management services, laundry and housekeeping services, and other support services to construction sites, mining sites, offshore drilling platforms, factories, offices, hospitals, schools, airlines, and the armed forces. All of these were operated in such a way to meet and satisfy a growing number of our Indonesia customers. These services were recently expanded to the overseas to include Singapore, Mongolia, Vietnam, Yemen, and Africa. (1.1,1.2,2.2) PSU has also complied to the regulations as set forth in the Ten Principles of the Global Compact wherein the business should uphold the human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Every two years the PSU Management and the Union Workers sit together discussing all important points for inclusion in the next Collective Labor Agreement (PKB). This is the time when the work conditions and employee benefits are discussed, updated, and renewed after both parties have reached an agreement.(LA.4) Now PSU is the largest Caterers in Indonesia with a turnover in excess of US$ 100 million annually. This picture shows the locations of PSU Head Offices as well as the Branch Offices in Indonesia and overseas. (2.8) 27/08/2014 8 VISION MISSION To be the leading Food To do our best in the company’s core business by providing a totally reliable Resources Solutions service in the Food Business, Company in the world. (4.8) Manufacturing Products, Supplies Consolidation, Trading, Retailing, Camp, Contract Catering Services and other related Hospitality Support Services. (4.8) CORPORATE VALUES 27/08/2014 9 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENT & ENGAGEMENTS NATURE AND SCOPE PSU has established appropriate governance structure to enable all shareholders to be entitled to all forms of rights and equal status. The company’s Board of Directors (BOD) is responsible for calling meetings for shareholders, submitting the reports, and executing resolutions made during the shareholders meetings. Likewise, the BOD is also responsible for supervising the development of overall operational strategies, determining business guidelines and investment plans, and supervising and directing the management of PSU. PSU has encouraged all employees regardless of their level of positions to adhere to all governmental procedures and company regulations. The company regulations were made taking into consideration all the stipulated governmental procedures. The appointment of key personnel managing the work place is subject to the vacant slot, competency, skill, knowledge, and attitude. The Salary and Remuneration as provided by PSU has been set to be imperatively higher than the approved government regional minimum wage scales. On regular basis PSU negotiates a New Salary Scales with the Union Worker representatives. PSU strictly observes all applicable laws and regulations and ensures compliance by all employees. Employees are given chances and opportunities to develop themselves through effective trainings, on the job and off the job. PSU has adopted an effective system of work performance evaluation wherein an employee is rated by the Pay for Performance basis. The one who performs well may become probable for getting better remunerations. 27/08/2014 10 GOVERNANCE (4.1 – 4.10) PSU adopts a good governance in its operational activities. We know quite clearly that in doing so it requires full participation of all PSU employees as a key cornerstone of good governance. All PSU employees are treated similarly with no regards to color, religion, citizenship, gender, etc. As such, all are equal before the law. All employees should ensure that in their daily working activities, conformance to the rules and regulations are the basic conditions of their existence in PSU. A number of government regulations as well as the company regulations and policy must, therefore, be enforced and not to be compromised. Every two-year period, PSU Management and the Union Worker Representatives sit together for negotiation and renewal of the Collective Labor Agreement (Perjanjian Kerja Bersama-PKB). Once the PKB is approved, a socialization of PKB is conducted throughout the employees work locations. The PKB is entered to foster a work climate based on mutual respect and trust guide, maintain and assure the establishment of employment relationship in accordance with the Pancasila Industrial Relations. The PSU PKB stipulates employment terms and conditions, rights and duties of both parties (company and employees). The grievance procedure is covered in detail so employees can easily go through the PKB Chapters what they want to pursue in accordance with the procedures. This PKB is binding all employees, and, therefore, a disciplinary action will be imposed to an employee who violates the PKB. A disciplinary action, however, is to be imposed, only after a consultation with the Union Worker leader has been made and their concurrence have been appended. Following are the governance structure of organization at PSU, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight all the way down. 27/08/2014 11 PSU BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS (4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10) The PSU Board of Commissioners are the PSU Company Organ with the task of general and/or specific supervision in accordance with the existing procedures i.e. to control and provide advices to the Board of Directors (BOD). This board of Commissioners comprises of two (2) members: One is a Chairman, and other one is a Member. The Board of Commissioners are generally elected to 2-year terms. Despite being as advisory capacity to the BOD, the board is also responsible for approving the Vision, Mission, and Values Statements of a company. Included in their tasks are appointing the BOD members, approving the operational budgets, representing the Shareholders in managing its property and business by adopting rules, regulations, ordinances and policies, etc. In addition to the above primary tasks, the PSU Board of Commissioners also represents the PSU for highly important matters flow to the governmental body and officers. They should also call for the Shareholders Meeting and be responsible for the resolutions issued during the Shareholders Meeting. In summary, the Board of Commissioners tasks should also include : Identifying issues and needs to strengthen out any snags which may arise and distort the operation Determining strategies to meet goals and objectives Setting priorities and timelines for completing goals and objectives Accomplishing the works Evaluating the results. 27/08/2014 12 PSU BOARD OF DIRECTORS (4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10) The PSU Board of Directors represents 4 persons, a President Director with 3 (two) Directors reporting to her. One Director manages the Administration and Finance, one oversees the whole operations and the other one handle the Freeport Project operations . They are a group of individuals that are elected to operate the PSU operations with They are a group of individuals that are elected to operate the PSU operations with general responsibilities include but not limited to: Establishing, reviewing, and implementing the management related policies, Making decisions on major company issues which comprise of the hiring/firing of executives, dividend policies, compensation and benefits policy, etc. Reviewing and approving organizational structure and controls; Ensuring that management is qualified and competent; Reviewing and approving business objectives, strategies and plans; Providing for an independent assessment of, and reporting on the effectiveness of, organizational and procedural controls; Monitoring performance against business objectives, strategies and plans; etc. Four times a year BOD evaluating company’s performance in all subject including economic, environment and social performance. In short, the PSU Board of Directors’ primary responsibility is to protect the shareholders' assets and ensure they receive a decent return on their investment. PSU BUDGET COMMITTEE (4.3, 4.5) PSU Budget committee is a group of key management personnel who are responsible for overall policy matters relating to the overall budget programs. This includes monitoring and coordination of budget programs across the organization. This committee consists of the management of Finance/Accounting plus all other representatives from the Projects or Divisions. One Senior personnel from Accounting is generally assigned to chair, manage, and coordinate the preparation, processing, summarizing, or consolidation of the entire budget package for further submission to the Board (BOD) for review and approval. The PSU Budget Committee also determines allocation of expenditures throughout the company. Indeed it is not easy because they should work and to a large extent determine to which department gets more resources, and which gets relatively less. Also, the budget sets the benchmarks by which managers and their departments will be at least partially evaluated. Therefore, it should not be surprising that managers take the budgeting process very seriously and invest considerable energy and even emotion in ensuring that their interest, and those of their departments, are protected. Because of this, the budgeting process can easily degenerate into an interoffice brawl in which the ultimate goal of working together toward common goals in forgotten. 27/08/2014 13 AUDIT COMMITTEE (4.3) The PSU Audit Committee’s role is critical to the governance of the organization through its oversight of the financial reporting process. The member's role demands significant time and attention in addressing multiple risks and critical issues. The committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial reporting process is credible, controlled and reliable, and that the company's financial reporting is transparent, consistent and accurate. PSU is currently in the process of creating this committee. ETHICAL COMMITTEE (4.3, 4.8) This committee is very important to PSU because it assumes responsibility for overall compliance with those standards and procedures, oversees the use of due care in delegating discretionary responsibility, communicates the organization's ethics and compliance standards and procedures, oversees enforcement, including the assurance that discipline is uniformly applied, etc. PSU is not yet in a position to create this committee, however, the BOD has also covered this task momentarily. CORPORATE COMMITMENTS (4.11, 4.12, 4.13) The following are fundamental uncompromised commitments: Our Clients  Be a caring Client as a Partner that’s why we exist  Strive to exceed the level of Client satisfaction and requirement  Transform ideas into reality and thus better fulfill the needs of the client 27/08/2014 14 Our Personnel  Attract, retain and develop the most capable person available for every position and provide continuous career advancement  Work toward developing an efficient, productive, dynamic and aggressive Organization in which Personnel can increase their skills, realize their ambitions, attain work satisfaction and reward based upon their merits and contributions  Be a role model to be recognized throughout the Catering Industry for their Character, Commitment and Competence Our Environment  Ensure that our Business Activities do not disrupt the environment where we operate  Work toward an environmentally sustainable manner by taking into consideration the efficient resource use, potential environmental hazards, regulatory compliance, and effective control to improve the environmental performances in terms of competency, authorization, and level of responsibility  Contribute actively toward the development of the area we operate Our Shareholders  Strive for reasonable returns of investment  Strive for long-term contract business relationship  Make operational decisions guided by economics without compromising integrity  Attain and work productively and profitably  Conduct economic realization to the highest achievable level PSU, in parts are members of cooperative Sarima, Union Workers and entrepreneurs associations (APINDO) 27/08/2014 15 CORRUPTION ASPECTS By definition the corruption only addressed to a person who corrupts money , facilities, or assets belong to an institution or legal body budgeted in the government budget, although such approach has been condemned by general community around the world. PSU, however, has underlined and imposed a strong disciplinary action to those being involved in bribery and the like. (GC AC.10) PSU employees should refrain themselves from manipulated the documents bearing economic value, money, or materials because such a violation leads to immediate dismissal with possibility to be processed by the Police Office as an unlawful act, criminal, that warrants punishment. Corruption is by definition only apply to the governmental body or institution funded by the government. Bribery, however, is totally subject to immediate dismissal at PSU (S02). Our QHSE Manager has recently been appointed to handle CSR Programs and Activities which includes Anti-Corruption despite Human Rights, Labor, and Environment (S03). PSU does not specifically mention to impose sanction for corruption, because corruption is confined to abuse against the governmental body or institution. However, PSU has apparently underlined that bribery and the like that could damage company’s reputation is subject to immediate dismissal (refer to Attachment 1 of the Collective Labor Agreement). PSU encourages all its employees to be loyal and trustworthy. Once PSU tolerates such a violation, everyone will assume a tolerance for this wrongdoing. It is for this reason that PSU scrutinizes all business expenses thoroughly noting any abuse against the company procedures (S04). 27/08/2014 16 PUBLIC POLICY ASPECTS Our records indicated that No attempts was made by any employee of company toward lobbying or participation in the development of public policy (S05), nor the money and in-kind contributions made to political parties, politicians, or related institutions in the pasts (S06). ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR PSU has carefully observed it’s operation and noted that there is no legal action for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes up to now (S07). COMPLIANCE PSU has also found that No Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations (S08). 27/08/2014 17 Sustainability Report OPERATIONS PERFORMANCE PSU has seen that no direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments in the past (EC1), neither the Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change (EC2). PSU has received no coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) nor the financial assistance received from government (EC4). With regards to the standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation, our company has offered a salary or wage exceeds the Standard Salary issued by the Government (EC5). Approximately 60% of foods are purchased locally to conform to the government policy and regulations (EC6). PSU is aware to it’s commitment in the past and that the local communities were given chances and opportunities to hold various managerial positions. In addition to this, the priority is also given to the local tribes for new entry. If the local staff is not available, further effort is given to outsider. Exception to this is for the very top management level, to whom consideration will be based on the experiences and competency (EC7). PSU has sought various ways and efforts to develop the local communities by way of infrastructure investments and services primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement, this includes coordination with the local fishermen and farmers under control of PSU Cooperative Institution. Including in this program is on-the job training using experts from Jakarta, etc. (EC8). Positive advantages were noted because mostly all crops and products are absorbed by PSU via it’s cooperative body (EC9). 27/08/2014 18 Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE PT Pangansari Utama (PSU) is a company that has an environmentally sustainable business enterprise and responsible for carrying out environmental practices in all its activities. It has committed to preventing pollution and reducing the negative impact on the environment in line with economic and technical conditions, and complying with all regulations and legislation concerning the environment as well as the standards applied in Indonesia. In its operation, PSU conducts activities taking into account energy and materials efficiency, and minimizes the adverse impact of waste to the environment. All rubbish, trash, or wastes either from office or workplace are classified by Organic, Non-Organic, Chemical etc, and put into the particular bins. PSU also conducts continuous improvement program to develop an Environmental Management system, encourage openness and dialogue with the surrounding community, anticipate and respond to all concerns about the potential impact of operational activities. PSU has been given a Certificate of ISO 14001 – 2004 for compliance to the Environmental Standard . 27/08/2014 19 Sustainability Report Pangansari Utama together with most of the reputable companies are currently committed to pursue sustainability and environmental resource management encompassing managing economic, social, and ecological systems within and external to an organizational entity in order for it to sustain itself and the system it exists within. In context, sustainability implies that rather than competing for endless growth on a finite planet, development will improve quality of life without necessarily having to consume more resource. In order to sustainably manage the state of environmental resources affected by human activities, organizational change is needed to instill sustainability values within an organization, in order to portray these values outwardly from all levels and to reinforce them in its surrounding stakeholder community. The end result should be a symbiotic relationship between the sustaining organization and community, along with the environment. Under existing rules and regulations, PSU should also monitor Water and Waste Water, Gas Emission, Hazardous Waste, Noise Impact, Wild Life Impact, Social Impact, etc. These include efforts to solve the greenhouse effect, conservation of energy especially water, and minimizing or eliminating destructions to environment.(EN.14) PSU is currently seeking ways to use recycled materials. This requires sometime to ensure such a materials can be used for catering and housekeeping operations. Plastic wraps are still used, however, in the future it is hoped that the plastic bag will only last to a maximum of 1 to 2 years (EN14). 27/08/2014 20 Sustainability Report PRODUCT AND SERVICES PSU maintains effective control of how to handle waste in order to avoid pollution and contamination. This is clearly set for in the Operating Procedures, and Safety Regulations (EN26). PSU by so far has received no significant reclaims for products as well as packaging. Normal breaking packages due to bad handling or rush loading/unloading were normally acceptable, and not claimed by the receiver. (EN27). PSU has obtained no fines charges of sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations (EN28). PSU carefully handles the transportations of products, goods, and materials and that no significant environmental impacts to employees or community (EN29). In recent future, PSU will be equipped with the environmental protection equipment to ensure adherence to environmental policy, the cost of which can’t be predicted at this moment (EN30). 27/08/2014 21 Personnel and Process Safety OUR PEOPLE PSU and its employees are responsible to nurture a healthy business and work climate. The employees, like the company, reserve the right to operate safely and peacefully, unimpeded by interruptions in procedures, transgressing violations, and disturbances in safety. PSU prohibits job discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex/gender, and nationality. All potential candidates are reviewed based on their competency (skill, knowledge, and attitude). Sufficient experiences in the previous companies are of positive advantages for the new entry. Certain positions, however, are reserved to the expatriate personnel to conform to the Contract Agreements with the client customers. In the future, PSU is considering about accepting limited number of disable / handicapped candidates probably in administrative/clerical works, to conform to the government regulations. PSU also employed the local people in its employees formation. A priority for first entry level is given to the local people. Exception is given to candidate for the management level to whom consideration lies in terms of Skill, Knowledge, and Experience. Since 2012, PSU has appointed a Papuan employee to hold a managerial level position to oversee and control the Papuan Hospitability Department. This position has a critical role in ensuring that PSU can create a work environment where all employees – especially Papuan employees – are treated in a fair and objective manner, and that there will be no discrimination against any individual because of employee’s ethnicity, tribal origin, or similar factors. Forced and compulsory labor are totally prohibited. No child labor either temporary or permanent employee is accepted to work at PSU. In addition to this, there is no discrimination meaning that equal opportunity and treatment are rendered to all new employees. Employee are evaluated based on their Skill, Knowledge, and Attitude. 27/08/2014 22 Personnel and Process Safety To improve the knowledge and productivity of employees, PSU provides opportunity for advancement to employees through training programs in various jobs across the PSU organization. The Papuan employees have been given more priority to be trained On-the-job, and outside the work place. Male and female employees are not necessarily to be sorted since PSU has given a chance for these local people on a first come first serve basis. Not only this, but PSU has also provided educational assistance for employee dependents annually in the amount of Rp 750,000 for Kindergarten all the way up to Rp 4,000,000 for University levels. The following chart shows number of Papuan tribes working for PSU at Freeport Project. They comprised of mostly the 7 tribes at the vicinity areas of PSU operations at the Freeport, Papua. Noting that almost 25 percent of PSU employees at the Freeport Project represents the Local Papuan employees. They work at all business units which include Catering, Housekeeping, Laundry, Facility Management, Safety, Hospitality, Administration, and other support business units. (LA.13) The Papuan employees have also been given more priority to be trained On-the-job, and outside the work place. Male and female employees are not necessarily to be sorted since PSU has given a chance for these local people on a first come first serve basis. 27/08/2014 23 PSU encourages employees to improve their performance to allow them to hold higher responsibilities. When there is a lack between the standard of work against their competency, employees may be given chance for attending the training programs either on the job or off the job. Preferences are generally given to the local tribes candidates especially for the entry level. The management level is commensurate with the candidate profile taking into considerations their educational background as well as their related experiences. At least once a year, PSU coordinates effort to conduct a Mass-Wedding for employees who have wives/husbands without at first possessing marital certificates. The benefits provided to full-time employees are slightly better than that provided to. These include certain merit increase percentages based on the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) and or Employees Contract, etc. (LA3), and noted that all non Staff Employees are covered by the Collective Labor Agreement (LA4). At least 2 to 3 months before the effective date, employees are notified as to the changes of the Collective Labor Agreement. This is formally addressed during the Socialization of CLA to all locations (LA5). All employees are represented during a negotiation between the Union Workers and Management including Health and Safety programs despite all other employee benefits. Employees are represented by the Union Worker Representatives (LA6). The Safety Reports include Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities (LA7), while all employees and dependents medical expenditures are absorbed by PSU (LA8). Accordingly, numerous Safety topics are included in the work procedures and applicable to all employees (LA9). Most trainings are currently being given by way of On the Job Training. In addition to this, our client company like PT Freeport Indonesia conducts the Training to it’s employees and contractors on a free charge basis (LA10). Employees are generally scheduled for training to fill the gap between the standard requirement against employee’s competency (LA11). All employees receive regular performance and career development reviews on annual basis (LA12). Men and women are treated equally, so there is no special report to indicate the ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category, or by significant locations of operation. Both male and female employees are measured by their Skill, Knowledge, and Attitude, and the salary is given based on the applicable standard taking into account the skill, knowledge, attitude, that goes with the position, and the level of experiences (LA14). 27/08/2014 24 TOTAL EMPLOYEE BASED ON POSITION (NON FREEPORT PROJECT) Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender (LA1): LEVEL NON FI EXPAT FI TOTAL % Grade Position BOD/Deputy 1 2 3 0.1% 20 21 Board of Director Top Mgt. 4 4 0.2% 18 -19 General Manager Middle Mgt 25 7 32 1.5% 16 17 Mgr.Sr. Manager Low Mgt. 211 211 9.6% 11 15 Ass.Supv.Ass.Mgr. Staff Mgt. 1952 1952 88.6% 3 10 Non Staff Sr. Staff Total 2193 9 0 2202 100% 2202 2410 2210 2010 1810 1610 1410 Non FI 1210 1010 FI Project 810 EXPAT 610 410 Percentage 210 10 BOD/D Top Middle Low Staff eputy Mgt. Mgt Mgt. Mgt. Non FI 1 4 25 211 1952 FI Project EXPAT 2 7 Percentage 0.1% 0.2% 1.5% 9.6% 88.6% 27/08/2014 25 TOTAL EMPLOYEE BASED ON WORKING STATUS (NON FREEPORT PROJECT) Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender (LA1): COMPOSITION EMPLOYEE NON FI VS FI-PROJECT STATUS NON FI FI PROJ. EXPAT TOTAL % PERMANENT 1327 1327 60.3% CONTRACT 857 9 866 39.3% DAILY WORKER 9 9 0.4% TOTAL 2193 0 9 2202 100% % 100% 0% 0.4% 100% DAILY CONTRACT, WORKER, 9, 857, 39.08% 0.41% PERMANENT CONTRACT DAILY WORKER PERMANENT, 1327, 60.51% 27/08/2014 26 TOTAL EMPLOYEE BASED ON GENDER AND AGE (NON FREEPORT PROJECT) Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region (LA2): Gender Expat Non-FI TOTAL % Male 9 1,871 1880 85.38% EMPLOYEE TURN OVER Female 0 322 322 14.62% PERIODE 2013 RESIGNED 7 TERMINATED CONTRACT 46 Amount 9 2,193 2,202 100% DECEASED (Meninggal) 0 LAID OFF (PHK) 0 Age Non-FI TOTAL % 17 35 2 1,247 1249 56.72% 36 40 301 301 13.67% 41 50 1 512 513 23.30% 51 Keatas 6 133 139 6.31% JUMLAH 9 2,193 2,202 100% 27/08/2014 27 PSU – FI Project Employees 2013 Total 1,957 Employees 520 Papuan Employees 1437 Non Papuan Employees 27/08/2014 28 PSU – Freeport Project Employees by Gender 2013 165 Male Employees Female Employees 1792 27/08/2014 29 PSU – Freeport Project Papuan Employees by Native Tribes 2013 78 8 176 Amungme Kamoro 128 Mee 36 Moni Damal 32 62 Dani Other Papuan 27/08/2014 30 HUMAN RIGHTS PSU in doing business recognizes and respects the human rights. The human rights basically concerned with equality and fairness, freedom of choice, living a life free from fear, harassment, or discrimination, inhumane treatments, etc. All of these have made human rights to be universal. Since 2007 PSU has encouraged its employees to respect and implement human rights in the operational work place. The human rights sessions were generally given to all level of employees regardless of their positions. PSU and its employees support and respect the protection of human rights whilst ensuring that all are not complicit in human rights abuses. All employees regardless of their level of positions have attended numerous classes of the Socialization of Human Rights since 2007. Client company has allowed PSU to conduct the internal Socialization of Human Rights to its employees. The Socialization of Human Rights was given to make certain that PSU personnel were sufficiently knowledgeable in Human Rights and Human Rights Violations. Employees should adhere to the CLA that consist of all employment terms and conditions to be met, and right and duties of all parties involved. This include adherence to Human Rights regulations (HR1). Each employee has a right to report any violation against the Human Rights (HR2). Subsequent to this, each supplier or contractor has it’s own mechanism to handle and process all violations against the human rights. Certain areas like PT Freeport Indonesia has adopted a regulation that it’s suppliers, contractors, and privatized companies providing products or services to them must be given a mandatory human rights induction program. (HR3). PSU FI project has sent more than 80 percent employees to attend this mandatory sessions. No incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken whatsoever being reported involving PSU employees in the past (HR4). PSU received no complaints of Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights (HR5), nor they are reported as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor (HR6) and/ or identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor (HR7). PSU itself strongly restricts child labor in its operation. PSU will consider about sending it’s security personnel to be trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations (HR8). PSU received no reports of incidents/ violations involving right of indigenous people and actions taken (HR9), nor any operation sites that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (HR10), and/or grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (HR11). 27/08/2014 31 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Pangansari Utama recognizes its primary responsibility in Health and Safety for the operational works, and that no work can be performed prior to observing and ensuring that the job is safe, healthy, and hygiene. This would mean that no work can be performed if a condition is unsafe. All PSU employees regardless of their positions should comply to the Health and Safety Standards without a compromise. All business units conduct regular toolbox meetings discussing all facets of Industrial Health and Safety programs and activities. PSU internal Safety department manages the implementation, progress, control, and evaluation of Industrial Health and Safety throughout all company premises. This department provides help to the auditors when they conduct the audit. PSU has ever marked an outstanding achievement of 30 million hours without lost time accidents. 27/08/2014 32 Product Responsibility PSU strongly implemented the procedures of Foods Handling by way of Total Quality Control as from Raw Materials all the way through the Finished Product. Including in the control is a Food Safety system. As such, all food-handlers are required for medical check-up at least every six months. Sample of cooked foods are stored in the refrigerators for 3 days. PSU is involved in the international food supply chain and that its consumers are becoming increasingly conscious about the quality of the food they eat. Food and vegetables produced by PSU is expected to be of high quality and free of biological, physical or chemical hazards – despite the risks involved, for example, in transporting perishable produce such as fruit and vegetables over great distances. To meet the consumers’ demand for fresh and healthy food and fulfill strict legal requirements, PSU has decided since the very first time to have its quality management systems (QMS) certified in order to ensure the whole processes are both structured and regularly monitored. Of course PSU has gained benefit from possessing the certificate ISO 22000 – 2005, because since 2005 ISO 22000 was adopted to be the globally accepted certification standard for food safety (PR1). 27/08/2014 33 ISO 22000 has been specifically adapted to the situation in the food industry by integrating the requirements of HACCP, an internationally recognized food safety system that identifies, prevents, eliminates or reduces to an acceptable level potential physical, chemical and biological hazards by preventive means rather than finished product inspections. The combination of ISO 9001, HACCP and ISO 22000 creates an effective system for permanent process improvement, standardization and risk minimization in the food industry. Despite ISO 22000 – 2005, PSU has also obtained ISO 9001 – 2008 for Quality Management System. Indeed it is not easy to get ISO 9001 Certification because PSU should have proved to complete firstly a complete cycle of internal audit for management review, all weaknesses were corrected etc. In short the ISO 9001 Certificate can only be obtained after the ISO Auditors have proved and validated the System Compliance/Implementation, and System Effectiveness. So far, there is no indication of the existence of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes at PSU (PR2). By procedures, PSU only accepts good quality of foods and vegetables at the Receiving Points. PSU will reject all foods and vegetables that are proved to be received below standard (PR3). PSU has never received any complaints pertaining to number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcome (PR4), nor any practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (PR5). PSU has put Customer Satisfaction forms to be available at the Mess-halls and other food service /distribution points at all times. All programs related to Foods and Beverages served conform to the HACCP guidelines. In addition to this, PSU is also audited annually (including SAI Global Audit) as to its adherence to the procedures in place (PR6). No report is filed to indicate of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes (PR7). PSU received no complaints ever since as to breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (PR8) No Fines, by so far were imposed to PSU for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provisions and use of product and services. (PR9) 27/08/2014 34 27/08/2014 35 Local Development (SO.1) Over the years, PSU Co-operative Institutions namely Sarima, has played a large role in providing institutional credit to PSU employees, absorbed large scale of fresh seafood products from local fishers, local fruits and vegetables from the traditional farmers as well as home-made or small industry food processed products such as local tempe and tahu. Under normal circumstances, 60 % of fresh fish is purchased locally from Timika and only 40 % from Surabaya/Jakarta, while the fruits and vegetables in a proportion of 50%, 15%, and 35% respectively for Timika, Australia, and Surabaya/Jakarta. PSU through Sarima, has coordinated efforts since 1997 with the govenmental related departments to conduct various agricultural training to enable the local farmers to work more intensively in order to get more volume of the crops. Sarima as a mentor provides its members control over all the operations of the organization as it promotes a high degree of participatory involvement, making co-operatives more responsive to market & member requirements. At present, Sarima control approximately 60 local fishers and 400 local farmers. The lure that Sarima has purchased the products from the local fishers and farmers at a price higher than the products sold to the local market have triggerred them to produce more. So Sarima is the biggest customer for them. 27/08/2014 36 The following charts show the percentages of Fresh Fish/Sea Foods purchases from Timika, Surabaya, and Jakarta to be sent to PSU locations at FI project. Fresh fish / Sea foods purchased from Timika are fresh. They are soon washed, prepacked, labeled, and put into the Refrigrators prior to be delivered to the jobsites. PSU has a right not to accept unfreshed products, or returns the already received products that are found to be below the standard requirements. For the last several years, PSU Co-operative Institution namely Sarima, has played a large role in providing institutional credit to PSU employees. The operation of Sarima has been expanded to include handling the large scale local purchases comprising of fresh fruit and vegetables of local farmers, and fresh fish/sea foods of local fishermen. These fresh products are to be sent to the PSU work-locations elsewhere. As an example, under normal circumstance, 60 % of fresh fish is purchased directly from Timika local fishermen, and 40% from Surabaya/Jakarta, while the fruits and vegetables are in proportion of 50 %, 35%, and 15% respectively from Timika, Australia, and Surabaya/Jakarta. PSU in coordination with the Media Group has coordinated a join effort by assisting technical knowhow to the Salam Papua (SAPA) Newspapers Timika, and providing various general helps involving initial set up of manpower strategy, manpower training and empowerment, and allowing SAPA newspapers to share on-line news with this local newspapers. Initial training for one key personnel from Timika to Media Indonesia Jakarta has been made soon thereafter. 27/08/2014 37 PSU currently develops it’s CSR programs by coordinating with it’s cooperative body as to the local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs in the near future (SO1), with no significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities (SO9). This includes prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities (SO10). PSU has not conducted an analysis for any risks related to corruption (S02), because such a violation only exist in an institution or governmental body funded by the National Income and Expenditure Funds. Nor any actions taken in response to incidents of corruption because it doesn’t exist (S04). As such there is no urgent need to send PSU employees to be trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures (SO3). Our CSR Senior Manager has attended a number of trainings which includes Anti-Corruption. All PSU employees regardless of their position levels have not participated in Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (SO5). No records to indicate that PSU has ever made a donation either in value of financial and or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country (SO6). PSU has fairly maintained its operations without any legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes (SO7), nor any case to indicate of any value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations (SO8). 27/08/2014 38 Yayasan Sukma Sekolah Sukma Bangsa, NAD Sukma Foundation established in Jakarta in February 2005 in response to the aftermath of the natural disasters triggered by the powerful earthquake and tsunami that struck Aceh and North Sumatera. Sukma Foundation works to support the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) and the advancement of Human Capability and Human Resources Investment though Education. The Millennium Development Goal number 2 is for all children girls and boys to achieve universal primary education. We believe all children should complete a full course of Primary Schooling and more. This is the key to reaching all the MDGs. The importance of education is our main focus on how to rebuild Aceh. Giving chance for the children to study and build their future, meaning we are re-build Aceh as well. Teacher training and exchange between the schools helping teacher to understand The needs of the students, experience the challenge they face on different cases and developing qualified teachers. We, PSU has contributed to Yayasan Sukma for the year 2013 as amount Rp. 3.5 Billion for developing the school operational needs. The contribution will be sustainable donate to the Schools. 27/08/2014 39 Papuan Study Program Generally, variety of scholarships exist to help students attain a higher education that will benefit not only to them, but their families and communities. Indeed many students have desires to get scholarships but under present economic condition, the scholarships are prioritized to the Indigenous people surrounding PTFI operational areas. The top management of PTFI and Pangansari Utama (PSU) realized that to be able to work, wherever it is, one must have appropriate skills, and to gain specific skills it can only be pursued through formal education in schools. Realizing the importance of education that both PTFI and PT Pangansari Utama (PSU) has further launched a scholarship program for children of Papua who came from the vicinity areas at Mimika and around the Freeport mine, and some from Jayapura. This scholarship program which is carried on once every three years is now entering the 5th program. The 14 lucky students awarded the current scholarship program were those mostly selected from graduate students of Junior High Schools at Mimika with some from Jayapura. This marked a notably increase in comparison of only 10 Students in the previous years. The current Scholarships covered a threeyears education funding to school for three years in State Vocational High School of Tourism (SMK Negeri 1 ) in Jayapura, Papua. The 14 students made up of 10 students from seven tribes Mimika, Papua 2 students and 2 non-Papuan students eligible for free vocational education. 27/08/2014 40 PAPUAN STUDY PROGRAM 27/08/2014 41 PAPUAN INTERNSHIP & TRAINING PROGRAM Cross Training at Media Hotel Jakarta 27 9 Juni 2013 27/08/2014 42 Housekeeping Training Papuan (7 Tribes) Tembagapura, February 11 – 14, 2014 27/08/2014 43 FOGGING & GIVING CLEANING EQUIPMENT TO COMMUNITY AROUND CIRACAS OFFICE 27/08/2014 44 AWARDS (2.1) 27/08/2014 45 27/08/2014 46 27/08/2014 47 Our Report This Report covers the year 2013 operations (3.1), a one year reporting cycle (3.3). There are similar reports were produced in the past (3.2). Levy Gunawan, Assistant Manager Corporate Marketing is the Contact Person regarding the any part or the whole contents of this report and Ruben Sembiring, QHSE Manager who supported the data and documentation for this report. (3.4) This report has been prepared, processed, and completed within a 1 month (3.5). Boundary of the report is confined for PT Pangansari Utama (PSU) Indonesia only (3.6). This is a second report, the most content is the sustain activities for our CSR in PSU. The report as such further constructive suggestions and criticisms will contribute positively toward a better package in the future (3.7). The report content were captured from PSU Head Office – Jakarta and Freeport Project business unit. (3.8) An effort was made to maintain the data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations as accurate as possible , including assumptions and techniques underlying best estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report (3.9). Certain minor figures may differ slightly due to Round Up/Off only. No Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (3.10), because this package is a first published report by PSU, as such there is no significant changes to be further reported from previous reporting periods as to the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied (3.11), nor any table required for identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report (3.12). PSU feels that policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report is not necessarily required for this second reporting package (3.13). 27/08/2014 48 GRI Index Summary Indicator Description Pages Indicator Description Pages Strategy and Analysis Report Scope and Boundary 1.1. Executive Welcome 7–8 3.5. Defining report content 48 1.2. Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8, 12, 18 3.6. Boundary of the report 48 3.7. Report scope boundary 48 Organizational Profile 3.8. Basis of report 48 2.1. Name of organization 3 3.9. Bases & Data measurement techniques 48 2.2. Brands, products and services 3, 8 3.10. The effect of any re-statements 48 2.3. Structure of the Organization 3, 6 3.11. Significant changes form previous report 48 2.4. Headquarters location 3 2.5. Countries where company operates 3 GRI content index 2.6. Nature of ownership and legal form 4 3.12 Table of disclosures in the report 48 2.7. Markets served 5, 8 2.8. Scale of Organization 5, 8 Assurance 2.9. Operational significant changes 5 3.13. Assurance policy 48 2.1 Awards received 45 – 47 Report Parameters 3.1. Reporting period 48 3.2. Date of recent report 48 3.3. Reporting cycle 48 3.4. Company contact 48 27/08/2014 49 GRI Index Summary Indicator Description Pages Indicator Description Pages Governance, commitments, and engagement Economic Performance indicators Governance Economic Performance 4.1. Governance structure of the organization 11, 12, 13 EC1 Direct economic value generated 4.2. Chair of the highest governance 12, 13 and distributed 18 4.3. Unitarian board structure 13, 14 EC2 Financial implications and risks due to 4.4. Mechanisms of recommendations 11 13 climate change 18 4.5. Compensation and performance 11, 13 EC3 Benefit plan obligations 18 4.6. Ensure conflicts of Interest 13 EC4 Financial Assistance received from 4.7. Board qualifications 11, 13 Government 18 4.8. Statements of mission, values, principles 9, 12, 14 4.9. Procedures for overseeing performance 11 13 Market Presence 4.10. Evaluation highest governance board 11 – 13 EC5 Minimum Wage Standard 18 EC6 Locally-based suppliers 18 Commitments to External Initiatives EC7 Local Hiring 18 4.11. Approach toward company risks 14 – 15 4.12. Economic, environmental, and Indirect Economic Impacts social principals 14 – 15 EC8 Development and Impact of Infrastructure 4.13. Memberships in associations 14 – 15 investments 18 EC9 Significant Indirect economic impacts 18 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14. Stakeholders Environmental Performance Indicators 4.15. Identification and selection of stakeholders Materials 4.16. Stakeholders engagement EN1 Materials usage 4.17. Key topics and concerns EN2 Recycle materials usage 27/08/2014 50 GRI Index Summary Indicator Description Pages Indicator Description Pages Energy EN21 Water discharge by quality and destination' EN3 Direct energy consumption EN22 Waste by type and disposal method EN4 Indirect energy consumption EN23 Significant spills EN5 Energy saved EN24 Hazardous and toxic waste transportation EN6 Product based energy efficient initiatives EN25 Biodiversity on water body EN7 Reduction of indirect energy initiatives Water Product and Services EN8 Water usage EN26 Mitigate environmental impacts 21 EN9 Affected water sources EN27 Packaging materials reclaimed 21 EN10 Volume of water recycled and reused Compliance Biodiversity EN28 Compliance with environmental laws 21 EN11 Operational location in/adjacent to protected areas EN12 Impacts of operation on biodiversity Transport EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN29 Impacts of transportation activities 21 EN14 Biodiversity preservation action 20 EN15 Protected species Overall Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN30 Environmental protection expenditures 21 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Social Performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Employment EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances LA1 Total workforce 25 – 29 EN20 NO,SO, and other significant air emissions LA2 Employee turnover 27 LA3 Employee benefits 24 27/08/2014 51 GRI Index Summary Indicator Description Pages Indicator Description Pages Labor/Management Relations Non-Discrimination LA4 Collective work agreement 8, 24 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and LA5 Notice period regarding operational changes 24 corrective action taken 31 Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Occupational health and safety assembly 24 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining LA7 Rate of work accident, occupational diseases 24 HR 5 Rights of association and collective bargaining 31 LA8 Education and counselling health program 24 LA9 Health and safety topics in collective work 24 Child Labor agreement HR6 Child labor 31 Training and Education LA10 Training for employee 24 Forced and Compulsory Labor LA11 Training program for career development 24 HR7 Significant risk for incidents of forced or LA12 Performance assessment and career development 24 compulsory labor 31 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Security Practices LA13 Employee diversity 23 HR8 HR trainings for security personnel 31 Equal remuneration for Women and Men Indigenous Rights LA14 Basic salary for women and men employee 24 HR9 Rights violation by indigenous people 31 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices Assessment HR1 HR clauses incorporating on agreement and 31 HR10 HR reviews and impact assessments 31 contracts HR2 HR clauses in joint-operation agreements 31 Remediation HR3 HR trainings for employee 31 HR11 HR filed, addressed and resolved 31 27/08/2014 52 GRI Index Summary Indicator Description Pages Indicator Description Pages Society Performance Marketing Communications Local Communities PR6 Programs and tools for adherence to SO1 Local Communities engagement 36,38 laws & standards 34 SO9 Operations with negative impacts 38 PR7 Violation marketing communications 34 SO10 Negative impacts prevention 38 Customer Privacy Corruption PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 34 SO2 Business units analysed for risk related Compliance to corruption 16,38 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with the SO3 Anti-corruption training 16,38 products & services 34 SO4 Actions taken 16,38 Food Processing Sector Supplement Public Policy FP1 Purchased volume percentage SO5 Participation in public policy 17,38 FP2 Purchased volume verified SO6 Contributions to political parties 17,38 FP3 Lost working time percentage Anti-Competitive Behaviour FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness 35 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive FP5 Internationally recognition on food safety behaviour 17,38 management system Compliance FP6 Sales volume of consumer products (lower saturated) SO8 Penalty of ordinances violations 17,38 FP7 Sales volume of consumer products (increased Product Responsibility Performance nutritious) Customer Health and Safety FP8 Communication to consumers (on policy & practices) PR1 Life cycle in health and safety impacts 33 FP9 Animal raised percentages (animal husbandry) PR2 Violation on health and safety impacts of product 34 FP10 Policies & practices (by species & breed type) Product and Service Labelling FP11 Animal raised percentages (per housing type) PR3 Product and service information 34 FP12 Policies & practices, antibiotics, etc PR4 Violation of product and service information 34 FP13 Non-compliance incidents PR5 Practices and customer satisfaction rate 34 27/08/2014 53 GRI Index Summary Indicator Description Pages The 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Human Rights GC HR1 Support & respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 31 GC HR2 No complicit on human rights abuse 31 Labor GC HR3 Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 31 GC HR4 Elimination of forced and compulsory labor 31 GC HR5 Abolition of child labor 31 GC HR6 Elimination of discrimination for employment and occupation 31 Environmental GC EN7 Support to environmental challenge 19 GC EN8 Initiatives to environmental responsibility 19 GC EN9 Encourage the development to environmental friendly 19 Anticorruption GC AC10 Against Corruption 16 27/08/2014 54
