WHERE NEWS GETS ITS NEWS! UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSRwire, LLC February 2014 www.CSRwire.com OVER 2.1 MILLION PAGE VIEWS PER YEAR THE LARGEST REPOSITORY OF VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE RESEARCH IN THE WORLD GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire, LLC February 2014 CSRwire has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since September 1, 2007. This is CSRwire's fifth Communication on Progress and covers the overall approach and practices of the company in alignment with the UN Global Compact principles, with specific reference to the period between January 2013 and February 2014. Contents Page United Nations Ten Principles of the Global Compact 3 Statement from the CEO 4 CSRwire 2013 Highlights 6 About CSRwire – Company Profile 8 About the news Where CSRwire gets the news 11 The CSRwire team that delivers the news 14 How CSRwire distributes the news 17 The impact of the news 19 About CSRwire Integrity 23 Workplace 26 Environment 32 Community 34 Commitments 36 Transparency 37 Contact CSRwire 37 2 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Contents Principle Principle statement CSRwire response number Principle Businesses should support and respect the 1 protection of internationally proclaimed human Page 26 rights. Principle Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Page 27 2 Principle Businesses should uphold the freedom of 3 association and the effective recognition of the Page 31 right to collective bargaining. Principle Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Page 31 4 Principle Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Page 31 5 Principle Businesses should support the elimination of 6 discrimination in respect of employment and Page 30 occupation. Principle Businesses should support a precautionary Page 32 7 approach to environmental challenges. Principle Businesses should undertake initiatives to Page 32 8 promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle Businesses should encourage the development 9 and diffusion of environmentally friendly Page 33 technologies. Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 24 10 3 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Statement of support for the principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations As the leading shareholder and CEO of CSRwire, LLC, I reiterate my vision that CSRwire will become a “platform for innovative revenue sharing applications advancing the ‘CSR Movement’ toward a more economically just and environmentally sustainable society and away from single bottom line capitalism.” I am pleased to present our fifth Communication on Progress, describing the ways in which we apply our core values and commitment to social and environmental responsibility and uphold the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. On behalf of CSRwire, LLC, I commit the Company to providing an annual communication, which updates stakeholders on our progress. Joe Sibilia, CEO February 2014 Message from CSRwire's Editorial Director Through my second year, I'm proud to continue working with a vibrant team making tremendous contributions to creating awareness for corporate responsibility, sustainability and philanthropy, which is helping to drive behavioral change. Almost everything that happens in the sustainability space appears somewhere on CSRwire.com, either through our Press Release service, exclusive content developed by our community of writers, bloggers, professionals and practitioners, or through the external content we highlight through CSRlive. In 2013, we added social media engagement campaigns to our suite of services, rounding out our offerings as a digital media platform. Through innovative Twitter chats, interactive webinars, in depth and provocative blog series and other multimedia content, we're working with our members to constantly shift the needle, ask the tough questions and together tackle our social, environmental and economic challenges. And we've seen demonstrable results assuring us that we're on the right track. Onwards. Aman Singh, Editorial Director February 2014 4 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 WHERE NEWS GETS ITS NEWS! We adopted this tag line in 2010 because, during research that CSRwire undertook with journalists and news partners, this is what they told us! This fits with our reputation as the leading source for news in CSR and sustainability and helps remind us of our responsibility to maintain our news leadership every single day. 5 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire Highlights in 2013 Fostering Social Entrepreneurship: The Gasoline Alley Foundation is a 501[c]3 non-­‐ profit corporation teaching inner city and under privileged persons to be successful entrepreneurs using socially responsible/sustainable business practices while revitalizing inner city neighborhoods. CSRwire is located in the offices of Gasoline Alley and participates in nurturing social enterprises. Our management team helps with the development of the enterprise’s business plan and participates in its execution, evaluation and adjustments. The two recent aspiring social enterprises to participate in the Gasoline Alley experiment are Artifact Cider and Oxifresh. Artifact Cider converts locally harvested agricultural products into value added consumer brands. Their first product will be a ‘hard cider’ from locally harvested organic apples and a local organic farmer and chemist are operating the enterprise. https://www.facebook.com/pages/Artifact-­‐Cider-­‐Project/343356632467300?ref=nf Oxifresh is a franchise providing environmentally safe, non-­‐toxic, biodegradable cleaning products and services operated by a father and son team of Latin immigration. http://www.oxifresh.com/ma/hampden/springfield-­‐carpet-­‐cleaning CSRwire leads with Twitter Chats and Webinars: These stakeholder engagement opportunities were introduced to our members in 2012 and escalated in 2013. With analytics demonstrating our reach, scale and leadership in the CSR and sustainability communities -­‐ millions of impressions, hundreds of thousands of accounts reached, and hundreds of tweets and participants through social media -­‐ we pushed our members -­‐ including Unilever, Nestle Waters North America, Sodexo, Mars, Aramark and many others -­‐ to address their scariest challenges, engage with their stakeholders in an authentic and open forum, and collaborate with us on moving the needle toward sustainable progress. Results were publicly shared and offered critical feedback for organizations. Partnerships for Greater Good: CSRwire partnered with Wildlife Works to promote their work and the REDD+ campaign through two live events as well as original reporting, interviews and social media engagement, drawing attention to the critical area of deforestation and economic inequality. Another partnership included Roca, which outreaches to the community surrounding Gasoline Alley and searches to make contact with young men between the ages of 18-­‐24, which have been convicted of a felony, have not graduated from High School, have not held a job and have little if any positive male influence. Roca begins a long process of 6 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 preparing these individuals for employment. Our management shares their experiences tutoring local youth in our Youth Program and raising awareness for Roca within the csrwire.com community. Expanding Membership: CSRwire membership continues to expand at the rate of 400-­‐ 600 members per year. The diversity of the members; representing activists, journalists, thought-­‐leaders, students and business leaders, highlights the reach of the CSR message and the desire to learn more. We believe in offering our members the best value available anywhere on the Internet for CSR news and distribution services. Community Involvement: Management volunteered over 3,000 hours to the New England Farm Worker's Council. The Council is a Federally approved intermediary training inner city youths that have not graduated from high school, in job preparation. CSRwire executives work with the youths every day during a six-­‐week program. The executives sit quietly with the young men, provide a lesson in workplace protocol, assign a task, review progress and listen to their needs and aspirations in an attempt to place them in a job. Springfield Massachusetts and Gasoline Alley environs in particular experience a high rate of crime, poverty and unemployment and has been recognized as the ‘worst city’ in America. A group of concerned public safety motorcycle enthusiasts approached Gasoline Alley and CSRwire with the intention of locating a club in one of the Foundation’s buildings. Since we are working with challenged youths and aspiring social entrepreneurs that may or may not have had a good relationship with the Police, our management agreed to act as an intermediary between the groups. This effort has significantly stabilized the safety in the neighborhood and given each party a clearer understanding of each other’s needs, aspirations and goals. . 7 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire Profile CSRwire is a digital media platform and the leading source of corporate social responsibility and sustainability, press releases, reports and information, providing the most effective and interactive platform for distributing and archiving news. CSRwire members are companies and NGOs, agencies and organizations that are interested in communicating their corporate citizenship, sustainability, and socially responsible initiatives to a global audience through CSRwire's syndication network, website, social media, and News Alerts. CSRwire's content covers 28 categories including issues of Diversity, Philanthropy, Socially Responsible Investing (SRI), Environment, Human Rights, Sustainability, Business Ethics, Community Development, and Corporate Governance. Services CSRwire's core service is news distribution, supplemented by insights from CSR thought-­‐leaders, book reviews, event promotions, report listings and an interactive forum for exchange of views. CSRwire's services in detail are described below: Membership A CSRwire Membership offers organizations enhanced platforms for showcasing their CSR-­‐related news and activities. Members benefit from a strong presence with leading CSR news and information sites on the Internet, increased visibility through search engine results, and preferential opportunities to be involved in CSRwire initiatives for greater exposure and networking. Press Release/News Distribution Our distribution network is leveraged via a variety of methods: CSRwire.com, CSRwire News Alerts, Social Media Channels, Syndicated Partners and Affiliates, Blogs, Search Engines, RSS Feed, Aggregators, Send to Friend, Archive, Member Profiles, and Social Bookmarking. In addition, CSRwire maintains an active presence on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn, promoting news and insights on these platforms. Through our affiliate partnership network, CSRwire's news is seen online at a growing number of worldwide websites, including Google News, and as one of the top listings on the popular Alltop news aggregator website, delivering a potential readership of millions of viewers. CSRwire also distributes electronic News Alerts to over 58,000 opt-­‐in subscribers. The CSRwire News Alert provides direct delivery of news announcements to journalists at 8 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 major media outlets, investment professionals, NGOs and nonprofits, sustainability and CSR organizations, and corporate CSR officers worldwide. Archiving The CSRwire Archive includes all CSR news issued through CSRwire, enabling browsing by date going back to items published in 1999. We believe this is the largest archive of CSR news available worldwide and ensures companies' CSR news remains available for posterity. CSRwire’s archive is a popular resource with academics and students (14% of our readership). Member profile archives provide a comprehensive look at members' CSR activities over all the years of their CSRwire membership. Event Promotion CSRwire’s event calendar offers one of the most comprehensive lists of events in the CSR space. Many companies and organizations use CSRwire’s distribution service to ensure maximum exposure for CSR-­‐related events. We offer a variety of promotion options including a featured event listing and three featured press releases published sequentially leading up to the event. Report Announcement This service announces CSR Reports, Sustainability Reports, Annual Reports (with CSR content), and any other form of research or industry report relating to CSR or sustainability. The announcement can be a category-­‐specific email blast to targeted CSRwire subscribers signed up to receive news identical to the report’s category, a blast to all subscribers and/or a webinar. Book Release Information and Book Reviews CSRwire’s book release service provides new books with highly visible targeted exposure, with a featured book on the CSRwire book page, as well as a press release to add further promotional value. In addition, CSRwire publishes exclusive reviews of new titles with insights from contributing writers as a free service to authors and to all readers. CSRwire also helps authors gain exposure through popular book-­‐ giveaways: News Alert readers submit an email and are eligible to receive a free book. 9 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRlive This section of CSRwire provides a free-­‐of-­‐charge interactive forum for CSR-­‐related videos, audio/podcasts, and articles. It also includes news digests that put CSR issues into context, with a special focus on activists’ viewpoints and public policy initiatives. CSRwire invites multimedia contributions by businesses, NGOs, CSR professionals, and site users. Contributed content is approved by CSRwire editors before posting to ensure appropriate content and may include audio or video interviews, mini-­‐documentaries, statements, maps and graphs, calls to action, and other educational, CSR-­‐related material. CSRwire Talkback Blog This is the blogging face of CSRwire, inviting CSRwire readers to join the conversation. Thought-­‐leaders, CSRwire contributing writers, members, authors, academics and practitioners share perspectives and insights, and interact with readers. I chose to work in the sustainability industry because of its core values. Tackling complex issues that impact everyone is my idea of pay-­‐it-­‐forward thinking. It gives my work purpose. Gabe Chesman, Social Media Lead 10 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 WHERE GETS THE NEWS The majority of CSR News comes from over 7,850 CSRwire members who submit press releases, notice of report publications, events, book launches, and a host of other multimedia items that interest a wide range of sustainability professionals and the wider CSR-­‐engaged public. Our membership options are as follows: Entry Membership enables members to submit CSR and sustainability news items that will remain searchable via CSRwire’s search engine by member name or keyword. A members' company name is also included on CSRwire's Members page. Profile Membership enables members to submit CSR and sustainability news items. The member organization receives a listing on CSRwire's Members page that links to the member's dedicated CSRwire profile page. This profile page includes the member company's logo, contact information, a brief organization description, a running archive of CSRwire news items published by the member company, and allows for far greater search engine visibility. Also, each CSRwire news item the member company publishes includes a link to this dedicated profile page. Enhanced Membership enables members to submit CSR and sustainability news items. The Enhanced Member receives a listing on CSRwire's Members page that links to the member company's dedicated CSRwire enhanced profile page. This web page includes the member company’s logo, which is rotated on the right hand side of the Members page, contact information, a brief organization description, a running archive of CSRwire news items published by the organization, links to videos and social media, and allows for fully optimized search engine visibility. Also, each CSRwire news item published by the Enhanced Member includes a link to the member's dedicated enhanced profile page. Enhanced Membership showcases even more information about a member's socially responsible commitment and activities. Added benefits include branding tools and six customizable buckets, which can host multimedia items and incorporate RSS feeds. Enhanced Membership also includes a Featured Event listing, Member Spotlight, Executive Spotlight, recognition in a CSRwire Press Release, Report Announcement package, exclusive opportunities to participate in CSRwire-­‐hosted 11 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 webinars and Twitter chats, and one week of Category Sponsorship on any CSRwire category page. Profile and Enhanced Membership options offer significantly reduced fees for non-­‐profit organizations. Reduced fee benefits to non-­‐profits donated by CSRwire amounted almost $3,5000 per month (over $41,000 annualized) on average. Reduced fees for academic institutions such as The Aspen Institute and George Washington University and non-­‐profit organizations such as American Red Cross, Bayer USA Foundation, Coca-­‐Cola Foundation, American Cancer Society, Equal Exchange, Have it Your Way Foundation, Hyundai Hope on Wheels, VolunteerMatch, Western Union Foundation, and Lipscomb University provide an affordable, high-­‐leverage platform to reach and influence a wide audience. These organizations are important bearers of sustainability news and we are happy to assist in making their news accessible to our wide readership. In addition, CSRwire offers newly Certified B Corporations a free press release to announce their Certification and all B Corporations receive a 25% discount on individual CSRwire services and an additional 10% discount on CSRwire packages. Around forty-­‐ five B Corps used this facility in 2013. CSRwire is a certified B Corporation member and is happy to support other B Corporations. Read more about B Corporations here: www.bcorporation.net Similarly, since 2010, CSRwire offers United Nations Global Compact SME members a free press release to announce the publication of their first Communication on Progress. We understand the challenges of reporting for small businesses and are happy to support SME's such as ourselves in spreading the news of their responsible business achievements. Read more about the UN Global compact here: www.unglobalcompact.org 12 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 A Selection of CSRwire's Enhanced Memberships For links to all Member Profiles, see: www.CSRwire.com/members ADDITIONAL SOURCES OF NEWS In addition to receiving news from members, CSRwire brings news analysis to its wide readership. We have massively expanded our original content, adding over 50 writers and bloggers in the last year. We now engage with 275 writers who provide timely, insightful, and informative articles, which supplement news content and enrich readers' use of CSRwire as a comprehensive provider of a wide range of CSR information. SUPPORTING SUSTAINABILITY EVENTS Another way of helping the distribution of CSR news is through the support and media sponsorship of a wide range of sustainability events. CSRwire supports tens of events each year including important platforms such as: SOCAP, Cause Marketing Forum, Social Investment Forum, LOHAS, Bioneers, Net Impact, BSR, Sustainable Life Media, SRI in the Rockies, SVN, and more. For details, see our CSRwire Partners page: www.csrwire.com/members/15763-­‐CSRwire-­‐Partners 13 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 THE TEAM THAT DELIVERS THE NEWS The CSRwire team is driven by a mission. This mission guides us daily and serves as a reminder to all our team of the important work we do and the need to go the extra mile to ensure we get the news and deliver it to the widest possible audience. Leadership CEO Joe Sibilia Joe Sibilia is CEO of CSRwire. He is also the founder and CEO of Meadowbrook Lane Capital (MBLC), described by the Wall Street Journal as a “socially responsible investment bank” specializing in turning values into valuation. Joe founded the Gasoline Alley Foundation, a 501(c)(3) corporation, that has incubated 43 small businesses since 1985 and teaches underprivileged people to be successful entrepreneurs using socially responsible business practices while revitalizing inner city neighborhoods. Through MLBC, Joe has worked with many socially responsible companies and has been widely recognized for his work in attempting to take Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Ice Cream private, while creating a private stock exchange for CSR companies. Joe is a frequent speaker on CSR and sustainability at meetings and conferences. 14 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Team CSRwire has nine full time staff including six women. In addition, the Company employs external contributing writers who write original content for CSRwire as well as a network of 275 bloggers who contribute content to the CSRwire Talkback Blog. Additionally, CSRwire employs external technology developers who support website innovations and maintenance. Every day I am helping to make global improvements. There's no other sector that can provide the same level of enrichment. Stephanie Conzelman, Business Development 15 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire Organization (February 2014) 16 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 HOW DISTRIBUTES THE NEWS 1. News headlines and blog editorials are distributed in the News Alert to our 58,000+ opt-­‐in subscribers each weekday morning. 2. News headlines are published on CSRwire’s homepage, archive page (Press Releases Page, Reports Page etc.), and category pages. 3. News headlines are issued to CSRwire's 45+ Syndicated Partners. 4. News headlines are distributed to direct media contacts. All Standard and Featured News items automatically reach a growing list of global media contacts with an interest in CSR and Sustainability. 5. News items are parsed for social media distribution and engagement to CSRwire's active network of 50,000+ on Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn. CSRwire has three distribution options available for members. Standard News Item A Standard News item is published to CSRwire's homepage under the Breaking Headlines section. It remains there for a few hours depending on the volume of Press Releases published that day. The Standard News item is also published on the Press Releases Archive page, and the archive pages of the two categories it is assigned to. The Standard News item is published in CSRwire's News Alert to our opt-­‐in News Alert subscribers. The News Alert contains all of the previous day's titles. The Standard News item is distributed through CSRwire's Syndicated Partner network. These partners run an RSS feed of CSRwire headlines on their websites. Samples of our Syndicated Partners can be seen on our Distribution page under Syndicated Partner Distribution. 17 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 A small selection of our Syndicated News Distribution Partners here: In addition, members may choose a Featured News Item option, which provides all the reach of the Standard News item with the addition of seven day appearance in the homepage features section publication in five consecutive CSRwire News Alerts and expanded promotion on social media. 18 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 THE IMPACT OF THE NEWS In 2013, CSRwire distributed 4,114 news items, which represents a 10% increase versus 2012 and an almost 60% increase since 2009. Our membership has increased by 84% during the last 4 years. CSRwire Membership Growth 8000 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 10-­‐Dec 11-­‐Dec 12-­‐Dec 13-­‐Dec The most important material impact that CSRwire can have as a result of its wide scope of activities is the delivery of CSR related content and insights to as broad a range of readers as possible, contributing to the change in the way business is done around the globe. It is our objective to provide leverage for companies wishing to gain advantage through promoting their corporate citizenship achievements, as well as for non-­‐profits looking to advance a cause. In doing so, we provide a range of supporting commentary to assist readers to make sense of complex matters and be better placed to become more knowledgeable stakeholders and make more responsible and sustainable decisions. As our reach and volume of content grows, so does our impact. CSRwire membership has grown by almost 27% in the last two years and distributed news items grew by almost 50% in two years, showing that CSRwire members are more active in distributing news as they take advantage of CSRwire's new membership structure. 19 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Additional information about the impact of the reach of CSRwire's news is as follows: • Over 250,000 page views each month • Over 1.7 million unique visitors per year • 200+ countries/territories • 14,500 referral sites link to CSRwire.com • More than 50,000 active opt-­‐in subscribers to the CSRwire News Alert including over 28,000 self-­‐identified CSR professionals, Journalists, Investors, Analysts, Academics, NGOs, and PR Consultants • Syndicated distribution to over 5 different news partners • Over 80,000 individuals and 7,700 organizations can share CSRwire news daily CSRwire achieves a 66 Klout score (February 2014) (Klout measures online influence) http://klout.com/#/csrwire 20 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire on Twitter: www.twitter.com/CSRwire We continue to invest in our Twitter presence and have become an influential member of the Twitter #CSR community. In just over 12 months, we have almost doubled our following. We tweet on average around 40 times a day! 61,000 tweets and 26,900 followers as of December 31, 2013 40,433 tweets and 18,377 followers in December 2012 21,479 tweets and 10,278 followers in September 2011 CSRwire on Facebook: www.facebook.com/CSRwire We continue to invest in our Facebook presence and gained almost 2,000 new fans since our last report. 9,325 fans as of December 2013 5,926 fans as of December 2012 4,054 fans as of September 2011 21 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 HOW ENSURES AN ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATION In this section, we describe how CSRwire does business, with a focus in five core areas of operation: • Integrity: Values, ethics, and business responsibility frameworks to which we adhere; • Workplace: human resources practices and employee care and participation; • Environment: managing our environmental impacts; • Community: contributing to building a strong community, and • Transparency: our approach to reporting. 22 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Integrity Values CSRwire upholds eight Guiding Principles that aid working together in a collaborative culture, and are posted in CSRwire offices as a daily reminder for all. Trust ** Focus ** Honesty ** Collaboration Integrity ** Responsibility ** Unity ** Communication 1) Trust: We operate from a place of trust, assume good will and avoid being judgmental. 2) Focus: We stay focused, strive to be concise, stay on topic and honor time limits. 3) Honesty: We strive to be honest, speaking directly, speaking up when we perceive there is a problem and try to say the “tough stuff” appropriately. 4) Collaboration: We work together to find solutions, honor and appreciate ideas that are not our own, we welcome differences and are committed to each other and the success of the company. 5) Integrity: We try not to speak ill of others, we are accountable and not defensive, we try to improve, and we speak privately and respectfully to any individual with whom we have disagreements. 6) Responsibility: We build credibility by saying what we will do and then doing it, we let people who are depending upon us know what we can and can’t commit to doing, we speak up when there has been a change or delay. 7) Unity: We try not to lose sight of our shared purpose, we don’t discriminate against others and we try to have fun while learning from each other. 8) Communication: We strive to create an open and honest environment for discussion, we encourage everyone to contribute her or his ideas, we take responsibility for how the message is delivered and received, we listen well and are open to new information and ideas. CSRwire is committed to doing business in a way, which prohibits all forms of corruption, extortion, and bribery. CSRwire maintains policies to guide its employees with respect to standards of conduct expected in areas where improper activities could 23 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 damage CSRwire's reputation or that of its stakeholders, and which denounce all forms of corruption, extortion, bribery, or breach of antitrust laws. CSRwire unswervingly upholds the letter of the law both in practice and in spirit in all dealings, and insists on lawful and ethical practices by all employees. Ethics at CSRwire CSRwire maintains an Ethics Policy, which is distributed to all employees upon joining the company and employees are invited to sign a declaration confirming they have received and read the policy, understand all of its terms and agree to be bound by its provisions. All CSRwire employees are aware of this statement and behave accordingly. Being a small organization, most employees have frequent contact with the company's CEO and discuss and consult on potential ethical conflicts as they arise. There have been no breaches of CSRwire's ethics policy during the period covered by the Communication on Progress, and there have been no compliance or ethics issues reported to CSRwire management or legal counsel by current employees or external parties. 24 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire: A CERTIFIED B CORPORATION B Corporations are a new type of corporation, which uses the power of business to solve social and environmental problems. B Corporations are unlike traditional responsible businesses because they: • Meet comprehensive and transparent social and environmental performance standards. • Institutionalize stakeholder interests. • Build collective voice through the power of a unifying brand. Read more about B corporations on the website: www.bcorporation.net. CSRwire became a certified B Corporation in October 2009 after passing a first review by B Corporation auditors. The change we seek is a fundamental transformation in how the world thinks and acts regarding the appropriate uses of money as well as the power and responsibilities money confers on enterprises. By providing a vital nexus and platform for all those involved in the burgeoning discussion about CSR and related topics, we aim to motivate corporate and non-­‐corporate practices that improve the wellbeing of society and the environment. • CSRwire employees are actively engaged in volunteering, philanthropy, community development and environmental stewardship. • CSRwire is committed to adopt sustainable environmental and business practices. • CSRwire is located on “Gasoline Alley”, a chemically contaminated street in Springfield, Massachusetts. We actively participate in helping the Gasoline Alley Foundation support inner city and underprivileged people to become successful entrepreneurs by using responsible and sustainable business practices while revitalizing an abandoned neighborhood. In October 2012, we passed a recertification. Read more about our certification on the B Corporation website: www.bcorporation.net/community/directory/csrwire 25 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Workplace So many organizations are doing amazing things to help their community, employees and environment, it makes me happy to be a part of telling their stories. Kristen Sibilia, Director of Partnership Development At CSRwire, we value people: the owners, employees and independent contractors who invest their knowledge, technical skills, experience, passion and entrepreneurial abilities in CSRwire. Their ever-­‐increasing knowledge enables CSRwire to grow as a business and to expand the concept and practice of employee participation. We believe in working hard, working right, and advancing our social mission, while caring for people, ensuring they have the tools to succeed and paying a living wage while discovering the best ways to broadly share the risks, rewards, rights and responsibilities of good corporate citizenship. We believe that participation and cooperation will give CSRwire the competitive edge needed for continued innovation and growth. In the future, employees will have a financial stake in the firm as entrepreneurs with a vested interest in our future. In this way, CSRwire is confident that it can thrive as a financially successful company providing meaningful work, supporting sustainable communities and enhancing CSR awareness. Upholding Human Rights in our Workplace Practices CSRwire is firmly committed to upholding human rights in all aspects of its business, as well as to promoting the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence, and wide audience around the globe. We believe in the value of all individuals and respect for basic human rights contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and conduct our business in a manner which is consistent with universal values of integrity, respect, fairness and decency, human dignity, peace and social and environmental justice. 26 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 CSRwire promotes awareness of human rights through publication of related news and press releases. In our workplace, many policies and practices support a working environment, which is respectful to all employees and honours their basic rights including: 1. Maintaining a safe, respectful and empowering workplace. 2. Adopting a corporate mission, which promotes social empowerment. 3. Implementing practices necessary to qualify for certification as a B Corp member. 4. Participation in the UN Global Compact and declaring open support for the Global Compact principles. 5. CSRwire's Ethics Policy, which is communicated to and upheld by all employees. There have been no legal claims or lawsuits against the Company in relation to infringement of human rights. Our supply chain is composed largely of small, local suppliers or large services suppliers (such as utilities or telephony companies), which publish Corporate Responsibility Reports as a testimony to their support for responsible and fair business practice. Most CSRwire suppliers are local. CSRwire provides a workplace that is accessible to those with physical disabilities though we do not employ any disabled people at present. CSRwire complies with most of the United States ADA Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG). CSRwire endeavors, wherever possible, to work with minority suppliers and women-­‐ owned businesses. Over 25% of CSRwire's suppliers are located in low-­‐income communities. Employee Privacy CSRwire is committed to upholding the privacy of all personal information relating to employees and does not reveal any such information to third parties. 27 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Rights and Responsibilities of Stakeholders At CSRwire, it is a core principle that all employees should know their rights and that expectations are clearly articulated. CSRwire maintains a comprehensive employee handbook, which is provided to all new employees containing details of terms and conditions of employment and company policies. The Rights and Responsibilities of CSRwire key stakeholders are explicitly laid out in the Employee Handbook: Rights & • Be free of discrimination in the work place. Responsibilities • Provide a fair day of work in exchange for a fair wage. of Employees • Understand and be responsible for the policies of the company. • Have a voice in decisions directly related to their job. • Look forward to advancement based on merit. • Access dispute resolution process of the company. Rights & • Organize, manage, plan, and control the company’s operational affairs. Responsibilities • Fairly evaluate the performance of employees. of Managers • Hire and fire in strict accord with CSRwire policies. and Directors • Expect and honestly participate in annual performance reviews. • Establish and maintain regular procedures, reports, and schedules. • Identify new products, technologies and business opportunities. • Make suitable training and education routinely available to all employees. Rights & • Create strategic plans necessary to implement the Board of Directors Responsibilities goals. of Chairperson • Establish and define the duties of officers and divisional managers. and CEO • Hire, manage, and evaluate the performance of divisional managers. • Oversee the strategic initiatives of the company. • Organize, lead, and facilitate the activities of the Board of Directors. Rights and • Establish the mission, objectives and policies of CSRwire Responsibilities • Select and define the duties, compensation, and performance evaluation of the Board of of the CEO. Directors • Plan for long-­‐term business growth and development. • Review and recommend modifications to the By-­‐laws. • Know and stay current on laws that may affect the company. 28 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Employee Participation: Equitable Decision-­‐making Our fundamental business philosophy supports more equitable distribution of decision-­‐ making, and this is demonstrated by CSRwire practice. CSRwire employees will have the potential to become employee shareholders. In 2011, CSRwire's Board of Directors agreed to assign up to 15% of its share ownership for employees and some external stakeholders as a way of demonstrating even greater commitment to the rights and benefits of employees for the long term. Employee Compensation: Paying a living wage We firmly believe that the right to a living wage should be supported by all businesses. CSRwire tries to pay a competitive livable family wage. In most cases, salaries are set at or near compensation for the same or similar work in other companies in Springfield, MA and the USA. CSRwire's lowest paid employee is paid $15.00 per hour, 88% higher than the minimum wage in MA, which is $8.00. Employee Evaluation and Feedback: Supporting Performance Each staff member is given the opportunity for an annual formal performance evaluation with his or her manager. Employees also have the opportunity to feedback to their managers about aspects of their performance, which supports or hinders delivering outstanding performance. This complements more frequent reviews of performance, which take place on a weekly or monthly basis in regular working sessions. Last year, 100% of CSRwire’s staff participated in a formal performance evaluation. Employee Communications and Internal Transparency As a small business, all staff and key internal and external stakeholders are informed of what's happening at CSRwire on a regular and informal basis. However, we feel it is important to maintain a formal structure for communications to ensure full internal transparency. CSRwire holds monthly meetings for all staff, where business results are presented and discussed, alongside all other current issues. There are also a minimum of four “Town Hall” meetings per year, which are held at CSRwire headquarters in Springfield, MA, for the purpose of celebrating our progress and to enable knowledge sharing and interaction with many of CSRwire’s remote staff members, investors, and stakeholders. 29 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Employee Safety, Health and Well-­‐Being CSRwire is committed to maintaining a workplace, which is healthy and safe for all employees, free of violence and harassment. We believe this is one of the most basic rights of employees in our workplace. There were no workplace lost-­‐time accidents recorded during 2012. We support the well being of our employees by providing homey, spacious, and personally decorated office accommodation with good lighting and fresh air. Every staff member is set up to work remotely (through company laptop computers and cell phones) and any staff member may work from home or on the road, by prior arrangement, for personal reasons or in the course of regular business. Employee Learning and Training: Developing Skills CSRwire is committed to supporting the ongoing learning and skill development of its team. While the Company does have a formal training program on its own systems, all employees are also encouraged to develop their learning and skills in several ways: • In depth, on-­‐the-­‐job training, supported by the company CEO and other experienced CSRwire employees. • Opportunities to assume more challenging assignments, with relevant focused training. • Attendance at training events to meet specific identified needs. Employee-­‐learning needs are identified and / or requested in annual performance evaluations and CSRwire addresses these as far as possible. I’m helping to change the way the world does business.” Jack Wysocki, VP, Business Development Non-­‐discrimination CSRwire maintains a strict anti-­‐discrimination policy, encouraging a culture and practice of diversity, inclusion and openness within the company. CSRwire hires without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation or belief, disability, age, or sexual preference. The overall effectiveness of CSRwire begins with our ability to attract and to select individuals who have the desire and potential to become owner -­‐ entrepreneurs. 30 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Collective Bargaining As a small privately owned company, this principle is not directly relevant to CSRwire. Similarly, CSRwire does not engage any significant suppliers of a size so significant that could present a risk for abuse of the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. However, CSRwire's business approach is one of involvement and consultation and sharing of rights and benefits. CSRwire staff and key stakeholders are invited to attend a monthly meeting where financial results are shared and discussed, and other topics are raised as appropriate. Employees are provided with an Employee Handbook, which provides extensive details regarding their rights and benefits. Management responds to all questions raised by employees about such matters quickly. None of CSRwire employees are represented by an independent trade union and there have been no requests to management for such representation. Forced Labor All CSRwire employees are hired of their own free will, after receiving an offer of employment and which is formalized in a memo of agreement. This agreement is executed between each employee and the company as a symbol of the joint intent to cooperate and work together to achieve mutual satisfaction. We do not knowingly engage with suppliers or customers who engage in the practice of forced labor. Child Labor As a small privately owned company, this principle is not directly relevant to CSRwire. No children are employed at CSRwire and the nature of the work at CSRwire would not be suitable for children. Given the nature of CSRwire's modest supply chain, made up largely of local services and equipment suppliers, the likelihood of child labor risk is low. Sustainability means to live within our means, both as a planet, and as a society, assuring future generations of a better way of life. Michael O’Connor, Vice President, Business Development 31 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Environment As a small business operating a virtual news distribution platform, we consider our direct environmental impacts to be insignificant and not material for our stakeholders. Our prime role and impact is our contribution to changing the way business gets done through disseminating information and raising awareness. Nonetheless, as an organization, we endeavor to maintain environmentally responsible practices. For the first time this year, we have calculated our Carbon Footprint, as a further demonstration of our commitment to measure and manage our impacts. Carbon Footprint In the twelve months of 2013, we used approximately 3,100 Kwh of purchased electricity in our Springfield offices, and we have flown 8,400 miles doing CSRwire business. We calculate our Carbon Footprint to be 3.97 tonnes of CO2, a very modest impact by any standards. This is made up of: • 1.80 tonnes of CO2 for our electricity consumption • 2.17 tonnes of CO2 for our flights (based on the equivalent of 4 medium-­‐haul return flights in the U.S.) We used the Carbon Footprint Calculator to make our calculations. www.carbonfootprint.com Recycle We regularly recycle paper, plastic, aluminum, and ink cartridges used in our offices. Reuse Almost all our furniture is second-­‐hand, and some furniture is made from recycled materials. All paper used in our offices is produced using over 70% post-­‐consumer waste. The building housing CSRwire offices was formerly an old warehouse, which CSRwire has made significant efforts to renovate, as well as improving the surrounding areas. Renovations are primarily completed with used or recycled materials. Reduce Employees are encouraged to turn off lights and computer equipment and responsibly use HVAC systems. Similarly, employees are encouraged to carpool and ride public transportation or bicycles to and from work. The company CEO rides his bicycle to and 32 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 from work on most days, or walks. Business travel has been reduced significantly through the use of virtual communication and conferencing. In 2010, CSRwire completed a lighting retrofit in the company's rented office premises in which all lighting with more efficient bulbs and motion sensors with timers in all of CSRwire offices were installed. Environmental News CSRwire is a strong supporter of environmental causes and promotes related news and press items through CSRwire's extensive news network. CSRwire news categories include Clean Technology and Green Products and Services and many commentaries cover environmental issues. I am driven by the realization we are all on this one planet Earth together and working together in a collaborative, sustainable manner is a win-­‐win for all of us. Ann Stockbridge, Director of Operations. 33 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Community Employee Contribution to Local Communities and Non-­‐Profits CSRwire is committed to being a part of the local community in which we live and work, helping to reinforce the community fabric around us and of which we are a part. CSRwire's offices are located in a federally designated low-­‐income area, and this serves to remind us of our responsibility towards our community on a daily basis. Our community support is comprised of the following elements: Discounted Rates for Non-­‐Profits and Small Businesses: CSRwire provides the possibility of news dissemination via all CSRwire channels at discounted rates for a wide range of non-­‐profit organizations and small businesses, making these services more accessible to advance awareness of social and environmental causes and encourage small business economic development. Cash Support for The Gasoline Alley Foundation: Each year, CSRwire renews its commitment to the Gasoline Alley Foundation with thousands of dollars' contribution. CSRwire employee volunteering: CSRwire employees are encouraged to participate on a volunteer basis in community programs and specifically programs organized by the Gasoline Alley Foundation, and most employees take part. Volunteering is permitted on company-­‐time (paid hours) by prior arrangement. In addition, CSRwire Management participates on non-­‐profit national and international boards as trustees and governors. 34 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 www.gasolinealleyfoundation.org Our Continued Support for the Gasoline Alley Foundation The Gasoline Alley Foundation (GAF), is a 501(c)(3) corporation that has incubated over forty small businesses and teaches inner city and underprivileged people to be successful entrepreneurs using socially responsible and sustainable business practices while revitalizing inner city neighborhoods. CSRwire CEO Joe Sibilia founded the Foundation in 1985. GAF's vision is the evolution of responsible and sustainable businesses. GAF is currently developing a curriculum to train individuals in entrepreneurship with a concentration in socially responsible business practices that will begin at the high school level. The Gasoline Alley Foundation believes job creation is the most effective means of both economic and community development. In short, socially responsible business practices are the strongest economic model for sustainability. Consequently, GAF focuses its efforts in socially responsible entrepreneurship education. CSRwire supports the Gasoline Alley Foundation financially and through CSRwire employee volunteering. A significant portion of CSRwire's overall community giving is through the Gasoline Alley Foundation and its programs. Each month CSRwire makes a donation to the Gasoline Alley Foundation so they can continue their good works in the community. CSRwire LLC contributed over $7,200 to the Gasoline Alley Foundation in fiscal 2011. Employees of CSRwire LLC volunteered 800 hours at the Gasoline Alley Summer Youth Program and 400 hours to support Gasoline Alley Foundation member organizations. 35 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Commitments CSRwire maintains its commitment to acting in alignment with the United Nations Global Compact Principles. In our last report, we established a set of goals. Here is our update: 2013 Goals 2013 Progress 2014 Goals Expand our range of Added Twitter Chats and Webinars Add new social media products and services to to our product offerings and products to promote CSR provide improved value for increased membership and reach practices to a global members, while growing our through social media. audience while increasing membership and reach. membership with focus on college population. Implement our share It was postponed to 2014-­‐2015 Implement share ownership plans in 2013. due to new priorities including ownership plans in 2014. adding new manpower, redoing our memberships and researching potential board members. Maintain our commitment to We continue to work closely with Maintain our commitment Gasoline Alley and its Gasoline Alley as discussed in our to Gasoline Alley and its member organizations. 2013 highlights, promoting social member organizations. entrepreneurship among disadvantaged youth. Maintain or reduce our Redesign of office space at Continue to evaluate, electricity consumption Springfield offices allowed for monitor and update levels in 2013. more efficient lighting use and energy consumption use reduced electricity consumption. throughout 2014. Maintain or reduce our We have calculated our carbon Maintain or reduce our carbon footprint in 2014. footprint and published the result carbon footprint in 2014. in this report. Increased use of Conference Call and digital meeting software to reduce need of automobile and airplane travel. Maintain our ethical Developing an Editorial Policy and Formalize the Editorial approach and processes in Board to promote the highest Policy and Board, and hold 2014. integrity in publications hosted on initial meeting. CSRwire. 36 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 Transparency This Communication on Progress is posted on the UNGC website and freely available for all to view. CSRwire’s COP is available to download from the reports section on CSRwire.com. Internally, we will provide an electronic copy of this Communication on Progress to all employees and reconfirm to them the importance of CSRwire's participation in the UNGC. We encourage employees to familiarize themselves with the principles, the way in which CSRwire upholds the principles, and our future targets. Additionally, we issue a Press Release using CSRwire's extensive distribution network, together with a News Alert to all CSRwire subscribers announcing the publication of our Communication on Progress. We hope, modestly, that other small businesses, with limited resources such as ourselves, will view our Communication on Progress and gain inspiration from our example of how small businesses can be more responsible and transparent corporate citizens. About this Communication on Progress This Communication on Progress covers the period January 2013 / February 2014. All data references in this document are for this period unless otherwise stated. This COP has been approved and endorsed by Joe Sibilia, CEO, CSRwire. Aman Singh Aman@CSRwire.com Editorial Director Office: 802-­‐251-­‐ CSRwire LLC 0110 250 Albany Street Fax: 413-­‐785-­‐1238 Springfield, MA www.CSRwire.com 01105 United States 37 CSRwire, LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | February 2014 WHERE NEWS GETS ITS NEWS! UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSRwire, LLC February 2014 www.CSRwire.com OVER 2.1 MILLION PAGE VIEWS PER YEAR THE LARGEST REPOSITORY OF VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE RESEARCH IN THE WORLD 38
