TM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress TM GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress TABLE OF CONTENTS Communication on Progress November 8, 2014 EXECUTIVE LETTER CORPORATE PROFILE COMPANY HISTORY PROMOTING THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 & 2 : Protection of human rights LABOR RIGHTS Principle 3 : Freedom of association and collective bargaining Principle 4 : No forced or compulsory labor Principle 5 : No child labor Principle 6 : Eliminate discrimination ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Precautionary approach to challenges Principle 8 : Promote greater responsibility Principle 9 : Develop and diffuse environmentally-friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 : No corruption, extortion and bribery GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress EXECUTIVE LETTER November 8, 2014 Dear Stakeholders, This year marked an exciting milestone for our company, as Act Global celebrated a decade in business. Throughout the past ten years, we have seen the synthetic turf market grow tremendously, driven by environmental factors, urbanization, water shortages, and heightened attention to safety and performance. The opportunities for artificial turf to enhance land use are expanding, and to meet these needs requires constant product development, responsible business practices, advocacy and education. It is our goal to be a leader in promoting responsible industry practices. With a focus on continually shaping our business to meet the market’s needs, we take care to do so in an environmentally-conscious manner. For Act Global to be truly sustainable, we must simultaneously maintain a profitable business, be conscious of staff and company needs, be forward thinking in our green technology, and prevent detrimental harm to the environment. To further our environmental commitment, we have begun to pursue ISO 14001 Environmental Certification. This will be the seventh year that Act Global is a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact. It our responsibility and privilege to maintain honest, positive business practices, and the principles set forth by the United Nations Global Compact will continue to guide our future decision-making. With the help of our staff and partners around the world, we look forward to what we can accomplish together in the next ten years. Best Regards, Chris Clapham and John Baize Managing Directors TM Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress TM CORPORATE VALUES OUR TEAM | Be More. Worldwide network of partners and staff embodies commitment to customer care, timely service and integrity. TECHNOLOGY | Innovate More. As one of the A vision to anticipate market needs and growing trends WORLD’S LARGEST pushes us to continually advance our products. producers of synthetic turf, we take quality SERIOUSLY. GLOBAL OUTREACH | Give More. Our mission to BE MORE is engrained It is our privilege to support charitable and world aid in every facet of our business to best organizations locally and around the world. serve the market, our customers and planet. What sets Act Global apart is our commitment to research, development, testing and staying at the forefront of technology. ENVIRONMENT | Protect More. Act Global invests in maintaining sustainable business practices and enhancing green-friendly technologies. Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Act Global has production and sales representation AROUND THE WORLD. We are an innovation driven company that designs and manufactures worldclass synthetic turf systems for sports, landscaping, aviation and Manufacturing facilities on 3 continents landfill cover. Installations in over 70 countries INDUSTRY LEADER 4 FIFA Preferred Producer for Football Turf ISO 9001 QUALITY 4 Certified Synthetic Turf Council Manufacturer Act Global maintains state of the art operations, 4 IRB Preferred Turf Producer (International Rugby Board) strict quality controls, reporting and annual audits 4 FIH Certified (International Hockey Federation) to be certified to international ISO 9001 Quality standards. To ensure each order is of the highest 4 ISO 9001 Quality Certification quality, our team manually inspects every turf roll 4 ASTM International Member coming out of production. 4 Stable financial condition 4 Complete ASTM, UV and Lisport Durability testing 4 Worldwide industry and charitable partnerships WE SUPPORT Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 6. Obtain client and user 1. Vision to Performance based feedback, and adjust product strategy accordingly anticipate market needs and trends product development, VERIFIED BY TESTING. 5. Independent 2. Dedicated laboratory and research and field testing development We are constantly adapting and facilities innovating to stay at the forefront of artificial turf technology. 4. Turf system design based on natural 3. Source the grass benchmarks finest raw materials and market needs and suppliers INDUSTRY LEADING SYNTHETIC TURF PRODUCT LINES ™ Synthetic turf capping system offers protection for longterm cover of landfills. LABORATORY AND FIELD TESTS Artificial aviation turf enhances safety and operations for airports. CONFIRM PERFORMANCE Our products meet or exceed the guidelines of international TM organizations such as FIFA, FIH, IRB, FIFA, ASTM and ISO. Our FIFA Quality sports turf has been used in community 4 Material properties fields to elite professional stadia around the world. 4 Artificial weathering (UV, water, wind) 4 Lisport durability tested up to 140,000 lisport cycles 4 Field quality, performance and safety testing Artificial grass provides natural looking, low-maintenance includes ball behavior, abrasion, friction, traction, landscape solution. foot stability, shock absorption Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress We understand and address the need for PLAYER SAFETY. Millions of children and athletes participate in sports every year, which promotes physical health, self-esteem, teamwork, social skills and leadership ability. Yet injuries are common, and player safety must be a top priority. CHILDREN WHO PLAY SPORTS: THE MOST COMMON INJURIES ARE: 4 1 IN 3 are injured seriously enough to miss practices or games, and some suffer life-long consequences. 4 163,670 visited emergency departments last year for concussions—that’s 1 CHILD every 3 MINUTES. 4 47% of them were ages 12-15 Sprains (33%) Fractures (18%) Bruises and Internal Organ Injuries Abrasions (16%) & Concussions (12%) According to a study by A PROVEN SOLUTION FIFA, 41% of player injuries can be related to fatigue. A FIFA quality playing surface, combined with proper training and safety precautions, can have a significant impact on minimizing SYNTHETIC TURF vs. NATURAL TURF injuries. When choosing Act Global, a customer TM is selecting a turf system which is: In a fatigue level test conducted by FIFA: 4 Test results show no significant differences 4 Built to the highest standards between players on artificial and natural turf 4 Tested against natural grass benchmarks 4 No increase in injury incidence when football 4 Confirmed start to finish quality control (soccer) is played on FIFA QUALITY artificial 4 Verified by independent field tests and turf compared to natural grass. FIFA 1 or 2 STAR certification GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress COMPANY HISTORY About Act Global Promoting the United Nations 4 Founded in February 2004 as Global Sports Systems Global Compact 4 Management team with extensive industry experience in each functional area We are proud to call ourselves partners with the 4 Sales in over 70 countries through exclusive United Nations Global Compact. We hope to inspire distribution partners others to make a difference in the world by administer4 Excellent reputation for quality, strong ing the principles of the Global Compact in their own relationships, integrity and expertise business. 4 Worldwide industry and charitable partnerships 4 We will maintain a current copy of our latest 4 Only company holding all four certifications Communication on Progress archived on our —FIFA Preferred Producer for Football Turf, company website www.ActGlobal.com, for the IRB Preferred Producer, Synthetic Turf Council public to view and download. Certified Manufacturer and ISO 9001 4 We display the United Nations Global Compact 2014 CORPORATE MILESTONES logo in our marketing materials and efforts 4 Celebrated 10 years in business 4 Act Global is committed to building personal 4 Achieved status as IRB Preferred Producer relationships with customers, and promoting 4 Received Georgia GLOBE Award for bridging new our support of the Global Compact through international markets these relationships. 4 Installed 100th FIFA Certified installation 4 Joined ASTM International Committee 4 Supplied artificial turf for FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup 4 Completed new FIFA Goal projects in Africa 4 Installed first ever aviation turf logo application to Abu Dhabi International Airport GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Overview of Global Compact Communication on Progress # Principle Implemented Comment No issues 1-2 Human Rights Yes -Support to CARE Labor Rights Freedom of association No issues 3 and collective bargaining Yes Labor Rights No forced or compulsory No issues 4 Yes labor ISO 9001 Certification No issues Support to World Vision 5 Labor Rights No child labor Yes Field donation to non-profit Colombian youth group No issues 6 Labor Rights Eliminate discrimination Yes -Support of World Vision Micro Loan Program Contributions to water saving and environmentallyEnvironment – Precautionary friendly technologies 7 approach to challenges Yes ISO 14001 Certification plan in place -Support of Conservation International Environment – Promote greater responsibility 8 Yes LEED credit education Environment – Develop and diffuse LiteEarth environmental solutions 9 environmentally-friendly technologies Yes 10 Anti-Corruption Yes No issues GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS employees are offered medical insurance benefits. We Principles 1 and 2 foster an open culture by encouraging regular communication amongst employees. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS HUMAN RIGHTS human rights and make sure that they are not ORGANIZATIONS complicity in human rights abuses. Act Global annually contributes to CARE, a humanitarian organization that ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: fights global poverty in part by providAct Global advocates human rights and equal oping economic opportunities to women portunities worldwide. We display posters and have in particular. Our goal with CARE is to educational materials available for all employees provide resources needed for survival in the hands of regarding the Occupational Safety & Health Associathose individuals most adept to make a change in their tion, Employee Rights and Workers Compensation. We immediate community. The donations are distributed maintain a comfortable, safe and professional working to women, mothers, and wives who are able to provide environment for our employees and partners. Full-time value to their families and friends while developing a sense of empowerment. MEASUREMENT: We have implemented feedback systems to allow employees to express any concerns or comments to leadership. With regular communication and proper training of business ethics we confirm no human rights are violated. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should uphold the elimination of association and the effective recognition of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. the right to collective bargaining. ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Act Global upholds a zero tolerance policy to all forms ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: of forced and compulsory labor. To avoid miscommuAct Global continues to uphold the freedom of associanication regarding labor expectations, responsibilities, tion and the effective recognition of the right to colwages, and schedules are formally outlined for each lective bargaining. We do not discriminate on grounds employee. We openly invite employees to provide of membership in a labor union. Act Global fosters an feedback and suggestions, and treat all our worldwide open environment and welcomes open dialogue and partners with the same open courtesy and respect. association among team members, without interference from our management. ACT GLOBAL RECERTIFIED FOR ISO 9001 WITH ZERO COMPLIANCE ISSUES MEASUREMENT: To achieve ISO 9001 recertification, an independent, Our company policies clearly indicate our compliance third-party audit found zero complicance issues in the with these issues. Act Global will engage open disareas of manufacturing quality, labor practices, employcussions and formal reviews of work environment to ee training processes and customer service. ensure these policies are continually met. “For a company to truly achieve a culture of quality, it takes team members with skill, commitment and passion to make it happen,” said Fred Gregg, quality manager of Act Global. “We maintain open lines of communication and a comfortable working environment to motivate employees and encourage both individual and company growth.” MEASUREMENT: International partners and employees undergo an interview process to ensure they can comply with our company standards and those set forth by the United Nations Global Compact. ISO 9001 holds company accountable via a third party audit. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress LABOR STANDARDS continued... Principle 5 thriving, sustainable economy. Act Global has donated several micro loans, which have enabled recipients in Ethiopia and Mexico to purchase farming oxen and supBusinesses should uphold the effective plies to expand production and support their families. abolition of child labor. According to the World Vision website, a $100 micro loan can provide $7,150 of economic impact to a comACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: munity over 10 years. Child labor is cruel and inhumane and our company does not tolerate this type of behavior. All of our emWITH NEW SYNTHETIC TURF PITCH, ployees are hired within the legal working age and do COLOMBIAN YOUTH TURN FROM VIOLENCE so by consent of both parties. We establish a comfortable working environment to ensure our employees’ TO FOOTBALL happiness. Act Global lends support to World Vision, a Christian humanitarian organization dedicated to working with children, families and their communities worldwide to reach their full potential by tackling the causes of poverty and injustice. ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS WORLD VISION MICRO LENDING PROGRAM In the particularly marginalized and violent area of Cazuca, Colombia, young people for years have turned to gangs, drugs and outlaw groups to fill their free time. Now, thanks to non-profit Tiempo de Juego and their new synthetic turf pitch, children are finding inclusion on the football field instead of the streets. Together Act Global and Colombian installation partner helped Tiempo de Juego achieve their dream project, by donationg a brand new artificial turf playing surface. The World Vision Micro Loan program takes a holistic approach to combat the root causes of poverty, by Using football as a tool for physical activity and value providing a path to a self-sustaining income. The micro formation, combined with cultural and educational loans help entrepreneurs establish business, create programs, Tiempo de Juego has begun to change lives. jobs, and develop infrastructure in regions which have Through the game of football, the non-profit teaches historically struggled with access to basic resources. principles of team work, fair play, tolerance, gender eqOnce repaid, the loans are then redistrubted to another uity, and respect, while giving them a safe and positive entrepreneur in the same community, creating a ripple place to play. effect to help break the cycle of poverty and build a GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress LABOR STANDARDS continued... We treat every person, in every regional market, with a mutual respect. With this understanding between MEASUREMENT: our valued stakeholders and Act Global we are able Our hiring guidelines and practices clearly outline our to develop an open line of communication and acceppolicies against child labor. We implement a strict tance. We do not discriminate against race, color, sex, evaluation process when working with outside supplireligion, political opinion, national extraction, social ers and partners to ensure their practices align with origin, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status, trade union these standards. membership, and sexual orientation. Our employees and contractors are hired based on their skills and ability to do the job. Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS ANTI-BULLYING respect of employment and occupation. BEN COHEN STANDUP FOUNDATION Act Global has made a donation to the Ben Cohen ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: To be a successful global company, Act Global accepts and embraces diversity. We believe in building lasting, honest relationships, and our worldwide network of partners and suppliers in over 70 countries are truly an extension of the Act Global family. We also have offices stationed in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, France, Poland, Cyprus, and Texas, Arizona and Georgia, USA. StandUp Foundation and joined the anti-bullying and anti-discrimiation movement. The mission of the Ben Cohen StandUp Foundation is to increase awareness of the long-term, damaging effects of bullying and raise funds to support those doing real-world work to stop it. Founded by former England rugby player Ben Cohen and driven by principles of acceptance and tolerance, the Foundation promotes inclusion for all, regardless of race, gender, culture or sexual orientation. MEASUREMENT: We will maintain documentation of all complaints and issues. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Sustainabile practices at Act Global: Businesses should support a precautionary SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING approach to environmental challenges. 4 Established recycling program at our manufacturing facilities reclaim every by product of turf ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: production fibre, turf, backing, cardboard, For Act Global to be truly sustainable, we must simulplastic and wood. taneously maintain a profitable business, be conscious 4 Segregated waste facilities to facilitate recycling. of employee and company needs, be forward thinking and innovative in our green technology, and prevent 4 Responsibly sourced raw materials. harm to the environment. We strive to ensure that the 4 Detailed records of environmental testing for environmental impact of all our activities is minimised, lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, while balancing the needs of stakeholders, partners, toxicity, EOX and DOC. employees and our communities to ensure complete 4 Implementing robust inventory and project satisfaction throughout. tracking process to minimise waste and improve efficiencies ACT GLOBAL PURSUES ISO 14001 4 “Switch Off” labels on all electrical equipment, ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION independent A/C units and light switches. 4 Replacing IT equipment at end of life with energy Act is eager to continually improve its susstar rated equipment tainable practices and has made the deci4 Low energy lighting sion to pursue ISO 14001 Certification. The Act Sustainability & Energy Strategy will be made up of a number of phases to roll out sequentially to maximise efficiency and best fit into the business plan. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT continued... SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIPS ACTIONS TAKEN & ACHIEVEMENTS: 4 Provide ongoing monetary support to environmental In addition to pursuing ISO 14001 Certification, Act organization Conservation International Global regularly communicates to its stakeholders and the public regarding the importance of environmental 4 Participate in environmental causes such as soundness, best practices in energy and resource efCarbonfund.org’s Million Tree Challenge ficiency, waste reduction, renewable resources, and the 4 Engage with local communities, such as local use of cleaner production. football team sponsorship When general contractors and architects purchase and install our synthetMEASUREMENT: ic turf products they can gain LEED Detailed records of all our environmental testing for credits. Established by the US Green lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, toxicity, Builders Council, the Leadership in Environmental EOX and DOC. We confirm these results to the general Design (LEED) organization designates products as public by placing labels on all our artificial turf rolls. We “green friendly” by obtaining points through environare beginning to monitor energy consumption to benchmentally-conscious organizations. mark and improve company use. Act Global also continues to support environmental organizations such as Conservation International. Principle 8 MEASUREMENT: Act Global makes measurable monetary donations to global environmental organizations. Records of LEED Undertake initiatives to promote greater credit projects, energy consumption and water conenvironmental responsibility. sumption maintained. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT continued... MEASUREMENT: LiteEarth can reduce carbon footprint by 80% over Principle 9 traditional landfill covers. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Principle 10 Based on feedback from partners, industry affiliations Businesses should work against corruption in and with a focus on sustainability, Act is committed to research and development to expand our green-friendly all its forms, including extortion and bribery. technologies. ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Act Global does not condone any form of corruption, 4 Our patent-pending synthetic grass liner called extortion and bribery. With clear lines of communicaLiteEarth is used for long-term closure of landfills tion we confirm that we only work with those individuals and coal ash sites. LiteEarth protects the and companies that share the same value systems as environment by trapping landfill gases, Act Global. It is our policy to limit the amount of gifts conserving natural resources, saving water that can be given or received by an employee or profesand offering a lower carbon footprint. It also sional partner. We do not tolerate corruption or bribery eliminates the use of environmentally damaging in any shape or form. fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides and mower exhausts required for natural grass maintenance. 4 We are conducting ongoing research and development for offering products with MEASUREMENT: Any policy or ethical violation that is detected by an greater recyclability. employee is immediately reported to management and documented. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Act Global’s products and services are available through a distribution network in over 70 countries. HEAD OFFICE | AMERICA EUROPE ASIA | MIDDLE EAST | AFRICA 4201 West Parmer Lane Dinxperlosestraatweg 50 P.O. BOX 53191 Suite B 175 7122 AH Aalten Limassol 3301 Austin, Texas 78727 USA The Netherlands Cyprus SALES OFFICE USA Arizona, Georgia and Texas ASIAChina EUROPE Netherlands, United Kingdom, France, Poland and Cyprus W W W. AC T G L O B A L . C O M | E M A I L : i n fo @ a c t g l o b a l . c o m | P H O N E : + 1. 51 2 . 7 3 3 . 5 3 0 0
