GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 A Letter from Jeff Immelt Today’s world is volatile and complicated. The particularly through our ecomagination and To succeed as a global world’s population is on pace to reach 9 billion healthymagination commitments, are solving business, we need to help people by 2050. Three-quarters of those indidevelopment challenges in ways that are viduals will live in cities. And the middle class practical, responsible and tailored to local build the communities will soon include an additional 1 billion people needs. And ﬁnally GE’s philanthropy, advocacy where we operate. We from emerging economies. Demand is rising and employee volunteers are helping to make for improved infrastructure; reliable, clean progress in communities around the world. know this goes hand in and affordable energy; and high-quality and accessible healthcare. As in previous years, this report covers a wide hand with our ability to range of topics, from greenhouse gas emisgrow. At GE, we call this This is where GE goes to work. As I outlined in sions and water use to revenues and supply my shareowners letter this year, GE’s strength chain audits. The bulk of the report is focused sustainability: aligning lies in our ability to look at what the world on how GE works to help solve problems for our business strategy to needs, combine it with our belief in a better our customers and society through innovation way and then drive to invent and build better and operational excellence. meet societal needs, while futures for our customers and communities. As we work in 2014 and beyond, we are minimizing environmental At GE, this sustainability approach is embedded focused on minimizing our footprint while impact and advancing in the way we work with employees, custommaximizing our impact — helping to solve some ers, suppliers and investors; the technology of the world’s toughest challenges in infrasocial development. we create; and the philanthropic partnerships structure, transport, healthcare and energy. we support. GE’s business is fundamentally about people — great people, operating safely and with the highest standards of integrity and Jeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO, GE environmental protection, set our Company apart. The technologies we’re developing, 2 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 Sustainability at GE As a 130-year-old technology company, sustainability is embedded in GE’s culture and our business strategy. We all know that the world faces signiﬁcant of leaders from human resources, environment, challenges. For many, fuel, water, food and raw health and safety (EHS), communication, govmaterials are already in short supply, yet the ernment and public policy, investor relations, need and aspirations for more goods and serecomagination, the GE Foundation and the SEC vices are growing. Communities need to build reporting team to guide our strategy. Chaired resilient infrastructure in order to prosper, as by the Vice President of EHS, the group meets well as access infrastructure such as transperiodically to review stakeholder feedback, portation that moves people and products, social trends and our reporting framework. power that energizes them, and healthcare These inputs are then reﬂected back into our to cure people. All of this requires innovation programs and discussed with GE’s executive to reduce cost (including the environmental management as needed. GE is helping to improve the way the cost), improve quality, and provide access to world works. the products, services and jobs needed for a We are mindful to provide progress updates in a better life. These needs closely align with GE’s simple, easy-to-use format. Again, we reached business strategy, and working to solve some out to our stakeholders to gain their perspecof the world’s biggest challenges inspires our tives on how we might best convey our progress. thinking and drives our actions. In our 2013 Based on their responses, we have structured Sustainability Highlights, we describe our work our content to reﬂect how sustainability is to make a difference in the way we operate embedded in our core business strategy; in how our business, in the marketplace, and through we work, in the products we make and how our broader involvement in society. we make them, and in the difference we make in communities around the world. We have worked hard to “operationalize” sustainability at GE with all our functions. Our 2013 Sustainability Highlights are supSustainability is embedded in core initiatives plemented by the GE Sustainability website, such as ecomagination, healthymagination and which details our ongoing programs in these our governance processes, and is led by teams areas, as well as our long-term goals and with deep subject matter expertise. In 2012, annual performance metrics. GE formed a Sustainability Steering Committee 3 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 How GE Works Leading by Example career-long learning at GE. We deliver learning GE’s business is experiences on this campus, and online — fundamentally about GE’s commitment to employee developanywhere in the world. In fact, some of our ment is built on our strong, inclusive culture best classrooms are not rooms at all. people: our employees, of collaboration, experiential learning and meritocracy. We believe that when one Sustainability is an important theme in key our customers, person grows and improves, we all grow and leadership programs. In our 2013 Business our investors and improve — and together, we all rise. As a result Management Course, participants visited and of this commitment, GE invests signiﬁcantly in found ways to support local women-owned the members its employees, spending more than $1 billion businesses as part of their cultural immersion on learning and development each year to in the Asia Paciﬁc region. The 2013 Executive of the communities help employees at every level and career Development Course (EDC) participants travwhere we live and stage. We offer a range of learning platforms. eled to sub-Saharan Africa to study maternal GE Crotonville, our global leadership institute, and infant mortality. Their cultural immersion operate. is at the forefront of contemporary thinking in included meetings with dozens of government leadership, strategy and innovation. Founded ofﬁcials, physicians, midwives, business ownin 1956, it was the ﬁrst corporate university in ers, village leaders and families in an effort the United States and is the epicenter of GE to understand particular regional healthcare culture. Crotonville embodies the promise of challenges and opportunities. In addition, the 4 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 1 participants engaged in a service project in training for new employees to make it more the Kibera slum of Nairobi, Kenya, to enhance interactive and engaging. The rollout of these local healthcare and education opportunities new resources is an opportunity to reinforce for its underserved population. leader and employee communications about GE’s unyielding commitment to integrity. Integrity and Compliance Cybersecurity at GE GE infuses compliance and governance into every aspect of its business. GE leaders set the At GE, ensuring the security of our data is, tone by personally engaging in the compliance and always will be, a top priority. We work program through active oversight of complihard at protecting our Company, our assets, 2 ance risks, participating in integrity events and our employees and our customers — using a leading by example. GE’s open reporting envirisk-based approach to balance the beneﬁts ronment sets the tone for a culture of integrity. of open connectivity, productivity enhancements, enriching employee experience, The GE commitment to perform with integrity and information security. We have devoted is instilled in every employee as a fundamensubstantial resources to our cybersecurity, tal expectation. This expectation is guided by which includes maintaining a protected IT our global Code of Conduct and integrity poliinfrastructure that enables the protection of cies, The Spirit & The Letter, and is underscored sensitive and valuable information stored on by an extensive system of policies, processes, GE’s networks. In addition, we have committraining and communications. It’s not just ted resources and implemented processes to 1. GE Crotonville embodies about having a reporting process — it is also more effectively prevent, detect and respond the promise of career-long about follow-through. to cyber threats. Together, these measures learning at GE. reﬂect GE’s long-term commitment to protect2. GE is fervent about ing our employees, serving our customers and protecting information about our employees, our preserving shareholder value. We recognize customers, our suppliers 98% that technology and the nature of its threats and our Company in an and risks are changing, and GE will continue appropriate manner. to evolve to meet those changes. of 2013 integrity GE believes that collaboration is the best path to effective cybersecurity solutions — bringing investigations closed together the best minds and the best ideas. Global interconnectedness means that no one company or country operates alone In 2013, we released an updated set of The anymore. We are working with others in Spirit & The Letter resources for employees, industry, university and government partincluding a two-page Simple Reference nerships to produce the next generation Guide, a streamlined The Spirit & The Letter of security solutions. We are also driving employee guide and a new Company intranet progress through research entities, steering site, all of which were redesigned with the committees and standards to help ensure goal of making these resources more simple, that companies embracing the Industrial user-friendly and global. We have also Internet are more secure. completely redesigned GE’s online integrity 5 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 1 Health and Safety GE aggressively protects the health and safety of its more than 300,000 employees. Our Safety program begins with a commitment to operate according to rigorous internal health and safety standards that meet or exceed the Diversity requirements of local laws. With over 300,000 employees, and operations in more than 140 countries, GE reﬂects both the local communities we serve and the 17.5% people with whom we do business. We see this diversity and inclusiveness as an essential part of our productivity, creativity, innovation and competitive advantage. 2 reduction in days away A wide variety of cultural and individual expefrom work incident rate riences makes the GE environment robust 2013 vs 2012 and energizing. At GE, diversity is about the power of the mix — combining different ideas and experiences to deliver the best results. Our culture fosters teamwork and innovation In 2013, a team of experienced Environmento help our people, business and communital, Health and Safety (EHS) and operational ties thrive. leaders created a new EHS Framework management system to drive a stronger GE employees enjoy opportunities to develop 1. GE believes that workplace risk-based hazard-identiﬁcation and control both professionally and personally through health and safety begin process that has clariﬁed guidance and is the GE Afﬁnity Networks. These networks with a strong culture of simpler to execute. This simpliﬁed system will include the African American Forum (AAF), operational ownership. the Asian Paciﬁc American Forum (APAF), the enable our EHS professionals to spend more 2. At GE, diversity and time working with employees to identify and Hispanic Forum, the Veterans Network, performance go together. the Women’s Network, and the Gay, Lesbian, eliminate or control hazards. Bisexual, Transgender & Allies Alliance (GLBTA). Because a safe workplace depends on trust Each is sponsored by corporate executives and communication between management who provide leadership, vision and resources and employees, GE requires its sites and to support the group’s efforts in making GE a service organizations to create an active stronger global company. partnership with employees around health and safety. This includes opportunities for Ultimately, it’s an approach that enables us to employees to directly participate in creating develop global leaders who navigate the comand leading aspects of the health and safety plexity of our times with clarity, courage and programs, and the use of perception surveys integrity — advancing a culture that uniquely to help gauge results. equips all of us for progress. 6 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 We believe in a better way. 300K employees >140 countries $1B 600 annual investment in ombudspersons learning & development 8.7 % reduction in recordable injury 8 years as one of Ethisphere’s & illness rates 2013 vs 2012 World’s Most Ethical Companies 37 Employees by Region 2013 (K) % 134 U.S. 87 Europe reduction in recordable injury 50 Pacific Basin & illness rates since 2003 28 Canada & The Americas 7 Middle East & Africa Building Things That Matter Disruptive Innovation in Healthcare goal of delivering better care to 10 million GE is investing in patients by 2020. We believe that with this strategic sectors At GE, we believe health is the most valuable combination of technology and collaboration thing on earth. All the money in the world we can play an important role in transforming for the future to can’t buy it. Those who have it don’t always cancer from the deadly disease it is today to appreciate it. Those who have lost it will a chronic condition that can be managed, create value for our do anything to get it back. Yet everywhere slowed and even stopped. shareholders and around the world, three things are common to the healthcare challenge: the need for quality Meeting the Energy and Climate Challenge society, with focus care that is accessible and affordable. GE works to improve health outcomes through In 2005, we committed to invest in R&D, launch on infrastructure, our healthymagination initiative, the GE new solutions that save money and reduce healthcare and energy. Healthcare business, and the GE Foundation. environmental impact for our customers, and minimize our own environmental footprint. We In 2013, we launched a $1 billion campaign call this commitment ecomagination. Since to combine the unique strength of GE’s port2005, ecomagination has become one of GE’s folio of integrated cancer technologies with most successful cross-company initiatives. collaboration between GE and its partners to We have invested $15 billion in R&D and accelerate innovation in oncology, with the generated more than $160 billion in revenues. 8 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 1 We have also made it a part of our operations, the climate. Meeting the 20% reduction reducing our greenhouse gas emissions and goal should result in a 40% reduction in our freshwater use 32% and 45%, respectively. Company’s carbon footprint from the original 2004 baseline. The energy landscape is dynamic, and new challenges exist today. To meet these Conﬂict Minerals head-on, GE has committed to bring our total investment in ecomagination R&D to Virtually all of GE’s products contain one or $25 billion by 2020 to advance research in more of the minerals tin, tantalum, tungsten natural gas, low-cost renewable energy, and and gold (3TG). The mining and trade of these power plant efﬁciencies. We will also build on materials from the Democratic Republic of 2 our previous success to reduce greenhouse Congo (DRC) and surrounding countries have gas emissions and freshwater use 20% from gained international attention in recent years our 2011 baseline. Ecomagination has always for the role that they can play as “conﬂict focused on innovation to drive results: an minerals,” ﬁnancing deadly armed groups in economic story with environmental impact, the region. Because of this potential for assonot an “either/or.” You can do both. Even ciation with conﬂict and human rights abuses, though the energy challenges and landscape GE strives to ensure that our supply chains are have evolved, ecomagination continues to ethical and sustainable and that we are fulﬁllremain relevant. ing our commitment to respect human rights through responsible sourcing practices. GE’s Ecomagination Greenhouse Gas Goal 1. At the end of 2013 GE had invested $4.2 billion of our GE has set aggressive goals for reducing planned $6 billion, and $15B its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. GE’s developed 100 innovations that were healthymaginationexisting GHG reduction goal was to reduce certified. its absolute GHG emissions by 25% by 2. Researchers at work in 2015 from 2004 levels. Our results so far: the Smart Grid lab at GE’s 4.98 million MT of CO2e, a reduction of 32% invested in ecomagination Global Research center from our adjusted 2004 baseline and a 2% increase from 2012 levels. The increase since 2005 in Niskayuna, NY. is due to two major acquisitions in 2013. In February 2014, GE announced a new goal We recognize that conﬂict is just one of the for GHG reductions through 2020. This new risks related to mineral sourcing in the DRC, goal is a 20% absolute reduction from a and that critical issues such as poverty, 2011 baseline of operational GHG emissions environmental degradation, child labor and and was developed in concert with “The 3% gender inequality must be addressed as Solution,” a science-based methodology from well. Faced with this reality, we support local the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and CDP. The development in the DRC mining communi3% Solution helps companies like GE identies though engagement and philanthropy, tify an emissions reduction path related to including GE Foundation sponsorship of an the scientiﬁc goal of avoiding the 2 degree inﬂuential study recently released by the NGO Celsius “tipping point” and illustrates that Pact entitled Breaking the Chain: Child Mining corporations can proﬁt while helping stabilize in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 9 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 1 Capacity-Building in Our Supply Chain Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As GE’s businesses have globalized, so has our supply chain, including in locations where environment, health, safety, labor, human rights and other practices can be The success of the initial launch has led to + problematic. We expect our suppliers to obey the development of a second EHS Center in the laws that require them to treat workers Jiangsu, with the goal of training 4,000 EHS fairly, provide a safe and healthy work enviprofessionals annually between both schools ronment, and protect environmental quality. (over 10,500 have been trained to date). ISC GE’s Supplier Expectations govern all facets is currently setting up its third and fourth + of the Company’s relationships with suppliEHS Centers in Bangladesh and India, and + ers, and include speciﬁc prohibitions against developing an EHS Network to leverage and forced, prison, or indentured labor, and prohicross-fertilize expertise and experience across + bitions against subjecting workers to any form EHS Centers. 2 of compulsion, coercion or human trafﬁcking. Water Reuse Since 2006, the GE Foundation has supported the development by the Institute Even in developed nations like the United for Sustainable Communities (ISC) of States, water resources are being threattwo Environment, Health and Safety ened by climate change, drought, population (EHS) Academies in China. The ﬁrst EHS growth, waste and the growing demand for + energy, which requires enormous amounts Academy (now known as the EHS Center), in Guangdong Province, supports students of water. GE sees the importance of achievin efforts to meet and exceed expectations ing water efﬁciency across our portfolio of 1. Whether labor practices in of multinational brands while contributing businesses, and is committed to providing China, conflict minerals to future standards. The Center delivers proven technologies and solutions for water in Africa or resource efﬁciency high-quality training at a locally appropriate treatment and reuse. globally, GE is increasingly cost. Students from more than 1,500 suppliers working with our supply and more than 150 brands have participated GE technology is in more than 130 countries chain to improve performance, in courses covering EHS concepts and values, worldwide; enables the reuse of 3.8 million respect human rights and protect the environment. laws and regulations, and risk assessment. liters of water daily; and helps produce 6.7 million liters of potable water every day. In 2. GE’s ZeeWeed membrane technology enables particular, GE’s ZeeWeed membrane technolmillions of liters of water ogy enables an oil reﬁnery in Russia to reuse to be reused. 3,150 suppliers assessed more than 95% of its water. It also turns wastewater in Singapore into ultrapure “NEWater” for the electronics industry. At a treatment facility in Kuwait, GE’s membrane technology recycles 375 million liters of wastewater daily for irrigation. Additionally, GE’s EDR technology converts raw wastewater in Spain into quality drinking water for 20% of Barcelona’s metropolitan area. 10 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 We are driven to invent and 94 % of the 25,000 2013 supplier ﬁndings closed build things that matter. 500+ employees presented with Extra Step awards 67MMT 32 of CO2 avoided by GE % GHG reduction from wind turbines 2004 baseline 6.7M $4.2B liters of potable water produced invested in healthymagination daily by GE technology as of 2013 45 Revenue by Region 2013 ($B) % 68.6 U.S. 25.5 Pacific Basin reduction in GE’s annual 25.3 Europe freshwater use since 2006 13.5 Middle East & Africa 13.1 Americas Enabling Progress GE Volunteers Since 2005, employees and retirees have GE has stayed given more than 10 million hours of their competitive for more GE Volunteers is a global network that time on more than 37,000 projects spanning includes employees, retirees, Afﬁnity Groups, 60 countries. Employees volunteered for than a century — friends and family —“good people doing great a total of 1.2 million hours in 2013, with an things”— all supported by GE businesses and expectation of maintaining at least 1 million not because we are corporate resources. The global mission of volunteer hours in 2014. GE’s local Volunteer perfect, but because GE Volunteers is to facilitate and support Councils directed more than $800,000 in volunteering activities that improve life in the grants to community organizations in over we make progress and communities where GE people live and work. 30 countries. These are carried out through a wide range have continued our of projects in the areas of communityVolunteerism at GE includes “paint and ﬁx” investment in research building, education, the environment and projects, educational tutoring and mentohealth. Every other year the Company ring, as well as skills-based activities. GE’s and development, recognizes a senior executive who has scale positions it to mobilize large groups of demonstrated signiﬁcant commitment to employees for the greater good, and it does and innovation. volunteerism, and employees and Volunteer this each year with Global Community Days — Councils that have made signiﬁcant service days when all employees in one region or area contributions to their communities. 12 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 1 volunteer in their communities. During 2013, As an outgrowth of this meeting, GE parGE was awarded The Jefferson Award for ticipated in a best-practices-sharing forum making signiﬁcant contributions to the comwith Chinese and other companies related to munity, only the fourth time in the award’s human rights. By sharing such best practices, 40+ year history that a corporate award was GE hopes to enhance respect for human given. In addition, for the second consecutive rights in a manner that makes a difference for year, GE was ranked in the Civic 50 as one of employers and workers in China. the 50 most civic/community-minded companies in the U.S. Advancing Economic Development for Women in the Middle East Global Business Initiative (GBI) 2 Meeting in Beijing GE has been working to empower women in the Middle East through its Women’s Network At GE, we believe that respect for human and other initiatives. Offering mentoring rights is both a responsibility and a sound programs, placing women in important and business strategy. GE’s growth plans have visible leadership roles, allowing for ﬂexible taken us into emerging markets, where working hours, partnering with universities human rights are often under pressure. To and establishing intern programs, etc., are help understand and mitigate these risks, GE all effective ways for women to gain greater is a member of an organization known as the representation within the GE workforce. Of Global Business Initiative on Human Rights particular note is a recent partnership formed (GBI). GBI is an organization made up of 18 among GE, Aramco and TATA to create a 1. GE is working to unleash the multinational companies, and its purpose business-process outsourcing (BPO) entity pent-up female talent that is to bring the discussion of businesses’ role that will employ over 3,000 women to staff resides in the MENAT region. in respecting human rights to “emerging positions at the partners’ respective Saudi 2. A panel in conversation market” countries and other regions where operations. It is a sign of the times and of the at the GBI Conference in human rights are under pressure. Recent GBI acceptance of the UN Guiding Principles that Beijing, China. gatherings have taken place in Brazil, Egypt the Saudi government — after all, Aramco and Kenya, and, most recently, in China. is a government-owned enterprise — would establish an organization whose sole focus GBI leadership spent over a year planning its is to place women in business and profesJanuary 2013 meeting in Beijing. While there sional capacities. have been similar conferences in China on corporate social responsibility, this was the ﬁrst that focused primarily on human rights. $125M Following the conference, GBI member companies were unanimously of the view that the Chinese companies were more comfortable talking about business and human rights than we individually or collectively had expected. in philanthropic Insofar as GE has more than 20 joint venture partners in China, this is good news. contributions from the GE Foundation 13 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 1 Enabling Progress in Africa GE Kujenga is our sustainability program in Africa. The word kujenga means “build” in Swahili, and GE is a partner in building Africa’s sustainable future. Our approach is to empower people by building valuable skills, equipping communities with new tools R&D and technology, and elevating ideas that are helping to solve Africa’s challenges. GE invests in technology and innovation. Since 2001, the Company’s research and GE Africa launched a partnership with development budget has more than doubled, the United States African Development reaching $4.7 billion in 2013. That ﬁgure repFoundation (USADF) to run the Power Africa resents 5% to 6% of GE’s industrial revenues. Off-Grid Energy Challenge. The objective of GE’s ecomagination and healthymagination this initiative is to promote innovative soluinitiatives have established measurable 2 tions that develop, scale up or extend proven commitments for creating products that, technologies for off-grid energy — reaching respectively, improve our customers’ energy, communities not yet served by existing power carbon and water-efﬁciency footprints; and grids. This project was launched in Nigeria the affordability, accessibility and quality and Kenya, with six African-owned organizaof healthcare. tions receiving grants of $100,000 each. All are organizations that provide off-grid solutions GE’s research footprint continues to expand, that deploy renewable resources and power and we now have facilities in Niskayuna, economic activities. The Challenge forms part New York; Ann Arbor, Michigan; San Ramon, of the larger Power Africa initiative, which California; Bangalore, India; Shanghai, China; 1. In the Nigerian village of has been launched by the U.S. Government Munich, Germany; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and Etche, near Port Harcourt, to drive growth across the African continent Haifa, Israel. In 2013, we announced the creGVE Projects — winner of by increasing access to reliable, affordable ation of a research center in Oklahoma City, a grant in GE and USADF’s and sustainable power. The Challenge was Oklahoma, focused solely on the oil and gas 2013 Off-Grid Energy launched in Nigeria and Kenya in 2013 and industry. The Center is aimed at accelerating Challenge — has installed a solar-powered electricity expanded in 2014 to include Ghana, Liberia, midto later-stage oil and gas technologies grid that currently covers Tanzania and Ethiopia. developed in GE’s Global Research labs, 60 households, bringing including production systems, well construclight to the village. Reliable tion, water-use optimization, CO2 solutions and affordable access to electricity means that these and energy systems. 2. children Chinonye (L) and Gift (R) are now able to do their homework in the evenings. GE works every day to improve the world $100K distributed-energy grant by pushing the limits of science and technology awarded to six Africanfor our customers. owned organizations 14 GE Sustainability Highlights 2013 We are committed to progress—for our 1.2M hours volunteered customers, employees, shareholders and the world. 37K Volunteer projects All GE Foundation 9 Global Research Centers philanthropic contributions ($M) 2011 145.9 4.5K 2012 164.6 2013 157.1 educators have attended conferences $4.7B Total R&D Investment (in $B) 4.7 4.6 4.5 2013 R&D budget — more than doubled since 2001 2011 2012 2013 Corporate Headquarters Corporate Ombudsperson or: General Electric Company To report concerns related to compliance GE Board of Directors 3135 Easton Turnpike with the law, GE policies or government GE Corporate (W2E) Fairﬁeld, CT 06828 contracting requirements, contact us at: 3135 Easton Turnpike (203) 373-2211 ombudsperson@corporate.ge.com Fairﬁeld, CT 06828 ph: (800) 417-0575 or (203) 373-2652 Learn more about GE and its or: sustainability performance: GE Corporate Feedback www.ge.com Ombudsperson Your feedback on GE’s progress is www.gesustainability.com P.O. Box 911 appreciated. Please e-mail comments or www.gefoundation.com Fairﬁeld, CT 06825 questions to sustainability@ge.com. For www.ge.com/globalimpact ph: (800) 227-5003 or (203) 373-2603 more information on GE’s sustainability strategy or for stakeholder inquiries, Read the 2013 GE Annual Report: GE Board of Directors please contact: www.ge.com/ar2013 For reporting concerns about GE’s Gary Sheffer, Vice President, ﬁnancial reporting, internal controls and Communications & Public Affairs Find detailed news and information on procedures, auditing matters, or other gary.sheffer@ge.com GE’s strategy and its businesses: concerns to the Board of Directors or the www.ge.com/news Audit Committee, contact us at: www.ge.com/investors directors@corporate.ge.com
