The Ethico Report 2013 Efico Group based on the Communication On Progress of the United Nations Global Compact COP Year 2013 Antwerp, March 2014 EVOLUTION, PROGRESS, SOLUTIONS & INNOVATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN EFICO GROUP SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SINCE 2003 FOREWORD T HE ANNUAL COMMUNI ownership of its values and by UNGC AWARENESS CATION OF THE ETHICO implementing an ambitious susREPORT IS BASED ON THE tainable approach which covers With this report, we anew hope to C O M M U N I C AT I O N ON the green coffee supply chain. further contribute to the recogPROGRESS (COP) REQUESTS OF This received several international nition of the UNGC-framework, THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL recognitions. demonstrating more easily our COMPACT (UNGC) . corporate engagement. IT IS A SUMMARY AND A DEMONEFICO shares this know-how of STRATION OF THE EFICO GROUP’S sustainability with its partners, As part of the learning process, COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED stakeholders and approximately we proposed a GC ACTIVE LEVEL, NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AND 450 European coffee roasting as detailed in the UNGC requireITS PRINCIPLES. companies. ments report. Since 2003, as a Global Compact SCOPE OF REPORTING signatory, EFICO is committed AND REPORTING PERIOD to publicly communicate annually about its progress made in Being a member for ten years, our implementing the ten principles earlier editions contained a lot aiming to stimulate and enhance of information about the UNGC sustainability and transparency principles on our strategies and towards internal and external operations. stakeholders. Our Ethico Repor t 2012 was EFICO shares its UNGC commitpublished on www.efico.com/ ment in all communication mateun-global-compact: rial and in meetings with its stakeholders. Within the international and business-to-business context the UNGC-awareness is significantly growing. By reading this report you will find The Ethico Report 2012 the implemented activities of the Efico Group based on the Communication On Progress CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT AND of the United Nations Global Compact EFICO Group in 2013. COP Year 2012 SUSTAINABILITY Antwerp, March 2013 COMPANY PROFILE ANTWERP HAMBURG For this Ethico Report 2013, we ZEEBRUGGE EFICO is a coffee and cocoa analyzed the EFICO Group’s PORRENTRUY trading company, established progress, not only taking into GUATEMALA CITY ADDIS ABEBA KURU in 1926, with offices in Belgium, account SUSTAINABILIT Y but Germany, Switzerland, Brazil, going far beyond. SANTOS Ethiopia and Guatemala. EVOLUTION, PROGRESS, SOLUTIONS & INNOVATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN EFICO GROUP SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SINCE 2003 The biggest change in our traOur team of traders continues This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. ding envi ronment occur red to uphold the values of a longwhen “sustainability” became a We welcome feedback on its contents. standing family business, and profashionable word. Sustainability vides tailor-made services with a is what today thriving politics, ‘personal touch’. economics and social behavior is. Sustainability is part of EFICO’s The company has always been This new Ethico Report 2013 issue coffee genes, ever since this characterized by its spirit of resfocuses on the main implemented company was founded in 1926 ponsible entrepreneurship and sustainable activies achieved by long before the ‘civil and politiproactive approach to the sustaithe EFICO Group in 2013. cally correct society’ made an nability of the sector. issue of it. Our report is anew published EFICO has subscribed to the o n w w w.u n g l o b a l co m p a ct. www.efico.com United Nations Global Compact org and on w w w.efico.com/ www.seabridge.eu principles since 2003 by taking un-global-compact www.eficofoundation.org 2 Statement of continued support 2013 Dear Partner, Dear Stakeholder, 2013 should have been a year of celebration for the EFICO Group, being a UNGC Member for ten years. In 2003, EFICO became the first coffee and cocoa trading company to sign up to the United Nations Global Compact Principles. Instead, the EFICO team lost its driving force behind the UN Global Compact Membership, former CEO, innovator and sustainable entrepreneur, Patrick F. Installé. He passed away on September 14th, after a brief illness. In Memoriam Patrick joined the family company in 1986, and became part of the Management in 1990. Through his leadership, EFICO became one of the leading green coffee trading companies in Europe. He aimed to ensure the continued relevance of green coffee trading in a changing environment. In 2009, his vision was to add a full service package to traditional coffee trading and set the standard for high-qualitative and sustainable coffee logistics: the SEABRIDGE state-of-the-art green coffee logistics center in the port of Zeebrugge was opened. Patrick contributed in many ways to the coffee industry. He was past President of the European Coffee Federation and he was a driving force behind the approval of European delivery points under the New York ‘C’ contract. He also launched the EFICO FOUNDATION in 2003, as a commitment of the EFICO Group to sustainable development in producing countries, involving many European roasters and donors. He highly valued his numerous trips to the origin, making sure that good personal relations with his suppliers were an integral part of business relations. Patrick took great importance in understanding the strife of coffee growers and was always supportive of their efforts. He became involved with several sustainability initiatives at an early stage of his career. Patrick will be much missed, both on a personal and professional level, for setting an example for everyone in the coffee world. The EFICO team is grateful for his vision and his guidance, setting EFICO on the coffee map as an innovative, international player. The Board of Directors of the EFICO Group is now presided by Philip Van gestel. Management is in hands of Michel Germanès, Olivier Dandois for Finance and Marc Beernaert for SEABRIDGE. Patrick’s vision remains the backbone of the EFICO Group’s current route. EFICO’s sustainable journey hence continues. It is still the Group’s ambition to inspire you with our sustainable business model. To conclude with Patrick’s words: “The UN Global Compact provides the basis for EFICO’s corporate citizenship model. We developed tools to implement best practices in our company – also with coffee and cocoa suppliers and clients. This strategic multi-stakeholder approach improves sustainable entrepreneurship. EFICO’s commitment towards sustainable entrepreneurship is a tool for clients and suppliers to promote responsible business practices in the coffee and cocoa sector.” echnical Committee. 3 CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT OUR COMMITMENT products, services, social commitINTEGRATED ment and sustainability. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS As a business with strong family values and a passion for coffee Additionally, the EFICO Group and cocoa, EFICO strives for RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS has seriously invested in integraexcellence in providing correct CONDUCT ted management systems: and safe products and a persoISO 9001 (Quality Management) nalized service with consideraTo highlight the impor tance and ISO 22000 (Food Safety tion for all players in the sector. of EFICO’s choice of business Management), conformity to par tners, the EFICO Group ISO 26000 (Social Responsibility), We are active in a socially, ecoResponsible Business Conduct HACCP (Hazard Analysis and nomically and environmenPolicy was formalized and distriCritical Control Points) and tally responsible manner, in line buted in June 2013. AEO (Authorized Economic with the ten basic principles Operator). of the United Nations Global When EFICO acquires raw materiCompact, contributing to the als, the choice of our partner relaAll EFICO Group’s certificates improvement of living and labor tionships is based upon: are available on www.efico. standards in coffee and cocoa Quality, food safety and traceacom/certifications and www. producing nations through the bility in a free competitive market seabridge.eu/certifications. EFICO FOUNDATION. Willingness to improve responsible agriculture practices Well-managed and reliable SECURING A RELIABLE OUR VISION partners operating ethically and SUPPLY CHAIN following the local and internatiEFICO feels responsible for delional legislation and the standard EFICO can count on several vering quality products that are contract of the European Coffee tools, willingly shared with its safe for consumption and that Federation (ECF) partners: are traceable at all times. Business integrity and transpa1. Business integrity rent information transfers, that 2. Long-term partnerships with EFICO is aware of its impact can be used by all our customers reliable green coffee suppliers, on the environment and is Openness to welcome all our customers and partners proactively looking for solurequests or those of our partners 3. Special Procedure for new tions in-house and on behalf green coffee suppliers of its customers with regard to 4. Offices in producing countries waste management and reduSPECIAL FOCUS ON 5. Trading of certified sustainacing and compensating CO 2BUSINESS PARTNERS ble products: Our offices in the emission levels. producing countries are actiA special focus has always been vely involved in creating new EFICO remains faithful to its roots the selection of our business sustainable supply chains in and has continued this tradition partners. partnership with our suppliers, for a long time, demonstrating through workshops, training seshow mutual respect and perSince EFICO is member of the sions and on-field pre-audits. sonalized service can form the United Nations Global Compact 6. UN Global Compact supplier basis for long-term, sustainable (UNGC), since early 2003, sustaiaudit, initiated and created business relations. nability is embedded in our overby EFICO in partnership with all company strategy. Mayacert 7. Risk Assessment of Suppliers OUR POLICY To map EFICO’s sustainable 8. Quality, Sustainability and journey, we publish each year International Relations EFICO is committed to transpathe E THICO REPORT availa9. Rewarding of SEABRIDGE ethirency in its business activities ble on: w w w.unglobalcom cal and responsible practices and to maintaining a personapact.org and www.efico.com/ 10. Sustainable projects of the lised approach. un-global-compact. EFICO FOUNDATION, providing Explore and find out more about empowerment to local produWe aim to exceed the demands the Group’s operations to strengcing communities and expectations of our custothen its commitment to the 10 mers and to continually improve UNGC principles throughout the The EFICO Group’s Corporate Social the quality and safety of our supply chain. Practices (CSR) are further detailed on page 8 and further. 4 RESULTS IN ETHICAL BEHAVIOR OUR VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL Embedded Sustainability: we RESPONSIBLE attempt to leverage worldwide Our corporate values describe ENTREPRENEURSHIP global issues to ensure profit, what we strive for and shape the sustainable growth and empoethical personality of our Group. We are concerned by the evoluwerment of our sustainable and tion of compliance screenings. ethical supply chain. They guide and determine the way we trade, the services, the Reliable: our legacy is acting with We reduce any negative enviproducts and the support we highest values and principles: a ronmental impact as much as provide to all our stakeholders. strong foundation for our future. possible. The Group is conscious of its influence on the environThey are inspired by the United Transparency: we continuously ment. It is proactively looking Nati ons G l oba l Com pact improve our performances with for solutions for waste manageframework. measurable and economically ment and reducing CO2 emisresponsible objectives, as well as sion levels in the supply chain. our Corporate Policy. INDIVIDUAL LEVEL ETHICAL BEHAVIOR Stimulate Partnership: requires PROFESSIONAL HUMAN inspirational and highly effective RESOURCES (HR) These EFICO values define teamwork. Our winning culture the principles and expectahighlights our attitude to share As an interactive department, it tions the EFICO Team should added value. keeps our teams informed and comply with: interconnected around the straTailor-Made Service: flexibility tegic goals of the organization. meets our clients’ requirements Integrity with excellence and a ‘personal These goals are key to meaTailor-Made touch’. sure and monitor performance Passion and to carry out a relevant Respect Accountability: willingness to employee evaluation througOpen Minded endorse our responsibilities, awahout the year. Values reness of collective responsibility Ensure Quality towards customers, colleagues, The EFICO values are highlighcommunities and all stakeholders ted at frequent intervals by HR = IMPROVE to maximize long-term return. and serve as check during performance reviews. See also p.22 Cupping session SEABRIDGE, Belgium 5 Blooming coffee flowers Guatemala 6 EMBEDDING OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES THROUGHOUT EFICO’S GROUP SUPPLY CHAIN UNGC PRINCIPLES ACTION EFICO GROUP 2013 PRINCIPLE 1: Responsible Business Support and respect Conduct Policy HUMAN RIGHTS the protection of human rights Respecting Values principles both on Individual and based on the Universal Organizational level Declaration PRINCIPLE 2: Ensure no complicit in human Yearly UN Global Compact rights abuses Supplier Audit PRINCIPLE 3: Freedom of association Responsible Business and right to Conduct Policy collective bargaining LABOUR Internal PRINCIPLE 4: Code of Conduct principles Elimination of forced = IMPROVE resulting from and compulsory labour the international Yearly UN Global Compact Labour organization’s PRINCIPLE 5: Supplier Audit Declaration Effective abolitions of child labour Following national and international PRINCIPLE 6: legislation Elimination of discrimination of countries in respect of employment and we work with occupation PRINCIPLE 7: Both in origin and Europe: Precautionary approach Supporting sustainable projects; to environmental challenges Since 2009 focus on climate ENVIRONMENT change in coffee regions PRINCIPLE 8: principles Promote greater Green energy production derived from environmental responsibility (SEABRIDGE) + the Rio Declaration stimulate transport by barge, train PRINCIPLE 9: Development and diffusion Close collaboration with our of environmentally friendly clients to develop a technologies Sustainable Supply Chain PRINCIPLE 10: ANTI-CORRUPTION Prec Businesses should work Authorized Economic Operator against (AEO) certificate principle corruption in all its forms, based on the UN Convention including Memorandum of Understanding against Corruption extortion and bribery (MOU) with Customs 7 TRADING GREEN COFFEE AND COCOA WITH A PERSONAL TOUCH SINCE 1926 I n 2013, EFICO formalized its be met, it is of our utmost imporbeing able to cooperate to contiCorporate Social Responsibility tance to be informed. Transparent nuous improvement. (C SR) co m m itm ent i n a exchange about the real situaResponsible Business Code. tion is fundamental. Besides, any EFICO is generally conceived as This document was distributed particular customers’ demands being a trusted partner, genetowards our key stakeholders to have to be answered approprirating added value, being innoshare EFICO’s vision on ethical ately. This includes the way the vative, following the highest behavior and sustainable busiproduct they will commercialize is standards, having respect for ness practices. produced, to get the right picture agreements made and having of what is happening in produa p rofessional image and These CSR practices are fully cing countries, the starting point reputation. a p p roved, s u p po r ted a n d of the supply chain. monito red by the G roup’s The Group also positively replies Management Team: Customer satisfaction is monito all kind of information requests tored to assess the different profor mulated by one of our ducts and services provided by partners. BUSINESS INTEGRITY ‘WITH the Group. A PERSONAL TOUCH’ In 2013, EFICO carried out a RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Earning and maintaining the Customer Satisfaction Sur vey trust of our business partners and based on the parameters QUALITY LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIP other stakeholders is critical to the TRACEABILITY SUSTAINABILITY WITH RELIABLE SUPPLIERS, success of our Group. We aim to COMMUNICATION LOGISTICS CUSTOMERS AND manage our operations responEFICO FOUNDATION – and PARTNERSde sibly and conduct our business in RESPONSIBLE SOURCING. The an ethical and transparent way. survey consisted of 6 pages, conWorking hand in hand with our Quality and on-time delivery is taining 14 openand closed quesstakeholders is essential to ensure the primary focus. tions. If clients chose for a negaour future business activities. tive answer, they had to explain Reliable suppliers can count on But confidence when it comes why so that EFICO can improve the support of our family busito respect of a given word and these issues/seek a solution. ness Group. Several teams are hence respect of all the promised The response rate was 52%, indidedicated to improve all steps engagements is also vital. When cating that our customers also of the supply chain. This is realia promised commitment cannot highly value giving feedback and zed through our different depart8 ments, the offices in producing In this way, the EFICO trading ples on human rights, labor, envicountries, SEABRIDGE logistics team can provide its clients ronment and anti-corruption. & warehousing, and the EFICO relevant market and coffee FOUNDATION. information. On each principle, the audited organization is quoted, recomNEW GREEN COFFEE TRADING OF CERTIFIED/ mendation points are suggested SUPPLIERS VERIFIED SUSTAINABLE to improve the organization. PRODUCTS de The results of these audits are New suppliers are carefully selecconfidentially shared with the ted. Their evaluation is based on It is the farmers’ responsibility to involved partners. EFICO assessreferences, coffee quality samchoose whether or not they want ment will ask for corrective matples, flavor cuptasting, price setbe certified. EFICO is member of ters, if requested. Loyal customers ting, personal contacts, flexibility, all certification bodies. Some of involved with the audited supCSR-concern, and a visit to the our customers also have their own plier can request the audit results. company. The final decision has sustainable control system which This audit is also the ideal tool for to be supported by a member of we support. an organization to test its best the Board. practices and to be prepared All those initiatives are part of our for any other future certification Within the ISO 9001 (Quality key stakeholders with whom we program. In 2013, green coffee Management) context, EFICO have regular contact to follow exporter Laumayer was audited established a new Supplier their specific requirements and to in Colombia. Laumayer succesSelection Procedure and a List of inform our customers. sfully passed this audit. Approved Suppliers, highlighting the importance of its focus on Through the EFICO FOUNDATION RISK ASSESSMENT OF suppliers at the beginning of the we also support certification and EFICO GROUP’S TRADING sustainable coffee supply chain. verification programs. By trading SUPPLIERS those goods our customers are OFFICES IN PRODUCING more confident with respect to EFICO’s key coffee suppliers are COUNTRIES best practices. ev evaluated on their global performance. The results of this analysis Thanks to EFICO’s offices in proUNGC SUPPLIER AUDIT are used to improve our collaboducing countries (located in ration. And it will allow EFICO also Brazil, Guatemala and Ethiopia), In 2004, EFICO initiated and creto: coffee suppliers and exporters ated an audit based on the 10 summarize and update the avaifrom those regions can be folloUNGC principles in partnership lable supplier information wed and screened in an efficient with Mayacert; accreditations acquire a picture of the way and effective way. These offiare available on www.mayacert. good practices are implemented ces have a direct control on the com/english/. Since then, this collect or be aware of all certifimost strategic origins of EFICO. audit takes place minimum once cates owned by the supplier This qualitative tool guarantees a year. Farms, processing units or close presence making quick exporters could be screened. It When necessar y, appropriate reactions possible with regard gives a clear indication on how measures are taken. This regular to market needs. They play an our supplier respects basic principrocess strengthens our own conessential role in selecting the desired coffee flavor and organize visits of our team, customers Visit to origin or partners willing to gain some field experience. Guatemala In 2013 the coffee world was confronted with a serious coffee plant disease in Central America. The fungus La Roya (Coffee Rust) attacked seriously on coffee leaves which substantially reduced total production in the affected areas. Thanks to our offices in origin, we receive thorough reporting and detailed information of the market situation, production levels, weather conditions, stocks and so on. 9 João Marcos Crespo fidence and reinsures EFICO’s customers. EFICO Brazil visiting EFICO also focuses more and EFICO AGENCY office, Antwerp more on systematic analyses of gathered data material concerning complaints – both from customer side and towards supplier side. This root-cause analysis will allow the EFICO Group to optimize Claims Management, KPI monitoring and improve customer satisfaction. QUALITY, SUSTAINABILITY AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS d All these depar tments a re involved and support the trading activities. International Relations are imporEFICO FOUNDATION As the green coffee sector has tant insofar as raw materials always been an initiator in the provide an essential part of the The Foundation is fully committed agri-business, a lot of different export earnings of most of the to support and innovate in sustaitopics, which can have impact producing countries. Institutional nable multi-stakeholder projects on the organization’s ability to support and advice on corporate in producing countries and fedeoperate successfully, must be action can be necessary. rate partnerships to encourage followed. sustainable commitments of as much customers and donators as Quality is one of EFICO’s corREWARDING OF possible. ner stones. Th rough E FI CO’s SEABRIDGE ETHICAL AND standardized coffee laboratories, RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES The sustainable projects intend over 280 varieties of coffee beans to strengthen the coffee produand blends are tested and selecW i t h i n t h e E F I CO G ro u p, cing community by supporting ted, samples analyzed, compaSEABRIDGE is the logistics services coffee farmers to develop their ring physical and sensorial paraprovider. farm management skills, agriculmeters according to international tural practices and tools through standards. On request of one of its custoappropriate training. Cupping samples are roasted in mers, SEABRIDGE was pleased the traditional or the high-tech to be submitted to an external The Foundation aims at empoway. All traders take part in the independent audit, executed by wering the beneficiaries and daily cupping sessions before Bureau Veritas to get a clear overshapes to improve the livelihoods deciding whether or not to buy view of the company’s current of many. The project selection and sell a particular coffee. position on ethical and responsiand administration process are ble practices. followed-up through the King Since 2003, Efico is ISO 9001 quaBaudouin Foundation. All colleclity management certified. SMETA (SEDEX Members Ethical ted resources are invested in proThe EFICO Group wants to proTrading Audit) is an international jects. The Foundation allows all vide its clients with solutions and guideline for sustainable and ethithe actors throughout the green answers towards a more demancal supply chains, and the prefercoffee supply chain to perform ding consumer and legislator red standard for SEDEX audits. their sustainable commitment. ‘Being convinced that ‘quality’ See further on page 16 to 20 will generate the ultimate consuSMETA audits follow the ISO 26000 mer demand for a cup of coffee, guidelines on social responsibility EFICO understands it to be its duty and have a common methodoIT SUPPORT to deliver such a coffee and serlogy (measurement against the vice on which the roaster can rely ETI base code and local law), Within the EFICO Group, BINARY upon to develop and to generate time plan, report format and corSERVICES provides total solutions continuous consumer demand.’ rective action plan and are used for software, hardware, infrastrucas basis for many ethical audits. ture and networking. Sustainability relates to environAll departments can count on mental, economic and social See further on page 12 and 13 their support. aspects of the activities. See further on page 14 and 15 10 Red, ripe coffee cherries Ready to be harvested 11 TAKING CARE OF YOUR COFFEE S EABRIDGE is a logistics range of clients with the same improved and again certified in partner of the EFICO Group qualitative logistic services while November. We also successfully of companies for coffee increasing cost-effectiveness. passed Bio, FairTrade and AEO storage, handling, product (Authorized Economic Operator) enhancement and distribution. audits. INTERMODAL TRANSPORT This European state-of-the-art susAdditionally, the Federal Agency tainable facility center is located As from May 2013 SEABRIDGE shiffor Food Safety and Security audiin the port of Zeebrugge. ted its transport policy towards ted our premises according to intermodal transport. the standards in food processing With a strong focus on Quality, industry. We successfully passed Sustainability and Traceability, The basis of these changes are a the audit and now dispose SEABRIDGE aims to provide serrestructuring of the Belgian railof an Approved Autocontrolvices to partners in the coffee way operator systems. The canSystem according to the Belgian sector sharing the same values. cellation of daily Narcon service legislation. Zeebrugge-Antwerpen limited The lay-outing of a warehouse our logistics options towards S E A B R I D G E ’s H ACC P t e a m in Antwerp, inclusion of intermoclients. (Hazard Analysis and Critical dal transport and continuous Control Points) analyzed the perimprovement in Quality, Safety With the use of barge services, formance and improvements for and Sustainability are among the the same level of flexible solutions Food Safety related topics. most important highlights for 2013. can be offered to SEABRIDGE’s clients, while reducing the CO 2 A strong emphasis on Safety and footprint. Security resulted in a higher perNEW WAREHOUSE IN formance and detailed moniANTWERP “NOORDKAAI” toring of all incidents. We note CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT a reduction of incidents of 10% Next to its main activities in the SYSTEMS compared to 2012. port of Zeebrugge, SEABRIDGE started to manage a second In 2012, SEABRIDGE’s Integrated warehouse in 2013 named Management Systems where for SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY “Noordkaai” for coffee storage in the first time certified according CHAINS the port of Antwerp. This allows to ISO 9001 and ISO 22000. In SEABRIDGE to serve a bigger 2013, Management Systems were Continuous improvement in 12 sustainability resulted in a reduoffered and pre-shipment samIn 2013, the focus on offering ced energy use of 5% compared ples from producers around the Specialty Coffee was anew to 2012. world. highlighted, not only by EFICO’s Specialty Coffee Department, 100% of the energy used is green Daily cuppings are organized, but also by Cupping and Grading energy produced on-site or certiregistered, the results being Support from the Quality Team. fied green energy injected from reported back to growers, shipthe national grid. pers and offices completing the purchasing process. TRACEABILITY A further focus on waste management resulted in the recycling of Strict guidelines are followed Besides, our team keeps track of 91% of all waste streams, or an regarding Food Safety: the traceability of all stock-linked increase of 15% compared to Humidity Content is limited to samples. 2012. maximum 12.5%; a thorough control is carried out at the reception Ever y sample has been barThe global CO2 footprint has been of every lot coded and part of the laboratory further reduced by the use of Presence of Ochratoxine A inventory. barges instead of train. must be excluded; this indicates fungus: Tests are done on a Samples are stored under the sample of average 10 lots/month same temperature and relative QUALITY LABORATORY humidity as in storage zone, for Among our Green Coffee Quality two years. This allows our cusSEABRIDGE harbours a state-ofExpert team is IVAN LAMILLA tomers to recall samples at any the-art laboratory offering a cusMUNOZ. He is an Agronomist time to eventually control their tomized analysis of green coffee Engineer and Q-Grader from the conformity. samples on physical and sensorial Coffee Quality Institute. aspects. Traceability is a means to anticiTrainings are organized to keep pate to problems, take preventive All green coffees samples are the other Green Coffee Quality action, and take corrective meadaily tasted following standardiand Trade colleagues up-to-date sures if necessary. zed procedures. Automatic samin the knowledge on different pling is made on bag per bag standards for green coffee exporbasis and homogenized to get a ters, Sensorial Analysis Standards, representative sample. Physical Coffee Quality, SCAA Cupping Protocol and Factors Our team takes great care in indiinfluencing Coffee Quality and vidually roasting and cupping of Impact on End Quality and so on. all arrival samples, as well as all Quality Laboratory SEABRIDGE, Belgium 13 PASSION FOR IT, WITH A PERSONAL TOUCH B INARY SERVICES is an indeSOLUTIONS IN A WAREHOUSE pendent ICT company CHANGING LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS within the EFICO Group ENVIRONMENT AND EDUCATION that develops tailor-made ICT solutions. Software solutions BINARY SERVICES promptly resFull track-and-trace in the wareare based on developments in ponded to changing logistics house is guaranteed by a scanMicrosoft Dynamics NAV. flows in SEABRIDGE. ning system. A distinct effort is made to resNew registration models were Together with the education pond to the growing need for developed to combine and plan center for dockers in the port area detailed registration, data anaintermodal transport and faciof Zeebrugge, BINARY SERVICES lysis and reporting for the EFICO litate the information flow from organized a “refreshing” course Group and its clients. administration up to the wareand manual for registrations on house and final clients. green coffee reception, handling Highlights for 2013 are: and distribution. DATA INTEGRATION WITH SHAREIT! The skills of 20 dockers have KEY ACCOUNTS been improved to operate in The EFICO Group’s internal coma scanning-based warehouse The long-term partnership of munication and information environment. EFICO and its clients and the exchange has been strongly need for accurate and detailed improved thanks to a new platThanks to constructive discussions information in time, made the form for inter-company data during the course, several improGroup decide to invest in autosharing. vements have been identified mated data transfer systems with and implemented. its key accounts. Several efforts have been made to shift from ‘my data’ to ‘our The error rate has been strongly BINARY SERVICES set up an interdata’. All our colleagues over the reduced. face between SEABRIDGE and world have access to our internal its key accounts. Thanks to this data platform. automatic and life data transfer, manual input and risk of Optimization of internal commumaking errors have been strongly nication contributes to optimizareduced. tion of external communication. 14 Track-and-trace system SEABRIDGE, Belgium 15 COFFEE FOR PEOPLE PEOPLE FOR COFFEE T he EFICO FOUNDATION is 5. 100% allocation of generated projects, together with more than the private Foundation of funds to projects; operational 60 different organizations incluthe EFICO Group, establiscosts of the structure are finanding NGOs, research institutes, hed in 2003, supporting susced by the EFICO Group. universities, national coffee assotainable multi-stakeholder deveciations, local partners, cooperalopment projects and improving 6. Transparency is guaranteed tives or coffee and cocoa produthe livelihoods of many coffee through communication via webcing organizations. and cocoa producing families. site www.eficofoundation.org. 10. There is no commercial obli7. Efico Foundation is an open gation between the beneficiary THE EFICO FOUNDATION initiative, so far the only one in of a project and EFICO. IN 11 POINTS: Europe, to focus on coffee and cocoa achieving multi-stakehol11. EFICO FOUNDATION supports 1. EFICO FOUNDATION = independer participation in the develop49 sustainable multi-stakeholdent, apolitical, philosophically ment of its projects. der development projects in and ideologically neutral. 16 coffee & cocoa producing 8. EFICO FOUNDATION is therefore countries. 2. Mission to promote and devea unique vector and a flexible lop sustainability solely with tool to allow anyone to contribute coffee and cocoa related proto sustainability and sustainable MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS jects; EFICO FOUNDATION, a partdevelopment of the entire supply 2013 ner in the South. chain by federating the sector and stimulating public-private The EFICO FOUNDATION projects 3. EFICO Fund = a corporate partnership. It is not a certificarequire close monitoring and fund within the King Baudouin tion body but works in partnership control for best results, which was Foundation, a reputable partwith certification organizations, anew possible thanks to the supner in charge of managing the NGOs, public organizations and port of all our project partners, monies and judging the submitso on. our Team in Central America and ted projects. the KURU Team in Ethiopia. 9. Today more than 50 roasters in 4. Assurance that an indepen6 different countries joined EFICO In this Ethico Report, we focus on dent jury professionally selects FOUNDATION, 4 governments two main achievements: results of projects based on strict criteria. participate financially or through the finalized and new projects. ies. their development agencies in 16 RESULTS FINALIZED During the implementation of 2/Cost of worm compost PROJECTS these climate change adaptapreparation: tion and mitigation practices on The cost to produce one quintal Rainforest Alliance Certified™ of traditional compost in CLIMATE-FRIENDLY coffee farms, important enviGuatemala varies from Q38.00 to FARMING PRACTICES ronmental and even economic Q45.00 (US$4.75 to $5.63). benefits have been observed. The cost to produce one quintal Special attention is adhered to of worm compost for the the results of the Climate-Friendly Below we present some of the Cooperative Nuevo Sendero, R.L. Farming Practices in Guatemala, improvements found on farms is Q13.00 (US$1.63)—less than Costa Rica, Honduras and El verified under the module. one-third the cost of traditional Salvador. compost. More details are published on Traditional compost tends to This project was made possible w w w.eficofoundation.org/prohave higher acidity values (pH) thanks to the Rainforest Alliance, jects, www.efico.com/press and and lower concentrations of Anacafé, EFICO and the EFICO www.efico.com/communicationnutrients compared to compost FOUNDATION. material:r and made using worms. Since 2009, the focus lies on cli1/Differences in production 3/Reduction of CO2 emissions: mate change in coffee regions. between worm composting and A savings of 38,327 liters of fuel traditional composting: per year was documented in the The project aim was the co-deveDuring traditional composting wet milling process. lopment of a Climate Module. the organic material is not turned The farm emits 1,357.60 kiloThis Module consists of criteria or mixed enough, which produgrams of carbon dioxide less for mitigation and adaptation to ces methane (CH4) emissions. This than one with a traditional mill. climate change, reinforcing the does not happen with worm comBy burying the fertilizers instead current Rainforest Alliance certifiposting, the alternative proposed of applying them on the soil, cation criteria and provide addiin the Climate Module used by El Platanillo Farm prevents tional value. verified farms. nitrous oxide emissions. The preparation of traditional It has also directly reduced Efico Central America provided compost makes ammonia more carbon dioxide emissions to the supervision and coordination of available, which in turn increases atmosphere by an amount equithe projects. The project further emissions of nitrogen oxide (N2O), valent to the fuel consumption of implemented in 2012 and 2013 a greenhouse gas. This is preven49 vehicles for a year. consisted in the application of ted with worm composting. the module on different countries Worm compost production 4/Reduction of water in Central America. requires less raw material and consumption: labor. El Platanillo Farm saves This project is financially supWorm compost yields lower con15,080,173 liters of water per ported by the EFICO Group and centrations of nitrogen in the form year = equivalent to water conFranke. Franke Coffee Systems of ammonia and higher nitrogen sumption of 20,658 persons for a is a Swiss manufacturer of proin the form of nitrates. year. fessional coffee machines, also member of the UNGC. Climate Module Training The SAN Climate Module was launched in 2011 and since then, more than 260 coffee producers in Guatemala, Honduras, El Honduras Salvador and Costa Rica have implemented its principles for climate-friendly agriculture. By adopting practices that curb emissions and increase carbon storage, these farms have captured more than 218,000 metric tons of carbon equivalent to the annual emissions of approximately 43,600 cars. 17 El Platanillo Farm, San Rafael Pie de la Cuesta, San Marcos in Guatemala The first farm to implement practices for mitigation and adaptation to climate change and obtain Climate Module verification in 2011 18 NEW PROJECTS In 2013, the EFICO FOUNDATION Distribution of water filters supported 6 new development AFAL/EURACEN/Mujeres en Café El Salvador projects in Africa, Central and South America. For more detailed info and photographs per project, see www.eficofoundation.org/ projects QUALITATIVE AND SUSTAINABLE COFFEE DRYING In the Sidamo region in Ethiopia a collaboration between Peeze Koffie a Dutch coffee roasting company, Fero Cooperative coffee producers organization, Amer ica and Allianza de IMPROVED LIVING Technoserve an NGO, and the Mujeres en Café El Salvador, a CONDITIONS EFICO FOUNDATION has been set member of IWCA – International up. EFICO/KURU coordinates the Women Coffee Alliance: Water In San Rafael Las Flores, Guatemaproject. Purification in the rural coffee la a partnership has been set up areas of El Salvador. to improve the living conditions of The goal of the project is to build 200 families by installing smokesustainable coffee drying beds in 546 water filters are distributed in less stoves and improved latrines. remote coffee production areas. 3 regions in El Salvador, to about 2,750 beneficiaries. Training is also Each participant family receives This pilot project aims to improve given for the use of these water filtraining in financial planning, coffee quality by appropriate ters and the importance of safe disaster response, preventative coffee drying while using susdrinking water and healthy prachealth, nutritional cooking, protainable materials for the contices. The daily well-being and ject management, and stove/ struction of the dr ying beds the working lives of coffee familatrine construction. They are and therefore reducing wood lies will be directly impacted. also responsible for contributing consumption. materials and labor in building these products under Habitat for These improved drying beds are In Guatemala, safe drinking is Humanity’s supervision. the first of its kind in the Sidamo provided to 275 households in region and therefore have a coffee growing regions, in the Next to the positive impact on leverage on knowledge on surregions of Quetzaltenango, Santa health and living conditions, a rounding cooperatives. Rosa, Jutiapa, San Marco, Sololá positive environmental impact and Alta Verapaz. (Photo see p.16) will be realized by these woodefficient stoves, with lower CO 2 WATER FILTER PROJECTS, This project also provides training emissions and reduced wood HEALTHY LIFE AND and education to Guatemalan consumption. LEVERAGE FOR women who live in rural coffee SUSTAINABLE growing regions on the imporThis p roject is a pa r tne rDEVELOPMENT tance of access to clean, safe sh i p bet ween H ab itat fo r drinking water for cooking, cleHumanity, the Local Community Potable water is a vital aspect for aning, and drinking at home. Development Council COCODE, a healthy life, but access to fresh Mocca d’Or – a Dutch coffee and clean water is stil limited in This is a first step in promoting roasting company – and the many coffee producing areas. household health via the corEFICO FOUNDATION. rect and continued use of water Therefore 2 water filter projects filters. The project is funded by Renaud Cuchet, Managing are supported: Hesselink – a Dutch coffee roasD i recto r of E FI CO Cent ra l One in El Salvador, as a collaboting company. America, attended the inauguraration between AFALAssociation tion of the project. des Femmes d’A m é r i q u e Efico Central America provides Latine, EURACEN Chamber of supervision of and coordination Commerce Europe and Central to both water filter projects. 19 TRAINING ON In San Martin, Peru, young workers the word in remote coffee and SUSTAINABLE in coffee plantations are trained cocoa producing areas. AGRICULTURE for sustainable coffee production in agroforestry systems. Bringing in several stakeholders Since education is crucial to bring is our key to a successful set-up, opportunities for a better future, This project addresses main implementation and follow-up of the EFICO FOUNDATION supports weaknesses that are currently the projects. 2 new Training and Education preventing its smallholders from projects in Ethiopia and Peru. reaching full potential in terms of quality, competitiveness and Overview of Millennium sales. Development Goals: In Jimma, Ethiopia, a partnership between the Catholic The project enhances productiUniversity of Leuven, Jimma vity and sustainability of coffee University, Ma’ar (NGO), Maison production in agroforestry sysJosy Juckem – a Luxembourg tems through an integrated techcoffee roasting company – and nical assistance and training the EFICO FOUNDATION aims to plan. diversify farms and forests by beekeeping as an additional income Solidaridad, Aproeco and Café and increase ecosystem services. Doncel are the executing partners of this project. Bee-hives and bee-keeping training will be provided for coffee farmers to increase food secuMILLENNIUM rity and improve ecosystem DEVELOPMENT GOALS functioning of the coffee forest. The improved bee-keeping in By supporting these projects, the the forest diversifies and increEFICO FOUNDATION and its partases farmer family income by ners contribute to the Millennium delivering honey and derived Development Goals. products and by increasing coffee yield through enhanced Our focus is to improve living concross-pollination. ditions in the broadest sense of Enhancing productivity and sustainability through training San Martin, Peru 20 Sustainable coffee drying beds Sidamo region, Ethiopia 21 EFICO GROUP COMMUNICATION AND HR SUPPORT COMMUNICATION Besides the info shared by our HUMAN RESOURCES Trade r s, E FI CO’s custome r s Optimization of communication receive a daily digital Coffee In 2013, a complete training between all departments within Market News bulletin with the program was developed by our the EFICO Group is key to being latest movements of the market is; Human Resources Department. able to provide good external this can also be downloaded on: communication. The ShareIT! www.efico.com/market-news. The training program takes into platform enhances good interaccount the current knownal communication and crossA Coffee Origin’s library is availaledge, competencies, skills, polination of ideas. ble. The full description of almost values and so on. every coffee variety acquaints Our experienced Trading Team the final consumer with its coffee The yearly employee evaluation keeps up minute by minute with preferences. process was refined and profesthe London and New York comsionalized using four topics: modity futures and world curOur Trading Team, but also other Performance evaluation rency markets, offering clients departments within the Group, Compliance with EFICO the best price at the right time. can use different communication Group’s values material to present the Group, Defining future growth Aside from top quality coffee, its green coffee supply chain Training needs commodity market analysis and training, coffee market pricing, hedging assistance, we have climate change issues, the susThis evaluation process allows solid backgrounds in sustainatainable projects of the EFICO Management to clearly map ble programs. FOUNDATION, etc. the efforts and results made Tailor-made presentations are throughout the year and define We guide our partners through provided on demand. the individual goals in line with the process of becoming a susthe EFICO Group’s strategy. tainable actor in the coffee Our Communication Team is also sector. EFICO shares its knowat disposal of customers to suphow with its stakeholders and its port any advertising campaign customers. towards sustainability. 22 Coffee drying on patio 23 FUTURE PERSPECTIVES As coffee is one of the major all parties involved in the supply provide further tangible support. worldwide traded commodities, chain. and mostly produced by smalKnowledge-sharing and lholder families, our trading pracTogether with our offices in origin, exchange with our stakeholders, tices and Sustainable Business we are actively involved in crepartners and clients is part of the Model have solid impact on local ating new sustainable supply Group’s sustainable approach. level. chains in partnership with our suppliers, through workshops, traiIt is still EFICO’s ambition to not Added value is based on experining sessions, on-field pre-audits only inspire our stakeholders, ences in the field and abroad. and so on. but also all readers of this Ethico repor t with our Sustainable Our model hasn’t changed; it is Being able to secure a reliable Business Model. only continuously being optimiGreen Coffee Supply Chain is key zed. Over the years, EFICO has to the EFICO Group. maintained the same values and engaged in structural reforms in Therefore EFICO will anew highhow a business can conduct and light the importance in 2014 of improve sustainable economy. supplier evaluation and will focus on performance reviews. Ten years ago, EFICO joined the Global Compact with the aim Further system developments www.efico.com to generate, disseminate and in Microsoft Dynamics NAV will www.seabridge.eu ensure its legal compliance with strengthen data analysis and will www.eficofoundation.org This Ethico report is also available on the United Nations Global Compact Website. For the printed version please consult www.efico.com/un-global-compact. Consulting this document on the web gives you the opportunity to discover more information.
