Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2013 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents More information… Conventions Contents More detailed information on many of the topics tons discussed in this online sustainability report is At Sappi we standardise all our reported 03 Message from the CEO available from other Sappi publications, our measurements using the metric ton equivalent to website, and third-party sources. Where available, 1,000kg (one thousand kilograms). 05 About this report we provide links to these sources. 08 Sustainability governance billion Click to read more detailed information available Sappi follows contemporary 'short scale' 09 Accolades in 2013 on the Sappi website, www.sappi.com. This link convention; defining a billion as one thousand will direct you to the relevant web-page or page millions. 10 Our process in a PDF document. 11 Performance against targets Units of Measure Click to read more detailed information on Units of measure are described in the glossary. 14 The link between our business and third-party websites. sustainability 24 Our key sustainability issues Additional or explanatory information is provided in 'pop-up' windows which can be accessed by 36 Prosperity clicking on this icon. This information is also set out in the in the ‘Notes and references’ section 49 People at the end of this report. 84 Planet Related information within this document is cross 120 UN Global Compact referenced and can be accessed by clicking on this icon. 125 Global Reporting Initiative 148 Glossary Best viewed This sustainability report is best viewed, using 151 Notes and references Adobe Acrobat’s PDF viewer, which can be downloaded for free from Adobe’s website. Viewing the report online, using your browser’s native built-in PDF-reader may render some of the Copyright © 2013 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. Version 01, 23 December 2013 navigational and interactive functionality unusable. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 2 Message from the CEO Profitability affects our performance in the People and Planet areas In the year under review, we continued to Prosperity People balance and integrate the 3Ps of Prosperity, Our successful commissioning of two major People are the key to our achievements and we People and Planet into all aspects of our dissolving wood pulp projects, one in North America continued to invest in best-practice training and operations. Our sustainability vision is to and one in South Africa, as well as the conversion development programmes, with training spend create value for all our stakeholders; we made of Paper Machine 2 at our Alfeld Mill in Germany, increasing in FY2013. We also continued to invest steady progress in achieving this goal. to speciality paper, accelerated our expansion in in the communities surrounding our operations higher margin growth businesses and helped our and have reshaped our investment approach, strategic drive towards improved profitability. particularly in South Africa. This has been done in consultation with communities, taking into account In our transition to a more profitable Sappi, we have their current and future needs. restructured many elements of the business and our people have had to adjust to new operating We have worked very hard to create a culture structures and procedures. This has entailed some which prioritises safety for our own employees and level of disruption and I would like to pay tribute to contractors at all times. all our people who have remained focused during this process and committed to our goal of being While there were improvements in reducing fatalities a customer-centric business focused on ongoing and lost time injuries throughout the Sappi group, I product, process and service innovation. deeply regret having to report one own employee fatality and one contractor fatality in our South I am pleased that in focusing on Prosperity, we African operations. have not compromised our commitment to People and Planet. We will continue to focus on entrenching a strong safety culture with the ultimate target of zero harm. Our sustainability vision is to create value for all our stakeholders. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 3 Message from the CEO Profitability affects our performance in the People and Planet areas continued Planet Energy is one of our major input costs and reducing The use of these principles and standards helps Our 3P performance in the greenhouse gas emissions is important in helping us to benchmark ourselves against our peers and to mitigate global warming. drive performance. year under review highlights my long-standing view that Globally, over the past five years, specific purchased Looking forward energy has reduced by 20.3%, while Scope 1 While excited about the fact that we can now meet sustainability makes sound (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) CO2 emissions have 20% of global demand for dissolving wood pulp, business sense. decreased by 12.2% and 28.4% respectively. These we still see opportunities in certain paper markets. reductions represent reductions of 584,936tons CO2 equivalent (Scope 1) and 607,906tons CO2 Despite the fact that the world is increasingly relying equivalent (Scope 2) respectively and highlight the on electronic media, the printed word and image I would like to thank all my link between sustainability performance and valueremains a unique, distinctive and effective medium colleagues and our other add to our stakeholders. that adds considerable value to our daily lives, especially when used in conjunction with digital stakeholders who are United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and communication. internationally recognised standards working hard to entrench We have been a signatory to the United Nations Our 3P performance in the year under review sustainability principles Global Compact since 2008 and the Compact highlights my long-standing view that sustainability principles underpin our sustainability approach, makes sound business sense. into our everyday business governance and targets. management. I would like to thank all my colleagues and our other We report on the latter internally on a quarterly basis stakeholders who are working hard to entrench and externally on an annual basis; transparently sustainability principles into our everyday business reporting successes and failures. management. We also continue to use internationally recognised Ralph Boëttger standards in quality, environmental and health Chief Executive Officer and safety management. In each region, Sappi Limited internationally recognised, independently verified forest certification systems are an integral part of sustainable forestry management. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 4 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report Scope of this report This report is aligned with our integrated annual clear link between sustainability and strategy and report and covers FY2013, the period from the gives a broad view of our overall sustainability beginning of October 2012 to the end of September performance. 2013. In 2011, we departed from our previous practice We report on a regional and global basis wherever of publishing an annual sustainability report possible, graphically presenting data over five years backed up by further, in-depth information online. to make the information relevant, accessible and Instead, we now provide a group overview of our comparable. sustainability performance in this online report and publish regional sustainability reports. This was Safety, health, quality and environmental data is in response to stakeholders’ needs for more incompiled according to international best practice. depth information pertinent to their specific region in addition to the group overview. Additional commentary accompanies graphs to: • Aid interpretation Our 2013 regional reports for our operations in • Provide supplementary information Europe, North America and Southern Africa, will be Integrated report 2013 • Explain trends, achievements and anomalies available in printed form and online, early in 2014. Europe • Explain specific measurement criteria, and Sustainability indicate where these have changed. In the Global Reporting Initiative report interest of attaining higher levels of transparency To date we have reported in terms of the Global and accuracy, we amend or improve our Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 reporting guidelines measurement criteria and techniques from time — a practice we have continued in this report. We to time. declared ourselves as an A-level reporter in 2009, North America Sustainability Reporting framework 2010, 2011 and 2012. Each year, our self-declared rating has been confirmed by the GRI. Our sustainability vision report As Sappi Limited is headquartered in South Africa and we have our primary listing on the This year we have once again declared ourselves is to create value for all Johannesburg Stock Exchange, we abide by the as an A-level reporter and have had this rating Southern Africa King III Code on Corporate Governance (King III). confirmed by the GRI. our stakeholders Sustainability report In line with King III’s recommendation for integrated reporting, our Integrated Report provides a very Continued… 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 5 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report continued References to the GRI indicators, for example: Collectively, these external assessments EN-1, LA-2 and EC-3 are interspersed in relevant sections throughout the report for ease of reference. and certifications as well as interaction with our stakeholders give us confidence that our By creating a safe, performance indicators are reliable, accurate The principles of the United Nations Global Compact and pertinent. The Social, Ethics, Transformation healthy workplace for (UNGC) are also referred to throughout the report and Sustainability (SETS) Committee reviews the and in greater detail in the UNGC-specific report efficacy of conducting external assurance annually. our People in which on our performance. External assurance Management Systems We use international, independently verified diversity is encouraged Currently, assurance of sustainability information management systems to underpin our approach is conducted by our internal audit team. Their to sustainable development. These include: and valued, and People verification process includes reviewing the procedures applied for collecting and/or measuring, • FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® are provided with calculating and validating non-financial data, as well • PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of as reviewing reported information and supporting documentation. • Forest Certification SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative ongoing development In practice, most of our key operations undergo • • EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme ISO 50001 Energy Management System opportunities so that external verification, including the Eco-Management • ISO 9001 Quality Management System Audit System (EMAS) in Europe and globally, ISO • ISO 14001 Environmental Management they can develop to 14001 environmental certification, ISO 9001 quality System certification and OHSAS 18001 certification. We • OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Standard. their full potential, we are also assessed in terms of the forest certification systems we use, and in South Africa; our BroadBased Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) enhance productivity performance is assessed by an external ratings agency. In addition, our global governance, social and our ability to and environmental performance is assessed annually in terms of our listing on the Socially service global markets Responsible Investment (SRI) Index of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 6 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report continued Defining report content Determining materiality Identifying stakeholders The GRI’s Reporting Principles for defining report We aim to present information that is material, We have identified the stakeholders we expect content call for an emphasis on information and comparable, relevant and complete. The to use our report on the basis of our ongoing performance regarding the most material topics. information presented covers topics and indicators engagement— formal and informal — with them. These are set out in the section entitled 'Our key that reflect our significant economic, environmental, sustainability issues' and expanded upon in the and social impacts, as well as issues that would The various ways in which we engage our Prosperity, People and Planet sections — Sappi’s substantively influence the assessments and stakeholders are set out in detail in the People section '3Ps' of sustainability. decisions of stakeholders. We publish our of this report. The stakeholders we expect to use performance against targets in both the group this report include investors, customers, suppliers, Throughout this report, qualitative information report and our regional reports, transparently employees, communities, governmental and nonis complemented by quantitative information, reporting on success or lack thereof in achieving governmental organisations, environmental bodies generally in the form of graphics illustrating these targets. and all those who are affected by our activities. performance over five years between FY2009 and FY2013. Prioritising content Recognising that our industry has a high impact on The information presented has been determined on the environment and that this could substantively the basis of our ongoing extensive engagement with influence the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders and has been assessed against stakeholders, we have prioritised environmental the backdrop of current business operations, as or Planet issues. well as prevailing trends in our industry and the global economy. We are headquartered in South Africa, where the government has prioritised the development of the In preparing this report, we have tracked forestry sector. The government has also prioritised environmental findings and research, public opinion, development of rural areas where our plantations employee views and attitudes, the interests and are situated. Consequently, our social or People priorities of environmental and social groups, as well section is also extensive. as the activities, profiles and interests of investors, employees, suppliers, customers, communities, While we do cover economic (Prosperity) issues to governments and regulatory authorities. some extent, these are dealt with in detail in our integrated annual report. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 7 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Sustainability governance Our approach to sustainability is framed in terms of Prosperity, People and Planet, Sappi Limited board referred to internally as the 3Ps — and is set out in our Sustainability Charter. This in turn is underpinned by our Code of Ethics and our group values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee Endorse Sustainability Charter and Resourcefulness. (SETS) Regional Sustainability Councils Regional Sustainability Councils (RSCs) operate Group Sustainable Development Council Ensure SETS requirements are (GSDC) incorporated into regions in Europe, North America and South Africa. Each RSC focuses on key material issues relevant to their specific region and on incorporating sustainability Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee into everyday business processes. The regional RSCs report to the Group Sustainable Development Council which in turn reports to the Regional Sustainability Councils Strategy development and implementation newly established Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee (SETS) which in turn reports to the board. Sustainability ambassadors Target setting Europe and North America Sustainability ambassadors Sustainability ambassadors in Europe and North Budgeting Staff America help to entrench a holistic approach to the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet. Report back on targets and P R O S P E R I T Spread our sustainability initiatives story Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P Sustainability Charter Our approach to sustainability is based on a holistic view of Prosperity, People and Planet (the Data collection and 3Ps). Being a sustainable organisation means that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our business decisions, strategies and processes to help us create added value for all our stakeholders. At the heart of our business is a renewable, recyclable natural resource — woodfibre. We use this to create pulp, paper and specialised cellulose solutions which enhance the lives of consumers around the world. We believe that acting sustainably makes sound business sense • By generating Prosperity, we can continue to attract investors, leverage growth opportunities and can invest verification more in our processes, our people and the communities in which we operate. This helps us in our goal of being a customer-centric business focused on ongoing product, process and service innovation. Investing in research and development ensures we maintain a competitive global advantage. • By maintaining a safe, healthy workplace for our People in which diversity is valued, and people are provided with ongoing development opportunities so that they can develop to their full potential, we enhance productivity and our ability to service global markets. Active corporate citizenship programmes relevant to the needs of the communities where we operate ensure that we promote socio-economic development within these communities. • By treading more lightly on the Planet through cleaner, more efficient manufacturing and waste beneficiation processes, we can produce more with less — an approach which has obvious economic benefits. This approach is based on continuous improvement and includes reducing the energy intensity of our business and reducing the associated greenhouse gas emissions across the full supply chain. It also necessitates using less water and improving effluent quality, mitigating our impact on biodiversity and promoting sustainable forestry through internationally accredited, independent environmental management and forest certification systems. Sappi We have a strong sustainability governance structure, underpinned by our core values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness. We actively seek input from our stakeholders to inform our strategies, actions and targets. We report annually on our performance against these. Going forward, we will continue to develop our manufacturing, human, social and natural resources in a way that ensures our sustainability approach enhances our long term viability and overall Prosperity. Ralph Boëttger Chief Executive Officer Sappi Limited Sustainability Charter August 2013 www.sappi.com Copyright © 2013 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 8 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Accolades in 2013 Socially Responsible JSE SRI Index Five PPI Awards Skills development Shortly after year end, Enstra Mill in Southern Five Sappi projects were shortlisted for the Africa, was presented with an award by the In 2013, we maintained our listing on the annual Pulp and Paper International (PPI) Eastern Gauteng Chamber of Commerce Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) Magazine awards to be announced 11 and Industry for Environmental and Social Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) December 2013 in Dubai at the first RISI Skills Development. Index. Global Outlook conference. Sappi Fine Paper Europe was nominated in three categories: Materially best • Managing Risk & Safety — Stockstadt The Materials Masters and Inventory Mill Optimisation team from Sappi Southern Africa, won the Most Improved • What’s Next Magazine — Promotional Campaign of the Year CIO100 Award Procurement Operation/Step Change • Advances in Innovation in Specialty Sappi Fine Paper North America was (Large Organisations) category. The team Papers — Alfeld Mill. selected as a recipient of the International was also runners up in the Best CrossData Group’s CIO magazine’s 2013 CIO 100 functional Team category at the same event. Sappi Fine Paper North America was award for the ringer detection system project The award was made by the Chartered nominated for two awards in the Promotional at Somerset Mill. Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS), an Campaign of the Year Award category: industry body. • Print & • Ideas that Matter. PMR Awards Positively Print Sappi Southern Africa received two Diamond Gold SABRE GASC, the Graphic Arts Show Company Arrow awards at the PMR Awards run by Sappi Fine Paper North America won a Gold chose Sappi Fine Paper North America’s PMR.africa in the categories Companies SABRE award for The Standard 5, a guide Print & book as the recipient of their 2013 Doing Most to Protect the Environment to designing for print. The SABRE Awards Positively Print Award, a print advocacy and Companies Held in High Esteem as celebrate superior achievement in branding programme designed to promote the power Good Corporate Citizens. and reputation communications. of print in today’s media mix. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 9 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Our process Find out more… hover your mouse cursor over the graphics. CO2 by-product (released into the atmosphere) Landfill electricity steam electricity steam Chemical r k li q u o recovery blac or l iq u Dissolving i te wh wood pulp mill Pulp mill electricity steam Pulp and paper products Woodfibre Transport Recovered fibre plant Distribution centre/ converters Specialised cellulosic textiles and non-woven fibre products People Printers Touching lives Prosperity 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 10 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Performance against targets — Prosperity With our strategy and values being embraced Europe across the group, we have continued to The first period of our sustainability targets ended With the original five-year goals lapsing in 2012, improve our results — not just to our bottomin 2012. and having over-achieved almost all our goals, we line performance, Prosperity, but also to our established new five-year goals in 2011 for the performance in terms of People and Planet. We have set new targets for 2017 with 2012 as a period 2012-2016. baseline where applicable. The challenging Planet Disclosing our performance against targets reduction targets listed for 2014 are indicative only Three of the original goals were included again for highlights our commitment to transparency in all as, in each case, they are aimed at a 5% reduction the 2012-2016 period — with increased targets aspects of our business. We have once again by 2017. — as it was felt that these goals aligned well documented both our progress and our challenges. with corporate objectives and that continuous North America improvement in these areas would continue In 2007, we established seven sustainability goals to benefit the organisation, customers and the targeting improvement within five years (by 2012). environment. Beginning in 2008, the region began tracking South Africa performance against these goals, and in the final Due date for all targets is end 2015; the baseline year of tracking we significantly exceeded all goals for all targets is the beginning of 2011 unless except the certified fibre goal. otherwise stated. Achieved Exceeded Not achieved 2013 Target 2013 Performance 2014 Target Specific target for 2013 not 1.3% Specific target for 2013 Europe RONOA (Return on Net Operating Assets) and EBIDTA (Earnings Before disclosed, but monitored RONOA not disclosed, but EBIDTA 5.3 Interest, Depreciation, Tax and Amortisation) of 10% by 2017 internally and reported on quarterly % monitored internally and reported on quarterly North 12% 6.7% 12% Achieve or exceed an annual 12% RONOA (Return on Net Operating Assets) America Southern 8% 8% 9.5% RONA (Return on Net Assets) to be equal to or greater than 15% by 2018 on a five-year rolling basis Africa 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 11 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Performance against targets — People Achieved Exceeded Not achieved 2013 Target 2013 Performance 2014 Target Training hours per employee per annum 30 29.24 30 Europe LTIFR (own employees) 1.20 0.98 0.95 75 68 75 Training hours per employee per annum to enhance job performance and North America management skills Customer training and education through Sappi ETC (hours) Target: 30,000 hours by 2016 24,000 22,300 26,000 3 4 3 Achieve Level 3 compliance in Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) 80% compliance to the Work Skills Plan (WSP) 70% 77.5% 76% Southern Africa 54 81 57 Training and development opportunities: average hours per employee per annum 0.27 0.43 0.27 LTIFR (own and contractors) target: better than 'best ever' achieved on a < < continuous 12-month basis 1 1.59% 1 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) > % > % Investment: 1% of NPAT (Net Profit After Tax) 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 12 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Performance against targets — Planet Achieved Exceeded Not achieved 2013 Target 2013 Performance 2014 Target Reduce specific direct fossil CO2 emissions (tons CO2 /ton saleable product), including purchased power emissions (calculated at 400g/kWh) 1% per annum 0.8 % 5% by 2017 by 5% by 2017; base year: 2012 saleable production Europe Reduce specific water use (m3/ton saleable product) by 5% by 2017 Base year: 2012 1% per annum 1.3 % 5% by 2017 70% 71.4% 70% Maintain a high level of certified fibre delivered to our mills (FSC® or PEFC™ > > certified, or equivalent) Increase total certified fibre content to 65% by 2016 61% 58% 63% North America Reduce specific energy use by 10% by 2016 3.1% 0.7% 4.1% In 2013 we converted the Cloquet Mill pulping process to manufacture dissolving wood pulp, a process that requires more energy per ton of pulp produced. We have modified our baseline and targets to reflect the changed process. Reduce fibre and raw material waste by 10% by 2016 3% 2.1% 6% 9.3% 23.5% 9.5% Reduce specific purchased fossil fuel energy by 15% by 2015 Base year: 2000 Southern Africa Reduce specific fresh water usage by 10% by 2015 Base year: 2007 7.9% 4.7% 8.8% Recover 28% of fibre put into the market 26% 25.1% 27% 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 13 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Prosperity, People, Planet — an overview of our business’ links to sustainability prosperity people planet The 3Ps are interlinked — Our People distinguish us as We strive continuously to tread our profitability affects our the provider of choice for our more lightly on the planet performance across all 3Ps customers 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 14 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Prosperity, People, Planet — an overview of our business’ links to sustainability Key FY2013 numbers Power sold to third party customers Employment in 2013 US$ 2,599m Interest bearing debt North America 770,350 GJ 13,665 Employees globally US$ 385m Cash and cash equivalents Europe 1,605,360 GJ 750 Contractors globally US$ 1,144m Ordinary shareholders’ interest South Africa 190,295 GJ 11,700 People employed by contractors working for Sappi Forests US$ 3,078m Value of property, plant and equipment US$ 464m Value of plantations in Southern Africa Sales in FY2013 by product category tons '000s OHSAS 18001 Certification achieved for all mills Through an aggressive transformation strategy, we’ve made steady progress towards achieving our sustainability vision — adding value for all our stakeholders. US$ 10.14m Training 7,466m Investing in our people to learn, grow and US$ 29.5m R&D spend Total sales to have a productive career with Sappi is a business imperative. Returns on Exciter projects are double the investment spend. 4,048 397 244 US$ 1.4m CSR Coated graphic Uncoated graphic Speciality paper paper All mills paper ISO 9000 560 795 237 spend Commodity paper Dissolving wood pulp Paper pulp Direct corporate social responsibility 1,185 CSR spend excludes indirect spend on Quality Management System certified Timber and other infrastructure and community support. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 15 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Prosperity, People, Planet — an overview of our business’ links to sustainability Managed plantations and forests 4 Reduction % Globally, The plantations and forests from which we 51.5 % harvest the timber used in our manufacturing processes are managed through the use of in specific water usage over the past of energy used in our mills is derived independent, internationally accredited forest five years from renewable sources certification systems: • FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® • PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification 33.4 % All mills • SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative Reduction in solid waste to landfill over the past five years ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certified These internationally recognised, independent auditing procedures mean that it is possible to trace our virgin fibre from source to endproduct. Sourcing woodfibre Europe North America South Africa Woodfibre is sourced from forests close to Woodfibre is sourced from landowners and All timber is sourced from plantations (planted each mill. Softwood and hardwood pulp is commercial loggers operating in temperate forests) of softwoods and hardwoods. All our sourced from Europe and the Americas. Tree forests in Maine, New Hampshire, Michigan, own and leased plantations are 100% FSC™ species used include spruce and beech. Minnesota and Wisconsin and from the certified Canadian provinces of New Brunswick, Lanaken Mill can also process significant Quebec and Ontario. The tree species used Approximately one-third of our plantations are volumes of poplar. include maple, poplar, aspen, beech and managed for biodiversity conservation. birch (hardwoods) and spruce, pine and fir 71.4% of all fibre used is certified. (softwoods). 86% of fibre used is certified. 58.7% of all fibre used is certified. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 16 The link between our business and sustainability Prosperity — our value add Sappi Sustainability Charter Our products add value Value added “Our approach to sustainability is based on a Our products add value to people’s lives every day In 2013, we added value to the Prosperity of the holistic view of the 3Ps: Prosperity, People and and are used in the following ways: regions where we operate: Planet. Being a sustainable organisation means • Dissolving wood pulp Viscose fabrics and • By employing: that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our textiles, and used in foodstuffs, cosmetics and ◦◦ 13,665 employees business decisions, strategies and processes to pharmaceutical products ◦◦ 750 contractors globally help us create added value for all our stakeholders.” • Graphics papers Commercial printing including ◦◦ An additional approximately 11,700 people magazines, brochures, catalogues, direct mail, working for contractors engaged by our Manufacturing our pulp, paper and specialised corporate reports and calendars forestry operations in Southern Africa. cellulose solutions in a manner that ‘does not • Packaging papers Convenience food, fast • By creating millions of dollars worth of goods compromise the ability of future generations food and to protect and transport fresh produce each year. In FY2013 sales per region were: to meet their own needs’ is the basis for • Speciality, security and release papers ◦◦ Europe US$3,155 million achieving this vision. Consumer goods, labels, passports and a ◦◦ North America US$1,377million variety of other applications. ◦◦ South Africa US$1,393 million. • By contributing to domestic growth and the We contribute… balance of payments in each region where we S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P We contribute to social and economic wellbeing operate by exporting products to over 100 Sustainability Charter by using labour drawn from local communities, countries around the world. and engaging the services of small and medium Our approach to sustainability is based on a holistic view of Prosperity, People and Planet (the 3Ps). Being a sustainable organisation means that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our business decisions, strategies and processes to help us create added value for all our stakeholders. At the heart of our business is a renewable, recyclable natural resource — woodfibre. We use this to create pulp, paper and specialised cellulose solutions which enhance the lives of consumers around the world. enterprises situated in the areas around plantations We enhance our financial capital position by using We believe that acting sustainably makes sound business sense • By generating Prosperity, we can continue to attract investors, leverage growth opportunities and can invest more in our processes, our people and the communities in which we operate. This helps us in our goal of being a customer-centric business focused on ongoing product, process and service innovation. Investing in research and development ensures we maintain a competitive global advantage. • By maintaining a safe, healthy workplace for our People in which diversity is valued, and people are provided with ongoing development opportunities so that they can develop to their full potential, we enhance productivity and production facilities. a high percentage of self-generated energy, selling and our ability to service global markets. Active corporate citizenship programmes relevant to the needs of the communities where we operate ensure that we promote socio-economic development within these communities. • By treading more lightly on the Planet through cleaner, more efficient manufacturing and waste beneficiation processes, we can produce more with less — an approach which has obvious economic benefits. This approach is based on continuous improvement and includes reducing the energy intensity of our business and reducing the associated greenhouse gas emissions across the full supply chain. It also necessitates using less water and improving effluent quality, mitigating our impact on biodiversity and promoting sustainable forestry through excess power, reducing our use of water and by internationally accredited, independent environmental management and forest certification systems. We have a strong sustainability governance structure, underpinned by our core values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness. We actively seek input from our stakeholders to inform our strategies, actions and targets. We report annually on our performance against these. We also have a best practice training programme minimising waste production and disposal. We are Going forward, we will continue to develop our manufacturing, human, social and natural resources in a way that ensures our sustainability approach enhances our long term viability and overall Prosperity. Ralph Boëttger Chief Executive Officer Sappi Limited August 2013 www.sappi.com Copyright © 2013 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. and, through our corporate social responsibility increasingly generating revenue from waste (for an programme together with our enterprise example, please refer to our 2013 sustainability Sappi development programme in South Africa, invest report for Sappi Southern Africa). Sustainability Charter in the socio-economic development of the communities in which our workers live. Value added distributed amongst our stakeholders and reinvested in the business: US$1,613 million. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 17 The link between our business and sustainability Prosperity — our value add Economic value added in 2011 Economic value added in 2012 Economic value added in 2013 by stakeholder by stakeholder by stakeholder US$ m US$ m US$ m 2,125 1,913 1,613 57% 1,209 23% 499 15% 319 55% 1,052 24% 455 16% 301 63% 1,017 23% 369 11% 182 Employees Reinvested to grow Lenders of capital as Employees Reinvested to grow Lenders of capital as Employees Reinvested to grow Lenders of capital as (Salaries, wages and the business interest (Salaries, wages and the business interest (Salaries, wages and the business interest other benefits) other benefits) other benefits) 5% 98 0% 0 5% 105 0% 0 3% 45 0% 0 Governments as Shareholders Governments as Shareholders Governments as Shareholders taxation taxation taxation 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 18 The link between our business and sustainability Prosperity — technology and innovation Recognising that technology is the R&D and Exciter programme Exciter R&D Cumulative investment and return cornerstone of our business, in 2004, we Our total R&D spend in 2013 was US$29.5 million established a global technology strategy including US$8.1 million related to our Exciter US$ millions which aligned technology and R&D expertise programme. 150 ROI 194% across three continents and the different sectors of the business. The Exciter programme is focused on creating 120 breakthrough technological competency, which will This centrally coordinated approach allows us to allow us to develop new and improved products pool and leverage our expertise across the regions and processes to drive market differentiation. 90 to ensure that our solutions remain relevant to the needs of our customers in more than 100 countries Work takes place in two areas: core business 60 across the globe. (Exciter I) and new adjacent business (Exciter II). 30 Technology centres Exciter I is focused on cost reduction, developing Our Technology Centres around the world are new technology to drive down production costs 0 focused on product/process improvements and and process improvements, mainly originating FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 development and are supported by 11 technology from the pilot digester and pilot refiner centres of Value delivered Investment clusters. excellence. Technology clusters Exciter II projects are focused on the development Our technology clusters are comprised of internal of products for new adjacent markets. experts and focused on aligning technology and R&D expertise. The clusters promote the sharing A number of prototypes in the areas of speciality of ideas, technical excellence and best operation chemicals and fibre composites are ready to be practice across Sappi’s business units. tested in the market and present an opportunity to develop new revenue streams for Sappi in the To ensure central coordination, clusters report to future. the Group Technology Management Team (GTMT) which is responsible for technical management in Exciter value delivery for FY2013 was approximately the group as well as overseeing research activities. double investment. The clusters are supported by Centres of Excellence in various fields. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 19 The link between our business and sustainability Prosperity — manufacturing efficiency In our mills, we use the principles of Lean Renewable energy Cloquet Mill annual production Manufacturing to: minimise waste in all areas, We have a major benefit in our high use of renewable including raw material and energy usage, energy (51.5% globally), derived mainly from black '000s tons/annum and optimise operating efficiencies, product liquor, sludges and biomass. This results in a high 400 rationalisation and time management. degree of energy self-sufficiency and lower levels of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels. It 350 Rigorous measurement also helps cushion us from proposed carbon taxes, We have a rigorous system of measuring our emission caps or other limits on fossil fuel use. 300 outputs, particularly those of all our paper machines, so that we know how much production In FY2013 we sold power to third party customers: 250 capacity exists and where it is located. This allows North America 770,350 gigajoules (GJ) us to focus on our performance gaps and to take Europe 1, 605,360GJ 200 the necessary actions to continually improve our South Africa 190,295GJ. 150 paper machine efficiencies. Cogeneration opportunity in South Africa 100 The direct comparison of operating equipment Under the Medium-Term Risk Mitigation (MTRM) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 between mills helps us identify strengths and determination, the Department of Energy (DoE) Total paper Sheet weaknesses in our operations, and promote the is seeking to procure 800MW of near-term group’s best practices and improve our processes, cogeneration capacity, which could arise from thereby increasing profitability. biomass, industrial waste and combined heat and power sources. Through the Paper Manufacturers’ We also track the efficiency and reliability of each Association of South Africa (PAMSA), we have paper machine and the financial impact thereof engaged with government about this cogeneration throughout the group. As an example, the graph opportunity. The potential for us to increase the on this page shows production improvement at our electricity we already sell to the national electricity Cloquet Mill since 2009. generator, Eskom, looks promising. We have a number of cogeneration and renewable biomass power plant projects in the pipeline that can be implemented relatively quickly should a positive COGEN programme be implemented by government. An announcement regarding the status of the programme is expected early in 2014. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 20 The link between our business and sustainability People — ensuring our sustainability well into the future Our people profile Skills development opportunity pool. In recent years our business focus has been on Investing in our people to learn, grow and to improving the profitability of the graphic paper have a productive career with Sappi is a business Recognising the importance of leadership at business and growing the higher-margin specialised imperative. Each of our business units manage various levels in the organisation, our leadership cellulose division. This has meant that we have their own training and development based on the development begins at first-line supervisor training undertaken a number of restructuring initiatives operational requirements of the mill and/or region. all the way to successors for lead team roles. which have resulted in machine closures and While a defined set of leadership competencies headcount reductions in Europe and South Africa. We emphasise employee involvement in all form the basis of our Leadership Academy, senior our skills development initiatives. A significant managers are developed in line with their personal Our current headcount is 13,665 (2012: 14,039) portion of training and development spend is development plans. people. allocated according to needs identified in Personal Development Plans which are in place for many of Training spend by category expenditure FY2013 Recruitment and retention our employees: Europe 65%, North America 23% Ensuring our sustainability well into the future (66% of eligible employees), South Africa 77%. requires us to recruit talented individuals with the right skills sets, retain talent within Sappi and Due to the lack of education and poor skill levels develop employees to reach their full potential so among certain sectors of the South African that they contribute fully to our success. population, there is a greater focus on, and investment in skills development and training in In 2013, our employee turnover rates were 5.4% in Europe; 6.06% in North America; 16.18% in South Africa; and 10.4% in Sappi Trading. this region than in our other operations. In South Africa, our Work Skills Plan, submitted annually to the South African Sectoral Education and Training US$ 10.14m Authority for the Fibre Process and Manufacturing During the course of 2013, we recruited 1,082 Sector, is compiled together with our union shop employees across our businesses, of which: 179 stewards. were employed in Europe; 181 in North America; 705 in South Africa; and 17 in Sappi Trading. We conduct annual talent reviews for professional 5.8% 42.4% levels and middle management and above, Management and Knowledge and leadership development capacity building Women made up 36% of new hires and the majority as well as succession planning for lead team of our new hires were local residents. roles and mission critical roles. This gives us an 17.2% 34.6% indication of our functional bench strengths and an Skills programmes and Sappi World of Work individual development understanding of our promotional and development 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 21 The link between our business and sustainability People — communities Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) Europe — Education and environmental causes We have identified Early Childhood Development SO-1 Our European operations continued to support the initiatives and programmes are in line with, (ECD) as a new focus area to help break the cycle Percentage of operations and supportive of, our business strategy and rebuilding of a school in Haiti — a project initiated of poor education by investing in the 0-7 age group with implemented local are developed with input from key stakeholder after the earthquake in 2010 — and the planting of within our communities, in particular our forestry community engagement, impact assessments, groups. trees to re-establish natural forests (in partnership communities. We are partnering with Penreach, and development with Belgian authorities). programmes a not-for-profit school development programme Our support is focused on the communities where focused on creating ‘communities of learning’, to At a community level, mills supported local projects we have an impact. Our preference is for multi-year establish an ECD Centre at Elandshoek close to including: youth clubs, community centres, programmes which create sustained impact in our our Ngodwana Mill. The centre is expected to begin vulnerable groups, sports clubs and environmental communities. The majority of our CSR spend takes operating in 2014. In addition, 25 ECD sites education in addition to making paper donations. place in South Africa, to assist in addressing the will be developed in Sappi’s KwaZulu Natal forestry development needs of that country. Our spend in North America — Ideas that Matter communities through non-profit organisation, South Africa stood at 1.59% of Net Profit After Tax We focus mainly on the Ideas that Matter programme Training & Resources In Early Education (TREE). (NPAT), again exceeding our regional target that which funds the best paper-based communication CSR spend should represent 1% of NPAT. campaigns for charities and other worthwhile Corporate Social Responsibility expenditure FY2013 causes, created by graphic designers — a key US$ '000s Sappi’s CSR related projects across all regions target audience for the graphics paper business. address four broad themes: • Literacy and education with a particular focus We provide scholarships for high school students on developing mathematics and science skills. to study at the University of Maine (Pulp and Paper • Environment and conservation programmes Association) and we support the New England with a particular focus on the natural resources Aquarium. and ecosystems on which our business depends. South Africa — Education and literacy US$ 1,45m • Health and welfare with a particular focus on Education and literacy make up 45,7% of total the communities surrounding our operations. CSR spend in this region. This includes eight • Community engagement and upliftment PROTEC branches in mill communities working including projects to improve basic infrastructure with grade 10-12 students. PROTEC (Programme and services as well as projects which improve for Technological Careers) is a national independent community life. non-profit educational service provider in South 131,735 444,000 873,042 Africa that specialises in maths, science and Europe North America Southern Africa technology education. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 22 The link between our business and sustainability Planet — a sustainable, natural renewable resource One of the greatest benefits of our paper, Managed plantations and forests Certified fibre paper packaging and dissolving wood The plantations and forests from which we harvest The bulk of the fibre we procure is certified: pulp solutions is that the woodfibre they the timber used in our manufacturing processes Europe 71.4% are derived from is a sustainable, natural, are managed through the use of independent, North America 58.7% renewable resource. internationally accredited forest certification South Africa 86%. systems: • FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® The rest of the fibre is procured from known and When managed in • PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of trusted suppliers close to each mill, regularly visited Forest Certification by our buyers. accordance with the • SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative FSC®-controlled wood and PEFC™ Due Diligence principles of sustainable These internationally recognised, independent Systems (DDS) requirements are incorporated into auditing procedures mean that it is possible to our purchasing specifications and contracts and in forest management, as trace our virgin fibre from source to end-product. line with our purchasing policy. promoted at Sappi, the Environmentaland forestry-related information (including wood sources) is obtained from pulp use of the products we suppliers on a regular basis and this data is then manufacture drives the internally evaluated by a team of experts. growth of plantations and forests; making a valuable contribution to mitigating global warming through carbon sequestration. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 23 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Our key sustainability issues The issues set out in this section of our group sustainability report are important factors that we believe may have a Key material impact on our success as a business either by directly impacting Sustainability our ability to operate profitably or by affecting our reputation and the Issues trust stakeholders have in Sappi 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 24 Our key sustainability issues Our markets Future demand growth Sustainability issue The trends of increasing population growth and Primary uses affluence in Asia are important for Sappi because The downturn in the global economy has currently, the bulk of our DWP production is sold The dissolving wood pulp principally produced accelerated the decline of graphic paper use into the Asian market for use in textiles. by Sappi is the type used in the manufacture in the developed world as consumers turn of a variety of cellulose products, including to electronic media to access news and to viscose staple fibres or rayon, solvent spun With greater affluence, many Asians are already e-readers for books and magazines. fibres (lyocell) and viscose filament yarns which graduating from non-breathable fibres derived have a soft, natural feel and excellent breathing from oil, to natural fibres and blends, which include properties. derivatives of DWP. Our response… Given their particularly high absorbency According to RISI, the leading information provider properties, these fibres are also used in nonOur response has been to diversify our for the global forest products industry, global DWP woven applications in the healthcare, industrial product portfolio and exposure to the markets consumption grew 9% in 2012, reaching 5.8 million and disposable product markets. we serve. tons. RISI projects world DWP usage at 6.9 million ton in 2014, up 1.1 million tons or 19% on 2012 Dissolving wood pulp consumption. One of the cornerstones of our business strategy is growth in profitable specialised cellulose — Significant growth opportunities dissolving wood pulp (DWP) — solutions. These trends hold significant growth opportunities as Sappi is positioned in the lowest cost quartile 9 Growth % in global demand for dissolving The successful commissioning of our conversion of the world’s DWP manufacturers. Having the wood pulp in 2012 projects at Ngodwana Mill in South Africa and ability to carousel between mills also enhances Cloquet Mill in the United States to increase our service position, enabling faster customer our capacity from 800,000 tons per annum to turnaround times and service. 1.34 million tons per annum, took us a long way down the road to achieving this strategy. 6.9m DWP tons Anticipated global dissolving wood pulp demand in 2014 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 25 Our key sustainability issues Our markets continued Algro Nature is the first and only one side coated North America — Lustreprint Sustainability issue packaging paper that is certified to be composted We manufacture Lusterprint, a grease proof product at home. with an excellent print surface. Used primarily in The downturn in the global economy has pet food packaging, Lusterprint is approved by the accelerated the decline of graphic paper use In conjunction with Innovia Films, we developed US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for food in the developed world as consumers turn a flexible packaging solution that can convert contact and can also be used in applications such to electronic media to access news and to waste into energy (anaerobic digestion and as popcorn bags. e-readers for books and magazines. biomethanisation), or, at a minimum, can be composted by the consumer to reduce the burden South Africa — changing expectations Our response… on landfills and provide a solution to fight plastic Our customers are increasingly requesting paper pollution through littering. that incorporates recovered fibre, which a number of our mills are capable of processing. Our response has been to diversify our Europe — two new flexpack grades product portfolio and exposure to the markets In 2013, we launched two new mineral oil barrier we serve. flexpack grades: MOB Kraft and MOB Gravure. These innovative speciality papers prevent the Paper and paper packaging migration of mineral oil and other contaminants We are countering the trends away from graphic into food from cardboard packaging containing Variety and recovery… paper, in the developed world, by moving into more recycled paper. The mineral oil barrier in the papers specialised paper solutions, including intelligent protect foodstuffs from mineral oil compounds At Enstra Mill in South Africa, a repulper, packaging, security papers, label and food-safe that are a complex mixture of saturated and commissioned in August 2013, has enabled the papers and papers designed to meet specific unsaturated hydrocarbons, which are suspected mill to supply a wide variety of pulp types to the customer needs. to be carcinogenic. paper machines, while the recovered fibre plant will process recycled grades. We believe opportunities will grow as consumers Europe — Jaz Book The capacity to blend recovered fibre into increasingly look for alternatives to plastics and as We also launched Jaz Book, a coated digital paper; paper grades has given the mill more flexibility environmental and health regulations become more the result of our partnership with Hewlett Packard. in producing competitive products that meet stringent. Available in a lower weight, this paper is specifically customer requirements and enables the mill to targeted at full colour book production and is an meet increased market demand for products Europe — Algro Nature ideal choice for the education market. incorporating recovered fibre. Algro Nature is a good example of meeting market demand for environmentally friendlier products. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 26 Our key sustainability issues Fibre supply and forest certification Biomass diversion threatens fibre supply Sustainability issue In both Europe and North America, the diversion of Tree breeding research biomass to energy is threatening the sustainability The implications of a constrained fibre of fibre supply for our industry. Our research centre in KwaZulu-Natal, South source would have consequences for our Africa, plays an important role in optimising our business. Forest certification is an important Europe woodfibre base in this region. reputational issue. Our position is that we should take advantage of Our tree breeding programme at the centre wood’s many versatile and renewable properties to continuously tests and selects genotypes best Our response… firstly create wood products, pulp and paper, and suited to the range of sites where we plant recycled paper, all of which can then be used for trees, including harsh sites that are drought renewable energy after their material use. susceptible. In this way more drought tolerant Fibre supply: Europe and North America trees have been identified. Fibre is sourced from forest owners close to each By extending the lifecycle of wood before it is operation, with whom we have long-standing ultimately used for energy, we can add value to The eucalypt species Eucalyptus dunnii has relationships. In these regions, we mitigate fibre the economy, create and retain jobs, and in effect proven to be the most drought tolerant of supply risk through a combination of approaches use our raw materials more efficiently. Sappi’s commercial species and is now planted which include both shortand long-term wood on sites where drought risk is high. supply agreements and shareholdings in wood North America sourcing co-operatives. A growing number of prospective and existing Biotechnology tools — ­ such as DNA government mandates and incentives promote fingerprinting — help improve our tree Europe the use of biomass for energy, including state and breeding, seed production and propagation In January 2013, Sappi Fine Paper Europe took federal Renewable Electricity Standards, climate efficiencies by allowing us to keep track of our this one step further by establishing a joint venture, policies, and the Renewable Fuel Standard. The elite pine and eucalypt breeds. proNARO, with SCA Hygiene Products. The joint rapid increase and the combined effect of these venture focuses on the wood sourcing process of mandates could affect the balance between the We also use biotechnology to develop traitpulp operations in Alfeld, Stockstadt, Mannheim many users of, as well as the long-term sustainability linked molecular markers for breeding and and Ehingen. of the forest resource. for understanding host defence mechanism to important tree pests and disease such as This move has secured wood supply on a longWe share the position of the American Forests & Lepitocybe invasa and Fursarium circinatum. term basis for our pulp production in a cost efficient, Paper Association (AF & PA) that any government sustainable manner. policies that encourage additional demand for continued… 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 27 Our key sustainability issues Fibre supply and forest certification continued biomass should be coupled with policies that Own fibre source in Southern Africa Timber-focused land reform increase the available long-term supply of wood to We own, manage and lease 561,000ha of land, We are assisting with land reform projects where meet future demand for paper and wood products so have a certain level of control over our fibre timber is grown. We have, for example, signed a as well as new and growing energy markets. sources. Service Level Agreement (SLA) with the National Department of Rural Development and Land Policies also should include safeguards to minimise We continue to invest in developing our low-cost Reform. As part of the SLA, Government appointed disruptions in the flow of fibre and related market fibre base and are mitigating fibre supply risk. us as a strategic partner to assist land reform distortions. beneficiaries with the management of the timber Project Grow on their property. We help promote access to and develop the In Southern Africa, we own, timber farming industry through Project Grow, our Research enterprise development initiative. Ongoing research, including collaboration with manage and lease 561,000ha industry and various research institutes to improve New community-owned plantations silvicultural practice, develop biocontrol measures of land, so have a certain level of Forestry is classified as a streamflow reduction and breed genetically more resistant planting stock. activity — the only agricultural activity in South control over our fibre sources. Africa to be classified in this manner — and Breeding accordingly, is subject to a water-use licence. Breeding for specific pulping characteristics to improve process efficiency. We are working with communities in the Eastern Cape to obtain water-use licences for the Lowering costs by improving yield: establishment of new plantations. To date, we Over 15 years, our research efforts have resulted have assisted several communities in the Eastern in a 60% improvement in eucalypt plantation yield. Cape in obtaining a total of 4,546ha of water-use licences, including 584ha of new licences awarded In our Usutu pine plantations we have maintained during 2013. sample plots to allow comparison of four successive rotations of pine since the first rotation, planted in We are also assisting the communities in the Eastern the 1950s. The latest measurements taken in 2011 Cape who have been successful in obtaining indicate an 8% yield improvement — consistent water-use licences to secure Recapitalisation and with the expectation from genetically superior Development Funds (RECAP) from the Department planting stock and measures taken to maintain of Rural Development and Land Reform. site productivity. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 28 Our key sustainability issues Climate change diseases, changing markets and global warming Sustainability issue while providing continuous genetic improvement over the long term. Drought, changing weather patterns, increased risk of fire and pest infestations Our exposure to climate change related risk in this could potentially impact the sustainability region is moderated through: or our fibre supply. Genetic variability Maintaining wide genetic variability in our planting Our response… material, enables us to breed trees for a wide range of conditions and the rate of change in conditions is likely to be slow enough for us to respond in Climate influences the structure and function of the breeding programme. In other words we will forest and plantation forest ecosystems and plays produce better trees as conditions change. an essential role in forest health. Best practice A changing climate could exacerbate many of Continually monitoring and reviewing forest best the threats to forests and plantations, such as practices in the light of changing environmental A changing climate could pest outbreaks, fires, human development, and factors, thus helping to mitigate any increased drought could also have both negative and positive threat from environmental conditions. exacerbate many of the threats implications for growth. Drought-tolerance to forests and plantations, such In all regions, woodfibre could be positively or Implementing extensive planting of more droughtnegatively affected by climate change. In each tolerant eucalypt hybrids. as pest outbreaks, fires, human region where we operate, we monitor the situation very closely. Mitigating fire risk development, and drought. Fire risks are mitigated via an integrated Fire Risk In Southern Africa, where we have a high degree Management System comprising a comprehensive of control over our fibre resource, we maintain a risk assessment, monthly compliance checks for broad genetic base, comprising many species, monitoring, management procedures, standards, It could have both negative and populations and trees. This ensures that we are and general back-up information. We also involve able to respond to new challenges like pests, our neighbours and communities in fire prevention. positive implications for growth. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 29 Our key sustainability issues Energy and carbon footprint has dropped by 20.3%. This decrease has been We continue to explore biorefining projects in all Sustainability issue largely due to production closures in South Africa, regions to reduce exposure to future energy price as well as the ‘Amakhulu’ expansion project at increases and provide a stable supply of energy. As pulp and paper production is highly Saiccor Mill, which significantly enhanced energy energy intensive; the cost and availability efficiency. Further, bio-energy projects may represent of energy is a key consideration for Sappi. important new revenue streams. Our Technology We continue to focus on reducing our carbon Research Centre in Pretoria, for example, is looking footprint in all regions by improving energy-use at various conversion technologies for lignin. These Our response… efficiency and decreasing our reliance on fossil include the gasification of lignin. fuels. We are achieving this by making process changes, installing more efficient equipment, Energy costs as a percentage of operating costs reducing purchased energy (electricity and fossil have been rising for several years and currently fuel) and by increasing our use of renewable energy account for approximately 12% of our cost of sales. — an approach that ultimately results in a reduction Energy cost in CO2 emissions. as a percentage of Cost of Sales We mitigate this risk by focusing on increasing % renewable energy, promoting cogeneration and In addition, through the use of black liquor, we have 15 investigating biofuel opportunities. been steadily increasing energy self-sufficiency over time. We have a major advantage over other industrial 12 companies in our high usage of renewable energy, Independence from fossil fuels not only lowers derived from black liquor, sludges and biomass. greenhouse gas emissions but helps to isolate This results in a high degree of energy selfour operations from fluctuations in energy prices sufficiency and lower levels of greenhouse gas — making us a more profitable and sustainable 9 emissions from fossil fuels and helps cushion us business. from proposed carbon taxes, emission caps or other limits in fossil fuel use. Globally, over five years, Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) CO2 emissions have decreased 6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 All regions have established energy targets and by 12.2% and 28.4% respectively. These report on these on a quarterly basis. reductions represent reductions of 584,936 tons Europe North America Southern Africa CO2 equivalent (CO2 e) (Scope 1) and 607,906 Group Globally, over five years, specific purchased energy CO2 e (Scope 2). 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 30 Our key sustainability issues Carbon tax and-trade system. There appear to be no moves we believe that carbon taxes would impact on the SO-5 Sustainability issue towards carbon tax in the states in which we competitiveness of our industry by adding another Public policy positions operate in North America. We do, however, believe layer of costs. This would mean unfair competition and participation in public Carbon taxes could have a material impact that we would be cushioned from carbon taxes from papers imported from countries without policy development and lobbying on our profitability. by our high use of renewable energy, currently carbon taxes. standing at over 80% — well above the industry benchmark in this region of 62%. The sequestration effect can be demonstrated by Our response… using the Forest Industries Carbon Assessment Tool South Africa (FICAT™) methodology, a GHG accounting tool The government is proposing to a carbon tax developed specifically for the forestry and paper Europe of US$12.93 per ton of CO2 emitted. We have industries by the National Council for Air and Stream There is considerable regulatory uncertainty made extensive inputs into the submission made Improvement, a powerful US environmental NPO. regarding emissions allowances. In September to the National Treasury by the Pulp and Paper 2013, the European Commission announced Manufacturers’ Association (PAMSA) submitted The use of FICAT™ demonstrates that the trees it would cut free allocation of emission credits before the end of August 2013. We subscribe in Sappi’s plantations absorb 12.5 million tons of to industry with an additional 6% in 2013 — to PAMSA’s view that “climate change will have CO2 and emit 8 million tons of oxygen annually. The adding up to a startling 18% extra cut by 2020. a significant impact on South Africa, its economy estimation is based on an average absorption of The Confederation of European Paper Industries and its people and we recognise the importance 27 tons of CO2 per hectare of plantation per year. (CEPI) has called the decision “very harsh”, saying of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in that “even the most carbon efficient companies in mitigating the effects of climate change”. We further Europe would not receive the credits they need to recognise that the proposed carbon tax is viewed Accounting for carbon operate”. We continue to monitor developments as a means of driving behavioural changes towards in this region. low carbon and energy efficient technologies. “The International Council of Forest and Paper Associations (ICFPA) acknowledges that Forest Industry Carbon Accounting Tool (FICAT ™) North America However, in line with PAMSA’s 2013 submission software was designed for circumstances There are as yet no proposals for federal carbon to Treasury, we maintain that when plantations unique to the forest products sector and taxes in North America. However, the states of and the pulping and paper making process are recognises that it is an appropriate method to Oregon and Washington recently announced considered as an integrated entity, together with measure the overall lifecycle greenhouse gas moves towards a carbon-pricing system similar to process emissions and plantation absorptions, the impact of activities associated with producing the seven-year-old carbon tax in British Columbia. net result is GHG absorption. We believe that a forest products”. Earlier this year, California introduced a carbon tax offset mechanism be developed to recognise Letter from ICFA to PAMSA, July 15 2013 pricing mechanism as part of its carbon capthe sequestration effect of plantations. In addition, 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 31 Our key sustainability issues Our people Safety Sustainability issue Our approach to safety is based on the principles Code of Ethics of Project Zero — zero fatalities and zero injuries. Ensuring that our people have an overriding Underpinning Prosperity, People and Planet culture of safety first in everything they do. Project Zero is a global initiative that aims to is our Code of Ethics, based on our core accelerate improved safety performance in areas of values of: • Excellence concern and to develop a safety awareness culture • Integrity in all parts of our business. Our response… • Respect • Resourcefulness. The initiative includes: integrated health and safety “We have worked very hard to create a culture planning and management; training at all levels; A refreshed Code of Ethics, based on an which prioritises safety at all times and incorporates participative information and control structures; integrity, rather than a compliance framework, contractors into this culture. While there were and adherence to international best practice and was adopted by the Sappi Limited Board in improvements in reducing fatalities and lost time safety standards. February 2013. injuries throughout the group, I deeply regret having to report one own employee fatality and one In addition to addressing hazards in the workplace Various promotional tools including posters, contractor fatality in our South African operations. by means of the OHSAS 18001 related systems vendor letters and booklets have been translated in place at all our pulp and paper mills, we also into various African and European languages to “We will continue to focus on entrenching a strong address ‘at risk behaviour’ of our employees by promote the Code of Ethics. safety culture with the ultimate target of zero harm.” means of a behaviour based safety (BBS) system. Each region appointed representatives from Ralph Boëttger Our focus going forward is on further entrenching legal, communication and human resources to Chief Executive Officer a sense of ownership and awareness amongst assist with the roll out of the refreshed code. Sappi Limited Campaigns were designed and implemented our employees. We are achieving this by involving with due consideration for cultural and regional them in selecting the most appropriate leading dynamics. performance indicators and identifying the areas of our activities that present the greatest threat to We continue to monitor the programme and performance or opportunity for improvement and feedback is that it has been successful. sharing regular feedback on performance. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 32 Our key sustainability issues Our people continued our South African forestry and manufacturing Case study Sustainability issue operations. We currently hold a level four BBBEE Celebrating 30 years … rating. Ensuring that we meet our transformation agenda in South Africa and that we maintain In South Africa, our enterprise development We have been restructuring the business over the mutually respectful relationships with our initiative, Project Grow, celebrated its 30th last two years and this has had a major impact on employees. anniversary. In keeping with the South African our ability to improve our rating. Government’s strategy of promoting forestry as a means of creating sustainable livelihoods in As the scorecard below indicates, greater emphasis rural areas, the project is aimed at promoting Our response… needs to be placed on employment equity. To access to and developing the timber farming address this, we have adopted at 10-point action industry. Transformation plan which includes specific key deliverables and We view Broad-based Black Economic time lines. A more detailed discussion is available From three farmers managing 12 hectares (ha) Empowerment (BBBEE) as a key requirement for in our 2013 sustainability report for Sappi Southern in 1983, the project has grown significantly. At sustainable growth and social development in Africa. the peak, 10,000 growers were involved, and South Africa. many of these have now become self-sufficient, indicating that the model is sustainable. We have long been committed to participating in the Currently, approximately 4,500 growers are involved, ranging from small individual growers country’s transformation and development through to larger community projects, farming just over Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment — Empowerdex rating 19,257ha. It is estimated that approximately 1,747 people are directly employed in these Elements Verified rating Target score 2013 status projects. December 2012 September 2013* Ownership 15.74 20 15.11 Project Grow currently provides us with nearly Management control 4.49 10 5.99 238,000 tons of timber per annum, with a total Employment equity 3.69 15 2.43 value in excess of US$13.3 million based on Skills development 9.55 15 8.28 current mill delivered prices. Preferential procurement 18.76 10 18.02 The volumes provided by Project Grow Enterprise development 14.96 150 15.00 represent 7.5% of our hardwood woodfibre Socio-economic development 8.00 5 8.00 intake in South Africa. Overall score 75.19 100 72.83 *Verification will be conducted in December 2013 by an external ratings agency. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 33 Our key sustainability issues Our people continued The purpose of the meeting is to share information • Local shop steward committees at each mill LA-4 Sustainability issue and consult on topics of interest such as business which meet with management to discuss millPercentage of employees performance, planned business changes, industry specific issues of mutual interest. In the Forests covered by collective Ensuring that our people are engaged with development and pan-European topics. division, we have established labour liaison bargaining agreements and connect to our business, and that we committees where we have run in-sourced maintain mutually respectful relationships Because of the number of geographies in which we operations to ensure regular communication with our employees. operate in Europe, we manage relationships with between employees and management at local 13 different unions. level. • The National Partnership Forum, a joint Our response… North America union and Sappi senior management forum The majority of our employees are represented by which meets quarterly to share information the United Steelworkers (USW), as well as through on business performance, strategy direction, Industrial relations various craft, guard and railroad unions. industry developments and union priorities. Protecting the right to freedom of association • The Pulp and Paper Chamber, an industry and collective bargaining is fundamental to the In this region, labour agreements are usually for body that deals with wage negotiations and manner in which we do business. Globally, 56% three years. A new contract with the Cloquet other employment relations and conditions of our workforce is unionised, with 66.5% of our Mill USW was ratified in December 2012 and we of employment issues affecting the industry. employees belonging to bargaining units. successfully concluded a number of other contracts Currently the chamber has established a work in the region. group to investigate a collective bargaining Europe framework in an attempt to enhance the The labour relations framework in Europe comprises South Africa collective bargaining process in our industry. a combination of Works Councils and collective To ensure stability in the complex South African labour agreement organisations and these differ working environment we have established several from country to country. forums including: Protecting the right to • The National Employment Equity and Skills Works Councils are elected every four to five Development Forum which meets quarterly, freedom of association years at each mill site as well as the sales offices and is attended by union officials from three in Germany, Austria and the Benelux countries. unions, shop steward representatives and and collective bargaining Meetings with the Works Councils take place twice management representatives. The primary a year and are attended by representatives from focus of this forum is to consult and mutually is fundamental to each manufacturing site, the Chief Executive Officer agree on the Employment Equity Plan and and the Human Resources Director for the region. Workplace Skills Plan and its implementation. how we do business. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 34 Our key sustainability issues Water Sustainability issue Climate change is expected to have a profound impact on the world’s rainfall patterns, river flows and freshwater reserves. 4%Reduction Any decrease in available water supplies in specific water usage over the past could significantly affect our fibre supply five years and production processes. Our response… Water use per sector in South Africa Unlike most other % forms of agriculture, Reducing water usage within our mills and improving the quality of water returned to the our plantations are environment continues to be a key area of focus. We return approximately 89.7% of water drawn not irrigated and to the environment after cleaning and filtering. Between 2009 and 2013, globally, specific water use decreased by 4%. Over the same period, total 3% use comparatively suspended solids (TSS) and chemical oxygen used by Forestry little water. demand (COD) — both measures of water quality — improved by 7.8% and 1.1% respectively. In South Africa, some of our stakeholders have expressed concern that forestry uses large Globally, 89.7% 2 2.5 3 amounts of water. Power generation Livestock and Forestry conservation 3 5.5 24 However, unlike most other forms of agriculture, our Rural Domestic Mining and industry Urban domestic of the process water we use is returned plantations are not irrigated and use comparatively to the environment, after having been 60 little water as shown in the water-use comparison recycled many times, cleaned and treated Agriculture/Irrigation graph. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 35 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Prosperity Our sustainability focus is on creating value for current and future stakeholders in all aspects of our business Prosperity 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 36 Our management approach to Prosperity A strategic transformational approach to managing future Prosperity Develop Grow We can only create value for stakeholders GRI-2.9 from a strong foundation of Prosperity and Significant changes We are developing complementary We are growing our existing highour ability to meet our People and Planet during the reporting industrial products and processes margin businesses by increasing our period regarding size, commitments is contingent upon our ongoing structure, or ownership through: customer base and product portfolios profitability. In the context of declining profits • Product innovation in our three key business areas: over recent years, we’ve been repositioning • Optimising use of existing facilities • Specialised cellulose ourselves for improved performance. • Investing in complementary business • Packaging • Partnering with third • Speciality paper. Operating profit Aggressive transformation strategy parties to develop for the year Our strategy is to aggressively transform Sappi new products US$ 191m into a growing and profitable diversified fibre group focused on specialised cellulose, high cash and markets. ow excluding special items generation profitable paper businesses and other lop Gr high-margin industrial products which will provide added value to our customers and wealth to our ve Our shareholders and people. Conversion of De strategy Ngodwana and Looking forward Cloquet Mills to produce dissolving wood pulp We are confident that, within the next two years, our strategy will result in Sappi becoming a well Optimise balanced and robust business, generating good completed returns with a strong balance sheet based on: • Maintaining and growing our global leadership position as a low-cost dissolving wood pulp We are optimising and improving the profitability of the mature producer graphic paper business through: Debt levels • Growing high-margin speciality paper • Being the lowest cost producer in • Extracting efficiencies through maintained in a businesses in all regions the markets in which we operate continuous improvement tight range • A smaller, simpler low-cost graphic paper • Continued capacity management • Disposal of non-core assets. business • Maximising cash generation Optimise • Maximising value from our forestry operations in South Africa • Emphasising cash generation and debt reduction. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 37 Prosperity Growing our specialised cellulose capacity ow p ve lo Gr De The basic production processes for paper Global dissolving wood pulp Ngodwana Mill Optimise pulp and specialised cellulose, also known as Annual production capacity dissolving wood pulp (DWP) are similar. The '000 tons/annum process involves wood chipping, dissolution, The Ngodwana Mill conversion project achieved cooking and bleaching. However, the DWP 4.5 million hours without a lost time injury. Target process is more sophisticated, yielding much quality specifications were achieved ahead of more value per tree felled. the start-up plan. Our success in this field has been based on three key elements: 1,340 Ngodwana Mill • Low-cost manufacturing and distribution • Long-term contractual commitments Other Environmental benefits associated with the • Specialised knowledge and customer support. Ngodwana Mill conversion include a reduction Own biomass in mill odour and improved efficiencies from new In FY2013, our projects to raise output of DWP equipment which will mean burning 61,000 tons by 63% were successfully commissioned in May 800 330 210 less coal per year which equates to 120,000 (Cloquet Mill – North America) and July (Ngodwana Saiccor Mill Cloquet Mill Ngodwana Mill tons less CO2 emissions. Mill – South Africa). Total capacity is now 1.34 million tons per annum, positioning us to service global markets more Cloquet Mill effectively. At peak construction on the Cloquet Mill Favourable long-term contracts for the increased conversion project, over 1,100 workers were volumes have been concluded with various employed on the project with 41 different customers. Cloquet Mill contractors totalling to over 550,000 man hours. As a result of process changes associated with The project was executed flawlessly resulting Read more about the many uses for DWP in the the conversion project, the mill has reduced in an on-time start up. Targeted quality ‘Our key sustainability issues’ section. sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions and lowered specifications and production rates were biological oxygen demand (BOD) by nearly 25%. achieved ahead of schedule during the commissioning phase. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 38 Prosperity Growing our specialised cellulose capacity continued ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise Case study Case study Case study Cloquet Pulp Mill Conversion Innovative manoeuvres Amakhulu — the big one The Cloquet Mill used to sell two-thirds of its The US$330 million Ngodwana Mill conversion In 2009, a US$480 million Saiccor Mill paper pulp production; the balance was used to produce 210,000tpa dissolving wood pulp expansion increased capacity from 600,000tpa for on-site paper production. With paper pulp included modifications to the kraft fibre line to to 800,000tpa, enabling us to entrench and demand declining, we converted the mill’s kraft broaden the range of virgin linerboard products grow our global leadership position in dissolving fibre production process to a dissolving wood it can produce. wood pulp (DWP) markets. pulp (DWP) process; a strategic US$170 million investment in the company’s future aimed at The old pulp dryer which had reached the end Three calcium digesters were replaced by 11 diversifying our revenue streams. DWP is an of its economic life had to be replaced with magnesium sulphite digesters, reducing the in-demand feedstock for textile production and a new efficient dryer that uses significantly mill’s dependency on fossil fuels by 20% and other industrial processes. less electricity than its predecessor — an its dependence on the national power grid by environmental benefit. a further 20%. The pulping process change Although the DWP process yields less pulp per increased lignosulphonate production, resulting in volume of wood processed, textile grade pulp The new dryer has been installed in place of the a substantial reduction in effluent solids. Despite fetches a higher price which far outweighs the old dryer in the existing building. To contract the the additional 200,000tpa capacity increase, yield drop. typical demolition and installation time-frame water consumption remained static; dramatically from 12-18 weeks down to six weeks required improving specific water consumption. The 18-month conversion was completed an innovative approach with the new dryer within hours of its expected start date. Chemical constructed on a steel platform adjacent to the Effluent from the mill’s pulping process is engineer Greg Elton attributes the excellence dryer building. A self-propelled modular trailer, diverted to the adjacent Lignotech, a joint with which the conversion was executed to a comprised of multiple interconnected hydraulic venture between Sappi and Norwegian dedicated team that included mill management, lift units on independently steerable wheels was chemicals company, Borregaard. Lignin Sappi’s South African expertise and the many then used to remove the old dryer in one piece chemicals are used as additives in concrete, mill employees and contractors. and manoeuvre the newly constructed dryer bricks and ceramics and as binding agents in into place. This innovative approach contracted animal feed and dust suppressants. As one of the largest employers, our investment dryer downtime by 6-12 weeks, and avoided in the mill is also an investment in the future of having to replace the existing dryer building. The mill uses mostly eucalypts as raw material. the Cloquet community. Says Elton “… and that These relatively fast growing trees, grown in means everything to the people that live here”. The dryer has a life span of more than 30 years. relatively close proximity to the mill, contributes to Saiccor’s position as a low-cost DWP producer. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 39 Prosperity Growing our packaging capacity ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise Europe The graphics paper market is declining while The mill’s customers will benefit from increased growth in the speciality packaging paper margins, improved quality, increased raw material Coated paper demand market is expected to be as high a 3.2%. consumption efficiencies and an optimised fixed cost profile. Demand for coated paper is expected to decline Alfeld Mill by approximately 3% and 6% per annum in Shortly after year-end, in October 2013, we South Africa North America and Europe respectively. completed the US$80 million conversion of PM2 Enstra Mill at Alfeld Mill in Germany to focus exclusively on In 2012, Enstra Mill’s pulp mill was mothballed. A producing speciality paper for packaging labels re-pulper capable of re-pulping 450 tons of virgin and technical applications. The conversion has and recovered pulp grades per day was installed. Towards specialised products reduced our European graphic paper capacity by 4%; 150,000tpa of coated woodfree paper In addition, we installed a recovered fibre plant, Because of the anticipated continued decline capacity has been converted into 135,000tpa of capable of processing 200 tons of recovered paper in the coated paper market, we are driving higher-margin speciality paper capacity. per day. gains in these businesses through production efficiencies and lower costs; and we are working towards a greater portion of our sales being The mill can now produce higher volumes of a wide The re-pulper, commissioned in August 2013, generated from specialised products. range of paper and packaging products including: enables the mill to supply a wide variety of pulp • Coated and uncoated papers for flexible types to the paper machines. The recovered fibre packaging plant will process recycled grades. • Premium SBS (solid bleached sulphate) board for luxury boxes The capacity to blend recovered fibre into paper • Topliner for high quality corrugated packaging grades has given the mill greater flexibility in • Label papers for wet glue applications such as producing competitive products that meet can and jar labels, banderols and wrappers, and customer requirements. The mill will also be able • Silicone-based carrier papers for self-adhesive to meet increased market demand for products products such as plotter films and stickers. that incorporate recovered fibre. The mill is now the biggest and lowest cost producer of these one-sided coated speciality grades globally. The converted PM2 is the fastest and most productive speciality paper machine in the world. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 40 Prosperity Optimising for profitability ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise In the year under review, we continued to New power plant at Kirkniemi Mill invest in a number of projects aimed at In May 2014, work will start on a new power plant broader range of products, is expected to have improving profitability and enhancing our at Kirkniemi Mill in Lohja, Finland; we envisage long-term benefits in the form of chemicals and fibre competitive position in global markets. start-up in January 2016. Flexible use of solid fuels savings, as well as increased paper production. such as bark from the mill’s debarking process, Europe other wood-based fuels and coal will significantly Diversification at Westbrook Mill Concentrating production at fewer sites reduce our cost base by reducing energy costs In line with our diversification strategy, we At year-end, we announced that we had undertaken and securing energy supply. With the potential to completed a US$2.5 million rebuild of a coater a review of our European production assets and use only biomass, any additional biomass required in the release paper business. This investment had identified the need to concentrate production will be bought from local suppliers. increased productivity, improved quality and at fewer sites. Exhaustive analysis has indicated operational flexibility. that the preferred option would be to relocate the Upgrading pulp production at Gratkorn Mill entire production of Nijmegen Mill to other Sappi Our investment in upgrading pulp production South Africa mills in Europe. facilities and papermaking capabilities, is aimed Modified kraft fibre line at securing sustained cost reductions, increased As part of the conversion of Ngodwana Mill to We have initiated a process of consultations with production flexibility and further improved produce DWP, we modified the kraft fibre line to our Nijmegen Mill employee representatives and profitability rather than at increasing capacity. produce a wider range of virgin linerboard products. social partners and the Works Council. North America Restructured Centralisation Upgraded paper operations In 2012 and 2013, we restructured our paper and We announced the centralisation of some supply As part of the DWP conversion at Cloquet Mill, we paper packaging business, closing kraft pulp lines chain and IT functions at our Shared Services Centre invested US$14 million in upgrading our coated at Tugela and Enstra Mills. We also mothballed the in Kracow, Poland. This is subject to a consultation papermaking operations. This included a dry fibre 80,000tpa sackraft machine at Tugela Mill, moving process with employee representatives, which may handling system as well as new refiners and an production of many of these products to Enstra last several months. upgrade on Paper Machine 4 which can now and Ngodwana Mills. manufacture the full product portfolio of paper using Investment dry fibre rather than the slush fibre previously used. Sale of Usutu Forest Products Company Our investment plans over the next three years We announced the sale of our Usutu Forest amount to approximately US$158 million for Rebuilt PM3 Products Company to Swaziland’s Montigny Gratkorn and Kirkniemi Mills to significantly reduce At Somerset Mill we completed a US$13 Investments for US$101 million. The deal is subject the mills’ cost base and improve profitability. million rebuild of PM3 to upgrade coated paper to several conditions, including approval from manufacturing. The rebuilt PM3 can produce a competition authorities in both countries. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 41 Prosperity Optimising for profitability continued ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise Share trading in the United States Case study We voluntarily delisted from the New York Single SAP Stock Exchange in FY2013 in line with our strategy of reducing costs and improving Several drivers influenced our decision to The implementation of single SAP cost efficiency. consolidate our two SAP landscapes into a Single approximately US$4.3 million and took only 18 SAP environment. Some key drivers were: months to implement — a very low cost and a Our decision to delist was based on low trading • Rapidly growing enterprise resource planning short time frame in SAP terms. The investment volumes and the high cost and administrative (ERP) transactional requirements makes sound business sense: complexity associated with maintaining our listing • Conflicts with managing two ERP systems • IT savings have been made by consolidating and registration in the United States. We believe • The need to support the dissolving wood pulp hosting services, support, maintenance and that the resulting savings in costs and management (DWP) conversion programme. development time will benefit the company and its shareholders. • Future upgrades will only have to take place The Single SAP project involved the technical on one system American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), in the United merger of Sappi Southern Africa’s SAP system • Licence fees have been reduced. States will now be traded through a Level I overinto the Sappi Fine Paper Europe and Sappi the-counter (OTC) ADR programme. Fine Paper North America (EUNA) landscape. Strategic benefits The South African system included three SAP Single SAP offers several benefits: business solutions. • Provides Sappi Trading with a single point for customer and financial management Trident • Reduces the complexity of the business While the Single SAP merger was taking place, processes, thereby reducing the training and coordinated SAP systems for our specialised skill level requirements cellulose businesses in North America and South • Potential to support cross regional business Africa were also being implemented. The threeprocesses like imports pronged project — referred to internally as Project • Paves the way for implementing groupwide Trident — was aimed at: shared services • Facilitating the specialised cellulose cross• Reduces annual audit costs regional business processes • Potential to adapt our business model very • Removing the necessity of building interfaces quickly and reducing the complexity of reporting • Enhances service and operating efficiency across two different SAP landscapes • Enables broader eBusiness collaboration with customers for all Sappi mills. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 42 Prosperity Optimising for profitability continued ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise Case study Case study Case study Two-year gestation — 12-day delivery De-bottlenecking the pulp mill More than a million samples A team of management, operations and After the successful completion of a US$30 Customer service is often the main differentiator engineering personnel, supported by equipment million recovery boiler capacity increase between companies in today’s competitive manufacturers, worked on redesigning, reinvestment at our Somerset Mill, it became environment. engineering and preparing to rebuild Paper apparent that the lime kiln was a bottleneck; Machine 3 (PM3) at Somerset Mill for over two limiting pulp production, and wasting resources Sappi Fine Paper Europe’s sample service years. The rebuild was executed in just over (energy and chemicals). The lime kiln is a key covers everything from A4 unprinted to large 12 days. component in the chemical recovery system. It format sheets for trials, bespoke handmade converts lime mud into re-burned lime, which dummy magazines and real-life printed samples The rebuild is a classic sustainability win-win, in turn, is used to blend white liquor with which from all over the world. Over a million samples rendering both environmental and economic to cook wood chips in the digester. are sent out every year within days of ordering. benefits. It paid instant dividends as PM3 showed a significant improvement in sheet formation. Improved lime-mud de-watering, improved Our ability to showcase our products in a variety Producing a stronger sheet means PM3 can control over the lime-mud feed-rate, by balancing of formats helps customers make a more now handle a wider range of product grades, mud inventory, and more precise re-burned informed choice. including the top end of Sappi’s product line. lime quality tests yielded greater throughput. This resulted in pulp production increases and Our sample centres are serviced from two The paper produced on PM3 also showed a reduction of mud being landfilled, reducing locations — Loewe Logistics, our outsourced significant printed-colour improvements make-up chemical demand. The improved feedpartner in Germany, and Kirkniemi Mill in Finland. especially in the mid-tone mottle — an important rate regime also reduced mud caking in the kiln characteristic in rendering skin-tone accurately. resulting in fewer kiln maintenance shuts — a Loewe Logistics is ideally positioned to service This is a competitive advantage for the coated costly process that affects pulp production. the complex commercial print market. paper business which serves the high-end fashion and design magazine segments. The net energy and materials savings is The Kirkniemi Mill’s sample centre, specialises worth over US$2 million a year. The increased in publication paper products and produces PM3 is now more energy efficient and uses less throughput capability of the kiln will further between 500 and 600 dummies a month. materials and expensive additives like titanium augment the mill’s energy efficiency once the dioxide. Production increased 4.9% compared pending conversion to natural gas has been the previous year — despite being off-line for implemented. two weeks during the rebuild. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 43 Prosperity Developing products and processes ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise Innovation — whether it’s our products or Case study Case study our processes — is pivotal to profitable Four diamonds It all starts with a seed sustainable development. Continued investment in our assets and our research We launched Jaz Book, developed in partnership Our focus on extracting the most value possible and development (R&D) efforts, help to ensure with Hewlett Packard, in 2013. This light-weight from each tree starts with seed quality. By using that Sappi remains a globally competitive, digital paper (67g/m2) was specifically created our best, high-value seed (available in limited sustainable business. for full-colour book production; it is an ideal quantities only) efficiently, we reduce the number choice for the education market. Jaz Book of seeds with lower genetic value that are sown, Our research programmes are driven by the highoffers high dimensional stability and opacity, leading to increased fibre gain in the seedling priority technical issues of the industry, such as allowing printers to achieve excellent quality. crop. Improved seed-use efficiency is a critical product quality and value, cost competitiveness, measure of our nurseries’ success. environmental management and sustainability. Both Jaz Book and Jaz Silk (a double-coated digital paper developed for direct mail and KEF — Kilogram Effective Factor commercial print applications) received four We moved from selling seed by weight to a ‘per We continue to capture more value from fibre diamonds in Kodak’s paper rating programme viable seed’ basis in 2011 to better manage seedresources and enhance performance of market in 2013. Both these grades provide outstanding use efficiency, using the KEF measure — the ratio pulps. We have also improved wet-end chemistry image quality on KODAK PROSPER Presses. of actual to expected seedling recovery. We aim by designing and developing state-of-the-art The four diamond rating means that users will to reach a KEF value of one, ie each viable seed end-use properties including advances in surface experience consistent, high-quality results. sold to nurseries yields a saleable plant. Since coating and web structures. introduction, average KEF values have dropped The Kodak paper rating is based on the from more than two to approximately 1.5 — a Our technological advances are underpinned and collection and analysis of quantifiable data to significant increase in seed-use efficiency. guided by the principles of minimising environmental determine the performance characteristics of impact, reducing atmospheric emissions, printable substrates. Kodak measures printed Seed coating optimising energy and resource recovery and the image quality, using a wide variety of factors and Bigger, more uniform seeds are easier to plant. then rates the substrate using a rating system Through a collaborative venture, we’re working development of new forest-derived products. that ranges from one to five diamonds. on coating seed with an inert material to increase uniformity of size and shape. Nutrients and other Read more about the value-add from our research The rating helps printers and publishers make seed treatments to improve seed performance and development activities in the ‘Link between our informed decisions about the right combination can be added to the coating which can also be business and sustainability’ section of this report. of quality and price when evaluating substrates colour-coded to improve visibility. Seed coating for each of their print jobs. will improve seed-use efficiency and nursery management and reduce nursery costs. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 44 Prosperity Developing internal innovation ow p ve lo Gr De Optimise TIA Regional Winner 2013 TIA Global Winner 2013 Simple and safe threading Enzymes replace detergents The European regional winning team developed The detergent which Saiccor Mill used to a new threading system for Paper Machine 7 control extractives (fatty acids, resin acids and at our Lanaken Mill. During start-up, a small tail terpenes) were found to have a potentially In 2000, we launched the Sappi Technical of paper has to be threaded through the prenegative impact on the environment. A variety Innovation Awards, a platform from which dryer section. Over the past ten years, this has of environmentally friendlier detergents were technical advances and those who create become increasingly difficult due to increased tested; none were ideal. them, are acknowledged and rewarded for machine speeds, the variety of grades produced their contribution to Sappi’s prosperity and and the need to reduce costs. The team Laboratory evaluations of a wide cross section long-term sustainability. The awards focus designed a simple new threading system that of enzymes were conducted to determine on creating new technologies that will deliver not only improved safety, but also increased which would be most effective in breaking noticeable improvements for our customers. machine efficiency, reduced stock losses and down the extractives. Further laboratory work prevented unnecessary capital expenditure. compared the efficacy of lipase enzymes from different suppliers; found the optimum The FY2013 global winner received the award for conditions (temperature, pH and incubation an initiative which enhances the environmental time) for the enzymes; and studied their effect impact of producing dissolving wood pulp. TIA Regional Winner 2013 on the bleaching processes at Saiccor Mill. The Online detection enzyme has now replaced the detergent on all the bleach lines. The North American regional winning team This is the only known enzyme application for invented an online detection system at our treating extractives in a dissolving pulp mill — a Somerset Mill that uses advanced camera good example of sustained in-laboratory applied technology to detect and proactively prevent science, coupled with in-plant trials, providing calendaring roll failures on the mill’s paper a cost effective and environmentally friendly machines. The system has significantly solution. The research took seven years from decreased the roll failure rate, resulting in inception to application, necessitated by the significant savings. need to ensure that there were no downstream customer disruptions. There is a strong likelihood of similar commercial applications of this technique being used in Sappi’s other mills. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 45 Prosperity Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence P Developing and maintaining a strong brand WorldSkills Print & identity and presence in our targeted market We participated in the WorldSkills 2013, Print Media In support of driving responsible use of print, we segments is an important aspect of our drive Technology Skills Competition, as Skills Sponsor. launched Print &, a special publication. Rather to generate Prosperity. WorldSkills, the world’s largest international skills than a combative defence of print, the publication competition for young people, brings together highlights persuasive research results showing Europe 1,000 international trainees under 23 years of age how print drives return on investment when used www.sappipositivity.com to compete for medals in 46 official disciplines in in combination with alternative media to create We continued development of our website, aimed six categories. effective integrated campaigns. at making sustainability an everyday reality. North America Act Now! FachPack 2013 Sappi etc. ® At the close of FY2013, we launched Act Now! We participated in FachPack 2013, a packaging We launched Sappi etc.® an online microsite. Sappi A Better Response to Direct Mail. This dynamic, solutions trade fair, showcasing our new mineral oil etc.® as an educational platform that provides educational resource guides readers through the barrier substrates: MOB Kraft and MOB Gravure. access to more than a century’s worth of rare essential principles of creating effective direct These innovative flexpack grades solve the historical documents, detailed case studies and mailing campaigns that deliver results. contaminant migration problem whilst allowing the expert technical advice as part of our Education, environmentally sustainable use of recycled content Training and Consulting Sappi etc.® programme. Act Now! showcases the strategies and techniques in packaging materials. behind direct mail’s ability to strike a uniquely Free and fully searchable, Sappi etc.® covers delicate balance: the ability to package a message What’s Next everything from paper basics and sustainability that will pique reader interest, and ultimately drive We launched the sixth edition of What’s Next, a resources to advanced print and design techniques, consumer response. creative customer facing magazine, reflecting on including colour management, technical tips for the attributes of print. Focused on ‘touch’, the sixth printers, special effects, varnishes, folding and edition offers a sensory experience with the printed designing for direct mail. word and provides an in-depth look at how print can support a brand owner’s business objectives Off Register™ and deliver return on investment. We launched two new episodes of our humorous online video series, Off Register™. The series is based on humorous real-life experiences of printers, which people involved in the print industry can relate to, or find entertaining. The ninth and tenth episodes are available to view online. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 46 Prosperity Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence continued ™ South Africa Case study Typek™ Earth Kind™ Building the Sappi brand by supporting conservation To promote and reinforce the message that our papers are made from trees grown in sustainably We partnered with Makro, a large national retailer The Pepper Bark tree, Warburgia Salutaris managed plantation forests and manufactured in in South Africa, on a brand building drive for is of medicinal and mythological importance an environmentally responsible manner, the wellTypek™ Earth Kind™, specifically focusing on this to indigenous African people and medical known Typek™ brand was repositioned as Earth office paper’s green credentials, during January importance to western homoeopathy. Featured Kind™ in 2012. We also launched a dedicated and February 2013. on the Red Data List and classed as endangered, website for the well-known Typek™ brand. it is a protected tree in South Africa. The tree ™ Anyone who purchased a box of Typek™ from is heavily poached for the commercial muti Miss Earth Africa any Makro store, qualified to nominate any (traditional medicine) market and is under armed We continued to support Miss Earth Africa, a community greening, tree planting, biodiversity guard in some areas. programme that aims to empower young South protection, or environmental rehabilitation project. African women with knowledge and a platform We pledged to donate one Rand (US¢) for every The funding will be used to support various from which to create a sustainable difference in box of Typek™ sold, to the selected green cause. aspects of the project, including: combating the destruction of our natural heritage. • Workshops with communities to identify tree Eye-catching in-store promotional material custodians Mountain biking was used to persuade shoppers to make a • Increasing the holding of bagged nurseryresponsible choice in their paper purchase and in grown trees in the Kruger National Park Nursery We increased our sponsorship to extend our reach the process make a difference to the environment. for distribution to identified community-based in demonstrating our sustainable management Nominations were promoted on the dedicated traditional healers of our extensive natural areas and commercial Typek™ website. • Training nursery plantations. employees in seed From these, the Kruger National Park’s Warburgia collection, planting All about birds Salutaris Project was selected as the beneficiary. and propagation We have been extensively involved in supporting The project received a US$10,778 grant during • Providing bicycle bird-related initiatives in this region. In 2013, we a ceremonial handover in September 2013 transportation for sponsored a new book, Sappi Birds of South at an event hosted by the Lowveld Botanical armed tree guards Africa. The book highlights the synergy between Gardens with whom Sappi has a long-standing • Bulk up supply digital deviced and printed media, as it incorporates relationship. The presentation was the culmination of seedlings a unique Callfinder. When this device is pointed at of the Typek™ Earth Kind™ promotion. from contracted a photo, the sound is unlocked, allowing the user nurseries. to instantly hear the sound of a particular bird. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 47 Prosperity Develop a facts-based brand proposition Case study Case study Premium print more powerful Do magazines have a future? A recent experiment designed to test the Magazines continue to make an impact according Magazines appeal to young people efficacy of premium-print on advertising’s impact to the 2012/13 Magazine Media Factbook Young people are keen magazine readers: regarding consumer perceptions and purchasing and a Deloitte State of the Media survey which • 96% of adults under 25, read magazines intentions, highlights the power of premium print. found that 88% of magazine readers in the United • Adults under 35 read more magazines per Kingdom still prefer to read articles in print. month than older people. Two advertisements — one for a household appliance and the other for a luxury watch — were The State of the Media survey of 2,276 consumers, Magazines are Influential included in a magazine. Both advertisements aged 14-75, found that although half of the Magazine readers are more likely than users of were printed conventionally and on premiumparticipants owned a smartphone, 35% subscribed other media to influence friends and family on quality paper. Participants who were kept to at least one printed magazine in 2011. product purchases across a variety of advertising blind to the study’s objectives, were positively categories. Magazine readers rank as number influenced by the use of premium quality paper Magazine Media Factbook findings: one or two super influential consumers across and print technologies (for both advertisements); 60 product categories and make an impact in rating both the product and the brand as more Magazines engage readers every shopping segment. prestigious. • Magazines continue to score higher than TV or the internet in ‘advertisement receptivity’ Magazines are social Although ratings do not reflect actual behaviour, and other engagement measures. Magazines and social media go hand-in-hand — participants exposed to the premium-print • Readers spend 41 minutes with each issue. 69% of readers have posted a magazine article advertisements did rate significantly higher in on Facebook, and more than 6 in 10 have shared • Willingness to buy Magazines are trusted magazine content while chatting with friends. • Likelihood to engage in ‘word of mouth Consumers trust and believe magazines — promotion’ and embrace advertising as a part of the brand Magazines offer high return on investment • Willingness to pay a price premium. experience. Advertisements in magazines rank Studies show that allocating more money to higher in trust than on television, radio or online. magazines in the media mix improves marketing Although specific to the brands used in this and advertising return on investment across experiment, these findings nevertheless point Magazines reach further multiple product categories. to premium-print potentially being a valuable The top 25 magazines reach more adults and method for organisations to communicate brand teens than primetime television. and product attributes more effectively. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 48 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report People By creating a safe, healthy workplace for our people in which diversity is encouraged and valued, and people are provided with ongoing development opportunities so that they can develop to their full potential, we enhance productivity People and our ability to service global markets 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 49 Our management approach to People How we engage with our people, contributes significantly to our success Our 13,665 dedicated employees around Our key People drivers the world underpin our business success. The key drivers to achieving our People strategy Energising our work environment We focus on equipping our people and the are: Optimising recognition and reward programmes, communities in which we operate with the life giving employees the freedom to act resourcefully in and career skills, knowledge and confidence Connecting people to the business accordance with our values, working collaboratively that allow them to build on their own Communicating our business strategy to all across geographies, business units and functions. capabilities and further their development. employees, providing them with the opportunity And when it comes to people outside our to engage with management on the strategy and Developing a strong human resources function business, our products play a vital role in helping them understand what they need to do to Ensuring that those tasked with delivering the promoting development and helping people contribute to its overall achievement. People strategy, focus on exceeding their clients’ across the world to communicate. expectations. Building strong skills across Sappi By creating a safe, healthy workplace for our people Hiring correctly, retaining talent, accelerating in which diversity is encouraged and valued, and development, sourcing talent strategically, providing people are provided with ongoing development performance feedback and creating development opportunities so that they can develop to their full opportunities. potential, we enhance productivity and our ability Our workforce Total 13,665 to service global markets. Developing a strong leadership bench Building leadership capability at all levels within People play a critical role in the delivery of our the organisation and using the leadership pipeline overall performance; how we lead, manage and framework as a means of guiding development. develop our people contributes significantly to our success. Transforming our workplace In the context of our Southern African business, Our objective is to have a fulfilled and engaged we are focusing on transformation, a group workforce that delivers on our key business drivers. commitment to diversity, and changing mindsets To achieve this, establishing a connection between in how we conduct business and behave in line work and organisational strategy is important. with our values. This connection ensures that employees feel that their work is truly of value to the organisation and therefore to their peers and managers, and leads 83% 17% to heightened commitment and retention. Men (11,342) Women (2,323) 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 50 People Profiling our 13,665 people LA-1 Sappi Limited workforce 85 Sappi Trading workforce 135 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Men 58 Women 27 Men 29 Women 105 Contractors 1 and region Sappi Fine Paper North America workforce Total workforce 2,214 Men 1,788 Women 400 Contractors 26 Key 300 employees Sappi Fine Paper Europe workforce Total workforce 5,749 100 Men 4,913 Women 698 Contractors 138 Key 300 contractors Sappi Southern Africa workforce Total workforce 6,222 100 Gender not specified Men 4,534 Women 1,103 Contractors 585 Includes temps/trainees 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 51 People Operational changes and workplace diversity Dealing with operational changes Workplace diversity Diversity through recruitment LA-5 We apply the principles of transparency, We recognise that diversity facilitates Apart from employment equity targets in South Africa, Minimum notice periods inclusivity and fairness when dealing with interaction with different cultures, colleagues group targets for promoting equal opportunities are regarding operational changes, including operational changes. and customers in today’s global marketplace. general rather than specific. whether it is specified in collective agreements A detailed discussion about how we dealt with By creating an inclusive culture representative of Managers are encouraged to consider a diverse slate operational changes in 2013 is included in the ‘Our a diversity of people, thoughts and ideas, we can of candidates for salaried management positions. key sustainability issues’ section of this report. deliver decisions and services to our customers EC-7 based on a broad palette of considerations. South Africa Procedures for local Europe The retention of women in the workplace and black hiring and proportion of The minimum notice period — regardless of the Diversity and inclusiveness is not just about fairness, professionals remains a challenge. A concerted senior management hired from the local community reason — is defined by law; depending on the morality and justice as being the right thing to do; effort is being made to fill positions at these levels at locations of significant length of service, it varies from two to 27 weeks nor is it just about legal compliance — it is about where we are under-represented. Our hiring policy operation across the different businesses. Notice periods delivering value to our shareholders by achieving is explicit about the recruitment of staff in those are included in collective labour agreements and bottom-line results. areas where under-representation occurs. in senior managers’ employment contracts. We are committed to valuing and promoting diversity Human resources managers and hiring managers Women North America and inclusion so that all employees can develop their are required to recruit according to the employment make up The minimum notice period, prescribed by Federal full potential, irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, equity plan in place at their operations. 17.1% of Sappi’s total Law is 60 days. Notice periods are not specified in collective bargaining agreements. disability, age, religion, belief or sexual orientation. We administer our people policies, programmes Emphasis is given to appointing the best person and practices in a non-discriminatory manner for the job with preference being given to those workforce Southern Africa in all aspects of the employment relationship, demographics in which we are under-represented. Notice periods are not specified in collective including recruitment, hiring, assessments, work If skills and competencies are comparable, then agreements, but typically 30 days are stipulated in assignments, promotions, transfers, terminations, previously disadvantaged employees are given employment contracts. Based on market practice, wage and salary administration and selection for preference. senior management usually have longer notice training and development. periods of three or six months. We continually challenge ourselves to enhance the Sappi Trading connection between our commitment to diversity A minimum notice period of one month is required and inclusion and our performance in living up to for termination of employment. this commitment. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 52 People Workplace diversity continued New employees by gender 380 669 LA-2 Employee turnover 2013 39% 14% 40% 59% 36% Total number and rate of % employee turnover by age 20 142 179 98 148 742 705 10 17 1,049 employees employees employees employees employees employees group, gender, and region Europe North America South Africa Trading Global 15 16.2 New employees by age % 10 Women 10.4 representation 6.1 179 148 705 17 10 1,049 Sappi Limited 5 5.4 employees employees employees employees employees board 14.3% 0 Europe North America Southern Africa Sappi Trading Europe <20 North America 20-29 South Africa 30-39 40-49 Trading 50-59 Global 60+ Employee turnover by gender 313 1,034 28% 19% 21% 73% 23% Women 142 316 98 138 742 878 10 15 1,347 employees employees employees employees employees employees representation senior Europe North America South Africa Trading Global management 15% Employee turnover by age % 316 138 742 878 15 10 1,347 employees employees employees employees employees Europe North America South Africa Trading Global 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60+ 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 53 People Workplace diversity continued Regulatory developments LA-13 We are monitoring regulatory developments in states for approval. Currently, there are no laws South Africa Composition of Europe and in South Africa. in place related to quotas based on gender in the The Women’s Empowerment and Gender Equality governance bodies and breakdown of employees countries in which we operate (Austria, Belgium, Bill is being tabled for approval by Cabinet and per employee category Europe Finland, Germany and the Netherlands). will take effect during 2013. Broadly, the bill entails according to gender, age group, minority group The European Parliament recently approved gender mainstreaming across all categories of membership and other proposals to compel large companies to allocate In recent years we have increased our focus on employees in both the public and private sectors. indicators of diversity 40% of their non-executive board posts to women. bringing people from different nationalities and It is proposed that gender equality is managed in The proposals will now go to the 28 EU member backgrounds into management positions. a similar manner as the Employment Equity Bill. UNGC-6 Diversity in Sappi boards Sappi Ltd board Sappi Ltd Exec com SFPE Subsidiary board SFPNA Subsidiary board SSA Subsidiary board The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Gender occupation diversity 86% 14% 87% 13% 85% 15% 84% 16% 71% 29% 29% 13% 23% 16% 15% Ethnicity 142 98 742 10 14 8 13 7 7 diversity employees members employees members employees members employees members members PDE — Previously Disadvantaged Employee Southern Africa — ethnicity and Previously Disadvantaged Employees by occupation Top management Senior management Professional qualified Junior management Semi-skilled Unskilled Gender diversity 88% 12% 85% 15% 78% 22% 78% 22% 82% 18% 67% 33% 19% 21% 47% 71% 96% 100% Ethnicity 3 11 281 1,395 1,768 900 diversity PDE PDE PDE PDE PDE PDE PDE — Previously Disadvantaged Employee 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 54 People Our relationships with our employees We endorse the principles entrenched in Europe LA-4 the United Nations Global Compact, the Our European employees are represented by 13 Within the collective labour framework, Sappi is Percentage of employees Universal Declaration of Human Rights and trade unions. Membership of the unions in Europe represented by industry employer representatives. covered by collective bargaining agreements the International Labour Organisation. comprises both blue and white collar employees. Of all the regions in which Sappi operates, Europe Meetings with the Works Councils take place twice a We also conform to, and in many cases exceed, is the most unionised, with membership of the year with representatives from each manufacturing the labour conditions in which we operate. We bargaining unit standing at approximately 74% of site and the Chief Executive Officer for the region promote freedom of association and sound the workforce. and regional Human Resources Director. The UNGC-3 labour practices by engaging extensively with purpose of the meeting is to share information Freedom of association representative trade unions. Protecting the right Negotiations occur at the various country and and consult on topics of interest such as business and the effective recognition of the right to to freedom of association and collective bargaining industry-specific Collective Labour Associations, performance, planned business changes, industry collective bargaining is fundamental to the manner in which we do and the contract terms range from one to two years. development and pan-European topics. business. Globally, 56.7% of our workforce is The labour framework in Europe consists of Works unionised, and 66.5% of our employees belong to Councils and collective labour agreements which North America HR-5 bargaining units. differ from country to country. Works Councils are In North America, our workforce is represented by elected every four to five years at each mill site as 11 collective bargaining agreements covering each Operations and significant suppliers identified well as the sales offices in Germany, Austria and of the plant sites. in which the right to the Benelux countries. continued overleaf… exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 74% o 66 % o 38 % o 26% o 57% o % fe fe fe fe f em m mp mp m rop e rica ica ing oup p Eu me Afr ad Gr plo Tr ees c covered Southe covered covered s yee North oy ees ees ees pl 4,152 Employees covered 1,440 A Employees loy 2,142 rn Employees loy 19 Employees overed 7,753 Employees loy 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 55 People Our relationships with our employees continued The majority of our hourly employees – generally number of labour legislative requirements. Against production unit employees — are represented this backdrop, we have established a number of Disciplined behaviour by the United Steelworkers (USW) union, but forums with our shop stewards and trade unions employees are also represented by various craft, with a view to sharing information and discussing Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for guard and railroad unions. In this region, labour matters of mutual interest as well as working individual wellbeing, but also to ensure our agreements are usually for three years. together on matters which pertain to Sappi group goals and objectives are reached. specifically and not to the industry as a whole. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure A new contract with the Cloquet Mill USW was These forums include: disciplinary procedures are adhered to, while ratified in December 2012 and we successfully • The National Employment Equity and Skills grievance policies entrench the rights of concluded a number of other contracts in the region. Development Forum, attended by union officials employees, including the right to: from three unions, shop steward and management • Raise a grievance without fear of victimisation Southern Africa representatives meets quarterly, primarily to agree • Seek guidance and assistance from Employees in our Southern African operations on the employment equity and Workplace Skills a member of the Human Resources are represented by four trade unions, with union Plans submitted to the Department of Labour and department, or their representative, at any representation standing at 48%. Our wage the Fibre Processing and Manufacturing Skills time negotiations with recognised trade unions take Education Training Authorities. • Appeal to a higher body, without prejudice. place at the Pulp and Paper and Sawmilling • Shop Steward Forums at each mill meet with Chambers under the auspices of the Bargaining management to discuss mill-specific work Council for the Wood and Paper Sector in South issues and conditions. Not exploitive Africa, and our agreements are generally annual. • The Partnership Forum (union representatives and senior management) meets quarterly to We have identified no operations or significant Recognised trade unions with which we engage: share information on business performance, suppliers where the right to exercise freedom of • CEPPWAWU The Chemical, Energy, Paper, strategy direction, industry developments and association and collective bargaining has been Printing, Wood and Allied Workers Union union priorities. violated or is at significant risk. • UASA The United Associations of South Africa • The Pulp and Paper Chamber, an industry • FAWU Food and Allied Workers Union body that deals with wage negotiations and We have identified no operations and significant • Solidarity other employment relations and conditions suppliers as having significant risk for incidents • HOCAFAWU Hospitality, Catering and Farm of employment issues affecting the industry. of child labour. Workers Union (a new union). The chamber has established a work group to Similarly, we have identified no operations and investigate a collective bargaining framework in significant suppliers as having significant risk for The complexity of the work environment in our an attempt to enhance the collective bargaining incidents of forced or compulsory labour. South African operations is compounded by the process in our industry. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 56 People Promoting training and development Our aim is to provide successful learning Training achievements Skills development and career growth LA-10 solutions that enable individuals, groups and Europe Across all the Sappi group companies we provide Average hours of training the organisation to improve performance, On average, each employee underwent 29 hours of both on-site/internal training and external training per year per employee by gender and by employee learn new skills, adapt to change and meet training against our target of 30 hours per employee to assist employees to do their current jobs better category groupwide business objectives. for the year. and to develop employees to take on higher levels of work (development for promotions). Our focus on training and development, whether North America it is to learn new skills, improve performance We aim to offer, on average, 75 hours of training In addition, where appropriate, we offer LA-11 or to prepare for a future career objective, is per employee per year to improve job performance assessments to employees to identify their work Programmes for skills recognised as a strategic tool for Sappi’s continued and enhance managerial skills. Although our strengths; their motives and to help guide future management and life-long learning that growth and productivity and our ability to retain performance measure is average per capita training career growth and aspirations. Going forward, support the continued valuable employees. We are committed to helping hours, we recognise that some positions require training and skills development opportunities for all employability of employees that assist employees reach their full potential by developing higher levels of training. employees at all levels, together with performance them in managing career their knowledge, skills and abilities and by providing management, remain key priorities. endings opportunities to gain new experiences. Training during the year averaged 68 hours per employee — eight hours more than the previous We typically do not provide sabbaticals. During 2013, we continued with major business year, but short of our target. restructuring in our European and South African Career endings businesses which resulted in headcount reductions Significant training was conducted in the In terms of career endings, access to retirement and cost saving initiatives. Nevertheless, training operations in support of our investments, such as planning services is provided on a regional basis spend in terms of hours per employee increased the conversion of the pulp mill in Cloquet Mill. and in some instances this is supported by financial from 49 hours in 2012 to 56.4 hours in 2013, wellbeing programmes. To the extent that there are despite the constrained economic conditions we South Africa employee lay-offs, we provide severance pay to all experienced. Our employees participated, on average, in 81 employees and, in some instances, outplacement hours of training per employee, well above our 54 assistance. There are five-year training targets in each region. hour target. The type of training was dominated by learnerships particularly apprenticeships and knowledge and capacity building. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 57 People Promoting training and development continued Average training spend People training spend Average training hours per employee by category per employee 2013 US$ US$ '000s Hours 6 Group average 2012 49h/employee 5 701 4 81 623 614 75 67 514 3 56 56 48 48 2 30 1 29 119 0 Management Knowledge Skills programmes Sappi World of Work, and leadership and capacity and individual safety, compliance Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Group development building development and legal Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Group Actual Target Actual 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Training hours and spend by category per employee Management Knowledge Skills programmes Sappi and leadership development and capacity building and individual development World of Work Training associated with Training that enhances Formal programmes/selfMandatory training — legal, management, supervisory individuals’ skills for current study with both practical safety, health, environment and leadership development or future positions for a 'best and theoretical components and quality compliance practice' organisation that may lead to educational qualifications Southern Africa 1.6 hours/US$38 26.4 hours/US$199 41.6 hours/US$256 11.6 hours/US$120 Europe 2.4 hours/US$52 15.3 hours/US$533 2.3 hours/US$28 9.4 hours/US$87 North America 2.4 hours/US$22 9.7 hours/US$90 5.2 hours/US$48 50.0 hours/US$464 Trading 8.0 hours 30.8 hours 5.6 hours 3.80 hours 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 58 People Promoting training and development continued Case study Case study Case study Performance Engine Leadership Gift An EDGE for tomorrow We launched the Sappi Performance Engine With the aim to promote external skills Our North American workforce is highly skewed Europe to drive continuous improvement. development in North America, we pledged toward an older age demographic; more than US$100,000 (over four years ) to the University half of our employees are age 50 or older. The region’s top 100 managers were trained in of Maine’s Pulp and Paper Foundation to We therefore need to work harder than ever continuous improvement. establish an endowed scholarship fund for to attract college graduates and retain young engineers. The Sappi Scholarship Fund is a professionals. Performance Engine Managers appointed at Leadership Gift to the Foundation’s US$2 million each manufacturing site and central function fundraising campaign. In 2013, we announced EDGE, a new leadership were tasked with: development programme titled Enhancing • Driving and steering effective implementation We have supported the Foundation since Development and Growth through Engagement. of complex, multi-functional projects. inception in 1950. As Foundation member we About 100 of our newest employees have been • Challenging mill and central function support the Consider Engineering Programme targeted to receive this training. Participants will management teams in their accountability. by providing internships and co-op positions for have an opportunity to develop self-awareness, • Drive and support continuous improvement undergraduate engineering students; ultimately acquire valuable coaching skills and learn best implementation and improvement across all we hire qualified University of Maine graduates. practices for project management with the help operations. of our Lean Six Sigma team. • Drive mindset and methodology to support Many former scholarship recipients can be all continuous improvement activities. found at all levels of leadership throughout Through EDGE, we have taken a proactive • Closely work together with continuous Sappi’s Skowhegan and Westbrook Mills based approach to bring development opportunities improvement and organisational in Maine and also elsewhere in the company to the newer members of our salaried team — development resources to support effective throughout North America. early on in their careers while they can readily execution of continuous improvement benefit. Newer employees will also learn from a activities. network of experienced mentors as they grow • Seek out and share best practices within into their roles. the Sappi community. Investing in training and education prepares our employees for the challenges and opportunities we face today and tomorrow. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 59 People Performance reviews, benefits and minimum wages Performance reviews Benefits Minimum wages LA-3 Europe During calendar 2012, approximately Europe Both fulland part-time employees Europe Minimum wages in Europe across the Benefits provided to 65% (74.2% of males and 89.3% of females) of receive the same benefits, eg healthcare, disability different countries is set within the Collective full-time employees that are not provided to our employees, who were eligible, completed their coverage, maternity/paternity leave and retirement Labour Agreements. temporary or part-time performance reviews. Almost 53% had training provisions. employees, by significant locations of operations and/or development needs identified. North America There is no industry minimum North America Permanent and part-time wage. Our North American operations pay well North America During calendar 2012, 23% of the employees, who work 20 hours or more per week above the US mandatory minimum wage of $7.25 salaried workforce (66% of all eligible employees) are provided with medical insurance. life insurance, per hour for entry level wages. LA-12 completed performance reviews and development disability insurance, retirement and other benefits. Percentage of employees plans. Women made up 30% and males 70% of Southern Africa The minimum wage in South receiving regular performance and career the salaried workforce who completed the reviews. Southern Africa Employees who are on part-time Africa is negotiated at the Pulp and Paper Industry development reviews, by or fixed-term contracts do not receive retirement Bargaining Council. The wage rate is the same for gender Southern Africa Approximately 77% of eligible and medical benefits. They also do not participate both males and females. employees, both male and female, received in bonus incentive schemes. There is pending performance feedback and career development legislation that, if passed, would result in changes. Sappi Trading No minimum wage applies; wages LA-15 reviews during calendar 2012. are set based on the nature of the role. Return to work and Sappi Trading Depending upon the duration of retention rates after Sappi Trading In calendar 2012, all employees the part-time contract, benefits similar to those parental leave, by gender completed annual performance reviews. provided to full-time permanent employees may be provided. Parental leave Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Maternity Paternity Total Maternity Paternity Total Maternity Paternity Total Maternity Paternity Total leave leave leave leave leave leave leave leave Total employees who took parental leave 21 43 64 3 20 23 41 0 41 1 0 1 Number of employees who did not 15 36 51 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 return to work post parental leave Number of employees who returned from parental leave and are still 39 4 43 Not currently available Not currently available Not currently available employed with Sappi, 12 months after their return 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 60 People Remunerating fairly Remuneration by gender and occupation Our compensation programmes are designed LA-14 to achieve our goals of attracting, motivating Senior Management First-line Specialist Ratio of basic salary and retaining employees who can drive management supervisors groups of men to women by employee category the achievement of financial and strategic objectives that are intended to build longEurope term shareholder value. The primary components of pay include base 97% 85% salary, benefits eg medical and retirement, annual incentive awards and long-term incentives. North America Compensation levels are set to reflect competitive market practices, internal equity as well as company and individual performance. 93% 98% 99% 89% Southern Africa We do not discriminate on the basis of gender. Amongst employees earning minimum wages, there is very little income disparity. 88% 95% 95% 92% The income disparity at the higher levels of the organisation, where in some instances men earn more than women and vice versa, is based on differentials such as performance, length of service Trading and on the fact that we do not remunerate at a 97% 97% 97% specific rate, but rather, within a specific band. Limited 89% 95% 98% 99% 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 61 People Prioritising wellbeing, health and safety LA-6 Our approach to safety is based on the “We have worked very hard to create a culture Case study principles of — zero fatalities and zero injuries. which prioritises safety at all times and incorporates Percentage of total “We care …” contractors into this culture. While there were workforce represented in formal joint management– In addition to addressing hazards in the workplace improvements in reducing fatalities and lost time In June 2013, we held our eighth annual Global worker health and safety by means of the OHSAS 18001 related systems injuries throughout the group, I deeply regret committees that help Safety Awareness Day (GSAD). monitor and advise on in place at all our pulp and paper mills, we also having to report one own employee fatality and one occupational health and address ‘at risk behaviour’ of our employees by contractor fatality in our South African operations. safety programmes GSAD revolves around a series of events at means of a behaviour-based safety (BBS) system. all business units to remind staff about the “We will continue to focus on entrenching a strong company’s commitment to safety; to stop Our safety approach comprises four behavioursafety culture with the ultimate target of zero harm.” and think of ways to improve their personal based steps: contribution to making Sappi a safer place to Behavioural observation and feedback Ralph Boëttger work at. Following observation and documenting safe and Chief Executive Officer unsafe behaviours, employees are given positive Sappi Limited The 2013 theme ‘We care about our safety’ feedback on safe behaviours and non-threatening focused on connecting with employees at the feedback on unsafe behaviours and provided with emotional level. We took this approach based suggestions to correct unsafe behaviour. on evidence that most employees already know Case study the correct safety processes and procedures, Project Zero but needed to internalise and own those Formal review of observation data processes. People will more readily adopt a safe Following the step outlined above, data is analysed Project Zero is a global initiative working attitude because they think working to determine an employee’s or department’s that aims to accelerate improved safely is the right thing to do; not because they improvement in safe behaviours and the data is safety performance in areas of are afraid of being caught and punished for shared with employees. concern and to develop a safety working unsafely. awareness culture in all parts of Improvement goals our business. The theme highlighted the fact that safety is Goals are established to increase the effectiveness something that all employees should care of the feedback and the success of the behaviourThe initiative includes integrated health and about; at work and in all areas where they have based safety process. safety planning and management; training at influence — including their homes. Achieving all levels; participative information and control perfect safety records at home and at work is Reinforcement structures and adherence to international best not an individual goal — it is a collective effort. Improvement and goal attainment are recognised practice and safety standards. and reinforced. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 62 People Prioritising wellbeing, health and safety continued Health and safety committees are in place Discussion topics Southern Africa LA-9 at all of our operations. Through these Topics discussed in terms of formal agreements Our current agreements with the unions do not Health and safety committees, our people are consulted about the with trade unions are: cover health and safety issues. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade development/review of policies and procedures topics form part of the agenda of the National unions and changes that affect workplace safety or Europe Partnership Forum — a joint management/union health. There is no region-wide agreement on health and forum. Employees are represented at safety safety topics covered in agreements with any of our committees by safety representatives who are not Representation trade unions. However, in the Netherlands formal necessarily union or shop steward representatives Representation in each region is as follows: local agreements with trade unions cover health — as prescribed by legislation. and safety issues in addition to legal requirements Europe and deal with issues such as: Formal health and safety committees are normally • Personal protective equipment part of a production unit and are in place at all major • Training and education sites. Approximately 75% of all our employees are • Determining the complaints mechanism. represented by the safety committees. European and local Works Council representatives North America participate in health and safety discussions; they Approximately 65% of our employees are have a right to: represented at joint safety committee meetings • Be included in: with management. ◦◦ Site inspections ◦◦ Audits Southern Africa ◦◦ Accident investigations The entire workforce is represented by health and ◦◦ Training and development safety representatives. • Determine the complaints mechanism • Support employees’ right to refuse to do unsafe Sappi Trading work. None. North America The majority of our collective bargaining agreements provide for the participation of unions in safety committees. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 63 People Safety management LA-7 Safety terminology Absenteeism Lost days and fatalities Key to graphs and terms used Rates of injury, % Number of lost days occupational diseases, LTI Lost Time Injury lost days and absenteeism Lost days are calculated as days that an 6 and number of workemployee cannot report for the next work related fatalities by region day or shift due to an illness, injury, disability 17,299 or death arising from an incident occurring at 5 work. If the employee is unable to complete 16.2 14,906 the work he is hired to do, but is well enough 4 to attend work (restricted work), this is also deemed to be a lost day. Lost days are recorded from the day after the accident/ 3 incident until the employee returns. The day of the accident and the day returning to work are not included. A fatality or permanent disability 2 is counted as 6,000 days. 1,780 LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 1 613 10 based on a Sappi groupwide standard for man hours 0 Europe North Southern Group Europe North America South Africa Trading America Africa LTIFR = (LTI × 200,000) hours of exposure 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 LTISR Lost Time Injury Severity Rating = Fatalities based on a Sappi groupwide standard for man hours Absenteeism Lost days and fatalities Absenteeism can have a significant impact on productivity Southern Africa and therefore Sappi group lost days are LTISR = and ultimately on financial performance, which is why it is high as they include the 12,000 lost days attributed to the (№ days lost to injury × 200,000) important to monitor this indicator. Our absenteeism rates death of one own employee and one contractor in the year hours of exposure are in line with industry trends. under review. One death is regarded as 6,000 lost days. II Injury Index — provides an overall sense of safety within the measured unit Number of incidences of occupational diseases II = LTIFR × LTISR Region Description Number of cases Europe There were no confirmed incidences of occupational diseases. AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate Sappi Fine Paper North America has received several workers We believe the represents the number of all injuries North America compensation claims alleging historic exposure to asbestos over a cases are without 30-year period. merit AIFR = All injuries x 200,000 Southern Africa Number of incidences of occupational diseases: 4 (Respiratory) 4 hours of exposure Noise induced hearing loss and acoustic trauma. 1 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 64 People Safety performance Improvements in reducing fatalities and lost We have set new objectives for our Group Safety Detailed regional safety information time injuries are evident throughout the group. and Risk Cluster where the aim is to ensure that An overview of safety performance by region follows our tools and techniques which have proven to be on pages 66-67. More detailed information on our Going forward, we are committed to our goals effective are shared within the organisation. We safety performance in each region is available in of eliminating fatalities and lost time injuries by have no doubt that by empowering our workforce our regional sustainability reports. selecting the most appropriate leading performance to identify where and how improvements can be Europe indicators and identifying the areas of our activities made, and to provide and share regular feedback North America that present the greatest threat to performance or on performance measured against the standards, South Africa opportunity for improvement. will instil a sense of ownership and awareness and achieve our objective of zero fatalities. LTISR LTIFR Total fatalities Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors Lost Time Injury Severity Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 200 2.5 10 2.0 8 150 1.5 6 100 1.0 4 50 0.5 2 0 0.0 0 Europe North America South Africa Group Europe North America South Africa Group 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Own employees Contractors 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 65 People Safety performance by region Europe North America South Africa Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 8 7.28 8 8 7 7 7 6 6 6 4.83 4.90 5 5 5 3.79 3.58 3.17 4 4 4 3 3 3 1.78 1.61 1.41 1.33 1.27 1.47 1.20 2 2 2 0.98 0.96 1.02 0.67 0.72 0.58 0.65 0.59 0.43 0.46 0.55 0.36 0.38 0.30 0.20 0.24 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Own employees Contractors Own employees Contractors Own employees Contractors 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 66 People Safety performance by region continued Europe North America We finished FY2013 with a LTIFR of 0.98 for own Our safety performance in North America improved. 54.93, which indicates that, although the number employees compared with the FY2012 rate of 1.22; A 40% own employee LTIFR reduction over last of injuries was not well contained, the severity was indicating a steady improvement. year to 0.43 benchmarks us considerably better much less severe than last year when the severity than the top quartile LTIFR of 0.80 for our industry. rate was 60.3. Lost time injuries (LTIs) for Sappi employees Eleven lost time/restricted incidents occurred decreased, from 59 last year to 44 this year. during FY2013 compared to 18 the year before. The 20 own employee LTIs that occurred during the Nijmegen Mill reported a zero own employee LTIFR. third quarter resulted in an own employee LTIFR for We use very few contractors; single incidents the year at 0.60 against a target of 0.42. Although Contractor LTIs increased to 20 from 18 last year. have a significant impact on the contractor safety this is an improvement on FY2012’s 0.65, it is The contractor LTIFR increased to 4.44 against to statistics for the region. Nevertheless, contractor higher than the best ever 0.46 achieved in FY2010. last year’s 3.79. Ehingen Mill closed the year with performance has improved. We continue to a zero contractor LTIFR. benchmark in the upper 20% compared to the Contractor safety North America paper industry (AF&PA). Contractor safety issues have historically been The overall regional safety performance challenging, given that the majority of contractors improvement was mainly due to Alfeld and Actions taken throughout the year to improve are employed by Sappi Forests where a large Stockstadt Mills’ performance. Alfeld Mill improved safety communications included weekly news and number of people are spread over an extensive own employee LTIFR by 79% despite the added video flashes, tool box talks and website postings geographical area, making management difficult. risk of the conversion project at the mill. With an to consistently generate and maintain awareness own employee LTIFR of 0.32, it was also the best and discussions. Hazard identification and risk Last year’s good performance was not maintained performing mill in the region. assessments are used to identify, quantify and with an LTIFR of 0.38 compared to the 0.24 LTIFR further control the hazards and risks. in FY2012. This significant improvement can be ascribed to the focus on standards reinforcement, an increase South Africa Contractor statistics do not include hours worked in the number and quality of behaviour-based Tragically, we suffered two fatal accidents in South on the GoCell dissolving wood pulp conversion safety audits, thorough root cause analysis of all Africa; one an own employee and the other a project at Ngodwana Mill. The project achieved an incidents and an intensified utilisation of our safety contractor employee. excellent LTIFR of 0.07 with the project ending at representatives. 4.5 million man-hours without a lost time incident. We ended the year, for all personnel employed, This is even more remarkable considering that the During the entire rebuild and conversion period, with an LTIFR of 0.43 compared to 0.35 achieved total man-hours worked during the project ended there was only one own employee lost time injury. last year. The All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) for at 5.7 million hours with only one LTI recorded. the year was 4.19. The LTISR for the year was 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 67 People Safety priorities by region — 2014 Europe North America South Africa Going forward, our main 2014 objectives in Europe Our priorities for the year ahead are: We aim to achieve an LTIFR below 0.28, for all are to: • Develop frontline leaders personnel employed, by: • Improve contractor safety performance • Improve training of new hires • Maintaining all safety systems in line with the by having a common approach on safety • Capture near miss incidents to learn from them requirements of our OSHAS 18001 certification. activities, rules, standards and safety clauses and take actions to avoid recurrence. This will enable us to address unsafe conditions in purchasing contracts. • Refine OHSAS 18001 safety management system in our operations proactively, reducing employee • Improve the cooperation and communication • Drive the hazard identification and risk and visitor exposure to hazardous situations. between the mills on safety performance and assessments process. • Engaging our employees and contractors in initiatives facilitated by the Sappi Fine Paper our safety drives. Engaged people will create Europe Safety Platform. a safety culture in our business that ensures • Continued focus on: the active involvement of everyone in our safety • BBS (behaviour-based safety) observations initiatives and drives, with ownership at all levels • Intensified risk assessments of the organisation. We plan to conduct mini • Incident investigations safety workshops, involving every employee in • ‘Walking the Talk’ on safety for Sappi finding safety solutions. managers, supervisors and employees. • Changing the behaviour of all personnel by means of the BBS system. During FY2013, we revitalised this system in all our mills and established steering committees to maintain training momentum. The improved safety performance in the last quarter of the financial year was partially due to this programme. • Bringing the ‘heart and soul’ of every employee back into safety so that we improve on our current performance and progress to our ultimate goal of zero injuries. • Focusing on reducing the severity of the accidents by setting specific Injury Index objectives for every business unit and driving down the Injury Index. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 68 People Health and wellbeing initiatives Our operations continue to support, engage Southern Africa Sappi Trading LA-8 and facilitate wellbeing programmes to The health and wellness programme includes Health talks are conducted and cover topics such Education, training, increase the health and productivity of our occupational health, primary healthcare and as stress management; kidney disease awareness; counselling, prevention, and risk-control people both at work and in their personal employee wellbeing programmes. Occupational spine protection; healthy eating habits; home/work programmes in place lives. health management forms the foundation of our life balance; and emotional intelligence. to assist workforce members, their families, healthcare programmes. The programme focuses or community members Europe on changing behaviours which impact on health HIV/AIDS regarding serious diseases There is an increased awareness of stress and risks as they may create future health difficulties. Our HIV/AIDS Policy together with a FAQ burn-out and programmes are in place to assist and Specific targets are: high blood pressure; high document detailing efforts to combat HIV/AIDS in support employees in this regard. The company cholesterol levels; low fitness levels; smoking Southern Africa, are available on www.sappi.com. also has a number of wellness programmes in cessation; stress management; weight control and place to help educate employees on healthy living nutritional changes. and to minimise the risk of serious diseases. Our initiatives to promote financial wellbeing and North America combat HIV/AIDS are covered in detail in our 2013 The company has a number of wellness regional sustainability report for Southern Africa. programmes in place to help educate employees on healthy living and to minimise the risk of serious diseases. All of our programmes focus on employees, as S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T Sappi and AIDS E E O N P A L L E • P resources are limited to extending these beyond Our HIV/AIDS Policy October 2011 How does HIV/AIDS affect business? At a glance 35% of all persons with HIV globally live HIV/AIDS typically affects individuals between the ages in sub-Saharan Africa. Accordingly, Sappi’s of 14 and 45 who represent the most economically efforts to combat the pandemic are focused in our own employees. If, however, as a result of an productive sector of the population. In addition to our operations in South Africa. direct financial costs such as increased costs of health insurance, the effects of HIV/AIDS include increased Anti-retroviral treatment was offered to absenteeism, high rates of employee turnover, low HIV-infected employees from the beginning of employee morale and loss of skills and experience, 2003. all of which impact on productivity. The impact on the greater economy and the future workforce is also significant as the loss of children to the disease The number of employees seeking operating procedure at a mill, the communities results in a loss of future potential and human capital counselling and testing programmes is development. This policy supports Sappi’s Sustainable Development Charter and approach to sustainable development. increasing steadily. When did Sappi establish an HIV/AIDS Our approach to sustainability is based on a holistic view of Prosperity, People and Planet (the 3Ps). Being a Of the predicted Sappi employees that programme? sustainable organisation means that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our business decisions, strategies and are HIV-positive, 64% are on a managed care processes to help us create added value for all our stakeholders. programme. Sappi Limited established an HIV/AIDS programme in 1992 in South Africa to measure, monitor and manage living around the mill have been impacted, then We acknowledge the seriousness and implications of HIV/AIDS for Sappi and our employees, and provide resources Sappi has an HIV/AIDS policy, available the disease in order to mitigate the risks posed to and leadership in order to combat the pandemic. at http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_ employees, the organisation and the communities in sdr_2009/downloads/Sappi%20HIV%20 which we operate. At Sappi we • Commit to providing effective resources and leadership to implement an HIV/AIDS programme Policy_Draft9.pdf In 2000, the guidelines established in the early 1990s • Provide access to preventative measures such as promoting HIV Counselling and Testing (HCT) was formalised by publishing an HIV/AIDS policy, • Ensure employees’ HIV status remain confidential and treat people with dignity and respect revised in 2009. • Promote the creation of a supportive and non-discriminatory working environment the company will proactively engage with that • Provide guidance and treatment for the appropriate management of HIV related infections/disease, at-risk From August 2002, medical care for employees behaviour and other diseases that might impact on the HIV/AIDS epidemic or HIV/AIDS-infected individuals Is HIV/AIDS a global problem ? included the provision of Nevirapine treatment to • Offer appropriate support and counselling services to employees affected by the disease and where reasonably prevent mother to child transmission. Anti-retroviral possible to their families It is a global problem, but the pandemic is particularly treatment was offered to HIV-infected employees from • Provide and ensure access to appropriate information acute in sub-Saharan Africa, which “still bears an the beginning of 2003. • Educate employees and the communities surrounding our operations about at-risk behaviour and about where inordinate share of the global HIV burden” according to receive help and support to the latest global report by UNAIDS. According to How many people at Sappi have HIV/AIDS? community to address the issue. • Liaise with local HIV/AIDS service organisations and other resources in the community the same report, about 40% of all adult women with • Monitor and evaluate our HIV/AIDS programme; conduct periodic HIV/AIDS impact analyses in order to determine HIV/AIDS live in southern Africa. With an estimated the present and future impact of the epidemic on Sappi’s employees 5.6 million people living with HIV, South Africa’s 83% of our employees have participated in an HIV • Advise management regarding implementation and progress of the programmes epidemic remains the largest in the world. However, survey therefore we have a very accurate idea of the the latest indications show a slowing of HIV incidence HIV/AIDS-prevalence of the workforce that is currently • Encourage contractors and suppliers to practise responsible HIV/AIDS management within their organisations amid a shift towards safe sex amongst young people. 14.7%. This is less than the South African average • Provide employees with access to precautions, including personal protective equipment for staff potentially Against this background, Sappi’s efforts to combat – UNAIDS estimates indicate that the current HIV/ exposed to blood products as a result of providing medical support services the pandemic are focused in South Africa – in our AIDS prevalence of those aged between 15 and 49 in • Determine employee benefits in terms of rules and requirements of the relevant funds and schemes which may operations and the areas surrounding our operations. South Africa is 17.8%. (2009 statistics) change from time to time • Consult employees and their representatives on the content and implementation of this policy • Conduct regular risk assessments to identify issues that inhibit the achievement of set HIV goals and objectives. Alex Thiel Chief Executive Officer Sappi Southern Africa S P E R I August 2013 O R T P Y • • P T www.sappi.com E O N E P A Copyright © 2013 Sappi Southern Africa. All rights reserved. L E • P L Sappi Sappi HIV/AIDS Policy HIV/AIDS FAQ 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 69 People Health and wellbeing initiatives continued Customers’ health and safety Europe North America PR-6 We work closely with our customers to meet An independent testing institute monitors the Our Lusterprint products comply with the Programmes for their food packaging requirements. majority of our papers for conformance with the regulations promulgated by the US Food and Drug adherence to laws, standards, and 36th Recommendation for Paper and Board for Administration (FDA) for paper and paper-board voluntary codes We encourage users of our paper products to Food Contact of BfR (German Federal Institute for packaging in contact with dry, aqueous or fatty related to marketing communications, recycle. The majority of our papers are recyclable, Risk Control) and the European Union directive foods. including advertising, the exceptions being wet strength and release 1935/2004/EC. promotion, and sponsorship papers. Our graphic papers are not intended for contact Many of our papers are also used in children’s toys. with food. Compliance with the Toy Safety Standard EN71 (part 3 — Toy Safety — Migration of Certain Substances Southern Africa and part 9 — Organic Substances) of most of our Our food packaging paper grades are tested paper grades is also regularly monitored. for compliance with the requirements of FDA, BFR (German Federal Institute for Risk Control) In 2013, in Europe we launched two new mineral and 94/26/EC (environmental requirements for oil barrier flexpack grades: MOB Kraft and MOB packaging and packaging waste). Our papers are Gravure. These innovative speciality papers solve also tested for compliance with DIN EN71 (part 3 the problem of migration of mineral oil and other – Safety in Toys, Migration and Certain Elements). contaminants into food from cardboard packaging containing recycled paper. The mineral oil barrier Tests are conducted both in-house and by in the papers protects foodstuffs from mineral oil accredited third parties to enable us to issue compounds that are a complex mixture of saturated certificates of compliance to our customers. hydrocarbons and unsaturated hydrocarbons, which are suspected to be carcinogenic. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 70 People Our approach to human rights We do not tolerate any form of unfair S P E R UNGC-1 O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P d i s c r i m i n a t i o n , i n h u m a n e t re a t m e n t , Group Human Rights Policy Support and respect the forced labour, child labour, harassment or protection of international intimidation in the workplace. Our support of human rights is implicit in all our dealings with stakeholders and is embodied in the People commitments set out in our Sustainability Charter human rights within their • • • Being a great place to work Cultivating an inclusive, diverse workplace Providing training and development opportunities • Engaging with stakeholders openly and constructively sphere of influence • Prioritising wellbeing, safety and health • Partnering with communities. At Sappi we define sustainable development as ‘development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs’. To achieve this, we focus on performance based on generating Prosperity for shareholders, while improving the lives of People and treading more lightly on the Planet. We are committed to the labour rights principles One of the ways in which we improve the lives of people is by subscribing to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organisation which promote freedom of association, non-discrimination and the abolition of forced and child labour. We also uphold the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In summarised form, these principles are • Everyone is free and should be treated in the same way • Everyone is equal despite differences in skin colour, sex, religion and language of the UN Global Compact, including the right to • Everyone has the right to life and to live in freedom and safety • No one has the right to treat anyone else as a slave • No one has the right to hurt or torture anyone else • Everyone has the right to be treated equally by the law • The law is the same for everyone, it should be applied in the same way to all UNGC-2 • Everyone has the right to ask for legal help when their rights are not respected • No one has the right to imprison you unjustly or expel you from your own country freedom of association and collective bargaining • Everyone has the right to a fair and public trial • Everyone should be considered innocent until guilt is proved • Every one has the right to privacy • Everyone has the right to move freely within their own country and leave and return as they wish • Everyone has the right to go to another country and ask for protection if they are being persecuted or are in danger of being persecuted • Everyone has the right to belong to a country. No one has the right to prevent you from belonging to another country if you wish to (discussed under Employees in the 'Link between • Everyone has the right to marry and have a family Continued… Make sure their own corporations are not our business and sustainability' section of this complicit in human rights report ), the eradication of child and forced labour, Sappi Human Rights abuses and non-discrimination. Policy We subscribe to the principles of the International UNGC-4 Labour Organisation, which promote: The elimination of all • Freedom of association forms of forced and • Non-discrimination compulsory labour • Abolition of forced and child labour. We also uphold the principles of the Universal UNGC-5 Declaration of Human Rights and have used these principles as the basis for our Human Rights The effective abolition of child labour Policy. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 71 People Supporting communities Sappi’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Case study Case study S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A initiatives and programmes are in line with, L L E • P Group Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Hlaza Innovation Centre Ideas that Matter and supportive of, the company’s business strategy. They are developed with input from Sappi ReFibre in South Africa recycles recovered Since 1999, the group’s Ideas that Matter Our approach to sustainability focusses on generating Prosperity for shareholders, while improving the lives of People and treading more lightly on the Planet. This approach is founded on our core values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness. Sappi believes that a formal programme for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (often referred to as Corporate Social Investment in South Africa) is critical in giving key stakeholder groups. board and paper — a valuable resource that can programme, has granted US$12 million to student substance to our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen. We believe that our CSR approach and programmes should be aligned with and support the achievement of our business objectives, forming part of our engagement and partnering initiatives with our key stakeholder groups throughout all our businesses. Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): be used to supplement virgin fibre in the paper and professional designers who’s design ideas, • Encapsulates all three areas of sustainability. We identify and support longer-term initiatives or individual projects which promote and build the Prosperity, People and Planet commitments embodied in our Sustainability Charter. • Prioritises spend in the first place on initiatives and projects relevant to the communities where Our support is focused on the communities where we operate (mills, offices and plantations) and secondly on initiatives and projects relevant to our role in society and our other key stakeholder groupings, including printers and other making process. We procure board and paper executed on graphics paper, support worthy customers, environmental and conservation organisations, as well as organised industry and business groups. • Strives to align our CSR activities with our business activities and objectives, including through cause-related marketing initiatives and sponsorships. we have an impact. • Is guided by the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. sourced from homes, offices, wholesalers and causes that change lives, communities, and We direct the majority of our funding to: Education • Promoting education, particularly mathematics and science skills, helps expand the talent pool in areas which are pivotal to our overall sustainability. • We also prioritise Early Childhood Development (ECD) as the most effective means of building capacity in the youth from our communities. retailers, and from manufacturers in both the ultimately, our Planet. Over 500 causes around Continued… We have prioritised education, environment, health formal and informal sectors — through an the world have been supported since inception. Sappi CSR Policy and welfare and community engagement projects. extensive network of agents across the country. Our preference is for multi-year programmes which Funding for art education in public schools all create sustained impact in our communities. The In August 2013, we partnered with Georgetown over the United States has been drastically majority of Sappi’s CSR spend takes place in South University’s McDonough School of Business, reduced over the past 25 years. In Philadelphia, Africa, given the development needs of that country. PETCO and other local business to transform for example, only US83¢ per child per year a run-down buy-back centre in Langa, Cape was allocated for art supplies for several years. We promote awareness of, and an appreciation for, Town’s oldest township. The now renamed In 2009, that allocation ended and many art the environment. Hlaza (Green) Innovation Centre will encourage teachers have little or no funds for art supplies. entrepreneurship and demonstrate the value of recyclable commodities by buying recyclables Fresh Artists, a non-profit organisation, More information about our management approach from community members who can collect from dedicated to saving art-education for all children to societal support and selected case studies, are their own homes, offices, shebeens (pubs), and creating real opportunities for children to be outlined in the Overview section of this report. municipal offices etc. philanthropic was among the 2013 recipients. We have secured a market for all the recyclables Fresh Artists supplies innovative art programmes the centre will buy in. Our collection partner, and art supplies to art teachers in severely Supporting our communities K and C Waste, will purchase the bulk of the under-resourced public schools, and engages recyclables from the Hlaza Innovation Centre, the children being served as full philanthropic At a community level, mills support local uplifting recyclables daily. Benefits to the partners in the giving process. projects ranging from youth clubs, community community include income generation and centres, vulnerable groups, sports clubs and a cleaner and healthier environment through Read more about Ideas that Matter and other environmental education to paper donations. landfill diversion, ie sustainable livelihoods. 2013 recipients on our website. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 72 People Engaging with our stakeholders Our key stakeholders are parties who can Our approach S P E R GRI-4.4 O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P affect or be affected by our activities, Our approach to engagement with all stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Policy Mechanisms for objectives and policies. groupings is based on the principles of: shareholders and This policy supports Sappi’s Sustainable Development Charter and approach to sustainable development. employees to provide Our approach to sustainability is based on a holistic view of Prosperity, People and Planet (the 3Ps). Being a sustainable organisation means that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our business decisions, strategies and processes to help us create added value for all our stakeholders. recommendations or We recognise that we will not be able to implement Materiality Our commitment to inclusive stakeholder engagement is based on the principles of • Relevance — focusing on those issues of material concern to our stakeholders and to Sappi and identifying how best to address them for our mutual benefit • Completeness — understanding the views, needs, performance expectations and perceptions associated with these material issues while also taking cognisance of prevailing local and global trends, and direction to the highest • Responsiveness — engaging with stakeholders on these issues and giving regular, comprehensive, coherent feedback. our business strategy and achieve our goals without Identifying the material concerns of stakeholder We define the following broad stakeholder groups across the Sappi group and engage with them in the following ways governance body Employees • Measure employee engagement on an ongoing basis and report the results and actions taken both internally and externally as relevant • Ensure employees are informed of and can contribute to their unit’s business strategy and performance, as well as groupwide developments engaging our stakeholders. Building relationships groupings. • Promote an understanding of and build alignment to the manner in which we integrate the 3Ps of sustainability — Prosperity, People, Planet — into our everyday business processes • Provide the appropriate channels through which employees can make their concerns and grievances known • Encourage and motivate employees to contribute to Sappi’s development and success outside their immediate job specifications • Encourage employees to take advantage of the training and development opportunities available to them • Drive commitment to and compliance with health and safety procedures through employee-centric programmes with stakeholders in a spirit of trust and mutual • Promote employee participation in wellbeing committees, as well as community-focused initiatives and volunteer programmes. Customers • Engage with our customers and, where appropriate, their customers to better understand the markets in which they operate, their challenges and opportunities and the issues of relevance to us GRI-4.14 • Work with customers to arrive at value-adding solutions that give both them and Sappi a competitive edge in the marketplace respect helps ensure alignment with our strategic Relevance • Further enhance our service offering by being easy and efficient to do business with Continued… goals, creates value and promotes our overall Focusing on those issues of material concern to List of stakeholder groups engaged by the sustainability. our stakeholders and to Sappi and identifying Sappi organisation how best to address them for our mutual benefit. Stakeholder Policy Accordingly, we engage with a broad range of stakeholders through a variety of formal and Completeness GRI-4.16 informal channels — from ongoing engagement Understanding the views, needs, performance Approaches to across all our stakeholder groupings, including expectations and perceptions associated with stakeholder engagement, investors, governments, industry bodies, these material issues and assessing them including frequency of engagement by type and customers, communities and NPOs, to collective against prevailing local and global trends. by stakeholder group public meetings with stakeholders by our mills, as well as surveys of selected groups such as Responsiveness employees, customers and investors and through Engaging with stakeholders on these issues GRI-4.17 audits with suppliers. and giving regular, comprehensive, coherent feedback. Key topics and concerns that have been raised All of these engagement activities help us identify through stakeholder and address issues of mutual interest, thereby Sappi’s main stakeholder groupings, detailed in engagement, and how the organisation has facilitating our licence to operate and enhancing our Stakeholder Engagement Policy, are discussed responded to those key our organisational effectiveness. We see such on pages 74-83, along with selected examples topics and concerns, including through its engagement as an ongoing dynamic process able of engagement undertaken during the reporting reporting to respond to the changing nature of issues and of period. interested and affected parties. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 73 People Engaging with our stakeholders — employees We focus on building a skilled, engaged We encourage full engagement between managers Global Employee Engagement Survey En ple workforce where diversity is encouraged and and their staff. The results and action plans following on the Global eo ged P ga valued, and people are provided with ongoing Employee Engagement Survey conducted at the Ene d le development opportunities so that they Other avenues of engagement include: end of 2013 will be discussed in the 2014 report. b rg is Ena can fulfil their full potential. In so doing, we • Global, regional and local newsletters ed enhance productivity and our ability to service • Global intranet Europe a global market. • Letters, roadshows and presentations by the Subsequent to year-end, following the Group CEO as well as regional CEOs announcement on 30 September 2013 that we Areas of mutual interest • Operating unit meetings, briefings and have given notice to start consultations about the • To be informed about, and engage with the workshops future of Nijmegen Mill, Sappi Nijmegen BV, the strategy, priorities and performance of the • Various forums (in South Africa) central Works Council of Sappi Netherlands and Have your say… Your opinion counts! company and its components. ◦◦ National Employment Equity and Skills the Works Council of Sappi Nijmegen entered into • To be informed about the internal and Development Forum an information and consultation agreement. ◦◦ Shop Steward Forum Moving Towards Sustainable Engagement Employee Engagement Survey 04–25 September external activities of the company, its staff and its communities. ◦◦ Partnership Forum North America Employee • To be informed about, and engage with • Global Employee Engagement Survey — every Our team of Sustainability Ambassadors launched engagement survey organisational developments, particularly in second year — last conducted in 2013 an internal electronic newsletter to share activities respect of restructuring. • Wellbeing committees at mills and business and updates across the region. • Maintaining ethical standards. units • Health and safety committees at mills South Africa Avenues of engagement • Code of Ethics and confidential hotlines. Numerous meetings, briefings and workshops Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and regional CEOs were held, including about the restructuring of the engage with staff through site visits, presentations Key issues in 2013 business and changes to the areas of production, and discussions. Suggestion lines exist at some Code of Ethics procurement and sales and marketing, aimed at facilities, and unions have formal channels through Across the group we rolled out a refreshed Code of returning the business to acceptable profitability. which they engage with management. Ethics that reflects a move away from a compliancebased model to an integrity model of ethics. We conducted a Skills Audit to review the level of Sappi skills within our professional cadre. In this region Code of Ethics Our Code of Ethics is built on our underlying the National Employment Equity and Learning values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Forum established two task teams to work on the Resourcefulness. An analysis of hotline calls is elimination of barriers to employment equity and to detailed in our 2013 Integrated Annual Report. assess our skills and development initiatives. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 74 People Engaging with our stakeholders — unions Given today’s extremely challenging global Avenues of engagement South Africa economic conditions and the current socioEurope Our wage negotiations with recognised trade economic dynamics in the South African Negotiations occur at the various country and unions take place at the Pulp and Paper and labour market, we prioritise our relationship industry-specific collective labour associations. Sawmilling Chambers under the auspices of the with our employees and their representatives. Contract terms range from one to two years. The Bargaining Council for the Wood and Paper Sector. labour framework in Europe consists of Works Our agreements are generally annual. Protecting the right to freedom of association and Councils and collective labour agreements and collective bargaining are fundamental to the way differs from country to country. We also engage on broader issues with recognised in which Sappi does business. trade unions at the National Employment Equity The European Works Council’s meetings take place and Skills Development Forum, the Shop Steward Globally, approximately 56% of our workforce is twice a year and representatives meet with our Forum and the Partnership Forum. represented by unions; 66,5% covered by collective leadership representatives to share information bargaining agreements. and consult on topics of interest including: market Key issues in 2013 developments, macro-economic effects, industry Europe Areas of mutual interest changes and organisational restructuring. Within Wage negotiations were successfully concluded in Wages, working hours and other conditions of the collective labour framework, we are represented several countries. service. by industry employer representatives. North America North America We successfully concluded a number of wage The majority of our hourly employees — generally agreements. production unit employees — are represented by the United Steelworkers (USW) union, but South Africa employees are also represented by various craft, Wage negotiations were successfully concluded by guard and railroad unions. In this region, labour the Chambers of which Sappi is a member. agreements are usually for three years. In addition to meeting with local union leadership for the purposes of bargaining contracts and resolving grievances, the company relies on local unions to help with safety and wellness initiatives, as well as various forms of community outreach. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 75 People Engaging with our stakeholders — communities Having a mutually respectful relationship the communities and regions where they operate. Key issues in 2013 with the communities in which our business These range from broad liaison forums for business, Of particular relevance to local communities were operations are situated is critical to our local government and communities to legally the conversion and expansion projects at our success. mandated environmental forums which form part Cloquet, Ngodwana and Alfeld Mills; their impacts of the licencing conditions of mills. during the construction phase and thereafter, as Our engagement ranges across the three pillars of well as the local benefits of these projects. sustainability, namely: We publish FAQs dealing with topics of interest Prosperity to many of our stakeholders — these are updated Europe Our contribution to each other as and when information changes. Some of the Our mills actively maintain an interface with the People topics covered are: communities in which we operate. Our Stockstadt Our support for social cohesion and community • Biofuels Mill, for example, provides a printed periodical needs • BBBEE titled ‘Ihr Nachbar’ (Your Neighbour) through Planet • Eucalyptus Trees which we keep our neighbours updated about the Working to reduce our combined impact • Forest Certification developments in our mill. thereby securing the sustainability of the • Forest Certifications and FSC natural resources and ecosystems on which • Forests and Climate Change North America our business depends. • HIV/AIDS Sustainability Ambassadors help to coordinate • Paper and Plastics community outreach activities at each of Social projects are reviewed on a case-by• Project Grow our locations. Examples of activities include case basis and we encourage projects which • The Carbon Disclosure Project papermaking demonstrations at local schools, facilitate partnerships and collaboration between • The JSE SRI Index coordinating recycling drives with community communities, government and the private sector. • Tree Genetics — Tree Improvement partners and the Cloquet Mill employees’ ongoing • The Triple Green paper range efforts with River Quest, a hands-on learning Areas of mutual interest • Water and Commercial Plantations experience conducted annually for more than Key issues discussed on a regular basis include 1,000 students in the area. water usage and quality, effluent quality and air We also engage with local communities through emissions, employment and business opportunities, support of and sponsorship for local events and South Africa and community support. initiatives. In association with the South African Institute of Entrepreneurship (SAIE), we developed Forest Biz, Avenues of engagement South Africa which introduces communities to the business There are various formats of community We engage in local farmer and community forums management aspects related to managing their engagement meetings held by our mills within regarding our forestry communities. own forestry projects. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 76 People Engaging with our stakeholders — customers We adopt a partnership approach, whereby Customer surveys and information on environmental management PR-3 we develop long-term relationships with The results of our customer surveys are considered systems and woodfibre sourcing policies. Type of product and global, regional and local customers. We also confidential and are not published. service information required by procedures, accommodate more transactional customers. North America and percentage of Key issues in 2013 We use GreenBlue’s Environmental Performance significant products and services subject to such We offer customers innovative products and high A series of technical brochures, is available on our Assessment Tool (EPAT) which enables buyers to information requirements levels of service that enable them to meet the website www.sappi.com. evaluate our performance on a mill-by-mill basis. needs of a rapidly changing world. Where relevant, we will also conduct R&D and develop products to We continued to publish region-appropriate The web-based eQ tool provides users with the suit the specific needs of a customer. marketing material. ability to generate a customised product statement that summarises the environmental benefits of Areas of mutual interest We conducted extensive roadshows and choosing Sappi Fine Paper North America’s papers • Information about organisational developments, participated in trade conferences in the Far East to for a print job. and the fibre sourcing and production processes inform customers about our expanded dissolving behind our brands. wood pulp capacity. Customers connect with Customer Service in real • Technical information and information campaigns time via eChat on our eCommerce website. to promote print as a communications medium. Europe • Information and campaigns to promote paper We launched two new mineral oil barrier substrates: As part of our Education, Training and Consulting packaging. MOB Kraft and MOB Gravure at FachPack. (etc) programme, aimed at customers, we launched • Information about new products. the Sappi etc® microsite — an online educational The Houston microsite provides technical support platform providing access to more than a century’s Avenues of engagement to printers. worth of rare historical documents, detailed case The group follows an approach of regular studies and expert technical advice. engagement with customers by senior and Our Positivity website gives details of our executive management in support of the ongoing sustainability journey. We have had a Sustainability Customer Council as engagement by the relevant sales and marketing a branch of our governance since 2007. This group teams. In North America we also meet annually Europe and South Africa represents each of the major customer segments with the Sappi Merchant Association. We continued to publish Paper Profiles and in the coated papers business. In 2014, we will be information sheets for our papers. These give adding representation from dissolving wood pulp details regarding the composition of our papers, and specialities business units’ customers. The as well as key environmental parameters related group meets twice annually to discuss ongoing to our pulp and paper production processes and emerging issues relevant to the supply chain. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 77 People Engaging with our stakeholders — industry bodies We partner with industry and business bodies Key issues in 2013 to provide input into issues and regulations Two Sides campaign South Africa that affect the industry. We supported the launch of the Two Sides industryWe engaged with Treasury and the Department driven campaign — which works to debunk myths of Trade and Industry through our industry Areas of mutual interest about the paper, printing and forestry industries — representative, PAMSA, regarding the possible • Energy issues in general and in particular in North America during 2013. exemption from the proposed carbon tax due to government moves on carbon taxation. the fact that our manufacturing process starts from • The impact of increased regulations on We had previously supported the establishment of the planting of trees and that as such our cradle business. Two Sides campaigns in the United Kingdom, and to gate process is not carbon negative but rather • The benefits of our industry and our economic Australia and are currently working on a launch for carbon positive. contribution. South Africa during 2014. We engaged through our industry representative, Avenues of engagement Europe FSA, with the Department of Agriculture and Sappi is a member of various industry and business In Europe our interests were represented through Fisheries regarding their determination of the associations in each region. the work programme of our industry body CEPI minimum wage for the agriculture and forestry and its related national organisations. sectors. The minimum wage has increased by 52% Consultations take place on an ongoing basis with with effect from 01 April 2013. industry and business associations in each region. North America In North America our interests were represented through the work programme of our industry body (AF & PA). 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 78 People Engaging with our stakeholders — investors Our aim is to provide investors (shareholders Avenues of engagement Key issues in 2013 and bondholders) and analysts with Our investor relations (IR) team engages with Conversion projects transparent, timely, relevant communication shareholders and analysts on an ongoing basis. The major conversion and expansion projects for that facilitates informed decisions. Shareholders can attend and participate in the dissolving wood pulp at our Cloquet and Ngodwana annual general meeting and four quarterly financial Mills and speciality paper at our Alfeld Mill. Areas of mutual interest results briefings. • Return on investment Restructuring and profitability • Transparent information about risks and The IR team has direct access to the executive Progress with the restructuring of the company and opportunities. directors; any issues raised by shareholders that actions to return the group to acceptable levels of would be relevant for the board are channelled profitability and turn around the paper businesses. through the IR team. Our Chairman also engages with shareholders on Usutu Forest Products Company relevant issues. In South Africa, we announced the sale of our Usutu Forest Products Company to Swaziland’s We conduct ad hoc mill visits and roadshows, and Montigny Investments for US$101 million. The deal issue announcements through: is subject to several conditions, including approval • Stock Exchange News Services (SENS) from competition authorities in both countries. • The media • Our website www.sappi.com. NYSE We announced our intention to delist from the New We publish our Annual Integrated Report, three York Stock Exchange. Sappi’s ADRs will now be regional and this global sustainability reports on traded in the US through a Level I over-the-counter the company website. (OTC) ADR programme. Our Chief Financial Officer and Head of Treasury engage with bondholders, banks and rating agencies on an ongoing basis regarding the performance of the company. We participated in the Carbon Disclosure and Forest Footprint Disclosure projects. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 79 People Engaging with our stakeholders — suppliers and contractors We are committed to establishing mutually Avenues of engagement Key issues in 2013 respectful relationships with our suppliers The procurement executives from each region In each region we conducted audits of selected and encouraging them to join our commitment coordinate at global level to improve relations with suppliers. to the 3Ps. We aim to build long-term value suppliers and provide benefits to all parties through partnerships. better understanding of the requirements of the North America Sappi group. We have been assisting two landowners and a We work with our contractors to ensure that they timber mill to adopt FSC® certification in order to follow Sappi safety systems and rules. North America and South Africa obtain higher levels of certified fibre for Somerset Our foresters work extensively with contractors Mill. All three sources — providing a combined Areas of mutual interest and communities. Our contractors must adhere total of 87,000tpa of wood — will be certified in • Transparent information to Sappi’s safety systems and rules. December 2013. • Forest certification • Increased value and decreased costs South Africa The procurement team has also been working with • Security of fibre supply, income generation and We work with rural communities to help them another landowner who is planning to adopt the job creation. establish and manage timber farms. In terms of SFI® programme to certify two separate parcels of Project Grow, our enterprise development initiative, forests, totalling 40,469 hectares. The net result we provide interest-free loans and guaranteed will be an additional 120,000 tons of SFI® certified markets. wood. South Africa In 2013, Project Grow celebrated its 30th anniversary. The volumes provided by Project Grow represent 7.5% of Sappi’s hardwood woodfibre intake in South Africa. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 80 People Engaging with our stakeholders — media and civil society We maintain an open relationship with the Avenues of engagement Key issues in 2013 media, believing that an informed media • We join key organisations as members We continued to engage regarding issues of is better able to serve public reporting and • We develop personal relationships and engage climate change and the positive nature of the forest debate on any issue. on an ongoing basis. products industry with regard to CO2 emissions and • We provide support to and sponsorship for key our carbon positive footprint, given the renewable We engage with civil society organisations on organisations on issues of mutual interest. nature of the woodfibre that we utilise. issues of mutual interest, and are members of key organisations relevant to our operations. Europe and North America We maintain close engagement directly and Areas of mutual interest through our industry bodies CEPI and AF & PA, • Business developments with the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) and • Impact on communities and on the environment. WWF International. South Africa A two-year Birdlife South Africa project will be funded to assess the current avian value of Sappi owned property in southern KwaZulu-Natal in relation to the Important Bird Area (IBA) network, including the implementation of Biodiversity Stewardship. The ultimate aim is to contribute to Sappi’s environmental management objectives and conservation vision while simultaneously improving the conservation of avian species within the grassland biome. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 81 People Engaging with our stakeholders — governments and regulatory bodies We engage with government departments GRI-4.8 GRI-4.12 and regulatory bodies to provide input into issues and regulations that affect our industry. Internally developed statements of mission Externally developed economic, or values, codes of conduct, and principles environmental, and social charters, Areas of mutual interest relevant to economic, environmental, and principles, or other initiatives to which the • Energy issues in general and in particular social performance and the status of their organisation subscribes or endorses government moves on carbon taxation implementation • The impact of increased regulation on business • UN Global Compact (signed in 2008) • The benefits of our industry and our economic • Code of Ethics • Universal Declaration of Human Rights contribution. • Sustainability Charter • International Labour Organisation • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy • The Organisation for Economic Cooperation Avenues of engagement • Group Environmental Policy and Development (OECD) Policy Guidelines Consultations take place on an ongoing basis with • HIV/AIDS Policy for Preventing Corruption are incorporated government departments and regulatory bodies in • Human Rights Policy into our Code of Ethics each region. • Stakeholder Engagement Policy • South Africa Energy Efficiency Accord. Key issues in 2013 Please refer to the content under Industry bodies. South Africa We submitted an anti-dumping application to the International Trade Administration Commission of South Africa against cheap imported coated and uncoated paper products. This was done to protect local employment as well as all those businesses that are dependent on our paper mills. Preliminary duties have thus far been imposed on coated paper. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 82 People Engaging with our stakeholders — memberships GRI-4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations Industry associations Other associations Initiatives to promote design and print Global Europe, North America and South Africa Europe Pulp and Paper Products Council (PPPC) Two Sides What’s Next magazine. Europe Europe North America • Confederation of European Paper Industries Print Power • Sappi Printers of the Year (North America) (CEPI) • Sappi Ideas that Matter (North America) • Relevant national associations. South Africa • Life with Print • National Business Initiative (NBI) • Sappi etc (Education Training and Consulting) North America • Business Unity South Africa (BUSA) programme American Forest and Paper Association Industry • South African Chamber of Commerce and • The Standard a series of information guides to (AF&PA). Industry (SACCI) designing for print with useful tips, techniques • Manufacturing Circle and methods for achieving optimum printing South Africa • SA Energy Intensive Users Forum results • Paper Manufacturers’ Association of South • FSC™ • Digital design centre. Africa (PAMSA) • The Network for Business Sustainability South • Forestry South Africa (FSA) Africa (NBS:SA) South Africa • Other sectoral bodies. • Sappi Limited is a member of Paper. Here today, Here tomorrow ◦◦ WWF-SA ◦◦ Birdlife SA. North America We are a founding member of the GreenBlue Forest Products Working Group (FPWG), established in October 2011. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 83 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Planet In a world where natural resources are under increasing pressure, we are achieving our goal of treading more lightly on the Planet Planet 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 84 Our management approach to Planet An overview of our management approach to Planet We are advantaged by the fact that our Forest certification systems EN-30 Environmental capital UNGC-7 primary resource, woodfibre — derived from Throughout our operations, we use independently expenditure FY2013 Support a precautionary sustainably managed natural and plantation verified forest certification systems, including: US$m approach to environmental challenges forests — is a sustainable, renewable resource. • The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification™ (PEFC ™) Both natural and plantation forests are essential • Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) to a healthy environment, sustaining vital plants • Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®). UNGC-8 and wildlife, filtering water and air, and reducing Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility greenhouse gases by removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Management systems We apply internationally recognised environmental and quality management systems such as US$ 5.2m Forests are also a sustainable economic resource, ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and EMAS (Eco audit and providing a plentiful, natural material. management system). UNGC-9 By treading more lightly on the Planet we can Encourage the development and diffusion of produce more with less — an approach with 1.5 1.6 2.1 environmentally friendly obvious economic benefits that involves reducing Europe North America Southern Africa technologies our use of fossil energy and the associated greenhouse gas emissions across the life cycle of our products. It also necessitates using less water EN-30 Environmental expenses and improving effluent quality, mitigating our impact While we typically do not account separately for EN-30 on biodiversity and promoting sustainable forestry environmental expenses, our capital expenditure allows us to meet our goal of treading more lightly on the Planet. Total environmental through internationally accredited, independent For example, the conversion of our Ngodwana Mill in protection expenditures and investments by type environmental management and forest certification South Africa to produce 210,000tpa of dissolving wood systems. pulp delivers the following environmental benefits: mill odour and effluent reduced; improved efficiencies from new equipment mean burning 61,000tpa less coal which equates to 120,000tpa fewer CO2 emissions. Forests are a sustainable economic resource 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 85 Our management approach to Planet Sustainability structures — a way of life At each of our operations and own plantation Central coordination Risks and opportunities forests, environmental legal compliance and To ensure central coordination, clusters report to In a constantly evolving consumer, technical and other specific company targets are monitored. the Group Technology Management Team (GTMT) regulatory environment, some of the issues, risks Appropriate action is taken to improve or which is responsible for technical management and opportunities on which we focus are: mitigate identified environmental risks. within the group and overseeing research activities. • Fibre supply issues For example, the Energy, Emissions, Effluent • Disease, fires and biofuel-related risks Clusters and Environment (E4) Cluster is tasked with • Carbon taxes, even though over 50% of our There are 11 internal technical clusters comprised environmental and energy monitoring. energy is renewable and biofuel-based of experts in various fields who are focused on: • Reduction of waste to landfill ­— aggregate and • Aligning technology and R&D expertise E4 Cluster specific • Establishing best practice across a broad range Based on the premise of measure, monitor, manage • Access to raw materials and maintenance of disciplines and mitigate, we can anticipate trends by many of operations due to shortages of natural • Driving improved performance across the three years. The E4 Cluster measures greenhouse gas resources such as water continents where our manufacturing operations (GHG) emissions, energy-use, energy-costs, and • The opportunity to produce bio-based products are located and across different areas of the 43 other key energy and environmental parameters • The opportunity to increase renewable energy business. (gaseous emissions, solid waste, water). The use impetus for this came about from rising energy • The opportunity to produce lighter-weight This allows for a pooling of expertise and a crossprices, interest in climate change, increasing the use products which will meet customers’ needs to pollination of ideas. of renewable energy, reduction in emissions and reduce their own carbon footprints improvement in effluent quality. Key parameters are • Energy reduction initiatives used as management key performance indicators • Equipment and process efficiency improvements (KPIs). • The opportunity to work with customers to create more environmentally friendly products. A way of life Our sustainability structures play a key role in Key emissions making sustainability a way of life by allocating Our responsibilities, setting targets and reviewing parameters are used progress. To achieve our Planet targets, sustainability structures technical support is provided by the mill technical as management departments, R&D and the various global clusters play a key role in making to ensure there is a common approach and use of performance indicators best available technology and practices. sustainability a way of life 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 86 Our management approach to Planet Monitoring compliance with global standards Charter commitments External benchmarks External management standards and systems We ensure compliance with our Sustainability In addition to internal standards, we use external External management standards — audited by Charter commitments by: benchmarks to monitor environmental performance external auditors — ensure that our environmental • Providing appropriate training to all employees and ensure compliance with best practice. and quality performance is monitored and that our and contractors whose activities have an operations comply with global best practice. impact on the environment. In terms of energy, for example, we use best • Making all stakeholders aware of the importance practice energy consumptions indicated by: ISO 14001 Environmental management systems of our commitments. TAPPI Technical Association of Pulp and Paper ISO 50001 Energy management systems • Assessing and mitigating the environmental Industries in the United States ISO 9001 Quality management systems impacts and risks associated with new projects. PAPTAC The Pulp and Paper Technical EMAS Eco audit and management system. • Conducting regular environmental audits and Association of Canada management reviews. CEPI Confederation of European Paper • Making every effort to meet established targets, Industries. including environmental performance, when measuring managerial performance. S P E R S P E R O I O I R T R T P Y P Y • • • • P T P T E E E E O N O N P P A A L L L L E • P E • P • Requesting suppliers of goods and services to Sustainability Charter Sappi Southern Africa Environmental Policy apply standards similar to our own. Our approach to sustainability is based on a holistic view of Prosperity, People and Planet (the While making products that support society’s needs, we strive to achieve the highest effective 3Ps). Being a sustainable organisation means that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our standards of environmental performance. As a responsible manufacturer, we balance our needs business decisions, strategies and processes to help us create added value for all our stakeholders. with our impact on the earth. Our goal is to tread more lightly on the Planet by: At the heart of our business is a renewable, recyclable natural resource — woodfibre. We use this to create pulp, Performance improvement and monitoring paper and specialised cellulose solutions which enhance the lives of consumers around the world. We will • Establish quantitative targets We believe that acting sustainably makes sound business sense • Request suppliers of goods and services to apply standards similar to our own and work towards establishing • By generating Prosperity, we can continue to attract investors, leverage growth opportunities and can invest a supplier assessment framework more in our processes, our people and the communities in which we operate. This helps us in our goal of being • Implement internationally recognised environmental management systems which comply with standards such a customer-centric business focused on ongoing product, process and service innovation. Investing in research as ISO14001 and/or regional equivalents in all operational units and development ensures we maintain a competitive global advantage. • Conduct regular environmental audits and management reviews • Participate in developing regulations where applicable, based on analyses of environmental impacts and cost• By maintaining a safe, healthy workplace for our People in which diversity is valued, and people are provided effective technologies. with ongoing development opportunities so that they can develop to their full potential, we enhance productivity and our ability to service global markets. Active corporate citizenship programmes relevant to the needs of the Training and communication communities where we operate ensure that we promote socio-economic development within these communities. We will • Include environmental performance when measuring managerial performance • By treading more lightly on the Planet through cleaner, more efficient manufacturing and waste beneficiation • Provide appropriate training to all employees, contractors and other stakeholders whose activities have an processes, we can produce more with less — an approach which has obvious economic benefits. This approach impact on the environment is based on continuous improvement and includes reducing the energy intensity of our business and reducing the associated greenhouse gas emissions across the full supply chain. It also necessitates using less water • Report publicly on our performance. and improving effluent quality, mitigating our impact on biodiversity and promoting sustainable forestry through internationally accredited, independent environmental management and forest certification systems. We acknowledge that we do have an environmental footprint, but are committed to managing and mitigating the environmental, climate and biodiversity impacts of our operations. As part of this policy we strive proactively to meet the Planet commitments embodied in our Sustainability Charter which are to We use external We have a strong sustainability governance structure, underpinned by our core values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness. • Reduce the energy intensity of our business as well as the associated greenhouse gas emissions across the We actively seek input from our stakeholders to inform our strategies, actions and targets. We report annually on full supply chain our performance against these. • Use less water per ton of product produced while improving effluent quality • Reduce solid waste per ton of product produced Going forward, we will continue to develop our manufacturing, human, social and natural resources in a way that • Promote sustainable forest management through internationally accredited, independent environmental and ensures our sustainability approach enhances our long term viability and overall Prosperity. wood management and fibre certification systems • Promote the recovery and use of recycled fibre Ralph Boëttger • Conform with responsible environmental practice and legislation. Chief Executive Officer Sappi Limited Alex Thiel August 2013 Chief Executive Officer Sappi Southern Africa September 2013 benchmarks to www.sappi.com www.sappi.com Copyright © 2013 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. Copyright © 2013 Sappi Southern Africa. All rights reserved. Sappi Sappi Sustainability Charter Environmental Policy monitor environmental We do not performance and ensure endorse one certification compliance with as ‘better’ than another best practice 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 87 Planet Chain-of-custody certification Chain-of-Custody (CoC) tracks the origin of a To ensure an unbroken chain, each time the timber CoC certification assures raw material at each stage of the production is processed the processor must be certified to process, from beginning to end. verify that they have a system of tracking the timber consumers that our products material through the process. For forest‑based industries like ours, certifying the come from sustainably managed chain-of-custody means verifying that the wood, For the paper industry, the value of certification lies used at each stage of the production process, in being able to label the final product as originating forests and plantations originated from a forest or plantation certified as from a sustainably managed forest, providing being sustainably managed. added value for the customer or retailer. CoC is only valid if each link in the chain is checked. Once a link in the chain is broken, material loses its certified status. Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certification by independent third parties Forest management certificate Own forests and plantations Harvesting Pulp and paper production Converters Consumers Third-party and outgrowers’ forests and plantations Fibre procurement certificate Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certification 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 88 Planet Our certification and management standards Destruction of the world’s endangered tropical and that social aspects such as indigenous We do not endorse one certification as ‘better’ forests is impacting negatively on biodiversity people’s rights have been taken into consideration. than another. Rather, our goal is to use as much and climate change. It’s estimated that independently certified wood as possible. To emissions resulting from deforestation and Sappi has achieved certification by the three accomplish this, we have pursued certification by forest degradation contribute as much as most internationally recognised forest products the PEFC™, FSC® and SFI® and have achieved 17-20% to annual global greenhouse gas certification programmes: certification from each of these independent, thirdemissions. Against this backdrop, some FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® party organisations at our manufacturing sites. All consumers are hesitant about using paper PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of our own and leased forest plantations in South and paper packaging. Forest Certification Africa are FSC™ certified. By achieving SFI® and SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative. PEFC™ Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certifications in Forest certification gives consumers the assurance addition to FSC™, we are increasing the likelihood that products have been legally harvested in that we will be able to offer our products as certified accordance with sound environmental practices to third-party standards. Woodfibre Mill certification Our certified fibre share is 71.4% PEFC™ and FSC®. All mills are ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and EMAS (Eco Management and Audit System) certified. In 2007, before the acquisition of the M-real mills, we achieved FSC® and PEFC™ multisite cross-border group Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certification for the entire European Europe manufacturing and sales operation (including Sappi Trading). Of the mills acquired from M-real in 2009, Stockstadt Mill was also included into the group certification while Kirkniemi Mill continued with its independent PEFC™ CoC certification. Alfeld, Ehingen, Gratkorn, Kirkniemi, Nijmegen and Stockstadt Mills’ energy management systems are certified to the ISO 50001 standard. 58.7% of our woodfibre is procured from landowners who Somerset, Westbrook and Cloquet Mills are triple Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certified; to the North participate in either the SFI® or FSC® programmes. SFI®, FSC® and PEFC™ standards. Our wood procurement system is SFI® fibre sourcing standard certified. America Somerset, Cloquet and Westbrook Mills are ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certified. All the wood grown on our own, leased or managed land is Enstra, Ngodwana, Saiccor, Stanger and Tugela Mills are FSC™ CoC certified. Southern FSC™ certified. Approximately 86% of the wood supplied to us is FSC™ All pulp and paper mills are ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. Africa certified. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 89 Planet Promoting transparency PR-1 We provide information on our environmental We publish a series of technical brochures Case study performance to a wide range of stakeholders, on our website and provide our customers Life cycle stages in Working with landowners and participate in both the Carbon Disclosure with information about the environmental which health and safety impacts of products and and Forest Footprint Disclosure Projects. aspects of our fibre sourcing and production Although we do not own any forestland in services are assessed processes. for improvement, and North America, we do provide active forest percentage of significant management services for landowners within products and services Paper Profiles our mills’ procurement zones. categories subject to CDP — Carbon Disclosure Project In Europe and South Africa we publish Paper such procedures Profiles and information sheets for our papers. Our wood procurement group is staffed with The CDP aims to drive sustainable economies, These provide details about: licensed foresters. Their in-depth knowledge by encouraging companies to measure their • The composition of our papers enables them to take an active and important carbon emissions as the first step towards • Key environmental parameters related to our role that extends well beyond procurement and mitigating those emissions. The CDP’s pulp and paper production processes certification efforts. reporter tools enable companies to benchmark • Our environmental management systems themselves; go beyond reporting and explore • Woodfibre sourcing policies. As of 01 July 2009, our Sustainable Forestry ways of integrating carbon, energy and water Programme became certified as Forest management into their business strategies. EPAT and eQ Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Group Managers The CDP also provides information to In North America, we use GreenBlue’s under the FSC® Small and Low Intensity environmentally conscious investors. Environmental Performance Assessment Tool Managed Forests (SLIMF) certificate. This initiative is designed to help small and private (EPAT) which enables buyers to evaluate our landowners access to and retain FSC® forest environmental performance on a mill by mill basis. management certification on smaller tracts of FFDP — Forest Footprint Disclosure Project land. Our web-based eQ tool allows users to generate a customised product statement that summarises Managed by the CDP, the FFDP is a Our foresters and other employees are the environmental benefits of choosing our papers involved in multiple activities ranging from local benchmarking tool that enables companies and for a print job. community outreach to participation in state investors to recognise the importance of forest ecosystems. The FFDP gives companies the and national advisory boards. opportunity to disclose their exposure to risks and their commitment to mitigate impacts their We have a strong commitment to research own and their supply networks’ activities may activities aimed at improving forest practices. have on forest ecosystems. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 90 Planet Promoting transparency — reporting on our carbon footprint Through our participation in the Carbon A comprehensive description of the methodology Disclosure Project (CDP), we publicly disclose and results is available online through our CEPI 10 Toes Somerset Mill our carbon emissions every year. eQ Insights whitepaper series. Kraft pulp carbon footprint Forest We provide Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) South Africa 0.77kg of emissions information for our mills, regions and the In South Africa, we use the Forest Industry Carbon CO2 company as a whole to the CDP. Assessment Tool (FICAT). This comprehensive Non-fibre Raw materials and fuel methodology was co-developed by the National Europe Council for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI) per kilogram of pulp In addition to Scope 1 and Scope 2 we also and the Confederation for European Paper Transport monitor our Scope 3 emissions and calculate Industries (CEPI). emissions according to the standard developed by the Environmental Working Group of EuroGraph. FICAT uses the CEPI ‘Ten Toes’ approach to Manufacturing provide Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) Primary and secondary 3,080 tons North America information. CO2 In 2012, we conducted a comprehensive cradleto-gate life-cycle analysis of our Somerset Mill, We find that customers in South Africa have little Transport located in Skowhegan, Maine, using the Footprint need for Scope 3 emissions information and in this Primary and final products e/per annum Estimator for Forest Products (FEFPro) developed region we currently measure only business travel. for business by the National Council for Air and Stream Product use travel in South Improvement (NCASI). This is an expansion of Africa (flights, our reporting to date which has been limited to car hire and hotel own direct emissions (Scope 1) and emissions Transport accommodation) associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2). In the cradle-to-gate study, we include carbon Recycling emissions associated with material inputs (Scope 3) (eg pulping chemicals, coatings and fillers) and Landfill purchased pulps. This analysis revealed that our mill generates kraft pulp with a footprint of 0.77kg of CO2 per kilogram of pulp, which is lower than Burn for energy the reported industry average for kraft pulp. T Mouse over this icon to learn about each T Show all the Toes at once of the Toes for this part of our process 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 91 Planet Sustainable fibre supply Ensuring a sustainable fibre supply is a key Sappi’s position 60% improvement priority for our business; woodfibre, together with energy and water, is our most important In both Europe and North America, we mitigate fibre supply risk through a combination of approaches The volumes provided by Project Grow represent 7.5% of Sappi’s hardwood woodfibre production process input. which include both shortand long-term wood intake in South Africa. in South African supply agreements and shareholdings in wood eucalypt plantation In Europe and North America we source woodfibre sourcing cooperatives. We are mitigating fire risks using an integrated yield over 15 years from sustainably managed natural forests and, Fire Risk Management System comprising in South Africa, from own, leased and managed Southern Africa a comprehensive risk assessment, monthly plantations and from other growers in the region. We source woodfibre from softwood and hardwood compliance checks for monitoring, management plantation forests. The softwoods are all pines procedures, standards, and general back-up 8 % improvement Europe We do not own plantations or land in this region; including Pinus patula, P elliottii, P taeda and some hybrids. The hardwoods are eucalypts (Eucalyptus information. We have also increased community participation in fire prevention activities. woodfibre is mainly sourced from forests in the grandis, E dunnii, E nitens, E smithii and a range of in Southern African regions where our mills are located. hybrids) and the wattle, Acacia mearnsii. pine plantation yield since first rotation Softwood and hardwood pulp is sourced from Sappi’s position Europe and the Americas. Wood species used Owning, managing and leasing 561,000ha of include: spruce (used for mechanical pulp and land gives us a high degree of self-sufficiency in Mitigating climate change risk softwood chemical pulp) and beech (used for woodfibre. We can supply approximately 77% of hardwood pulp). Lanaken Mill can also process our own fibre requirements. We are mitigating the risk of climate change 561,000 ha significant amounts of poplar. Our fibre supply initiatives include: in respect of our fibre supply through our tree improvement programmes: Land owned, • Over 15 years, our research efforts have managed or North America • We are working with communities in the Eastern resulted in a 60% improvement in South leased in In this region, as in Europe, we do not own Cape to establish 30,000ha of plantations, African eucalypt plantation yield Southern Africa commercial forests or land. Wood is sourced supporting the government’s goal of driving • In our Usutu pine plantations we have from landowners and commercial loggers in the rural development in the process maintained sample plots to allow comparison temperate forests of Maine, New Hampshire, • We are assisting with land reform projects of four successive rotations of pine since the Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin and from the through growing timber first rotation — planted in the 1950s. The Canadian provinces of New Alberta, Brunswick, • Project Grow, a small grower initiative — in latest measurements taken in 2011 indicate Quebec and Ontario. The tree species used include existence for 30 years — currently provides us with an 8% yield improvement. maple, poplar, aspen, beech and birch (hardwoods) approximately 238,000 tons of timber per annum, and spruce, pine and fir (softwoods). with a total value in excess of US$13.3 million. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 92 Planet Sustainable fibre supply — tree improvement Our tree improvement programmes in Selecting genotypes South Africa are focused on ensuring the Our breeding programme continuously tests and Sappi is a member of CAMCORE, an international, sustainability of our fibre base by mitigating selects genotypes best suited to the range of sites non-profit organisation dedicated to the the impacts of climate change, pests and where Sappi plants trees, including harsh sites that conservation and utilisation of subtropical and disease, while maximising yield. More are drought susceptible. In this way more drought tropical tree species. Several of these conservation productive trees have increased potential for tolerant trees have been identified. The eucalypt parks are conserving species/populations (ex situ) greater carbon capture. species, Eucalyptus dunnii, has proven to be that are threatened or severely endangered within the most drought tolerant of Sappi’s commercial their native habitat. Producing hybrids species and is now planted on sites where drought In recent years the focus has been on producing risk is high. Leveraging biotechnology and testing a number of interspecific hybrids to Biotechnology tools — such as DNA fingerprinting increase yield and mitigate the impact of pests and Breeding for specific pulping characteristics — help improve our tree breeding, seed production diseases. These include both eucalypt and pine Our tree breeders test the wood properties of the and propagation efficiencies by allowing us to hybrids: trees that will be supplied to our mills. The selection keep track of our elite pine and eucalypt breeding • The Eucalyptus grandis x E nitens hybrid criteria include fibre that results in higher pulp material. increased yields and improved resistance to yields; ensuring that for the same plantation area the cossid moth that has impacted the growth and resources, the pulp produced per hectare, has We are also using biotechnology to develop of E nitens. increased. trait-linked molecular markers for breeding and • The Pinus patula x P tecunumanii hybrid for understanding host defence mechanisms increased yields and improved tolerance to Responding to new challenges to important tree pests and diseases such as pitch canker (caused by the fungal pathogen, Sappi maintains and manages a broad genetic Leptocybe invasa and Fusarium circinatum. Fusarium circinatum) that has impacted on base, consisting of many species, populations and P patula. trees. This enables us to respond to new challenges like pests, diseases, changing market requirements These hybrids contribute to maintaining and and global warming while providing continuous Hybrids contribute to improving the health and productivity of our genetic improvement over the long term. plantations, eliminating the need to use chemicals maintaining and improving such as pesticides and fungicides. Compartments of this genetic base are managed specifically as conservation parks, where tree the health and productivity species and populations are conserved as part of a global conservation effort. of our plantations 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 93 Planet Reducing energy usage and mitigating climate change In September 2013, the IPCC released its fifth Since then, one of our key strategic goals has Over time, we have reduced purchased energy Assessment Report. The report confirms warming been to reduce our carbon footprint by improving (electricity and fossil fuel) and increased our use of Reductions of the atmosphere is unequivocal and that human energy-use efficiency and decreasing our reliance renewable energy — an approach which ultimately over five years influence on climate systems is clear, concluding on fossil fuels. results in a reduction in GHG emissions and has 20.3% in specific that more than half of the warming that had occurred since 1951 was due to the emissions of There are significant opportunities, inherent in our positive economic implications. As pulp and paper production is highly energy intensive, the cost and greenhouse gases. It also reiterates the need to business and processes, that can help us to meet availability of energy is a key consideration for us. purchased energy urgently reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this key strategic goal and sustainability driver: 12.2 • Carbon sequestration in our plantations and Energy costs currently account for approximately % We have long been aware of this imperative, having forests 12% of operating costs. We mitigate this risk by: in specific instituted a system for measuring greenhouse • Using a high proportion of renewable energy, focusing on reducing specific purchased energy, Scope 1 emissions gases (GHGs), based on the premise of measure, most of it self-generated in the form of black increasing our use of renewable energy, improving monitor, manage and mitigate as far back as 2000. liquor the energy efficiency of our mills, using cogeneration 28.4% • Identifying further cogeneration opportunities. and selling surplus electricity. in specific Scope 2 emissions Our greenhouse gas emissions — cradle to gate Emitted/captured by Sappi. Not emitted by Sappi For more information click on the 'cloud' HFCs SF6 N2O Specific CO2 PFCs CH4 CO2 The term specific is used as a comparative standardised reference; in this report defined as ‘per air dry ton of saleable product’. CO2 capture Scope 1 direct emissions Scope 2 indirect emissions Scope 3 purchased goods and service emissions CO2 is absorbed by the trees, capturing carbon Coal, production of process material, oil, Purchased steam and electricity for own use Employee business travel, contractor owned in the photosynthesis process. Most of the renewable fuels and gas vehicles and outsourced activities carbon remains sequestered in our products. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 94 Planet Mitigating and managing climate change We share the view that collectively, Europe Definition greenhouse gases (GHGs), most notably According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation Carbon carbon dioxide (CO 2), and methane (CH 4), (State of Europe’s Forests 2011), climate change are responsible for climate change and that could well alter the suitability of entire regions in Carbon storage these are generated primarily by human Europe for certain forest types, forcing a shift in Carbon storage refers to the carbon already activities such as the burning of fossil fuels natural species distribution and leading to changes stored in the ecosystem. and deforestation. While climate change is a in growth of existing stands. Extreme events (storms, natural phenomenon, the pace at which it is forest fires, droughts and heat waves) are expected Carbon sequestration occurring is cause for concern. to become much more common and/or severe. Carbon sequestration is the process of capturing and accumulating carbon in the ecosystem. Our efforts to reduce our own carbon footprint North America are evident in the fact that over 50% of our global Climate change affects ecosystems and creates A significant service energy-use is derived from renewable, rather than the potential for the spread of pests and diseases. For carbon sequestration to be classified as a fossil fuel sources. This is important, as the burning While it is not clear whether the spread of the significant service, the store of carbon in the of fossil fuels releases 'new' CO2 previously locked emerald ash borer beetles is the result of climate system should be growing. Consequently, to up in the earth’s crust in the form of oil, gas or coal. change, this invasive species from China has killed maximise the carbon mitigation effect, it makes When renewable energy like biomass is burned, millions of trees in Michigan, Indiana, Ohio and sense to harvest mature trees, replant, and the CO2 released is equivalent to that which was Illinois over the last decade. The presence of the begin the cycle of carbon absorption all over again. bound from the atmosphere during the process beetles has been confirmed in Wisconsin, an area of photosynthesis – so, no ‘new’ carbon is being from which Cloquet Mill sources fibre. introduced. The mill mixes in a small percentage of ash with Plantations mitigate climate change Climate change can stress forests and plantations aspen and maple to produce dissolving wood The sustainably managed forests and plantations through higher mean annual temperatures, altered pulp, and also buys chips and slash to fuel the from which our wood is sourced play an important precipitation patterns and more frequent and biomass boilers. Buying ash from the quarantined role in mitigating climate change by absorbing CO2, extreme weather conditions. area in Wisconsin means we will now have to sunlight and water to produce the carbohydrate enter into a compliance agreement with the energy needed for growth and releasing oxygen as We monitor the fibre situation in Europe and North federal government. We already buy wood from a by-product during the process of photosynthesis. America on an ongoing basis. several Wisconsin counties under a gypsy moth quarantine, another invasive pest. When trees are harvested, the carbon is not released into the atmosphere; wood products We are monitoring the situation. and woodfibre in paper store carbon throughout 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 95 Planet Mitigating and managing climate change continued their lifetime. Harvesting is not tantamount to deploy across a wide range of climatic conditions. Case study deforestation; it is an important part of the cycle We continually monitor and review forest best Shaw Research Centre of growth, materials manufacture and re-growth. practices in the light of changing environmental Harvested forests and plantations are replanted — factors, thus helping to mitigate any increased Our South African Forest Research department generally within a few months — and consequently threat from water shortages or drought. is based at the Shaw Research Centre, Howick, the process of absorbing CO2 continues as the near Pietermaritzburg, with satellite offices at new trees grow. Harvesting trees is balanced with Our mitigation activities in this area include: Kwambonambi and Ngodwana. The staff of 60 re-growth. • Maintaining wide genetic variability in our manages three research programmes: planting material. This enables us to breed • Tree breeding In Southern Africa, we plant 1.2 trees for every tree trees for a wide range of conditions. The rate of • Propagation harvested. In FY2013, between 33–37 million trees change in conditions is probably slow enough • Seed orchards. were planted, with an additional 12 million planted for us to respond in the breeding programme. by outgrowers. In other words, we will produce better trees as This research effort is supported by a total of conditions change. 624 active field trials and 140 seed orchards. The wood we harvest accounts for 12.5 million • Permanent eucalypt sample plots are measured tons of absorbed CO2 — and more than eight annually and pine sample plots are measured million tons of oxygen released every year. This biennially to determine the effect of drought on avoids emissions equivalent to burning 815,000 current annual increment as an input to longRisk and Vulnerability Atlas tons of coal. A significant amount of carbon is also term planning. captured within the roots — we do not account • Implementing extensive planting of more The South African Risk and Vulnerability Atlas for this. drought-tolerant eucalypt hybrids. has this to say about climate change: “To date, little is known about how trees will respond to • Engaging in ongoing research and collaboration elevated atmospheric CO2 levels. Growth rates South Africa with industry and tertiary institutions to develop of forests could change, which may impact Climate change is expected to make the African biocontrol measures and breed genetically significantly on forest management and timber continent drier, rather than wetter. Water shortages more resistant planting stock. markets, requiring an adjustment in forestry could impact our fibre sources in South Africa, policy and planning. What is known is that the where we own, manage and lease 561,000ha of forestry species grown in South Africa are most land. We grow mainly eucalypts and pines. sensitive to rainfall, and that the hybrids of both eucalypts and pines are relatively more robust Our exposure to climate change related risk in to changes in climate than commonly grown Southern Africa is moderated by the diversity of species.” commercial species and hybrids which we currently 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 96 Planet Reducing specific purchased energy — increasing our use of renewable energy Reducing our specific purchased energy Energy cost Sources of energy used Globally, 51.5% consumption is a financial imperative, with as a percentage of Cost of Sales the added benefit of reducing emissions. % % Energy type (Relative GJ) 15 of energy used 50 in our mills is Black liquor derived from Together with coal, black liquor (resulting from 40 renewable concentrating process liquors) is our most sources significant fuel source. Renewable energy as a 12 30 proportion of total energy use is not a GRI indicator. It is, however, an important pulp and paper industry 20 measure — ­ an indicator of how effective we are 9 at reducing purchased energy costs. It is also significant because black liquor is classified as a 10 biofuel — we lower our fossil fuel emissions by using more black liquor. 6 0 Purch power Coal Gas Purch steam HFO Own Purch 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (sold deducted) renewable renewable fuel energy Coal Europe North America Southern Africa 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The proportional rise in coal use corresponds with Group a decline in using own renewable fuel. While there Sources of energy was a slight reduction in own renewable fuel in Own renewable energy includes black liquor, mill Europe, the main contributor to the proportional combustible sludges and hydro power generated by mill owned facilities. decline of renewable fuels over the past year was the sustained use of coal at Ngodwana Mill in Own renewable energy dropped slightly for 2013 due to the South Africa. Coal was combusted to produce Reducing our dependence conversion at Cloquet and Ngodwana Mills to specialised cellulose resulting in less of their own renewable fuels steam, directed mostly towards generating power, on fossil fuels lowers greenhouse (black liquor) being produced. which was sold rather than used in mill processes. gas emissions and helps to isolate Reduced process demand from the mill was due our operations from fluctuations in to downtime during the dissolving wood pulp conversion process which also reduced renewable energy prices — making us more fuel usage. profitable and sustainable 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 97 Planet Reducing specific purchased energy — increasing our use of renewable energy continued EN-6 Roadmap to a bio-economy Hydropower Global renewable energy breakdown % type GJ-based Initiatives to provide % energy-efficient or The Confederation of European Paper Industries Our Alfeld and Gratkorn Mills in Europe and our renewable energy based products and services, (CEPI) published a roadmap for moving towards Cloquet and Westbrook Mills in North America and reductions in energy a competitive low carbon bio-economy — an generate power from their own hydro plants. requirements as a result of these initiatives exploratory discussion document about the future of climate change policy. Case study The roadmap defines policies needed to reduce CO2 emissions by 80% by 2050 while staying Using biogas in Europe profitable and having the raw material to do so. We support the roadmap but believe we need The waste water at some of our mills in Europe to retain a level playing field with other regions in goes through an anaerobic digestion process. the world. The environmental standards in place The methane generated during this process throughout the European Union are already very is used to generate steam and power. Sludge high. generated in the waste water treatment process 68.17 9.73 18.08 is dried and then, recycled, burnt or used as Black liquor Own biomass Purchased biomass To achieve the 2050 targets envisaged by fertiliser. Alfeld, Ehingen, Gratkorn, Lanaken 0.33 0.10 1.20 the roadmap, our European R&D team is and Stockstadt Mills generate their own biogas Own biogas Purchased biogas Sludges participating in the TwoTeams Project, a crossreducing our need for fossil fuels. 1.92 0.01 0.48 industry initiative. Renewable energy in Renewable energy in Own generated purchased power purchased steam hydro power Case study Competitive advantage In Sappi Fine Paper North America, use of renewable energy currently is over 80% — a significant competitive benefit not just in terms of costs, but also in terms of customers choosing papers with a lower environmental footprint. See our 2013 regional sustainability report for further details. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 98 Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions EN-3 EN-3 Specific direct energy EN-16 Specific Scope 1 emissions Case study Specific energy of all purchased fuels From all purchased fuels (fossil and renewable) scope 1 Direct energy consumption Saving gas at Maastricht Mill GJ/adt tons CO2 eq/adt by primary energy source 35 2.0 PM6 at Maastricht Mill produces woodfree coated paper and board in a basis weight range 30 of 180-400g/m². Since autumn 2012, the mill 1.5 has been using the energy-efficient Voith qDry EN-16 25 Pro concept for non-contact drying. Savings of Total direct and indirect 20 approximately 50% were realised almost directly 1.0 greenhouse gas emissions after start-up. by weight 15 10 To avoid deposits forming on the turning rolls 0.5 after the last applicator unit and the resulting 5 colour defects on the paper, the turning rolls GHGs were replaced with an HCB-Turn. This allows 0 0.0 Europe North America Southern Africa Group The graph for EN-3 direct Europe North America Southern Africa Global contactless web turning, while ensuring energyspecific energy (Scope 1) efficient hot air drying of the coated web at the is accompanied by the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 equivalent EN-16 GHG same time. As a result of the rebuild, broke has emission graph been reduced. The HCB-Turn also allows higher This is a useful self-checking final moisture while maintaining coating quality. EN-3 Specific direct energy consumption EN-16 Specific Scope 1 emissions method as the annual Data include purchased fuels and own fuels such as black Data includes specific emissions from all fuels combusted variations in energy-use should correspond with the liquor, sludges and bark from trees, consumed during in terms of EN-3, but excludes those from renewable fuels The existing infrared dryers were modified and pulping, but exclude the fuels used to produce any energy (own and purchased) as from FY2012 as reporting was thermally connected to the HCB dryer; so the associated GHG emissions. that is sold. aligned with the requirements of the Carbon Disclosure Project which excludes renewable fuel emissions. HCB-Turn is now heated entirely by the waste Europe Overall level maintained. Renewable fuels are included for the FY2009-FY2011 heat of the infrared dryers. period. North America Somerset Mill increased production and initiated a number of energy saving initiatives. South Africa Consumption decreased due to the cessation of pulping operations at Enstra Mill and curtailed operations at Tugela Mill. The downtime during the conversion period to dissolving wood pulp at Ngodwana Mill also resulted in reduced energy usage. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 99 Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions continued EN-4 EN-4 Specific indirect energy EN-16 Specific Scope 2 emissions Case study Indirect energy consumption Reducing CO2 emissions GJ/adt tons CO2eq/adt by primary energy source 10 0.8 During April 2013, we announced an agreement with Summit Natural Gas to establish a natural 0.7 8 gas supply to our Somerset Mill in Skowhegan, 0.6 Maine. Summit’s US$350 million investment in EN-16 the 88km pipeline and related infrastructure is 0.5 6 Total direct and indirect one of the largest gas distribution projects of its 0.4 greenhouse gas emissions kind in the recent history of Maine. by weight 4 0.3 In turn, we will be investing in changes to the pulp 0.2 2 mill’s lime kiln and one of our hog-fuel boilers to take advantage of the new fuel source. GHGs 0.1 0 0.0 The graph for EN-4 Europe North America Southern Africa Group EU NA SA Global Displacing the #6 fuel oil we currently use, with indirect energy (Scope 2) natural gas, reduces the mill’s CO2 emissions. On is accompanied by the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 equivalent EN-16 GHG an equivalent energy basis, CO2 emissions from emission graph. natural gas are 30% lower than from #6 fuel oil. This is a useful self-checking EN-4 Specific indirect energy EN-16 Specific Scope 2 emissions method as the annual EN-4 includes energy from fuels (including non-emitting Scope 2 emissions relate directly to those produced by the The pipeline will also provide gas to 17 variations in energy-use should correspond with the sources such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar fuels combusted in the energy in EN-4. communities, creating the opportunity for power), used to produce purchased power, heat and steam. significant savings in energy costs with associated GHG emissions. associated reductions in CO2 emissions. Europe Maastricht and Lanaken Mills increased their own power generation. Pulp production at Alfeld Mill reduced due to the rebuild of PM2. CO2 released North America Increased purchased power and reduced per GJ energy generated power generation driven by the Cloquet pulp mill conversion kg CO2/GJ and low purchased electrical cost. 100 South Africa Decreased due to curtailed operations at 80 Tugela Mill, the closure of pulping operations at Enstra 60 Mill, extensive exports of power to the national grid from 40 Ngodwana Mill and downtime during the mill’s conversion 20 to dissolving wood pulp production. 0 Natural gas #6 Fuel oil Coal 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 100 Planet Optimising energy-use efficiency Optimising energy-use efficiency has both Streamlining global transport EN-29 Combined heat and power plants financial and environmental benefits, and is an As with other industries, we rely heavily on fossil Significant environmental important aspect of our over energy-use profile. fuels for transportation. We are committed to impacts of transporting streamlining our use of transport as this reduces Most conventional power generation plants products and other goods and materials used Through improving our energy-use efficiency, we specific emissions and delivery costs. We are are based on burning a fuel to produce steam. for the organisation’s The pressure of the steam turns the turbines, operations, and can reduce our dependence on third-party supplied achieving this through a number of initiatives, transporting members of generating power. Cogeneration, or combined energy from non-renewable sources. including the replacement of travelling for meetings the workforce heat and power (CHP) makes use of more than with video and teleconferencing. one form of energy provided by a combustion Europe source — most commonly excess heat, usually We operate combined heat and power (CHP) Europe in the form of relatively low-temperature steam plants in all of our mills. These plants not only We transport around four million tons of finished exhausted from the power generation turbines. generate electricity but also steam, which is used paper every year. In this region, we have been This steam is suitable for a wide range of to dry paper. Our CHP units are twice as energy working on moving raw materials and finished heating applications and effectively displaces efficient as conventional power plants. products by rail or canal, rather than road. the combustion of carbon-based fuels. We have Investment in rail infrastructure at the mills is playing cogeneration power plants at 14 of our mills. North America an important role in driving this shift — 45% of all We have utilised PINCH technology and Lean Six our finished paper is transported by rail or canal; Sigma techniques to optimise energy usage in our both comparatively energy efficient means of the freight transportation industry. SmartWay® facilities. We have also made several investments in transport. provides guidance and support to freight carriers, boiler technology, such as overfire air modifications, logistic services providers, and shippers to to allow for higher utilisation of biofuels. In Europe, the transport of our raw materials is continuously improve performance resulting in covered in our Scope 3 assessment of our carbon reduced emissions and cost savings. South Africa footprint. Saiccor Mill’s Project 'Amakhulu', expanded South Africa capacity from 600,000tpa to 800,000tpa of North America In 2009, Sappi and timber transport contractor chemical cellulose. The expansion integrated a We utilise third-party logistic providers for our Timber Logistic Services (TLS) launched the recovery boiler with a 45MW turbo generator to outbound shipment planning. Product from our first revolutionary SMART vehicles specifically harness waste energy and convert it into steam and new specialised cellulose business is transported designed to transport timber to Sappi’s mills. The electricity, while also converting waste chemicals by rail to the west coast and then by ocean vessel vehicles have been manufactured and certified into useful chemicals. Renewable energy use to customers abroad. We are a certified SmartWay® for use on South Africa’s roads in a first for the increased from 35% (2008) to 58% (2013). Transport Partner, a collaboration between the South African transport industry. US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 101 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Cogeneration Most conventional power (electricity) Gas and steam cogeneration generation is based on burning a fuel to is suitable for a wide range of heating applications Gas and steam cogeneration power plants are in produce steam; steam pressure in turn, drives and effectively displaces the combustion of carbonoperation at the following mills: Gratkorn, Kirkniemi, the turbines and generates power. based fuels. Lanaken, Maastricht and Nijmegen. Cogeneration, or combined heat and power The efficiency ratio of condensing power plants Steam-based cogeneration (CHP) makes use of more than one form of is well below 40%. In other words only 35% to Steam-based cogeneration power plants are in energy provided from a combustion source — 45% of the energy content of the primary fuel is operation at the following mills: Alfeld, Cloquet, most commonly excess heat, usually in the form converted into usable energy. However CHP plants Ehingen, Ngodwana, Saiccor, Somerset, of relatively low-temperature steam exhausted convert a much higher — 60% – 90% — portion Stockstadt, Tugela and Westbrook. from the power generation turbines. Such steam of the primary fuel into usable energy. Generating power and steam Cogeneration Without cogeneration H2O High pressure steam Generator Pulping Paper making Steam Biofuel Boiler turbine Fossil fuel Low pressure steam used for heating and drying 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 102 Planet Energy self-sufficiency EN-5 Energy self-sufficiency EN-5 Energy savings Case study From conservation and efficiency GJ/annum Energy saved due to Cogeneration at Gratkorn Mill % 2008 as base '000,000s conservation and efficiency improvements 70 Since July 2007, Gratkorn Mill in Europe 12 has operated a Combined Heat and Power 60 10 Generation (CHP) plant, replacing coal 50 8 with natural gas. Because of the efficiency Direct energy 6 improvement, fossil-based CO 2 emissions 12 % 40 4 have decreased by nearly 5%. The CHP plant can combust several fuels in the fluidised bed 30 2 boiler. This means fuel-use can be optimised saving 20 0 -2 to accommodate fuel price variations. Natural gas is considered to be the cleanest and most Our focus on 10 -4 efficient of the three major fossils fuels (coal, energy efficiency crude oil and natural gas). 0 -6 and reduction Europe North America Southern Africa Group initiatives has 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 resulted in direct energy savings of Case study 12% since 2008 Energy self-sufficiency EN-5 Energy savings Green-e certification Energy self-sufficiency is improved when energy is This information is not effectively displayed by region due generated internally through the use of biofuels like to mill purchases and closures and is best viewed globally. black liquor, sludges and own bark, negating the need to Following the upgrade of the purchase third-party fossil fuel derived energy. Savings have been compared using 2008 as a basis. recovery boiler at Somerset From 2010 onwards, process improvements at Somerset, Mill, all the electricity used Europe Performance was steady. Gratkorn and Saiccor Mills started to show benefits. to manufacture Opus web North America The reduction is attributed to an extended outage in the Cloquet pulp mill and lower electricity costs. paper is Green-e certified as In 2012 and 2013, the process restructuring and changes South Africa The reduction is attributed to Tugela Mill on-site generated renewable at Enstra, Tugela and Ngodwana Mill also contributed to using less renewable fuels following curtailed pulping saving energy. energy. Green-e is the USA’s operations. leading, independent, third-party certification and verification programme for renewable energy, ensuring that strict environmental and consumer protection standards are met. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 103 Planet Energy self-sufficiency — consumption reduction and associated emissions EN-7 EN-7 Indirect energy reduction EN-18 Case study 2008 base Reduction GHG emissions 2008 base Initiatives to reduce indirect Lignin conversion technologies % % energy consumption and reductions achieved 25 20 Our Technology Centre in Pretoria is examining various conversion technologies for lignin. 15 20 These include the gasification of lignin to give 10 producer gas. EN-18 5 15 0 The torrefaction of lignin produces biochar, Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while pyrolysis of lignin produces bio-oil, -5 10 and reductions achieved biochar and producer gas. In collaboration with -10 the Chemical Engineering Department at the -15 5 University of Pretoria, the Technology Centre -20 has built and run a bench scale dual-stage 0 pyrolysis reactor. Among other things, this has -25 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 allowed the construction of a mass balance of 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 raw materials and end-products as well as a thorough evaluation of the resulting syngas, biochar and bio-oil. The next step is to improve on the design and then to scale up. EN-7 Indirect energy reduction EN-18 Indirect energy GHG reduction There was a big increase (21.4% deterioration) in specific This graph shows the effect of energy reduction initiatives indirect energy consumption from 2008 to 2009 largely on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from fossil fuels. attributed to the acquisition of four mills. The proportion Scope 3 emissions, which we do not measure to any great Case study of purchased power and steam in the overall energy extent across the group yet, are not included. mix in these mills is significantly higher than the group’s Galileo prior to the acquisition, resulting in a significant increase The reduction in Scope 1 fossil emissions was the result of: (deterioration) in indirect energy consumption from 2008 to • Increasing the use of renewable fuels such as black 2009. Subsequent years showed significant improvement, liquor and sludges The installation of a new diamond grit surface on particularly from 2012 to 2013. • Increasing purchases of biomass for fuel the grinding stone at Kirkniemi Mill’s pressurised • Reduced purchases of fossil fuel. groundwood mill reduced grinding energy-use Because of the nature of our energy reduction initiatives, it is not possible to distinguish between renewable and These initiatives reduced power and steam purchases. by 30% or — 0.4MWh/t pulp. The investment indirect energy reductions. For example, improved black As these forms of energy largely originate from fossil fuel also yielded a 30-50% production increase with liquor recovery increases the use of renewable energy. combustion, Scope 2 fossil fuel emissions were reduced. less variation in pulp quality. Reducing rejects Because this energy is used to produce more power from steam, the operations purchase less power, ie a by 50% avoids associated refining energy-use. reduction in indirect energy. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 104 Planet Other emissions EN-20 EN-20 EN-20 Specific NOx emmissions Specific SO2 emmissions Specific particulate emmissions PM10 kg/adt kg/adt kg/adt 4.0 20 5 3.5 4 3.0 15 2.5 3 2.0 10 2 1.5 1.0 5 1 0.5 0.0 0 0 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 EN-20 Nitrogen oxide emissions EN-20 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions EN-20 Specific particulate emissions Nitrogen oxide (NOx) formation in combustion processes Sulphur dioxide emissions can be determined in two ways: Europe Particulate emissions are generally low as gas (nitrogen in the air combines with oxygen in the air) is • Calculation based on the sulphur content of fuels is the main fuel being used. Advanced emission control largely a function of temperature and fuel type. Higher • Summation of continuous emission monitoring (CEM) systems improve control. temperatures produce more NOx. Fossil fuels typically equipment readings. North America Emissions were steady. combust at higher temperatures than renewable fuels. Europe All mills use CEM equipment. Only very small South Africa Enstra and Tugela Mills combusted less coal quantities of sulphur-containing fuels are combusted; most due to curtailed operations. Particulate emissions in South Europe No significant change. of the fuel is natural gas with low sulphur emissions. Africa are much higher than the other regions because North America The increasing use of renewable fuels North America All mills use CEM equipment. Somerset Mill coal is the predominant fuel combusted in the mill boilers. in recent years has been driving NOx emissions down. reduced SO2 emissions due to lower No 6 oil combustion Emissions further reduced due to lower fuel combustion in in the paper mill. At Cloquet Mill the lower sulphidity in the No 1 hog fuel boiler at Somerset Mill. the pulping liquor as a result of the specialised cellulose South Africa NOx emissions monitoring has only taken conversion has reduced the emissions from combustion place at certain operations in recent years. Some mills of non-condensable gas. Recovery boiler SO2 emissions do not have continuous NOx monitoring equipment, have reduced for the same reason. which means measurements are taken intermittently. This South Africa Saiccor Mill uses CEM equipment; other mills explains the wide variation of values in SA and these in this region calculate SO2 emissions. The slightly higher impact on the global NOx values. SO2 emissions are due to poorer quality coal used. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 105 Planet Managing water use Water issues have been identified as one of the Pulp and paper operations are highly dependent Water used for pulp and paper production is mostly EN-8 most serious sustainability challenges facing on the use and responsible management of water circulated within the system. A closed water system Total water withdrawal by the Planet, partly due to the impacts of climate resources. Water is used in all major process is possible in theory, but usually not the option with source change. Increasing population, urbanisation, stages, including: raw materials preparation the lowest impact. per capita demand, and pollution damage to (wood chip washing); pulp cooking, washing and supplies, will put even greater pressure on this screening; and paper machines (pulp slurry dilution The best option usually requires some make-up EN-9 limited resource going forward. and fabric showers). Water is also used for process water which in turn requires some process water Water sources significantly cooling, generating steam for process use and onto be released back to the environment — after it affected by withdrawal of Globally, 89.7% of the process water we use is site power generation and various other purposes. is treated in simple or multiple stage waste water water returned to the environment (after having been treatment processes. recycled many times, cleaned and treated). EN-10 Percentage and total volume Source of water Reveal data table of water recycled and reused % by source for 2013 EN-21 Total water discharged by quality and destination 4 % Reduction in specific water usage over the Europe North America Southern Africa Group past five years Third-party waste water Recycled process effluent Ex own storage dam Ex utility Own boreholes Extraction from river 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 106 Planet Managing water use continued Pulp production has a higher specific water need EN-8 Water use EN-8 Water use than paper production. Our water use is lower Specific water drawn from environment Specific process water drawn and water returned Globally, 89.7 in Europe where the share of pulp production m3/adt m3/adt ratio % compared to total production is smaller than in 60 1.0 North America and South Africa. 40 of the process 35 0.8 water we use is 50 Most of our mills are situated in the vicinity of rivers returned to the 30 from which they draw water. Withdrawal from 40 environment, 0.6 surface sources (mostly rivers) accounts for the 25 after having been recycled many largest portion of water drawn. This withdrawal is 30 20 0.4 times, cleaned subject to licence conditions specific to each area 15 20 and treated where we operate. 10 0.2 10 5 Using recycled water 0 0 Europe North America Southern Africa Group 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In 2013 in South Africa, our Enstra and Cape 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Process water Effluent water Kraft Mills used 63% and 56% recycled water respectively. EN-8 Specific water drawn from the environment Ratio of water returned to process water drawn Europe No significant change. The ratio of water returned to process water drawn is North America The slight increase is attributable to an important parameter on how well water is used in downtime during the conversion to dissolving wood pulp operations. The higher this ratio (the closer to 1), the less at the Cloquet Mill. water is consumed. South Africa No significant change. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 107 Planet Managing effluent discharge Water and effluent testing is conducted 4 EN-21 Water use EN-21 Water use % routinely at all mill sites. Water management is included in our operational environmental Specific chemical oxygen demand (COD) Specific total suspended solids (TSS) kg/adt kg/adt Reduction management plans, which are reviewed and Excluding Saiccor Mill Excluding Saiccor Mill in specific water 20 3.5 updated annually. usage over the past five years 3.0 Improved effluent quality 15 2.5 Globally, chemical oxygen demand (COD) has reduced by 1.1% over the past five years, but total 2.0 suspended solids (TSS) have increased by 7.8%. 10 10.5 1.5 % These figures exclude Saiccor Mill in South Africa. 1.0 5 decline 0.5 Globally, specific water drawn 0 0.0 has declined by Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group 10.5% over the past five years 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 EN-21 Specific chemical oxygen demand (COD) EN-21 Specific total suspended solids (TSS) Europe The increase is attributed to COD at Alfeld Mill Europe Reduced efficiencies in the anaerobic sections of going up due to an increased integration of own pulp and the effluent treatment systems at Alfeld and Lanaken Mills reduced paper production. lead to increased suspended solids losses. North America The reduction is attributed primarily to North America No significant change. the Cloquet Mill conversion to dissolving wood pulp South Africa Although still high, TSS decreased slightly in which significantly lowered COD in the effluent during the 2013. Cape Kraft, Stanger and Tugela Mills were the main shutdown and since commissioning. contributors. Cape Kraft commissioned a new centrifuge South Africa The reduction is attributed to a change in but more optimisation needs to be done. Stanger Mill had production at Tugela Mill to include more fluting which key effluent equipment failures. Tugela Mill’s focus on TSS resulted in higher COD levels. This was compounded by losses are starting to pay off. aeration equipment failures at Stanger Mill. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 108 Planet Managing water in our plantations There are two key issues regarding water-use Several practices ensure runoff after harvesting is Water and eucalypts Water quality in our Southern African plantations: water kept to a minimum. These include leaving harvesting South Africa is a water stressed country and its is monitored on an quality and water quantity. residue on the ground, and ensuring appropriate water resources are becoming increasingly stressed ongoing basis harvesting and extraction methods are used. due to an accelerated rate of development and Water quality changing weather patterns resulting in the scarcity Water quality is monitored on an ongoing basis. Pollution of water resources. Water flowing from afforested catchments is largely Water quality in streams and rivers is typically only unpolluted. Eucalypts, the primary fibre source used in the Our plantations are affected negatively by pollution and sediment loads production of dissolving wood pulp in South not irrigated resulting from erosion. Silviculture activities in forestry plantations seldom Africa, is more efficient at using water and use chemicals that cause pollution. Fertiliser is capturing carbon (absorbing CO 2) than most Sediment loads used once only in each rotation. We use only shortother commercial crops. Eucalypts are also more Erosion is a natural process which occurs in all lived pesticides that have little or no impact on land-use efficient at capturing carbon than other landscapes. In afforested catchments, poor downstream ecosystems. crops. Carbon capture mitigates climate change drainage from road networks and poor stream by removing the greenhouse gas, CO2. crossings can increase erosion above natural Water quantity levels, which affects water quality. Erosion from Our plantations require no irrigation at all, relying Water-use efficiency — CO2 absorption burnt compartments (especially after runaway wild entirely on rainwater and groundwater. Rain-fed plant Water CO2 Ton water required Ton CO2 absorbed/ fires) can lead to heavy sediment loads in streams fibre for growth/ton CO2 ha/annum (not irrigated) and rivers which impact the quality of the water Tree farming (plantation forestry) is the only absorbed and the health of these ecosystems. agricultural activity classified as a streamflow South African reduction activity and accordingly, is subject to a 274 26.9 eucalyptus fibre Our stringent management practices keep these water use licence. Cotton fibre 4,866 2.5 sources of sediments in rivers and streams at acceptable levels. We optimise water quantity by delineating riparian Maize 3,943 6.8 zones and wetlands and ensure these are kept Wheat 4,776 5.1 We manage water quality by preventing runoff into free of commercial trees. We actively clear alien Sugar cane 3,152 2.2 streams and rivers through regulating drainage and vegetation and manage wetlands on our land. minimising erosion. Our roads are planned and constructed to prevent erosion and ensure that water runoff does not flow directly into rivers. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 109 Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value Globally, over the past five years, we have Most of the solid waste generated by our mills is EN-22 Specific landfill EN-22 reduced the solid waste sent to landfill boiler ash — directly correlated with the type and Onand off-site Total weight of waste by type by 33.4%. Focusing on minimising waste quality of fuel used. In North America, some of ton/adt and disposal method and adding value to by-products mitigates the waste products are put to good use; ash and 0.35 environmental impacts and generates lime-mud are used in land spread applications as additional revenue. a soil amendment. 0.30 EN-23 0.25 We generate approximately 0.13t of solid waste per From an environmental perspective, the least desirable Total number and volume of significant spills ton of product produced, comprised of: biomass, disposal method for organic waste is discharge to 0.20 lime-mud from the pulping process, residuals in landfill from where it can emit methane (a greenhouse There were no significant 0.15 spills in the year under wastewater such as plant matter and pigments, gas with approximately 25 times the global warming review and boiler ash. potential of CO2) if not managed properly. 0.10 0.05 EN-22 Solid waste by type EN-24 % 0.00 e d) et c) Europe North America Southern Africa Group ast lan Weight of transported, rw rs' (fr co om n me bio da imported, exported or he far log ry Ot ica slu 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 treated waste deemed (to l tr dg , Oth ea e ne tm re e sty ng Buil r was Se en hazardous under the terms t,l y i din t po ag of the Basle Convention g ru e s, ck Wood waste bble a s tic pa EN-22 Specific landfill Pl astic Annex I, II, III and VIII and pl There has been a gradual downward trend for the group ills percentage of transported rm ud all , sm te, etc ) pe e-m olls over the last five years. d pa 5.2% 4.9% Lim s a g t e (r roll was waste shipped internationally er w din an oth , grin Ot All micals pu te was lp h ch e o m estic Europe Our mills either use their residues within operations h< fro D m dregs er bags 24. ac liquor te, pap (as a source of energy), or sell them to outside users for a :e Green g ing was Primary slu 7% er aper/bo ard p a c k a Paper, p variety of purposes. Performance in this region was stable. dge 4% , iron, empty cans collectively Other metals Other combustibles North America Cloquet Mill maintained its continuous — 82% Process rejects including We generate very Each <1% each Slaker rejects improvement in landfill performance. Somerset Mill reduced little hazardous Hazardous waste biomass consumption which resulted in less boiler ash and Boiler a Wires and felts improved lime kiln throughput, which in turn means that shes waste, which is Oil contaminated waste lime-mud is reduced. closely controlled Oil, used and carefully South Africa Specific landfill is higher than in the other managed, both at our regions because of the relatively large quantities of coal operations and the ash (generated by combusting coal) that is landfilled. 46.7% Ngodwana Mill was the main contributor to the continuous receiving facilities to positive downward trend as less waste was generated due which it is sent to lower volumes produced. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 110 Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Solid waste as fuel Solid waste as new products Solid waste as soil amendment A large portion of the sludge generated at our North Waste sludge can also be recycled into new Excess lime-mud generated from our liquor recovery Over five years, American and European mills is used as a fuel. products such as animal bedding material or used process in some of our kraft pulp mills is provided solid waste in the production of building material such as bricks to farmers for spreading on their fields as a soil to landfill has reduced by or cement. amendment (pH adjustment of acidic soils). 33.4 % Solid waste disposal methods '000 tons/annum for 2013 311 399 770 1,480 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Landfilled on site Landfilled off site Combusted on site Incinerated (no heat use) Composting (on or off site) Disposed to other user for heat use or combusted off site at no cost Environmentally beneficial Disposed to other user (sold) re-use/recycling 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 111 Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Non-solid waste Case study About Waste oil is de-watered, chemically treated, refined Lignosulphonates at Tugela Mill Lignosulphonates — many uses and filtered for re-use in various grades of base oils. Tugela Mill produces sodium lignosulphonate Lignosulphonates act as a dispersant when At Alfeld and Ehingen Mills in Europe, coarse from the hardwood pulping processes, also wet and as a binder when combined with pigments from re-pulping internal broke are referred to as Neutral Sulphite Semi-Chemical fine‑grained loose material and dried. recovered from paper machine effluent and (NSSC) black liquor. Previously, this black liquor reprocessed to substitute virgin material. In another was burned in Copeland fluidised bed reactors Lignosulphonates as dispersant process, coating colour is also recovered from as an energy source. After some process Lignosulphonates are excellent dispersants. By effluent and reprocessed. modifications, the mill developed saleable attaching to particle surfaces, lignosulphonates products that are currently finding application in keep undissolved particles in suspension, Beneficiating by-products the dust suppression, concrete additive, ceramic from being attracted to each other, preventing Tall oil and brickmaking markets. clumping and settling. Dispersants reduce At some mills, tall oil (a by-product of the kraft the volume of water needed to mix products pulping process) is sold to convertors and used Every ton of lignosulphonate (at 50% solid) used effectively. Used as an admixture in cement to make detergents, lubricants and paint additives. in making concrete, eliminates the need for mixes, lignosulphonates reduce the volume of 26.6 tons of cement. By reducing the amount water used in preparing concrete — which makes Lignosulphonates of cement needed in concrete production, the concrete stronger — without compromising lignosulphonates help reduce greenhouse gas the concrete’s flowing characteristics. Lignosulphonates (a by-product of the pulping emissions. process) are recovered from spent pulping liquors, Lignosulphonates as binders and sold to customers for use in other products. Cement manufacturing accounts for Lignosulphonates can be used on unpaved This reduces waste and adds value. approximately 5% of current global man-made roads to stabilise the road surface and in dust CO2 emissions. suppressant products used in the mining In South Africa, lignosulphonates are sold to industry; reducing the use of water as a dust customers for use in a dust suppressant product Cement reduction in the concrete industry is suppressor. used in the mining sector. increasingly accounting for a greater percentage of Tugela Mill’s lignosulphonate sales, with dust The binding qualities of lignosulphonates make In South Africa and Europe, lignosulphonates are suppression anticipated to account for 25% and them useful in a variety of pelleting applications, sold to the cement and fertiliser industries. cement reduction expected to account for 75% including fertilisers, briquettes and animal feed. of sales in 2014. Lignosulphonates are also used as a binder in compressed materials such as gypsum board. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 112 Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Case study Case study Case study Alfalfa and dairy Sugars and lignin extraction Recovered fibre put to good use Dairy farmers in Carlton County, Minnesota, The Sappi Technology Centre, based in Pretoria, Ngodwana Mill loses approximately 6% of fibre where our Cloquet Mill is situated, were in has been undertaking extensive bench and annually in the production process that ends up desperate need of alfalfa hay which contains pilot plant trials using membrane technology on our landfill. In conjunction with a customer, more protein than native grasses. The soil in the to remove hemicellulosic sugars (mainly xylose) the mill pursued the opportunity of displacing area is naturally moderately to strongly acidic from by-product streams at Saiccor Mill. an expensive imported fibre and using this (pH 5.0-6.3). Alfalfa prefers less acidic soils This opens the opportunity for us to produce recovered fibre in their process which will (pH>6.0). The mill had a possible solution — higher value chemicals such as xylitol (a sugar result in a significant saving for them. bottomand fly-ash, by‑products of the pulp replacement), ethanol and furfural. Both ethanol and paper manufacturing process, traditionally and furfural are considered foundation chemicals The customer has subsequently conducted a sent to landfill. as they can form the basis for the manufacture commercial trial with the recovered fibre and of a host of other chemicals. successfully managed to replace a certain The mill partnered with the University of percentage of their fibre requirement without Minnesota’s Carlton County Extension Agency The membrane trials have also proven that the a negative impact on their strength and quality to develop a win-win solution. Now, thanks to lignosulphonate stream can be enriched and specifications. This will ensure a significant cost this partnership, bottomand fly-ash is diverted precipitated for the production of lignin-based saving for the customer and an equal benefit for from landfills and used by neighbouring farmers higher value products, rather than be used as a us where we not only benefit from the revenue who capitalise on the ash’s alkalinity to increase fuel or disposed of in a waste stream. generated but also save landfill space and the the soil’s pH to 6.9 — enabling them to grow costs associated with managing the volumes alfalfa, which in turn, can be used to feed the A two-step process to recover high-purity lignin to the landfill site. local dairy cows. from both Saiccor Mill’s waste streams was developed at the Sappi Technology Centre in The project is awaiting legislative approval. The partnership helps farmers remain in Pretoria. This new technology runs parallel with If successful, this undertaking will ensure a business during these challenging economic investigations into the ultrafiltration of the spent significant cost saving for the customer and times, while we significantly reduce the waste liquor streams and could result in two high an equal benefit for us in terms of revenue we send to landfill. In addition to providing the value products from waste, namely lignin and generation, saving landfill space and the ash, we also pay for the hauling and spreading sugars. Together with our biorefinery teams, associated landfill costs. of the material — another boon to a community these recovered compounds are being tested that is highly dependent on animal agriculture. for possible use as feedstock into high-value end-products. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 113 Planet Promoting biodiversity EN-14 At Sappi we recognise that biodiversity is key Europe About to the healthy functioning of our plantations Approximately 87% of forests in the European Convention on Biodiversity Strategies, current (in Southern Africa) and the managed natural Economic Area (EEA) countries are classified as actions, and future plans for managing impacts on forests (in Europe and North America) from semi-natural. Although harvested, these forests The Convention on Biodiversity defines biodiversity which we source woodfibre. Neither our are managed to retain their natural characteristics, biodiversity as: “Biological diversity… is the plantations nor third-party managed forests including biodiversity. Practices to promote term given to the variety of life on Earth and would be productive without biotic processes biodiversity in Europe’s managed forests include: the natural patterns it forms… Biodiversity also EN-15 taking place. • Thinning weaker trees selectively strengthens includes genetic differences within each species the wood stand so that it can offer continuity — for example, between varieties of crops and Number of IUCN Red List species and national Our plantations and managed forests are actively of habitat for species and makes the stand breeds of livestock. Chromosomes, genes, and conservation list species managed to enhance these beneficial processes fitter to withstand sickness and calamity. It DNA (the building blocks of life) determine the with habitats in areas affected by operations, by and restrict harmful influences like pests and also protects and creates habitats for species uniqueness of each individual and each species.” level of extinction risk disease. dependent upon older large diameter trees and deadwood Management takes place in terms of internationally • Avoiding soil compaction which protects the Definition accepted, independently verified forest certification habitat of soil inhabiting bacteria, insects, IUCN Red List in Europe systems PEFC™, SFI® and FSC®, all of which worms, fungi, and animals. It also ensures the 87 semi natural % make provision for biodiversity management. For example, principle 6 of the FSC®’s 'Principles and Criteria', states: “Forest management shall unrestricted growth and penetration of the roots of remaining trees and plants while minimising the risk of runoff and erosion The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List is the world’s most comprehensive inventory of the global Forests conserve biological diversity and its associated • Logging-site planning identifies the key elements conservation status of biological species. EEA countries values, water resources, soils, and unique and for biodiversity that must be considered fragile ecosystems and landscapes, and, by so during harvesting. The most common features According to the Confederation of European doing, maintain the ecological functions and the identified for biodiversity are water, sensitive Paper Industries (CEPI), 659 Red List species integrity of the forest [and plantations].” soils, valuable biotopes, deadwood, natural live in European forests; 62 belong to threatened forest remnants (eg oak, ash and elm in pine/ categories (eight critically endangered, 17 PEFC™ certification is dependent on forest spruce plantations), and rare, threatened or endangered and 37 vulnerable). Amongst the biodiversity being ‘maintained or enhanced’, endangered species. Precautionary measures threatened species are nine mammal species while the SFI® guidelines stipulate the protection are taken to protect these features and (including four bat species), five bird species, 12 of biodiversity. protection buffer zones are left intact. Seasonal amphibians, nine reptiles, eight gastropods, 12 timing can be crucial, especially with sensitive insects and seven plants. soils and species such as nesting birds. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 114 Planet Promoting biodiversity continued North America Case study Case study We do not (contrary to some misperceptions) Forêt de Soignes Living Lands and Waters harvest rare and slow-growing species like Giant Sequoia or Coastal Redwood. Since 2010, Sappi Fine Paper Europe Sappi Fine Paper North America has sponsored employees have planted over 8,000 trees in Living Lands and Waters since 2007. Instead, we use trees that are superabundant in the the Forêt de Soignes, a 4,400ha forest located area in which we harvest. By focusing on thinning in the south-eastern part of Brussels which has Spending up to nine months a year living and the population of pioneer species like aspen and been designated as a special conservation area traveling on the barge, the Living Lands and birch, which grow rapidly but don’t live long, we under the EU Habitats Directive. Waters’ crew hosts river clean-ups, watershed can promote biodiversity by giving other species conservation initiatives, workshops, tree a chance to take root. For instance, in Minnesota Planting is conducted in conjunction with the plantings and other key conservation efforts. where our Cloquet Mill is located, aspen is the most ANB (Agentschap voor Natuur en Bos), the common tree in the state and is therefore the most equivalent of a Department of Forestry. This This organisation aims to: harvested tree. In Maine, home to our Somerset organisation is responsible for the planting of • Aid in the protection, preservation and Mill, spruce and fir and northern hardwoods like approximately 30,000 trees every year as part of restoration of the natural environment of the maple and birch dominate the landscape and are the National Forest Management Plan (Belgium). United States’ major rivers and watersheds therefore harvested more than other species. • Expand awareness of environmental issues By planting trees we are helping to mitigate and responsibility related to rivers global warming and promote diversity within • Create desire and opportunity for Using a variety of sources not only helps us to the forest. stewardship and responsibility for a cleaner produce paper with the properties customers environment. need, it also ensures that no particular species is Species planted by the Sappi team include over-harvested. beech, hawthorn, and hornbeam as well as shrubs to create a more diverse and dynamic environment. The smaller plants allow more light No rare, slow growers through, which attracts insects and butterflies. We do not harvest rare or slow-growing species like Giant Sequoia or Coastal Redwood in North America 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 115 Planet Promoting biodiversity continued Southern Africa Assessing ecosystem services 30 % Our plantations are diverse biological systems This programme has also played an important Biodiversity underpins the supply of ecosystem comprised of a variety of genetically diverse role during the negotiation and developing of a services on which the world’s population conservation tree species that rely on biotic processes being proposed national Forest Stewardship Council ™ depends. Most people are unaware of the extent Own land in South sustained. It is seldom that more than 65% of the (FSC™) standard for South Africa. The South of their dependence on these services and their Africa managed for land is planted; approximately 30% of the land African forestry industry is in the process of adapting contribution to the formal economy is undervalued the conservation of is managed for the conservation of the natural the internationally recognised FSC™ standards for and not priced or paid for. the natural habitats and biodiversity habitats (including indigenous forests) and the responsible forest management. biodiversity they contain. In 2012, our forestry division in South Africa The FSC™ standards contain a number of criteria undertook an analysis of the supply of ecosystem Mainstreaming biodiversity that pertain to safeguarding and managing services from their landholdings and the importance Through Forestry South Africa, Sappi and biodiversity. These include: of these to stakeholders. The process involved other plantation forest owners in South Africa • The prohibition of transforming high conservation determining and scoring both habitat functionality have partnered with the South African National value forests and in South Africa other and the ecosystem services supplied in relation Biodiversity Institute to mainstream biodiversity ecosystems like grasslands. to the demand by stakeholders, including Sappi into the forestry sector. • Ensuring best management practices are employees, contractors, shareholders and local adopted by consulting widely with appropriate and downstream users, as well as provincial and In association with this programme, a number of expertise. national users. products have been developed and implemented. • Insisting that these conservation sites are These include: monitored appropriately. Going forward, understanding which ecosystem • A stewardship programme facilitates the • Monitoring and protecting rare, threatened and services our plantations supply in abundance proclamation of nature reserves and protected endangered species. and which are limited and which of these are areas on forestry land. extensively or little used by various user groups • A conservation planning toolkit helps to prioritise Certification to the FSC™ standards will guarantee should enhance: the conservation significance of unplanted that the management of a plantation estate is carried • Management of specific ecosystems and forestry land. out responsibly according to sound international plantations. • A biodiversity screening tool is used to protect practice and that the biodiversity on that estate will • Land-use decisions that may affect the supply important ecological areas in the Eastern Cape be managed appropriately to generally accepted of ecosystems. where small grower plantation forestry is being high standards. • The way we interact with the various user expanded. groups. • Guidelines have been developed for managing All of the plantations we own and lease in South • The way in which Sappi promotes plantation natural habitats. Africa are managed to the FSC™ standards. forestry as a land-use. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 116 Planet Promoting sustainable forest and plantation management We may be limited in what we can do about In Europe and North America we source There are 166 sites on our own land classified as EN-11 the degradation of biodiversity on land woodfibre from sustainably managed natural ICAs, covering more than 30,000ha. Location and size of beyond our plantation boundaries, but on our forests and, in South Africa, from owned, land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent own property we can make a positive impact. leased and managed plantations and from These sites, which include important grassland, to, protected areas and other growers in the region. wetland, forest and woodland habitats, are areas of high biodiversity value outside protected EN-11 — Biodiversity outside protected areas managed with the aim of enhancing their specific areas This indicator is particularly relevant to South Africa Managing our South African landholdings values. All sites are in good condition and make where we own, manage and lease approximately Approximately one-third of our landholdings in a valuable contribution to habitat and species 561,000ha of land. We do not report on this South Africa is unplanted and actively managed conservation, providing protection to many rare indicator as we are not sure of what land adjacent for biodiversity conservation. and threatened species including various crane EN-12 to us is protected and what is not, nor do we know species, the Karkloof Blue Butterfly and the Description of significant what the level of protection is. Conservation sites very rare Mistbelt Chirping Frog (Anhydrophryne impacts of activities, products, and services The 53 Red Data (rare, threatened or endangered) ngongoniensis). on biodiversity in Accessing this data is a considerable undertaking, species recorded on our properties include 22 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity especially considering the fact that leases vary from plant species, one insect, two frogs, two snakes, Grasslands stewardship value outside protected month to month and that thousands of leases are six mammals and 20 bird species. Some 455 bird We participate in a Grasslands Stewardship areas involved. With cooperation from government we species – nearly half of all bird species that occur in Programme steered by the South African National would be able to provide this information in the South Africa – have been recorded on our plantations. Biodiversity Institute. long term. EN-13 Important conservation areas One of the key objectives of the programme is Our forestry division in South Africa manages over to facilitate the declaration of grassland sites Habitats protected or restored 115,000ha for conservation purposes. as protected areas with the aim to mainstream biodiversity best practices in terms of grasslands We have used systematic conservation planning management. We are in the process of getting to identify important conservation areas (ICAs) an initial five sites declared as nature reserves — areas that are important at the local level and through the programme. These protected areas classified using a systematic conservation planning will hopefully forge a path for additional sites to approach based on the presence of both plant and enter the process. animal Red Data species, the size, connectedness, condition and aesthetic and recreational value of Continued overleaf… the area. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 117 Planet Promoting sustainable forest and plantation management continued In the province of KwaZulu Natal, we are custodian Grasslands (vulnerable), Barberton Serpentine Case study of a very important Blue Swallow breeding site, a Sourveld (vulnerable) and Northern Mistbelt Forest Mountain biking number of large mistbelt forest patches, grasslands (least threatened) and Serpentine outcrops, with which conserve important species and wetlands associated endemic species. As a significant land owner in South Africa, that form important sites for crane conservation. we recognise the important role we have to The Oosterbeek Nature Reserve and Angle play in promoting multiple land uses of our In the Mpumalanga province there are at least Ridge Nature Reserve are both located on the landholdings, including mountain biking, so that another five large grassland sites that will be a Highlands Management unit of Sappi’s Twello people can experience and better understand valuable contribution to the growing network of plantation and together cover an area of 2,754ha. how we manage our extensive natural areas and protected areas in the country. The value of these areas lies primarily in the fact that commercial plantations. We have partnered with they are areas of outstanding natural beauty and mountain biking clubs and event organisers, The Clairmont Mountain Nature Reserve is a are part of the Barberton Centre of Endemism and granting access to our plantations and natural 940ha site on the Marwaqa (Bulwer) Mountain near Barberton Mountainlands (classified as a vulnerable areas in Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal. We the town of Bulwer in KwaZulu-Natal, which includes ecosystem). have provided sponsorship and/or land access vulnerable Drakensberg Foothill Moist Grassland to several events, including the Sappi Howick and near threatened Eastern Mistbelt Forest. This Classic, Sappi Karkloof MTB Festival, Sappi site was declared a nature reserve shortly after year Mankele Challenge, Isuzu 3 Towers Stage Race, end. MTN Barberton Classic, SANI2C and Joburg2C and DCSR Misty Valley Challenge. The Ngodwana River Valley Nature Reserve is We recently launched a mountain biking app that a 1,309ha unplanted portion of our Nooitgedacht provides details of South Africa’s top mountain plantation in Mpumalanga. It conserves biking trails. The app aims to help riders make representative portions of Northern Escarpment the most of their mountain biking experience on Quartzite Grassland, Northern Escarpment our property. It currently features the Karkloof Dolomite Grassland (both endangered vegetation and Mankele trail networks, which are widely types), Legogote Sour Bushveld and a small part We are custodians of 53 Red regarded as two of the top mountain biking trail of Lydenburg Montane Grassland. destinations in the country. This planning tool is Data, and numerous other aimed at enhancing the riders’ experience on The Mount Morgan Nature Reserve is an species, with habitats on the trails and also includes additional information unplanted portion (640ha) of our Glenthorpe on restaurants and accommodation. More trails and Twello plantations. The site conserves the 115,000ha managed for will be added in the future. representative portions of Barberton Montane conservation purposes 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 118 Planet Promoting sustainable forest and plantation management continued Managed natural forests from which we Biome level Mitigation EN-12 harvest timber in Europe and North America, At the biome level the impacts of plantation forestry In mitigation of the severe, though not very extensive Description of significant are biological systems rich in biodiversity are felt in two ways: impact, plantation forest owners own a further impacts of activities, products, and services on (consisting of a variety of genetically diverse • Spatial extent of the impact within the biome approximately 500,000ha of unplanted grassland, biodiversity in protected tree species and many other organisms) that • Severity of the impact on the site. some of which consist of the best examples of areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside rely on biotic processes to be sustained. moist grassland in the country. protected areas Perspective However, in South Africa plantation forests consist The planted area of all forestry plantations in South These unplanted grasslands constitute a 50% of single species stands of exotic trees planted Africa cover 991,900ha of grasslands (the most offset for conservation by the forestry industry in into habitats, such as grasslands, woodlands and affected biome); less than 2.87% of the biome. South Africa, which far exceeds the international fynbos, that are generally not naturally dominated Forestry plantations makes up 18% of all grasslands norm of 10%. by trees. transformed by agricultural crops. When compared with other forms of land use, plantation forestry has Furthermore, in partnership with the South African Stand level been ranked as having the second most severe National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI), plantation At the stand-level plantation forests have a impact on biodiversity integrity. forest owners have identified several sites, significant negative impact on the indigenous comprising 45,000ha, which will be proclaimed as biodiversity. By over-planting the naturally occurring Comparative land-use impact protected areas and nature reserves as part of the vegetation-cover of the stand, with a homogeneous on grasslands Grassland Stewardship Programme. stand of trees (same species, age, size etc), nearly 0.20 relative land-use weight all the plant and animal species in the natural We are working with SANBI to proclaim five sites, habitat are displaced and replaced. totalling 5,643ha as nature reserves. The Clairmont 0.15 Mountain Nature Reserve was recognised shortly Plantation forest estate level after year-end. At the plantation forest estate or farm level, the 0.10 impact is generally mitigated by the fact that it is seldom that more than 65% of the land is planted. 0.05 About 30% of the unplanted land is managed for the conservation of the natural habitats and the biodiversity they contain. Many of these unplanted 0.00 Conservation Game Livestock Tourism Dry crops areas are well managed and form important refuge Rural Irrigated Timber Dairy Urban crops areas for many rare and/or threatened species. plantations 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 119 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UNGC — United Nations Global Compact “We have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008. The Compact principles underpin United our sustainability approach, Nations governance and targets.” Ralph Boëttger Global Compact Chief Executive Officer Sappi Limited 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 120 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UNGC — United Nations Global Compact We have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since Our Human Resources Policy requires all our employees to uphold the 10 principles of the 2008. The Compact principles underpin our sustainability approach, governance UNGC set out below. and targets. In addition to the table below, the UNGC principles are set out in relevant sections of this The UNGC is a CEO-led strategic policy initiative which gives signatories a platform for online 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report to demonstrate our commitment to the advancing their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. The UNGC has two UNGC and reflect our current standing. The GRI indicators in the table are linked to the principal objectives: mainstream the 10 principles which businesses commit to and catalyse GRI table and from there, linked to relevant discussions in this report. These two symbols actions in support of broader United Nations goals, including the Millennium Development link to additional online discussions available on the Sappi and third-party websites: Goals. Our CEO has publicly stated Sappi’s commitment to the UNGC. GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 1 Support and respect the protection of At Sappi, we endorse the principles entrenched in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and conform to the HR-1 international human rights within their sphere of principles of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) which promotes: • Freedom of association • Non-discrimination HR-2 influence. • Abolition of forced and child labour. HR-3 The right to freedom of association is set out in our Human Resources Policy. HR-4 We conform to – and in many cases exceed – the labour conditions stipulated by the governments of the countries in which we operate. 2 Make sure their own corporations are not According to the 2013 Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Index, the countries in which we have manufacturing operations in HR-2 complicit in human rights abuses. Europe are ranked as ‘Low Risk’; the United States of America is ranked as ‘Medium Risk’; and South Africa is ranked HR-3 as ‘High Risk’. According to Human Rights Watch, the factors that have increased South Africa’s Human Rights risks are, amongst others: labour unrest in the mining sector in 2012; uncertainty about women’s rights; and the rights of farmworkers in terms of remuneration and land reform. We recognise the complexity of the labour situation in South Africa and have established a number of structures to enhance engagement. Our Human Resources Policy specifically prohibits discrimination on the grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, age, religion, sexual orientation, union membership, political affiliation, physical disability or HIV/AIDS status. We work actively with the authorities and communities on land reform projects. In 2013, we made it a contractual obligation for our forestry contractors to pay their workers in accordance with the minimum wage stipulated by government for the agricultural sector. Further details are provided in our 2013 regional sustainability report for Sappi Southern Africa. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 121 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UNGC — United Nations Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 3 Freedom of association and the effective We recognise the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We consult with trade unions and employees HR-5 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. on a wide variety of issues such as organisational change and training. Globally, approximately 56.7% of our workforce LA-3 is represented by unions; 66.5% are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Details for each region are available in LA-4 the People section of this report. Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for individual wellbeing, but also to achieve our group goals and objectives. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure disciplinary procedures are applied consistently, while grievance policies entrenches the rights of employees, including the right to raise a grievance without fear of victimisation, the right to seek guidance and assistance from a member of the HR-department or their representative at any time and the right to appeal to a higher authority, without prejudice. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and All labour is sourced on the open market. In rural areas, forest product companies like Sappi are often the only, or a major, HR-7 compulsory labour. employer in the region which makes the local population very dependent on the company. Sappi nevertheless pays market-related wages in accordance with local legislation. In Southern Africa, our plantations are 100% FSC™-certified or controlled and this forest certification system stipulates the protection of indigenous rights. 5 The effective abolition of child labour. This principle is inherent in our labour policies across the group. HR-6 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Sappi is an equal opportunity company. HR-4 employment and occupation. LA-10 Gender diversity is increasing steadily throughout the group and in South Africa we have employment equity targets to promote economic and social transformation among the previously disadvantaged. LA-11 7 Support a precautionary approach to The precautionary approach places the onus on Sappi to anticipate harm before it occurs and to take active steps to 4.13 environmental challenges. prevent any harm from occurring. We achieve this by: • Conducting ongoing research into the impact of our activities and investigating methodologies to improve our performance at our research centres around the world. • Continuously monitoring our environmental performance. • Conducting thorough environment impact or risk assessments before the start of any new activity. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 122 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UNGC — United Nations Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Carbon Disclosure EN-1 environmental responsibility. We provide information to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Forest Footprint Disclosure Project (FFDP) EN-2 every year and make our submission publicly available. EN-3 Environmental publications EN-4 In each region we sponsor environment-related publications accessible to the general reader. EN-5 South Africa EN-6 The Sappi WWF TreeRoutes Partnership aims to protect ecologically sensitive areas while establishing sustainable EN-7 business ventures for communities that help them to understand and respect the value of these areas. EN-8 In 2012, we undertook an analysis of the supply of ecosystem services from our landholdings and the importance EN-9 of these to stakeholders. The process involved determining and scoring both habitat functionality and the ecosystem services supplied in relation to the demand by stakeholders, including Sappi employees, contractors, shareholders and EN-10 local and downstream users, as well as provincial and national users. EN-11 EN-12 We partner with the South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) to mainstream biodiversity into the forestry sector. We are currently in the process of having an initial five sites declared as nature reserves through the Grasslands EN-13 Stewardship Programme, which aims to mainstream biodiversity best practices in terms of grasslands management. EN-14 As a major land owner in South Africa, we recognise that we have an important role to play in promoting multiple use of EN-15 our landholdings, including the development of mountain biking, so that people can experience and better understand EN-16 how we manage our extensive natural areas and commercial plantations. We have partnered with mountain biking clubs and event organisers, allowing access to our plantations and natural areas in Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal. EN-18 We sponsored the publication of Sappi Birds of South Africa, which highlights the synergy between digital and print through the use of an electronic Callfinder. Our Cape Kraft Mill has adopted nearby Intaka island, a unique, multi-purpose wetland and bird sanctuary, as their key Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Read more about our initiatives in this region on our website. Continued overleaf… 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 123 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UNGC — United Nations Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater …Continued from previous page See previous environmental responsibility. page South Africa and North America We work in both these regions to make forest certification more accessible to farmers. North America We play an active role in Living Lands and Waters, a non-profit, environmental organisation focused on forest restoration and cleaning up America’s great rivers. We installed a fishway near Westbrook Mill, enabling natural fish passage through a portion of the Presumpscot River for the first time in more than 150 years. Europe We have planted over 8,000 trees in the Sonian Forest in conjunction with the ANB (Agentschap voor Natuur en Bos), the Belgium equivalent of a Department of Forestry. We are partners in the Treehouse, a platform, both physical and virtual, for like-minded individuals and companies to come together to find ways to embrace sustainability in their daily activities. 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Our research and development initiatives are focused on the technical improvement of processes and products, and on EN-17 environmentally friendly technologies. the development of environmentally friendly technologies. Globally, in 2013, specific (per air dry ton of saleable product) purchased energy decreased by 20.3%; specific Scope 1 emissions decreased by 12.2% and specific Scope 2 emissions decreased by 28.4%. Globally, over the past five years: specific water usage has declined by 4%; and specific waste to landfill declined by 33.4%. Our Technology Centre in Pretoria is currently examining various conversion technologies for lignin. These include the gasification of lignin to give producer gas. 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our Code of Ethics, refreshed in FY2013, which gives very SO extortion and bribery. clear guidelines on the behaviour expected of Sappi employees and suppliers at all times. The Code is reinforced by independently operated hotlines, which guarantee callers complete anonymity. All calls are followed up and reports are submitted to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. Refer to our 2013 Integrated Report for further details. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 124 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative™ Our sustainability report follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s™ G3.1 guidelines. Following submission of our FY2013 sustainability Global report, we have once again been recognised Reporting as an A-level reporter; for the fifth consecutive year. Initiative ™ 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 125 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures We follow the G3.1 Content Index. Integrated Annual Report 2013 We express our commitment to The tables that follow detail our reporting sustainability not only in the decisions compliance in respect of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and directs the reader to we make every day in running our detailed discussions in this and various other publications. business, but also through public forums Referenced documents such as the United Nations Global The two key documents which we reference are our annual Integrated Report and our annual Compact which sets benchmarks Group Sustainability Report 2013 Group Sustainability Report; these are referenced and linked (to the relevant pages) as IR13 and that help us improve our governance Sappi Group SDR13 (this report) respectively. Sustainability Report 2013 systems and our performance in terms Additional information available in our regional sustainability reports are referenced as follows: of Prosperity, People and Planet. Europe ESDR13 North America NASDR13 South Africa ZASDR13 Through our participation in the Global Other Sappi publications, that can be downloaded Regional sustainability reports 2013 from the Sappi website at www.sappi.com, are Reporting Initiative™, we aim to also hyperlinked. ensure that our disclosures are a valid Cross references to information within this report are indicated by this icon. representation of our sustainability Europe North America Southern Africa strategies, practices, progress and challenges. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 126 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 1. Strategy and analysis If applicable, Cross-reference Reason for Profile disclosure and description Reported indicate part Explanation Direct answer omission not reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. Fully SDR13 Profitability affects our performance in the People and Planet areas — page 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully SDR13 Prosperity, People, Planet — an overview of our business’ links to sustainability — page 2. Organisational profile 14 If applicable, Cross-reference Reason for Profile disclosure and description Reported indicate part Explanation Direct answer omission not reported 2.1 Name of organisation. Fully SDR13 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2013 — page 1 2.2 Primary brands, product and/or services. Fully IR13 Our products — pages 24-25 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating Fully IR13 Our business — pages 14-15 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Fully SDR13 Profitability affects our performance in the People and Planet areas — page 3 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with Fully IR13 Map of world with key sites — pages 14-15 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully IR13 Nature of business — page 87 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully IR13 Our business — pages 14-15 and Our customers/beneficiaries). products — pages 24-25 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully SDR13 Profiling our 13,665 people — page 51 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully SDR13 Operational changes and workplace diversity — page 52 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully SDR13 Accolades in 2013 — page 9 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 127 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 3. Reporting parameters Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 3.1 Reporting period (eg, fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully SDR13 Scope of this report — page 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully SDR13 Scope of this report — page 5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). Fully Annual, SDR13 Scope of this report — page 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully Graeme Wild, Group Head Investor Relations and Sustainability 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully SDR13 Defining report content — page 7 3.6 Boundary of the report (eg countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Fully SDR13 Scope of this report — page 5 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see Fully SDR13 About this report — page 5 completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Not Not relevant operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions Fully SDR13 Defining report content — page 7 and techniques, underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially SDR13 Conventions — page 2 Also detailed throughout this report where diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. applicable. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, Fully IR13 CFO’s report, page 63 and the reasons for such re-statement (eg mergers/acquisitions, change of baseyears/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). IR13 CFO’s report, pages 67 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully No significant changes measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully GRI Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully SDR13 External assurance — page 6 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 128 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest Fully IR13 Corporate Governance — pages 48-52 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully The chairman of the board is a non-executive director. IR13 Our leadership — page 44 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of Fully Board members: 14 the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Executive directors: 2 Non-executive directors: 12 Independent directors: 10 IR13 Our leadership — pages 44-47 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction Fully IR13 Corporate governance — pages 48-52 and to the highest governance body. Our key stakeholders — pages 26-31 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Fully IR13 Compensation report — pages 53-58 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Fully IR13 Conflict of interests — page 52 avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members Fully IR13 Corporate Governance — page 48 of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Fully SDR13 Code of Ethics — page 32 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s Fully Social, ethics, transformation and sustainability identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, committee. including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. IR13 Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee — page 49 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 129 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 4. Governance, commitments and engagement continued Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly Fully Board charter available at www.sappi.com with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Fully SDR13 Support a precautionary approach to by the organisation. environmental challenges. — page 122 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Fully IR13 Application of King III principles — pages initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 48-62 SDR13 Described throughout this report, for example in the discussion on Human Rights in the People section, page 71 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Fully SDR13 Engaging with our stakeholders — international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: Has positions in memberships — page 83 governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully IR13 Our key stakeholders — pages 26-31 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully SDR13 Identifying stakeholders — page 7 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Fully IR13 Our key stakeholders — pages 26-31 and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Fully IR13 Our key stakeholders — pages 26-31 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 130 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 2 Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) GR DMA description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully IR13 CFO’s report — pages 63-83 Market presence Fully IR13 Our products — pages 24-25 Indirect economic impact Fully SDR13 Prosperity — our value add — page 17 DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN Aspects Materials Fully SDR13 An overview of our management approach to Planet — page 85 SDR13 Chain-of-custody certification — page 88 Energy Fully SDR13 Reducing energy usage and mitigating climate change — page 94 Water Fully SDR13 Managing water use — page 106 Biodiversity Fully SDR13 Promoting biodiversity — page 114 Emissions, effluent and waste Fully SDR13 Reducing solid waste and adding value — page 110 SDR13 Managing effluent discharge — page 108 SDR13 Energy consumption and associated emissions — page 99 Products and services Fully SDR13 An overview of our management approach to Planet — page 85 Compliance Fully SDR13 Monitoring compliance with global standards — page 87 Transport Fully SDR13 Streamlining global transport — page 101 Overall Fully SDR13 An overview of our management approach to Planet — page 85 DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA Aspects Employment Fully SDR13 Profiling our 13,665 people — page 51 Labour/management relations Fully SDR13 Our relationships with our employees — page 55 Occupational health and safety Fully SDR13 Prioritising wellbeing, health and safety — page 62 Training and education Fully SDR13 Promoting training and development — page 57 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully SDR13 Workplace diversity — page 52 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully SDR13 Remunerating fairly — page 61 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 131 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 2 Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) GR DMA description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR Aspect Investment and procurement practices Partially Procurement practices are discussed in: Investment Proprietary Investment practices are viewed practices information as business confidential ZASDR12, page 18 ZASDR13 BBBEE FAQ Non-discrimination Fully Group Human Resources Policy Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully Group Human Resources Policy Child labour Fully SDR13 Not exploitive — page 56 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully SDR13 Not exploitive — page 56 Security practices Fully GRI Index Indigenous rights Fully SDR13 Not exploitive — page 56 Assessment Fully SDR13 Our relationships with our employees — page 55 Remediation Fully GRI Index DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO Aspect Local communities Fully SDR13 Supporting communities — page 72 Group Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Corruption Fully SDR13 Sustainability governance — page 8 IR13 Internal controls — page 50 Public policy Fully SDR13 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully IR13 Competitiveness is discussed throughout Compliance Fully GRI Index 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 132 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Economic performance indicators Performance indicator Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR Aspect Customer health and safety Fully SDR13 Customers’ health and safety — page 70 Product and service labelling Fully SDR13 Engaging with our stakeholders — customers — page 77 Marketing compliance Fully SDR13 Engaging with our stakeholders — investors — page 79 Customer privacy Not Not material The disclosure is not material to our business because we do not operate in an industry where customer privacy is a key issue. Compliance Fully GRI Index Economic performance EC-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully SDR13 Prosperity — our value add — page 17 including revenues, operating costs, employee SDR13 People — communities — page 22 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC-2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully SDR13 Climate change — page 29 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. EC-3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Fully IR13 Compensation Report — pages 53-58 obligations. EC-4 Significant financial assistance received from Not Not No such government. applicable financial assistance received. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 133 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Economic performance indicators continued Performance indicator Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Market presence EC-5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Fully We negotiate salaries with unions and compared to local minimum wage at significant Works Councils on an ongoing basis. locations of operation. EC-6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyPartially FAQ BBBEE Only reported in Not material Only deemed material in South Africa, for based suppliers at significant locations of operation. South Africa, not purposes of Broad-based Black Economic reported in NA Empowerment (BBBEE) compliance and so and EU. data has only been collected in this region. EC-7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Partially SDR13 Southern Africa — ethnicity As above Not material As above management hired from the local community at and Previously Disadvantaged locations of significant operation. Employees by occupation — page 54 Indirect economic impacts EC-8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Fully In South Africa, there is significant and services provided primarily for public benefit indirect spend on infrastructure such as through commercial, in‑kind, or pro bono engagement. roads, from which forestry communities benefit. We do not currently account separately for this indirect investment, but plan to do so going forward. EC-9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully SDR13 Prosperity — our value add — economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. page 17 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 134 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Materials EN-1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Not available We do not currently report on this indicator as 2020 the systems for analysis and acceptance of the data are being constructed. We will be able to report in the long term. EN-2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Not Not available As above 2020 materials. Energy EN-3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully SDR13 Energy consumption and associated emissions — page 99 EN-4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully SDR13 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source — page 100 EN-5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully SDR13 Energy self-sufficiency — page improvements. 103 EN-6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Fully SDR13 Reducing specific purchased energy based products and services, and reductions in energy — increasing our use of renewable energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. energy continued — page 98 EN-7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Fully SDR13 EN-7 Indirect energy reduction reductions achieved. — page 104 Water EN-8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully SDR13 Managing water use — page 106 EN-9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Fully SDR13 Managing water use — page water 106 EN-10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Fully SDR13 Ratio of water returned to reused. process water drawn — page 107 Environmental performance indicators continued 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 135 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Biodiversity EN-11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Fully SDR13 Promoting sustainable forest in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high and plantation management — page biodiversity value outside protected areas. 117 EN-12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Fully SDR13 Managing our South African and services on biodiversity in protected areas and landholdings — page 117 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN-13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully SDR13 Important conservation areas — page 117 EN-14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Fully SDR13 Promoting biodiversity — page managing impacts on biodiversity. 114 EN-15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Fully SDR13 IUCN Red List in Europe — conservation list species with habitats in areas affected page 114 by operations, by level of extinction risk. SDR13 Mainstreaming biodiversity — page 116 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 136 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Emissions, effluent and waste EN-16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully SDR13 Energy consumption and weight associated emissions — page 99 EN-17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Not Not applicable We do not report on this point since the weight disclosure as prescribed by the GRI guidelines is not applicable to our business as Sappi does not emit greenhouse gases other than the ones already reported on. EN-18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully SDR13 EN-18 Indirect energy GHG reductions achieved. reduction — page 104 EN-19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Not applicable We do not report on this point since the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI guidelines is not applicable to our business as Sappi does not emit ozone-depleting substances. EN-20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Fully SDR13 Other emissions — page 105 and weight. EN-21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully SDR13 Managing effluent discharge — page 108 EN-22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully SDR13 Reducing solid waste and adding value — page 110 EN-23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Not applicable No significant spills in the year under review. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 137 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Emissions, effluent and waste continued EN-24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Fully SDR13 We generate very little waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel hazardous waste, which is closely Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of controlled and carefully managed, both transported waste shipped internationally at our operations and the receiving facilities to which it is sent — page 110 EN-25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Not Not material We do not report on this issue as the water bodies and related habitats significantly affected disclosure is not material to our business as by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and only one of our operations is situated near runoff a Ramsar site, namely Enstra Mill in South Africa, but water discharged from the mill does not significantly affect this site. Products and services EN-26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Fully Described throughout the Planet and services, and extent of impact mitigation section, starting on page 84. EN-27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Fully The majority of our papers are recyclable materials that are reclaimed by category (the exceptions being wet-strength and release papers). Our Cape Kraft Mill in South Africa runs on 100% recovered fibre. In Europe we offer collection and recycling of packaging waste (of our products) in certain countries: Germany, Belgium and Austria. Compliance EN-28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Not There were no Not applicable of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with such fines or environmental laws and regulations sanctions in the year under review. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 138 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Transport EN-29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Fully SDR13 Streamlining global transport products and other goods and materials used for the — page 101 organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN-30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Partially SDR13 An overview of our Detailed by region Not available We currently do not account separately for 2020 investments by type management approach to Planet — but not by type. different types of environmental expenditure, page 85 but are working towards being able to do so, beginning with the Southern African region and are working to extend this to other regions by 2020. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 139 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Labour practices and decent work performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Employment LA-1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Partially SDR13 Profiling our 13,665 people — Reported by Not material We do not report gender per category of contract, and region, broken down by gender. page 51 region,but not employee as it is not material to our business by employee because we do not discriminate on the basis category of gender, as set out in our Group Human Resources Policy. LA-2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Fully SDR13 Workplace diversity continued group, gender, and region. — page 53 LA-3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully SDR13 Benefits — page 60 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA-15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Fully SDR13 Parental leave — page 60 by gender. Labour/management relations LA-4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully SDR13 Our relationships with our bargaining agreements. employees — page 55 LA-5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Fully SDR13 Dealing with operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective changes — page 52 agreements Occupational health and safety LA-6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Fully SDR13 Representation — page 63 management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA-7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Fully SDR13 Safety management — page absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by 64 region and by gender. LA-8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Fully SDR13 Health and wellbeing initiatives risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce — page 69 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA-9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Fully SDR13 Discussion topics — page with trade unions. 63 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 140 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Labour practices and decent work performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Training and education LA-10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Partially SDR13 Promoting training and Reported by Not material The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI guidelines is not gender and by employee category. development continued — page 58 employee material to our business because, as set out in our Human category, but not Resources Policy, we do not discriminate on the basis of gender by gender. LA-11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Fully SDR13 Skills development and career that support the continued employability of employees growth — page 57 and assist them in managing career endings. SDR13 Career endings — page 57 LA-12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Partially SDR13 Performance reviews — page Not reported by Not material The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI guidelines is not and career development reviews, by gender. 60 gender. material to our business because, as set out in our Human Resources policy, we do not discriminate on the basis of gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA-13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully SDR13 Diversity in Sappi boards — employees per employee category according to gender, page 54 age group, minority group membership, and other SDR13 Southern Africa — ethnicity indicators of diversity. and Previously Disadvantaged Employees by occupation — page 54 Equal remuneration for women and men LA-14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Fully SDR13 Remunerating fairly — page category 61 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 141 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Human rights performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Investment and procurement practices HR-1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI agreements and contracts that include clauses Guidelines is not applicable to our business incorporating human rights concerns, or that have because we do not make investments or enter undergone human rights screening. into contracts where human rights might be violated. HR-2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and Not Not material The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI other business partners that have undergone human Guidelines is not material to our business rights screening, and actions taken. because human rights compliance is covered by the legislation of the countries where we operate, by FSC® principles and the UN Global Compact. HR-3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Guidelines is not applicable to our business are relevant to operations, including the percentage of because we operate in countries where human employees trained. rights are understood and entrenched not only in legislation, but also in the culture of each country. Non-discrimination HR-4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Not Not applicable No such incidents corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR-5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Fully SDR13 Not exploitive — page 56 which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 142 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Human rights performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Child labour HR-6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully SDR13 Not exploitive — page 56 having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour HR-7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Fully SDR13 Not exploitive — page 56 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security practices HR-8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Guidelines is not organisation’s policies or procedures concerning applicable to our business because we do not operate in aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. post-conflict zones and there is little tension between Sappi and the communities in which our operations are located. Having said that, human rights considerations cut across a range of disciplines at Sappi, including health, safety, security, community, environmental, human resources, legal and regulatory, ethics, governance and labour relations. Indigenous rights HR-9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Not Not applicable The rights of indigenous people are protected in terms of the indigenous people and actions taken forest certification systems we use. There have, however, been no such incidents to date. Assessment HRPercentage and total number of operations that have Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Guidelines is not been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact applicable to our business because we do not operate in post10 assessments. conflict zones and there is little tension between Sappi and the communities in which our operations are located. Remediation HRNumber of grievances related to human rights filed, Not Not applicable No such grievances addressed and resolved through formal grievance 11 mechanisms. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 143 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Society performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Local communities SO-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Fully SDR13 People — communities — community engagement, impact assessments, and page 22 development programmes. SO-9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Fully All our operations could have a negative impacts on local communities. impact on local communities for example, if there were to be a gas leak in one of our mills, or, in Southern Africa, if there were to be a fire on one of our plantations. Each operation has full management plans and protocols to deal with both major and minor events. All plantations have stringent fire measures in place and communities are closely involved in our fire mitigation strategies. SOPrevention and mitigation measures implemented in Fully As above operations with significant potential or actual negative 10 impacts on local communities. Corruption SO-2 Percentage and total number of business units Not Not material The disclosure is not material to our business because analysed for risks related to corruption corruption is not considered an issue for Sappi. The countries in Europe were we operate all score very highly on Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption Index, as does the USA which is 19th on the Index. South Africa is 69th out of 174 countries indicating that while the risk is higher than the other countries in which we operate, it is not severe. SO-3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s antiFully All our employees and suppliers receive corruption policies and procedures Code of Ethics training. SO-4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Fully IR13 Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee report — pages 59-61 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 144 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Society performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Public policy SO-5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Fully SDR13 Carbon tax — page 31 development and lobbying SDR13 Engaging with our stakeholders — industry bodies — page 78 SO-6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully As specified in our Group Corporate political parties, politicians, and related institutions by Social Responsibility Policy, we do not country. contribute to political parties, politicians or related institutions. Anti-competitive behaviour SO-7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Not Not applicable No such legal actions behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO-8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Not Not applicable No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 145 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Product responsibility Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Customer health and safety PR-1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Fully SDR13 Chain-of-custody certification products and services are assessed for improvement, — page 88 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not Not applicable No such incidents regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labelling PR-3 Type of product and service information required by Fully SDR13 Engaging with our stakeholders No such incidents procedures, and percentage of significant products and — customers — page 77 services subject to such information requirements PR-4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not No such incidents regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR-5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully SDR13 Engaging with our stakeholders results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction — customers — page 77 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 146 Global Reporting Initiative™ G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Product responsibility continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Marketing communications PR-6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Fully SDR13 Engaging with our voluntary codes related to marketing communications, stakeholders — media and civil society including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. — page 81 PR-7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not Not applicable No such incidents regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR-8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Not Not applicable No such complaints breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR-9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Not Not applicable No such fines with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 147 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Glossary ABET chemical cellulose — dissolving pulp contractor Adult basic education and training Highly purified chemical pulp intended primarily for Refers to an independent employer of self-employed conversion into chemical derivatives of cellulose and used person performing work for Sappi, excludes temporary or adt mainly in the manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent fixed-term employees Air dry tons — the industry standard is 90% fibre and 10% spin fibre and filament moisture CSR/CSI COD — Chemical Oxygen Demand Corporate Social Responsibility — previously referred to as AF&PA Untreated effluent is generally high in organic matter. Corporate Social Investment American Forest and Paper Association COD is the amount of oxygen required to break down the organic compounds in the effluent dissolving pulp air dry tons (adt) Highly purified chemical pulp derived primarily from Meaning dry solids content of 90% and moisture content chemical pulp wood, but also from cotton linters intended primarily for of 10% A generic term for pulp made from wood-fibre that has conversion into chemical derivatives of cellulose and used been produced in a chemical process mainly in the manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent BBBEE (Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment) spin fibre and filament Broad based Black Economic Empowerment – as CHP envisaged in the Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) Combined heat and power dissolving wood pulp legislation in South Africa Highly purified chemical pulp derived from wood intended coated paper primarily for conversion into chemical derivatives of black liquor Paper that contains a layer of coating material on one or cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture of viscose The spent cooking liquor from the pulping process which both sides — the coating materials, consisting of pigments staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and filament. Also called arises when pulpwood is cooked in a digester thereby and chemical cellulose removing lignin, hemicellulose and other extractives binders, act as a filler to improve the printing surface of from the wood to free the cellulose fibres. The resulting the paper ECF — elemental chlorine free black liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin residues, Refers to bleaching sequences in which no chlorine is used hemicellulose, and the inorganic chemicals used in the coated mechanical pulping process. Black liquor contains slightly more than Coated paper made from groundwood pulp which has EIRIS half of the energy content of the wood fed into the digester. been produced in a mechanical process, primarily used for A leading global provider of independent research into the magazines, catalogues and advertising material ethical governance of companies, as well as their social billion and environmental performance Sappi follows contemporary 'short scale' convention; coated woodfree defining a billion as one thousand millions Coated paper made from chemical pulp which is made EMAS from woodfibre that has been produced in a chemical A voluntary clean citizenship initiative of the European biofuels process, primarily used for high end publications and Union, constituting the highest environmental standards Organic material such as wood, waste and alcohol fuels, advertising material in Europe and requiring environmental stewardship, as well as gaseous and liquid fuels produced from these determined continuous improvement and detailed public feedstocks when they are burned to produce energy corrugating medium reporting Paperboard made from chemical and semi-chemical pulp, bleached pulp or waste paper, that is to be converted to a corrugated energy Pulp that has been bleached by means of chemical board by passing it through corrugating cylinders. Energy is present in many forms such as solar, mechanical, additives to make it suitable for fine paper production Corrugating medium between layers of linerboard form the thermal, electrical and chemical. Any source of energy can board from which corrugated boxes are produced be tapped to perform work. In power plants, coal is burned CEPI and its chemical energy is converted into electrical energy. Confederation of European Paper Industries COSO To generate steam, coal and other fossil fuels are burned, Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway thus converting stored chemical energy into thermal energy Commission 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 148 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Glossary continued ETC greenhouse gases (GHGs) liquor Education, Training and Consulting The GHGs included in the Kyoto Protocol are carbon White liquor is the aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, and sodium sulphide used to extract lignin during kraft Exciter perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride pulping. In addition to our more traditional R&D work, we started the Exciter programme in 2005 to deal with the persistent group Black liquor is the resultant combination of lignin, water threat of commoditisation in the graphics paper markets. It The group comprises Sappi Limited, its subsidiaries and its and chemicals is aimed at accelerating the development of breakthrough interest in joint ventures and associates technological competency in our core markets. LTIFR HFO Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate = number of lost time fibre Heavy fuel oil injuries x 200,000 divided by man hours Fibre is generally referred to as 'pulp' in the paper industry. Wood is treated chemically or mechanically to separate the ISO — International Standards Organisation linerboard fibres during the pulping process Developed by the International Organisation for The grade of paperboard used for the exterior facings of Standardisation (ISO), ISO 9000 is a series of standards corrugated board. Linerboard is combined with corrugating fine paper focused on quality management systems, while the ISO medium by converters to produce corrugated board used Fine paper is usually produced from chemical pulp for printing 14001 series is focused on environmental performance and in boxes and writing purposes and consisting of coated and uncoated management paper managed forest IUCN Naturally occurring forests that are harvested commercially Forestry SA The World Conservation Union The largest forestry organisation representing growers of market pulp timber in South Africa joint venture Pulp produced for sale on the open market, as opposed An economic activity over which the group exercises joint to that produced for own consumption in an integrated mill FSC® — Forest Stewardship Council® control established under a contractual arrangement In terms of the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) mechanical pulp scheme, there are two types of certification. In order for JSE Limited Pulp produced by means of the mechanical grinding or land to achieve FSC™ endorsement, its forest management The main securities exchange in South Africa, previously refining of wood or wood chips practices must meet the FSC™’s ten principles and other known as the Johannesburg Stock Exchange assorted criteria. For manufacturers of forest products, NBSK including paper manufacturers like Sappi, Chain-ofkraft paper Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft pulp. One of the main Custody certification involves independent verification of Packaging paper (bleached or unbleached) made from varieties of market pulp, produced from coniferous trees (ie the supply chain, which identifies and tracks the timber kraft pulp spruce, pine) in Scandinavia, Canada and northern USA. through all stages of the production process from the tree The price of NBSK is a benchmark widely used in the pulp farm to the end product kraft pulp and paper industry for comparative purposes Chemical wood pulp produced by digesting wood by full-time equivalent employee means of the sulphate pulping process NGO The number of total hours worked divided by the maximum Non-governmental organisation number of compensable hours in a full-time schedule as Kyoto Protocol defined by law A document signed by over 160 countries at Kyoto, Japan natural/indigenous forest in December 1997 which commits signatories to reducing Pristine areas not used commercially Green-e® their emission of greenhouse gases relative to levels An independent consumer protection programme created emitted in 1990 newsprint by the Centre for Resource Solutions for the sale of Paper produced for the printing of newspapers mainly from renewable energy and greenhouse gas reduction (www. mechanical pulp and/or recycled waste paper green-e.org) 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 149 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Glossary continued OHSAS Scope 1 GHG emissions specific purchase energy An international health and safety standard aimed at The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope 1 (direct) The term 'specific' indicates that the actual quantity during minimising occupational health and safety risks firstly, by emissions as follows: direct GHG emissions are emissions the year indicated, is expressed in terms of a production conducting a variety of analyses and secondly, by setting from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper standards entity companies, the parameter is air dry tons of product packaging paper Scope 2 GHG emissions TAPPI – Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Paper used for packaging purposes The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope 2 (indirect) Industry emissions as follows: indirect GHG emissions are emissions Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry for PAMSA that are a consequence of the activities of the reporting the worldwide pulp, paper, packaging, and converting Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa entity, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another industries entity PEFC™ TCF — Total chlorine-free The world’s largest forest certification system, the PEFC™ silviculture costs Refers to bleaching sequences in which no chlorine is focused on promoting sustainable forest management. Growing and tending costs of trees in forestry operations containing compounds such as chlorine dioxide are used Using multi-stakeholder processes, the organisation develops forest management certification standards and SFI® — Sustainable Forestry Initiative thermo-mechanical pulp schemes which have been signed by 37 nations in Europe The SFI ® programme is a comprehensive system of pulp produced by processing wood fibres using heat and and other inter-governmental processes for sustainable objectives and performance measures which integrate mechanical grinding or refining wood or wood chips forestry management around the world the sustained growing and harvesting of trees and the protection of plants and animals tons Wood suitable for producing pulp – usually not of sufficient Term used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000kg standard for saw-milling SMMEs Small, medium and micro enterprises TSS — Total suspended solids (TSS) red data list Refers to matter suspended or dissolved in effluent A global index of endangered species published by the solid waste World Conservation Union Dry organic and inorganic waste materials uncoated woodfree paper Printing and writing paper made from bleached chemical release paper Specialised Cellulose pulp used for general printing, photocopying and stationery, embossed paper used to impart design in polyurethane The new name for the expanded operating division within etc. Referred to as 'uncoated' as it does not contain a layer or polyvinyl chloride plastic films for the production of Sappi which oversees the production and marketing of of pigment to give it a coated surface synthetic leather and other textured surfaces. The term Sappi’s dissolving wood pulp from Saiccor Mill as well as also applies to backing paper for self adhesive labels the dissolving wood pulp to be produced from the 2013 woodfree paper financial year at Ngodwana Mill and Cloquet Mill. paper made from chemical pulp sackkraft Kraft paper used to produce multiwall paper sacks speciality paper World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) A generic term for a group of papers intended for The world’s largest conservation organisation, focused on commercial and industrial use such as flexible packaging, supporting biological diversity metallised base paper, coated bag paper, etc specific When data is expressed in specific form, this means that the actual quality consumed during the year indicated, whether energy, water, emissions or solid waste, is expressed in terms of a production parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper companies, this parameter is air dry tons of saleable product 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 150 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Notes and references Additional information and references are Third-party websites referenced included throughout this sustainability report AF&PA — American Forest and Paper Association — www.afandpa.org in pop-up windows and as links to Sappi and Borregaard/Lignotech — www.lignotech.com CEPI — Confederation of European Paper Industries — www.cepi.org third-party websites. EMAS — www.ec.europa.eu Fachpack — www.fachpack.de/en Information in pop-up windows will print while open Fresh artists — www.freshartists.org (but obscure underlying information). The notes that FSC® — Forest Stewardship Council® — www.ic.fsc.org follow, replicate the content of the pop-up windows, Global Pulp and Paper — www.pppc.org to allow the report to be printed, complete with the GreenBlue — www.greenblue.org additional information and references. Human Rights Watch — www.hrw.org ISO — International Organisation for Standardisation — www.iso.org JSE — Johannesburg Stock Exchange — www.jse.co.za We also provide a list of referenced third-party Living Lands and Waters — www.livinglandsandwaters.org website addresses. Sappi specific information can Miss Earth South Africa — www.missearthsa.co.za be found at www.sappi.com. NBI — National Business Initiative — www.nbi.org.za New England Aquarium — www.neaq.org PAMSA — Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa — www.thepaperstory.co.za PAPTAC — The Pulp and Paper Technical Association of Canada — www.paptac.ca PEFCTM — Program for the endorsement of Forest CertificationTM — www.pefc.org Penreach — www.penreach.org.za PMR Africa — www.pmrafrica.com Print Power — www.printpower.eu/en Protec — www.protec.org.za Reliefweb — www.reliefweb.int RISI — www.risiinfo.com SANBI — South African National Biodiversity Institute — www.sanbi.org Sappi Birdguide — www.brizabirdguide.co.za SFI® —Sustainable Forestry Imitative — www.sfiprogram.org TAPPI — Technical Association of Pulp and Paper Industries — www.tappi.org The Holmes Report — www.holmesreport.com The treehouse — www.the-treehouse.be Two sides — www.twosides.info Typek — www.typek.co.za University of Maine Pulp & Paper — www.mainepulpaper.org World Skills — www.worldskills.org WWF — World Wide Fund for Nature — www.wwf.org.za 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 151 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Notes and references — Popup — windows Page 10 Lean Manufacturing Our products add value Touching lives We use the principles of Lean Manufacturing to reduce Our products add value to people’s lives every day and are Our pulp, paper and dissolving wood pulp solutions touch energy, re-use resources and minimise waste throughout used in the following ways: the lives of millions of people around the world, create direct our mills. • Graphics papers Commercial printing including employment for 13,665 people and indirect employment magazines, brochures, catalogues, direct mail, for thousands of others, have a positive impact on Greenhouse gas emissions and carbon capture corporate reports and calendars communities and generating significant economic benefits. By burning fossil fuels to generate energy (power and heat) • Packaging papers Convenience food, fast food and to in our production processes, we release CO2, a greenhouse protect and transport fresh produce People gas into the atmosphere. Over the past five years, we have • Speciality, security and release papers Consumer • 13,665 employees globally reduced our specific energy consumption by 20.3% which goods, labels, passports and a variety of other • 750 contractors globally (plus 11,700 people employed in turn reduced our CO2 emissions. Read more about our applications. by contractors working for Sappi Forests) efforts to reduce our CO2 emissions on pages 99-104 • OHSAS 18001 certification achieved for all mills Paper • US$1.4 million direct corporate social responsibility The forests and plantations from which we source our Paper is transported to regional distribution centres, (CSR) spend (excludes indirect spend on infrastructure woodfibre, absorbs CO2. Read more about greenhouse merchants and printers. Designers specify paper which and community support) gas emissions on page 94. printers convert into products such as books, magazines, brochures and labels. Planet Solid waste Southern Africa: All timber is sourced from plantations We generate 0.13 tons of solid waste per ton of product Prosperity (planted forests) of softwoods and hardwoods. All our produced, in FY2013, we sent 0.055 tons (55kg) of solid • Interest bearing debt: US$2,598 million owned and leasedplantations are 100% FSCTM certified; waste per ton of product produced, mostly boiler ash, • Cash and cash equivalents: US$385 million 86% of fibre used is certified. Approximately one third of to landfill. We have reduced our solid waste to landfill by • Ordinary shareholders’ interest: US$1,144 million our plantations are managed for biodiversity conservation. 33.4% over the past five years. Read more about our solid • US$29.5 million R&D spend waste reduction and beneficiation efforts on pages 110• Returns on Exciter (innovation) projects aredouble the Europe: Woodfibre is sourced from forests close to each 113. investment spend mill. Softwood and hardwood pulp is sourced from Europe • Value of property plant and equipment: US$3,078 and the Americas. Tree species used include spruce and Our products add value million; plantations in Southern Africa: US$464 million beech. Lanaken Mill can also process significant amounts Our products add value to people’s lives every day and are • Sales in FY2013: of poplar; 71.4% of fibre used is certified through FSC® used in the following ways: • coated graphic paper: 4,048,000 tons and PEFC. • uncoated graphic paper: 397,000 tons Dissolving wood pulp • speciality paper: 244,000 tons North America: Woodfibre is sourced from landowners We produce 1.34 million tons of dissolving wood pulp per • commodity paper: 560,000 tons and commercial loggers operating in temperate forests annum. The dissolving wood pulp principally produced by • dissolving wood pulp: 795,000 tons in Maine, New Hampshire, Michigan, Minnesota and Sappi is the type used in the manufacture of a variety of • paper pulp: 237,000 tons Wisconsin and from the Canadian provinces of New cellulose products, including viscose staple fibres or rayon, • other: 1,185,000 tons Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario. The tree species used solvent spun fibres (lyocell) and viscose filament yarns • Power sold to third party customers in FY2013: include maple, poplar, aspen, beech and birch (hardwoods) which have a soft, natural feel and excellent breathing • North America: 770,350 gigajoules (GJ) and spruce, pine and fir (softwoods). 58.7% of fibre used is properties. Europe 1,605,360GJ certified through FSC® and SFI®. South Africa: 190,295GJ. Given their particularly high absorbency properties, these Percentage renewable energy: 51.5% Paper pulp and dissolving wood pulp fibres are also used in non-woven applications in the Decrease in solid waste to landfill over five years: 33.4% Some of our paper mills buy in pulp, while others are healthcare, industrial and disposable product markets. Decrease in specific water usage over five years: 4% integrated. The pulping process for paper involves the use All mills ISO 9000 and ISO 14001 certified of cellulose and hemicellulose in woodfibre for its physical Dissolving wood pulp properties. The pulping process for dissolving wood pulp, In 2013 we increased capacity of dissolving wood pulp Transport however, uses only cellulose for its chemical properties, (DWP) by more than 65%. DWP is used in the manufacture We streamline our transport processes wherever possible. making the process more expensive, but resulting in a of cellulosic textiles and non-woven fibre products used in highly specialised product with high added value. the fashion, pharmaceutical and consumer markets. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 152 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Notes and references — Popup windows Recycling Page 53 Recovering and recycling paper and board helps to Turnover in Southern Africa was higher than other regions of life-giving oxygen released every year. This avoids minimise the emissions associated with landfill. in FY2013, due to the extensive restructuring changes we emissions equivalent to burning 815,000tons of coal. initiated in order to return the business to profitability. Page 11 This more than offsets the CO 2 emissions from our Prosperity targets Page 72 manufacturing and forestry operations. Taking into We do not publicly disclose our Prosperity targets for 2013; PETCO aims to minimize the environmental impact of account all our CO2 emissions (own biofuels, coal, oil, these are reported internally and monitored quarterly. post-consumer PET on the South African landscape and gas, purchased power, steam, transport, goods and supported through the PET industry, strives to contribute to services and plantation decay, our absorptions exceed our Forward looking financial statements the sustainable growth of the PET plastic recycling industry, emissions by 0.5m tons of CO2. Forward looking financial statements, such as financial supporting existing and encouraging new PET collection performance targets are based on our current expectations and recycling networks. Methane emissions and assumptions, including factors beyond Sappi’s control; We emit very little methane (CH4). the disclosure of which is governed by various entities and Page 94 jurisdictions wherein which we conduct business. Specific measurements are calculated with air dry tons Forests (adt) of saleable production as parameter. Some methane is emitted by decomposing organic matter For more detailed information, please consult our: (fallen leaves, harvesting residue etc) in the forests and • FY13 Annual Integrated report Page 94 Diagram plantations from which we source our woodfibre. • Our quarterly results Carbon sequestration Paper and paper products lock up carbon during their Landfill Page 12 lifetime. From an environmental perspective, the least desirable Level 3 compliance method of solid waste disposal is discharging organic Between 75 and 85 points on the BBBEE scorecard. The sustainably managed forests and plantations from waste to a landfill site from where it can emit methane (CH4) which our wood is sourced play an important role in if not managed properly. Prior to FY2012, this target only included own employees. mitigating climate change by absorbing CO2, sunlight and water to produce the carbohydrate energy needed for We focus on minimising end-of-pipe waste by adding Page 42 growth and releasing oxygen as a by-product during the value to by-products that might otherwise go to landfill. R/3 A three-tiered information system used to coordinate process of photosynthesis. Investigating the beneficiation of waste streams is an resources, information and activities. ongoing area of research at our Technology Centre in When trees are harvested, the carbon is not released into Pretoria as it offers opportunities for savings and revenue the atmosphere; wood products and woodfibre in paper generation. APO Advanced Planner and Optimiser store carbon throughout their lifetime. BW Business Information Warehouse A significant amount of carbon is also captured within the CO2 emissions roots — we do not account for this. Reducing emissions Reducing our specific purchased energy consumption is Page 48 Harvesting is not tantamount to deforestation; it is an a financial imperative, with the added benefit of reducing Is An Advertisement Worth the Paper it’s Printed On? important part of the cycle of growth, materials manufacture emissions. We continue to focus on energy efficiency The impact of premium print advertising on consumer and re-growth. Harvested forests and plantations are to reduce the specific energy required to produce our perceptions, Hampel S, Heinrich D, Campbell C, Journal replanted — generally within a few months — and products. of Advertising Research, March 2012, Volume: 52 Issue: 1 consequently the process of absorbing CO2 continues as pp.118-127. the new trees grow. Harvesting trees is balanced with reOur continued focus on energy efficiency and efforts growth. to reduce the specific energy required to produce our Page 51 products have resulted in savings of 12% since 2008 This figure represents contractors directly paid by Sappi. South Africa There are approximately a further 14,100 contractor In our plantations in Southern Africa, we plant more trees employees within Sappi. than we harvest. The wood that we harvest alone accounts for 13m tons of absorbed CO2 — and more than 8m tons 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 153 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Notes and references — Popup windows Renewable energy Page 108 Our efforts to mitigate our own carbon footprint are further EN-21 Specific total suspended solids (TSS) evident in the fact that over 50% of our global energy-use is Saiccor Mill is excluded as the mill’s effluent total suspended derived from renewable, rather than fossil fuel sources. We solids (TSS) concentration is considerably higher (±17.7kg/ are steadily becoming more energy self-sufficient through adt) and would reduce the scale variance for the remaining increased self-generation — using internally available regions. This effluent is discharged — permitted by the biofuels like black liquor, sludges, and own bark. mill’s water licence — directly into the Indian Ocean. This is important, as the burning of fossil fuels Page 109 continually releases ‘new’ CO 2 previously locked A comparison of the biophysical and economic water-use up in the form of oil, gas or coal. When renewable efficiencies of indigenous and introduced forests in South energy like biomass is burned however, the CO 2 Africa. released is equivalent to that which was bound Page 109 Source from the atmosphere during the process of photosynthesis Russell M Wise, Peter J Dye, Mark B Gush, A comparison – so that ‘new’ carbon is not being introduced. of the biophysical and economic water-use efficiencies of indigenous and introduced forests in South Africa, Forest Reducing our dependence on fossil fuels not only lowers Ecology and Management, Volume 262, Issue 6, Pages greenhouse gas emissions but helps to isolate our 895 – 1165, (Elsevier, 2011) operations from fluctuations in energy prices — making us a more profitable and sustainable business. Page 112 Cement Technology Roadmap 2009: Carbon emission Page 104 reductions up to 2050, published by the World Business Torrefecation Involves heating biomass in the absence Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the of oxygen to a temperature of 250-320°C. At these International Energy Agency (IEA). temperatures, a dry, torrefied product is obtained, which is stable, brittle and water resistant. This makes it much easier to grind than the parent biomass material and reduces biological degradation in storage. By combining torrefaction with pelletisation or briquetting, biomass materials can be converted into a high-energy-density commodity solid fuel or bioenergy carrier with improved behaviour in long-distance transport, handling and storage, and also with superior properties in many major end-use applications. Page 108 EN-21 Specific chemical oxygen demand (COD) Saiccor Mill is excluded as the mill’s effluent chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration is considerably higher (±840kg/adt) and would reduce the scale variance for the remaining regions. This effluent is discharged — permitted by the mill’s water licence — directly into the Indian Ocean. 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 154 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Notes and references — Popup — diagrams Page 54 Gender and ethnicity diversity Sappi boards Sappi Limited Sappi Limited Sappi Fine Sappi Fine Paper Sappi Southern Board Executive Paper Europe North America Africa Subsidiary Committee Subsidiary Board Subsidiary Board Board Gender Male 85.7% 87.5% 84.0% 71.0% 84.6% Female 14.3% 12.5% 16.0% 29.0% 15.4% Ethnicity Caucasian 71.4% 87.5% 84.0% 85.0% 76.9% African/Asian 28.6% 12.5% 16.0% 15.0% 23.1% Age 31-40 years 1 1 1 1 41-50 years 1 1 1 1 2 51-60 years 6 6 5 5 10 61-70 years 7 Page 106 Source of water (% by source for 2013) Europe North America Southern Africa Group Extraction from River 81.64 80.64 80.67 81.02 Own boreholes 15.01 0.00 0.00 5.61 Ex Utility 0.20 19.36 2.35 5.99 Ex own storage dam 0.00 0.00 10.94 3.99 Recycled process effluent 2.09 0.00 0.77 1.06 Waste Water from outside operation 1.06 0.00 5.28 2.33 Copyright © 2013 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. Version 01, 23 December 2013 2013 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 155
