Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact October 2014 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 200 Countries 320,000 Proprietary index scores 1,500 National and sub-national indices 14,767 Key Recent Events 1,000,000 Individual data points 15,000 Country scorecards 10,000 Stakeholder Viewpoints 15,191 GIS maps 5,000,000 Lines of software 5,000 Current and archive analysis articles 4,189 Indices and indicators 2,000 Reports and briefings © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Maplecroft is the leading global risk analytics, research and strategic forecasting company. We offer an unparalleled portfolio of risk indices, interactive maps, expert country risk analysis, risk calculators, scorecards and dashboards. These technological solutions identify emerging trends, business opportunities and risks to investments and supply chains worldwide. With over six years of data, Maplecroft’s multi award-winning Global Risks Portfolio has grown to encompass analytics for over 200 political, economic, societal and environmental risks and issues, covering all countries. This breadth of data is what sets us apart from our industry counterparts. It enables us to provide accurate assessments of risk across global company value chains, to identify the drivers of risk and to forecast emerging challenges through plotting the risk trajectories of countries. Company name Telephone Number of employees Maplecroft +44 (0) 1225 420 000 105 Address Email Sector 1 Henry Street info@maplecroft.com Professional, scientific and Bath technical services BA1 1JS Web address UK Contact name www.maplecroft.com Gus MacFarlane Submission date Contact position 3 October 2014 Director Membership date 11 February 2005 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Contents Statement of support 1 Principle 1: Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 4 Principle 2: Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses 10 Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining 12 Principle 4: Support elimination of forced and compulsory labour 14 Principle 5: Support the abolition of child labour 16 Principle 6: Support the elimination of discrimination 18 Principles 7 & 8: Precautionary approach to environmental challenges 20 and initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage environmentally-friendly technology 23 Principle 10: Encourage work against corruption in all of its forms 24 Maplecroft’s actions to support the Women’s Empowerment Principles 27 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Statement of support The past year has been one of great success for Maplecroft, as well as significant change. Indeed, we have experienced another year in which we have expanded our client base, and, in keeping with this expansion, we have also relocated our business to new and modern offices in the centre of Bath. By virtue of the services we provide, Maplecroft’s continued strong performance means that, today, we provide greater support to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact than ever before. Our commitment to the Principles is clearly demonstrated through our extensive range of innovative risk management products and services, as shown throughout this report. These tools help a wide range of multinational clients in their efforts to support the Principles. We also continue to share our research and analysis with a wide range of stakeholders, in order to raise awareness of the key social, environmental and governance risks found across the world. We do this via our significant and growing presence in the international media, as well as through the provision of services to NGOs and international organisations on a subsidised basis, where practical. In addition, we continue to support the Principles through our own actions, embodied in our Commitment to Corporate Citizenship (our commitment to acting with integrity, social responsibility and environmental proficiency). For example, following our recent move to new offices, we expect to see a decrease in our overall energy consumption. To aid comparison, we have established an energy consumption baseline figure, an objective that we set out in last year’s Communication On Progress. We have also continued to use more energy efficient technology on a replacement basis and have installed systems to help control paper consumption more effectively. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 1 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Statement of support There are a variety of other ways in which we support the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including: ■■ Our ongoing partnership with the United Nations Global Compact to host, develop and manage the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum, with funding from the GE Foundation. Maplecroft charges discounted fees for this research http://human-rights.unglobalcompact.org/ ■■ Discounted development of the Girls Discovered website for the Nike Foundation and the United Nations Foundation www.girlsdiscovered.org ■■ Membership of the Board of Transparency International (UK) (Professor Alyson Warhurst) ■■ Publication of free Global Risks Forecast articles, many of which analyse the human rights risk landscape in countries across the world ■■ Provision of discounted access to selected Global Risks Portfolio products for government departments, NGOs, research institutions and multilateral organisations. Examples include the UK’s Department for International Development (DfID), World Vision, the Center for Material Cycles and Waste Management Research at Japan’s National Institute for Environmental Studies and the Development Bank of Latin America ■■ Provision of discounted assistance to the German government’s bilateral agency for international cooperation and foreign policy (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ)). This was for the development of a set of documents that outline human rights and social compliance risks across countries and sectors of interest to German business ■■ Continued provision of free public access to a selection of Maplecroft maps and analysis ■■ Contribution to thought-leadership and the dissemination of research relating to business and human rights, as well as the environment. This includes contributions to UNICEF children’s rights events and workshops, as well as conferences and events organised by Responsible Investor, the Freedom Online Coalition, War Child and the Development Bank of Latin America The following report provides an overview of the key ways in which we believe we are actively contributing to the aims and interests of the United Nations Global Compact. Looking towards the future, we remain committed to supporting the Principles within our operations and through our services, an undertaking that we see as closely aligned with our own growth and success. Professor Alyson Warhurst Chief Executive and founder 2 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Statement of support Case study: Maplecroft’s move to new premises marks the beginning of a new era for the company In July 2014, Maplecroft moved its Bath headquarters into new premises located in the heart of the city. The move was necessitated by the company’s continued growth and expansion, which has seen the size of the workforce grow to over 100 employees. The move was made in close consultation with employees, who had the opportunity to discuss and make suggestions The move to our new offices regarding office design and layout, and to share any concerns they might have had regarding the change in workplace. has signified a real step change in the Maplecroft journey, as we Maplecroft’s modern new offices provide the ideal setting for the company to continue to thrive. From a design perspective, the new office space has been establish our growing corporate created to provide a light and modern working environment for staff. In addition to identity. Having worked in offices the aesthetics of the new offices, a key benefit of the move is the increased space in the Square Mile, it’s great to see that employees now enjoy. There are numerous meeting rooms and communal the same ultra-modern facilities spaces to facilitate team work, including an innovation room and break-out areas. The layout of the new offices has also been designed to facilitate effective available to us here in Bath. The collaboration between those teams that work most closely together. ability to have multiple, really wellMoving into new facilities will also help Maplecroft continue to improve its equipped meeting points has allowed environmental and social performance. For example, efficiency benefits are the Business Development team to expected to be achieved via changes including the transition to a more energy reach out to our customers wherever efficient lighting system, while Maplecroft’s new location in the centre of Bath they are in the world, improving our makes the option of using the ‘park and ride’ facilities offered by the city council more attractive for commuters, which could help to reduce traffic congestion response times to client demand. within the city. In addition, Maplecroft’s presence within Bath means that the It’s a pleasure to come to work in company will continue to make an important financial contribution to the city’s this light and vibrant building and economy and support local businesses. the views over the city of Bath are truly stunning.” Ben Sempala-Ntege Head of Customer Operations © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 3 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 1: Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Our commitment or policy We are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We turn our commitments into practice by ensuring employees are aware of their own human rights, as well as their role in helping protect the human rights of others. We also advise and assist our clients in managing their own responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations ■■ Ongoing implementation of our human rights policy (as part of our overarching Commitment to Corporate Citizenship). The policy outlines Maplecroft’s commitment to supporting and respecting internationally proclaimed human rights and the company’s commitment to ensuring that its organisation and employees are not complicit in human rights abuses ■■ Inclusion of guidance in our Employee Handbook, which is continuously updated, on our commitment to respecting human rights and how we implement this commitment. Specific areas covered in the handbook include remuneration, health and safety, collective bargaining, formal performance reviews and career progression 4 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact In our products and services Maplecroft’s human rights products and services help organisations identify, manage and mitigate human rights risks in their operations, supply chains and distribution networks. They help investors select the companies and governments that best address human rights and enable responsible business to assess, prioritise, screen and monitor human rights risk at all levels of operation. Our human rights and societal risk team includes a multi-disciplinary group of academic experts, lawyers, trained human rights researchers and auditors with substantial impact assessment field experience. In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: ■■ Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum: This is a multi-stakeholder online platform aimed at helping companies and other human rights stakeholders understand and share real-world challenges relating to the protection of human rights, particularly Security Forces and Humanin emerging economies. Rights vs Forecast Growth The Forum incorporates innovative onlineOutlook, with plot sized for Indigenous Peoples’ Rights feedback mechanisms to allow users to propose, explore and discuss a 11. Iran Companies operating in several high-growth markets face risks of association with the violation local communities’ rights. 6. Afghanistan wide range of dilemmas and potential good practice. The Forum is implemented by This is particularly the case for land-intensive investment projects. For example, countries in the top left quadrant of the graph are projected to enjoy significant economic growth but their security forces often have poor human rights records, indicating that violence may be used to force communities to relocate or accept government or business development 4. Pakistan Maplecroft in partnership with the United Nations Global Compact, and 7. Iraq is funded plans. Correspondingly, indigenous peoples are at particular risk of having their rights violated in such countries – including Myanmar, Nigeria, India, the Philippines, Ethiopia and Indonesia. 10 18. India by the GE Foundation 9 India Indonesia 1. Syria 12. North Korea Nigeria 16. Egypt 15. China Philippines ■■ Human Rights Risk Atlas: This includes interactive maps and indices 8 Ethiopia 19. Libya Viet Nam for 35Peru Malaysia 17. Bangladesh 2. Sudan 8. Myanmar human rights categories and scorecards for 197 countries, covering human 7 Thailand Myanmar 20. C.A.R Chile 9. Yemen security, labour standards and protection, civil and political rights and access to Forecast Growth Outlook 6 Uganda Kenya 5. Somalia Papua New Guinea 14. Eritrea remedy. The Atlas also features sub-national mapping of human rights violations 10. Nigeria 5 3. DR Congo 13. South Sudan and human security incidents down to site-specific levels worldwide 4 3 ■■ Human Rights Risk Reports: These reports provide analysis of the human rights 2 landscape within a country context. In addition to examining structural and process 1 indicators, (i.e. the legal and regulatory framework and the government’s willingness 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Security Forces and Human Rights to realise human rights), these reports provide in-depth analysis of key human rights Human Rights Risk Index 2014 Civil and Political Rights versus Democratic Governance outcome indicators in Southeastern Asia and (i.e. the China for severity, duration, frequency and coverage of violations). 2012-2014 Legend Low Risk Medium Risk High Risk Extreme Risk Specifically, these reports analyse human security; civil and political rights; labour Arrows on the graph indicate country trajectories over the last three years, revealing declining democratic governance and civil and political rights in several Southeastern Asian countries. The plot suggests that companies investing in the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand in particular are likely to face increasing risks of complicity with government repression, The Human Rights Risk Index, a central part of the Human Rights Risk Atlas 2014, is an annual product of Maplecroft. The HRRI assesses and visually presents the extent and the nature of human rights violations across 197 countries, down to a level of 25km2. Twenty-four specific human rights categories are analysed over four key focus areas: Human Security, Civil and Political Rights, Labour Rights and Protection, and Access to Remedy. The HRRI is designed to help businesses, investors and international organisations assess, compare and monitor while such risks are already ‘extreme’ in China, Viet Nam and Myanmar. Nonetheless, it is noteworthy that democratic >8.75 10.00 >7.50 8.75 >6.25 7.50 >5.00 6.25 >3.75 5.00 >2.50 3.75 >1.25 2.50 0.00 1.25 rights and protection; access to remedy; and livelihoods and sustainability governance in Myanmar is improving from a low base, with political reforms supporting the potential for enhanced future human rights risks with a view to understanding trends, implications and mitigation requirements. For more information see www.maplecroft.com human rights protection. 5 Change in risk categories with global average score for 2008-2014 ‘Extreme risk’ countries by region – 2010, 2014 ■■ Human Rights Quarterly Forecasts: Provide forward-looking quarterly trend 100% 10 Central Africa 6% analysis and qualitative assessments across areas including: human security; 4 Laos Cambodia 90% 9 Central America 15% 9% 3% labour rights and protection; civil and political rights; and access to remedy. 80% 8 Central Asia 70% 7 6% Forecasts consist of one-page country scorecards, designed to monitor human Thailand E. Africa Civil and Political Rights 3 60% 6 E. Asia rights risks for business – and act as a trigger for more in-depth analysis and 50% 5 3% Mena Philippines 2010 2014 40% 4 9% mitigation efforts 2 Viet Nam 30% 3 S. America Southeastern Asia 20% 2 Indonesia 15% ■■ Women’s Rights and Business Reports: These reports focus on women and 1 China 10% 1 S. Africa S. Asia 3% 22 Myanmar 0% 0 adolescent girls and provide analysis of the challenges, cultural context and % 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 W. Africa 9% Extreme High Medium Low Global average societal risks they can face. These reports also assess business opportunities for 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 The Human Rights Risk Atlas 2014 demonstrates a continuing deterioration of the global human rights landscape, as government repression, labour exploitation and impunity for violations remain pervasive. The number of countries rated ‘extreme risk’ has increased year-on-year since the HRRA 2009, rising by 70% overall. The MENA region has seen the greatest increase in © Maplecroft, 2013. The data included in this poster is subject to Maplecroft’s terms and conditions and should not be distributed or used for commercial purposes. the number of ‘extreme risk’ countries, with Syria, Yemen Libya, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia joining this category over the last five years. Furthermore, this year the global average risk score of the support of women’s and girls’ rights through social investment programmes, Democratic Governance all 197 countries has crossed the threshold from a ‘medium risk’ classification to ‘high risk’ for the first time. such as skills upgrading and poverty alleviation ■■ Societal Risk Reports: These evaluate, in addition to traditional political and compliance risks, the key issues, trends and drivers that represent strategic societal risks and opportunities to companies investing in conflict-affected or high risk geographies. The reports provide a contextual assessment of political risks, legal and regulatory developments, conflict and security issues, economy, environment factors and societal risk through the lens of human rights and sustainable development. Such reports also provide an assessment of key stakeholders, as well as priority areas for social investment, mitigation strategies, forecasting and monitoring © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 5 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact ■■ Labour Standards Reports: These analyse and compare key labour issues affecting companies operating in all countries worldwide. The analysis covers: the legal and regulatory environment; working hours; compensation; labour contracts; health and safety; unions and industrial action; discrimination; forced labour; and child labour ■■ Living Wage Reports: These provide a comprehensive overview and analysis of wages across various sectors in both low-cost sourcing countries, as well as developed countries. The reports analyse the ability of workers in a company’s supply chain to earn wages sufficient to support a basic and/or decent standard of living and assess the risk of a company being associated with unfair or belowsubsistence wages ■■ Maplecroft Terrorism and Security Dashboard: Launched in July 2014, the online dashboard tracks human rights violations committed by security forces across the globe, allowing businesses to locate where violations are occurring down to 100m worldwide. It does so via an intuitive, subnational mapping and data platform. The tool also provides near real-time monitoring of dynamic terrorism and As shown throughout this security risks to operations, assets, investments, personnel and supply chains document, Maplecroft has an ■■ Policy Bank: This document includes specific best practice guidance to help extensive range of products organisations develop sound human rights policies and services to facilitate the ■■ Human Rights Stakeholder Viewpoints and Key Recent Events: Maplecroft management of human rights and holds a repository of Stakeholder Viewpoints and Key Recent Events relating to societal risk issues. The insight we human rights incidents around the world provide into the underlying causes The Human Rights Due Diligence Practice is a key part of Maplecroft’s offering. The of societal issues helps businesses practice helps companies navigate the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ understand the complexity of these Framework and integrates the associated Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into companies’ ‘ways of working’. This includes human rights policy risks and establishing appropriate development; the implementation of effective due diligence systems to uphold policy mitigation measures.” commitments (including through the application of Maplecroft’s products and tools); and suitable remediation processes where rights violations have occurred. The practice Lizabeth Campbell combines expert consultancy services with a suite of Maplecroft tools, including: Director ■■ Human rights due diligence products: Head of Human Rights and Societal Risk team Human Rights Due Diligence Dashboard This is an interactive online tool, which provides company-specific analysis of global human rights risk exposure. The tool builds on Maplecroft’s extensive portfolio of human rights risk indices and country analysis to generate a custom risk assessment score and risk mitigation recommendation. This is supplemented by entity scorecards and interactive maps that facilitate horizon scanning, scenario planning and trend analysis Supply Chain Management Tool This allows organisations to evaluate and map the intrinsic risk exposure of their suppliers (i.e. relating to sector, product type, geography, etc.). Each supplier’s intrinsic risk exposure is then compared against its risk management proficiency to locate high risk suppliers and help guide users’ supplier risk management strategy ■■ Human rights due diligence advisory services: Human rights policy development Maplecroft has developed a number of best practice human rights policies for companies. These include child labour; ethical supply chains; forced and bonded labour; and freedom of association and collective bargaining 6 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Impact Assessment These assessments – which are carried out in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights – focus on assessing clients’ actual and potential human rights impacts. By assessing the impacts of client’s own activities, those of their business partners and the nature of their operating contexts, we directly support their broader human rights due diligence processes Human rights management systems development Key elements include: the development of integrated, risk-driven human rights management systems based on continuous improvement; the development and/ or delivery of scenario-based, interactive human rights training; alignment with existing policy requirements, enterprise risk management systems, environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) processes, etc; and the development of auditing processes, including internal audit triggers and the administration of third-party auditing Human rights performance tracking Maplecroft provides a cost-effective first-layer of risk-based performance tracking that can efficiently filter and compare global operations. Electronic human rights surveys can also be applied at company operations to assess risk management proficiency Human rights engagement Maplecroft provides guidance around the effective and responsible reporting of human rights performance to every level of stakeholder and facilitates constructive human rights reporting/engagement programmes and events at both strategic and operational levels Human rights remediation Maplecroft helps clients design and implement grievance mechanisms – including appropriate verification, case-tracking and constructive response measures. This includes the application of grievance mechanisms at both corporate-level (e.g. confidential ‘whistle-blower’ facilities) and site-level (e.g. safe and locally appropriate grievance channels) Our actions over the last year ■■ Continued to develop, update and deliver our full range of human rights products and services. For example, in 2014, we produced our first Industrial Relations Reports and launched the Maplecroft Terrorism and Security Dashboard, which monitors and maps a range of incidents, including human rights violations committed by state security forces ■■ Continued to expand and mature our Human Resources (HR) policies and procedures under the oversight of our HR manager. This has included building a stronger recruitment process and developing our induction pack for new employees to include more supportive information. Additionally, (to ensure a safe and secure working environment) we continue to use an access control system in our new premises and have thoroughly reviewed our fire and emergency procedures ■■ Continued to ensure that all employees are aware of their human rights and the role they can play in helping to ensure the human rights of others are not compromised. This includes our employee forums, at which all staff are invited to discuss company business and employee concerns. Health and safety briefings are included as part of these meetings to keep employees informed of ongoing health, safety and wellbeing initiatives and incorporate their ideas and concerns into future plans. Health and safety is an ongoing concern and the company is up to date with its inspections. The company continues to be responsive to any employee issue that is raised © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 7 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact ■■ Ongoing recruitment of human rights specialists, reflecting our growing body of human rights work for a range of multinational corporations and other organisations ■■ Continued facilitation by Professor Warhurst of working groups and meetings / webinars on human rights, including trafficking and child labour, as well as the provision of relevant mapping materials and dissemination of information about issues affecting adolescent girls ■■ Hosted the United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Dr. Zainab Hawa Bangura, to discuss how Maplecroft can support the United Nations in its efforts to protect women’s rights, especially in conflict or post-conflict environments. For more information on the visit from Dr. Bangura, please see our Case study on page 9 ■■ Peer reviewed, supported and endorsed the Walk Free Foundation’s Global Slavery Index (GSI), launched in October 2013. The GSI provides a ranking of countries around the world, according to the estimated prevalence of slavery ■■ Moved into new offices at 1 Henry Street, Bath, after extensive consultation with employees. The new offices ensure the continued provision of a safe, healthy and enjoyable working environment, with ample space and facilities to accommodate the continued growth of the company’s workforce (for more information on Maplecroft’s new offices, see our Case study on page 3) ■■ Continued awarding of additional leave and financial rewards to employees who have (due to short-term business demands) worked on occasions beyond their contracted hours ■■ Continued hosting of an employee suggestions webpage via the Maplecroft intranet, providing an online forum for employee feedback ■■ Provided ongoing support for employees engaged in charitable initiatives, including employee participation in the 2014 Bath Half Marathon. Both Maplecroft and the Directors personally matched the money raised by employees for causes of their choice, including the Juba Modern Secondary School in South Sudan and SWALLOW, a UK-based charity that supports people with learning disabilities www.swallowcharity.org Source: SWALLOW Our targets for next year ■■ To continue to expand and enhance our human rights products and services. This will involve making them available to a growing number of multinational companies as well as other relevant organisations, in support of the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” policy framework1 ■■ To continue to ensure Maplecroft promotes respect for human rights within its own workplace through ongoing monitoring of its human rights performance ■■ To continue in our attempts to strengthen our human rights relationships with international businesses and organisations Measurable results or outcomes ■■ No formal complaints regarding company performance in this respect. All grievance procedures are fully up to date and are reviewed regularly. None of these procedures have been required over the past year. Maplecroft continues to run an employee suggestions webpage via the Maplecroft intranet. Any informal concerns have been sensitively and correctly addressed through appropriate HR channels 8 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Case study: Hosting of the United Nations Special Representative on sexual violence in conflict to discuss how Maplecroft can support the United Nations’ work In July 2014, Maplecroft hosted the United Nations Special Representative of Dr. Zainab Hawa Bangura the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Dr. Zainab Hawa Bangura. United Nations Special Representative of Dr. Bangura visited Maplecroft’s offices in Bath following her attendance of the the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in world’s first Girl Summit, hosted by the UK Government and UNICEF. Conflict with Maplecroft’s Human Rights and Prior to the visit, Dr. Bangura commented, “I am delighted to have the opportunity Societal Risk team to meet with the Human Rights and Societal Risk team of Maplecroft in the UK. Maplecroft is a leading provider of human rights research and analytics for business – and is also distinguished through its ongoing partnership with the United Nations Global Compact on the Human Rights and Business Development Forum.” During her visit, Dr. Bangura, who was also formerly the Minister of Health and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Sierra Leone, met with Maplecroft’s Human Rights and Societal Risk team and Country Risk teams. The group discussed ways in which Maplecroft can support her work and that of the United Nations in the specific area of sexual violence in conflict and in human rights more broadly. The group also examined the role of business in eradicating sexual violence in conflict. As a leading provider of global risks analytics and expertise, Maplecroft is committed to supporting multilateral institutions and NGOs in their efforts to further the protection of human rights. Maplecroft will continue this support through the provision of discounted services, in addition to research and thought leadership in the field of human rights. 1. Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises, 7 April 2008, Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/issues_doc/human_rights/Human_Rights_Working_Group/29Apr08_7_Report_of_SRSG_to_HRC.pdf © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 9 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 2: Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to ensuring that the organisation and its employees are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our commitment extends not only to our own operations, but also to our field of influence and our work with clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services As part of our commitment, we ensure employees are not complicit in human rights abuses, and help clients manage their responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: Companies face risks of complicity with negative human rights In our own operations impacts at all levels of their supply ■■ Ongoing implementation of our human rights policy and our labour standards policy chains, from direct suppliers through (as part of our overarching Commitment to Corporate Citizenship) to sub-suppliers and raw material ■■ Inclusion of guidance on our non-complicity commitment in our Employee Handbook input providers. Companies are thus faced with the challenge of navigating In our products and services a complex supply chain while See Principle 1. upholding their responsibility under the United Nations Guiding Principles Our actions over the last year to respect human rights. Maplecroft See Principle 1. helps its clients understand their human rights risks through its Our targets for next year supply chain management tools and See Principle 1. services, which structure and inform approaches to responsible and Measurable results or outcomes strategic sourcing.” No complaints regarding company performance in this respect. Sung In Marshall Principal Analyst 10 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Case study: Exploring real-world challenges through the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum The Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum is a multi-stakeholder online platform aimed at helping companies and other human rights stakeholders understand and share real-world challenges relating to the protection of human rights, particularly in emerging economies. It does so using innovative online feedback mechanisms to allow users to propose, explore and discuss a wide range of dilemmas and potential good practice. The Forum is implemented by Maplecroft in partnership with the United Nations Global Compact, and is funded by the GE Foundation. Developments over the past year include: ■■ Increase in the number of registered members to 13,000+ ■■ Enhancement of the technical functionality of the Forum through the addition of an interactive map and search functions. This enables users to search for dilemmas and case studies by geographical location, theme and issues ■■ Integration of seven new online surveys and training tools through which users can give their preferred response to dilemma scenarios, provide details as to why they gave such a response, access the collective results and raise awareness on business-related practices ■■ Integration of additional corporate case studies ■■ Updating, editing and enhancement of existing content ■■ Facilitation of discussions on the related online forum ■■ Inclusion of a new dilemma on cumulative human rights impacts ■■ Regular free webinars on dilemma topics – presented by Maplecroft experts and external speakers from the business community The human rights dilemmas hosted on the forum cover 26 themes, including child labour, conflict minerals, indigenous peoples’ rights, corruption and security forces. The dilemmas are supported by best practice case studies, which provide an insight into the specific challenges that multinational companies have faced; as well as subsequent management responses. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 11 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to ensuring that all of its employees have the right to: ■■ Freely join associations of their own choice (for the purposes of rule formation, administration and the election of representatives) ■■ Undertake collective bargaining Our commitment means that we will not only abide by all applicable laws in this respect, but will act in the spirit in which they were made. This commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. As part of a dynamic, fast growing company, there is unique Relevant processes and systems scope for analysts at all levels within We put our commitments into practice by ensuring that our employees are aware of the organisation to innovate and help their right to freely join associations of their own choice and to participate in collective bargaining. We do so using the following processes and systems: create new products in their specialist field – and to participate in the In our own operations continuous improvement of existing ■■ Ongoing implementation of our labour standards policy (as part of our overarching services. This not only provides a Commitment to Corporate Citizenship) stimulating working environment in ■■ Ongoing provision of contact information for the Unite trade union on our intranet which employees can further develop their area of expertise, but also ■■ Continued provision of employee forums. The aim of these meetings is to establish a genuine dialogue between all of our employees, and to allow employees to ensures that our clients have access raise issues of concern. Health and safety briefings are included as part of these to cutting edge, high-technology risk meetings to keep employees informed of ongoing health, safety and wellbeing management tools.” initiatives and to incorporate their ideas and concerns into future plans Charlotte Ingham In our products and services Principal Analyst In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft delivers the following products relevant to helping organisations uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining rights: ■■ Human Rights Risk Atlas: The Atlas includes labour rights indices assessing the protection of core labour standards as defined by the ILO, including freedom of association and collective bargaining. Human security, civil and political rights and access to remedy are other key areas that are assessed ■■ Labour Standards Reports: These include detailed country-specific information on freedom of association and collective bargaining, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, Stakeholder Viewpoints, Key Recent Events and relevant risk-mapping 12 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact ■■ Industrial Relations Reports: These provide insights to help companies understand the key pillars that shape the landscape of industrial relations in specific countries. The reports include: analysis of state regulations; political drivers; labour institutions; and socio-economic conditions. The reports assist companies in promoting constructive industrial relations throughout their supply chains. The reports also include opportunities for business, such as the implementation of international best practices, and relevant company examples ■■ Policy Bank: This includes specific guidance to help organisations develop sound policies that support the right to associate freely and collectively bargain Our actions over the last year ■■ Continued to hold employee forum meetings and to encourage genuine dialogue with and between all of our employees, including directors ■■ Continued to hold annual appraisals in which employees are given the chance to discuss openly and honestly any concerns regarding their working conditions ■■ Continued to address the issue of freedom of association and collective bargaining through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products ■■ Continued to implement a company policy that no employee would be required to work on a project or with a client where they had serious ideological, philosophical or ethical objections ■■ Continued to request employee feedback through the appraisal process on both the positive aspects of working for Maplecroft and areas that could be improved ■■ Maintained an employee suggestions webpage via the Maplecroft intranet, which provides a forum for employee feedback Our targets for next year ■■ To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement Measurable results or outcomes No complaints regarding company performance in this respect. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 13 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 4: Support elimination of forced and compulsory labour Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is against all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We implement this commitment by making sure Maplecroft is a fair and reasonable employer, whilst also helping our clients manage their responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations ■■ Ongoing implementation of our labour standards policy (as part of our overarching Commitment to Corporate Citizenship) ■■ All employees are issued with basic terms and conditions of contract when they join the organisation ■■ Inclusion of guidance in our Employee Handbook on our policies that explain our opposition to all forms of forced and compulsory labour ■■ Employment of a Head of Human Resources (HR) to oversee the implementation of our HR policies and procedures, and provide employment advice to all staff ■■ Annual performance reviews in which employees are encouraged to put forward any concerns 14 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact In our products and services In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: ■■ Human Rights Risk Atlas: The Atlas includes labour rights indices assessing the protection of core labour standards as defined by the ILO, including forced labour. Human security, civil and political rights and access to remedy are other key areas assessed within the atlas ■■ Labour Standards Reports: These include specific information on forced labour, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, Stakeholder Viewpoints, Key Recent Events and relevant risk-mapping ■■ Policy Bank: This includes specific guidance to help organisations develop sound policies regarding the avoidance of forced and compulsory labour – and to help support its elimination Our actions over the last year ■■ Continued to address the challenge of forced and compulsory labour through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products ■■ Peer reviewed, supported and endorsed the Walk Free Foundation’s Global Slavery Index (GSI), launched in October 2013. The GSI provides a ranking of countries around the world, according to the estimated prevalence of slavery ■■ Demonstrated thought leadership through the broadcast of a webinar on human trafficking and forced labour Our targets for next year ■■ To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement Measurable results or outcomes No complaints regarding company performance in this respect. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 15 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 5: Support the abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to the effective abolition of child labour. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We honour our commitment by supporting the effective abolition of child labour, and by helping our clients do so. We do this using the following processes and systems: In our own operations ■■ Ongoing implementation of our labour standards policy (as part of our overarching Commitment to Corporate Citizenship) ■■ Implementation of our new Young Persons Policy, which outlines the company’s approach to protecting young people in the workplace during work placements or employment ■■ Checking the dates of birth of all new employees who are of a sufficiently young age, to ensure that they are above minimum school leaver’s age before employment In our products and services In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: ■■ Human Rights Risk Atlas: The Atlas includes labour rights indices assessing the protection of core labour standards as defined by the ILO, including child labour. Human security, civil and political rights and access to remedy are other key areas that are assessed within the atlas ■■ Children’s Rights and Business Country Reports: These reports are designed to assist companies in developing long-term, effective and sustainable business strategies that account for the rights of children by providing analysis of their situation in a local country context. By providing an in-depth review of a country’s progress towards realising children’s rights, the reports also assess opportunities for the private sector to promote children’s rights throughout their operations and commercial relations ■■ Labour Standards Reports: These include specific information on child labour, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, Stakeholder Viewpoints, Key Recent Events and relevant risk-mapping ■■ Policy Bank: This includes specific guidance to help organisations develop sound policies to prevent the use of child labour and support its elimination 16 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Case study: Maplecroft research helps to raise international awareness around child labour risks Maplecroft continues to feature in a wide range of international media, including international business newspapers and news channels, industry publications and humanitarian news. In the past year, Maplecroft’s research on a number of key human rights issues has reached a global audience. For example, Maplecroft released the results of its Child Labour Index 2014, which were referenced in media outlets including CNN and Foreign Policy* magazine. This included articles focused on the severe child labour challenges that exist within a number of key business sourcing countries. Another example was the significant media attention attracted by Maplecroft’s Working Conditions Index 2014 – including its referencing by the Wall Street Journal and CNBC. The index results highlighted the often hazardous working conditions faced by migrant workers in Qatar, an issue of key importance as the country prepares for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Maplecroft’s significant and ever-growing media profile allows the company to raise awareness of human rights violations and injustices around the world. This media presence therefore provides impetus for stakeholders to take necessary action to avoid human rights abuses or take remedial activity where they have occurred. *Please note, registration is required to access this article Our actions over the last year ■■ Continued to address the challenge of child labour through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products ■■ Developed and implemented a new Young Persons Policy, to help ensure the protection of young persons in the workplace ■■ Demonstrated thought leadership in this area, including a free, publicly available webinar on child labour. This was delivered as part of our work on the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum Our targets for next year ■■ To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement Measurable results or outcomes No complaints regarding company performance in this respect. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 17 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 6: Support the elimination of discrimination Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all of its employees. In particular, we are committed to: ■■ Promoting equality and diversity, as well as an inclusive and supportive working environment ■■ Affirming the rights of the individual to be treated fairly and with respect ■■ Maintaining an environment in which individual contributions to the company’s growth and success will be identified, recognised and encouraged As experts in global risk Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work analytics, we work in multiple sectors with our clients. These are increasingly important commitments for our company, due across the globe. Similarly, our to our expanding and increasingly diverse workforce. workforce is made up of individuals Relevant processes, systems, products and services from over 16 countries, allowing us to benefit from a multi-cultural We put our commitment into practice by actively supporting the elimination of discrimination within our own operations, and by helping our clients towards the same working environment. This diversity end through their own policies and actions. We do so using the following processes has helped us become the vibrant and systems: company we are today.” In our own operations Jacqueline Marsh ■■ Ongoing implementation of our equal opportunities policy, our sexual and racial Associate Director, Human Resources harassment policy and our employment with disabilities policy (as part of our overarching Commitment to Corporate Citizenship) ■■ Inclusion of guidance on these policies – and how they are applied – in our Employee Handbook. The Handbook also includes suggestions for informal and formal remedies where sexual or racial harassment is alleged to have taken place In our products and services In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: ■■ Human Rights Risk Atlas: The Atlas contains indices assessing levels of discrimination in society and the workplace as well as the protection afforded to minority rights, women’s and girls’ rights and indigenous peoples’ rights across the world ■■ Labour Standards Reports: These include detailed country-specific information on discrimination, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, Stakeholder Viewpoints, Key Recent Events and relevant risk-mapping ■■ Policy Bank: This includes specific guidance to help organisations develop policies that promote equality and diversity, whilst also supporting the elimination of discrimination 18 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Our actions over the last year ■■ Continued to address the challenge of discrimination through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products ■■ Continued the ongoing monitoring of employee salaries to ensure gender parity at equivalent levels of seniority, experience and capability Our targets for next year ■■ To maintain the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement Measurable results or outcomes No complaints regarding company performance in this respect. We are also reporting on our workforce origins for the first time in this year’s report, as shown in Figure 1 below. Figure 1: Maplecroft employees by nationality and region 71% UK 13% Europe 8% Canada & US 3% Ireland 2% Eurasia 2% India 1% China © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 19 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principles 7 & 8: Precautionary approach to environmental challenges and initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to taking a precautionary approach with respect to environmental challenges, the undertaking of environmental initiatives and the use of environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment to the environment requires us to work towards improving our environmental performance, preventing pollution wherever possible and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. In particular we: ■■ Manage our processes so as to avoid or minimise waste ■■ Work to minimise our use of energy ■■ Minimise unnecessary travelling to reduce the impact of aircraft and road vehicle emissions ■■ Include environmental considerations in our investment decisions ■■ Ensure all employees are aware of this policy so that it is implemented effectively Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We translate our commitment into action by taking a precautionary approach to the environment, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and by assisting clients to manage their own responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations ■■ Ongoing implementation of our environment policy (as part of our overarching Commitment to Corporate Citizenship). The policy outlines our commitment to improving our performance, for example, by managing processes to avoid or minimise waste, minimising our use of energy and minimising unnecessary travel ■■ Inclusion of guidance on this policy in our Employee Handbook In our products and services In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft also delivers the following relevant products: ■■ Climate Change and Environmental Risk Atlas: This consolidates Maplecroft’s key environmental risk indices, providing comprehensive country rankings and analysis of the key risks to business with respect to climate change vulnerability and adaption, resource security, emissions and waste, ecosystem services and the regulatory environment ■■ Commodity analysis: Commodity-specific reports and briefings allow clients to understand environmental risks associated with sourcing commodities from different geographies 20 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact ■■ Natural Hazard Updates: Maplecroft monitors natural hazard events on a weekly basis, enabling companies to identify risks to operations, investments and assets across the globe. Details of these events can be viewed through interactive maps, providing Maplecroft’s clients with up-to-date information on natural hazard risks such as drought and flooding ■■ Humanitarian Risk Briefings: Each briefing provides crucial insight into a country’s likely need for humanitarian intervention in the face of a major event. This could be the occurrence of a natural hazard or disaster, such as a flood, wildfire or earthquake. They include incisive analysis of a country’s ability to cope with the stresses of disasters, the extent of existing humanitarian aid intervention and the scope of media coverage on humanitarian issues in each country. These briefings have covered some of the world’s most disaster prone countries, including Chad, DR Congo, Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan and Yemen ■■ Climate Innovation Indexes: These help investors and other interested parties identify companies that are leaders in climate-related innovation and carbon management. They focus on companies that display strong climate change innovation, enjoy strong financial performance and represent a diversity of sectors – and help encourage capital inflows into companies that develop climate change solutions ■■ Policy Bank: This includes specific guidance to help organisations develop responsible policies regarding biodiversity, energy and climate, environment, nuisances (odour, noise and dust), as well as waste and recycling Our actions over the last year ■■ Development of the IPC’s Postal Sector Sustainability Report 2013, with our support specifically focused on carbon accounting and carbon management. This builds on our development of previous sustainability reports for the IPC in 2010, 2011 and 2012 http://sustainability.ipc.be/ ■■ Establishment of a baseline energy use figure for the company for the latest year in which data is currently available (February 2013 to February 2014). Having moved to new, more energy-efficient premises in July 2014, we expect to see a reduction in energy use over the next year in comparison to this baseline figure ■■ Continued use of recycled paper for office printing, as well as the application of a company policy requiring minimal printing and (unless there are good and pressing reasons) the printing of documents on double-sided paper only ■■ Establishment of printer monitoring and management software, which is helping us take steps to reduce unnecessary printing and paper waste ■■ Continued operation of a company-wide recycling system for paper waste ■■ Continued provision of recycling facilities in our communal areas ■■ Continued use of environmentally friendly printing and information technology (IT) on a replacement basis ■■ Continued emphasis on the use of teleconferencing and remote presentation technologies (e.g. WebEx and webinar techniques) to help reduce business travel © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 21 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Case study: Maplecroft and the University of East Anglia collaborate to produce the Climate Model Uncertainty Index Climate change represents a growing threat to many human and natural systems. Knowledge of these potential changes is vital in order to help mitigate and manage related risks. To help improve knowledge in this area, during 2014, Maplecroft collaborated with the University of East Anglia, to produce the Climate Model Uncertainty Index. This is a tool designed to help decision makers understand and visualise uncertainty in future climate change projections across the globe. The research shows that the potential impacts of, for example, a 2°C temperature rise, are far greater in some geographical areas than previously thought. Building on this knowledge, the Climate Model Uncertainty Index provides users with much needed information regarding the range of climate projections. As a result, this helps to guide investment decisions in building climate-resilient supply chains and operations. In conjunction with Maplecroft’s other products, these tools help organisations to manage their vulnerability to climate change. This information can also help in the management of other risk areas that are likely to be impacted by a changing climate, such as water security and political stability. Our targets for next year ■■ To reduce our paper use on a per capita basis ■■ To reduce our overall energy consumption in comparison to our newly established baseline figure ■■ To improve existing recycling systems Measurable results or outcomes Maplecroft is continuing to record its paper use to assess future improvements in consumption. Over the last year, the company purchased 183,000 pages of paper. Of this, 100% was recycled paper. This represents an increase in paper use of 19% on a per capita basis from the previous year, which is most likely a result of the company’s ongoing expansion. Over the next year, we will continue to monitor paper use and work towards a target of reducing our paper consumption on a per capita basis. 22 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 9: Encourage environmentally-friendly technology Our commitment or policy See Principles 7&8 Relevant processes, systems, products and services Our Information Technology and Communication (ITC) team seek to take advantage of innovations in software and hardware that allow us to make more efficient use of existing resources and reduce ITC-related power consumption. In addition, our role as a risk analytics business means we have the ability to influence the environmental performance of global organisations, by increasing their awareness, understanding and ability to manage environmental impacts. We aim to assist businesses in their move towards triple bottom-line accounting and performance review/measurement to maximise value, profit and responsibility. Maplecroft has developed a wide range of products and services that help improve our clients’ environmental performance, as shown on page 20 and 21. Our actions over the last year ■■ Explored ways to improve the visibility and reporting of our ITC energy use. Part of this process will involve incorporating power consumption metrics for our datacentre into our energy monitoring ■■ Ordered personal computers (PCs) with lower power requirements and greater energy efficiency, following a review of ITC procurement. We have changed our primary ITC supplier to a UK-based manufacturer able to custom-assemble PCs and servers to our specific requirements Our targets for next year ■■ Cutting-edge advances in container-based virtualisation are central to our server platform strategy. We are migrating to this new system, and, as such, we expect to reduce the energy use of our datacentre operations by 25% over the next year, while accommodating a forecast 50% increase in our server capacity Measurable results or outcomes A total of 30 computers were sent for recycling over the past year, each of which was replaced with models using between 50% and 75% less power than previous models while offering markedly increased performance. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 23 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 10: Encourage work against corruption in all of its forms Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to working transparently and is against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. No employee or associate will take or receive bribes of any form, or involve themselves in situations that may give rise to any potential conflicts of interest. Our commitment means that we will not only abide by all applicable laws in this respect, but will act in the spirit in which they were made. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services Staffed by a team of dedicated analysts with a strong legal and We put our commitment into practice by taking a transparent approach towards doing business, by opposing corruption in all its forms and by helping clients manage their compliance background, Maplecroft’s own responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following means: corruption risk practice offers a range of services and products to assist In our own operations its clients in assessing the risks ■■ Ongoing implementation of our transparency policy (as part of our overarching posed by corruption, as well as the Commitment to Corporate Citizenship) effectiveness of government efforts ■■ Our Anti-Corruption Officer (named in the Handbook), who provides a suitable to combat it.” and secure reporting and communication channel for employees to disclose any inappropriate or unlawful conduct, suspicions or concerns relating to bribery Trevor Slack and corruption. Our Anti-Bribery Policy, which: Principal Analyst Ensures compliance with anti-bribery laws, rules and regulations, not just within the UK, but also in any other country in which the company may carry out its business or to which its business may be connected Enables employees and persons associated with the company to understand risks associated with unlawful conduct. It enables and encourages them to be vigilant and to effectively recognise, prevent, avoid and report any wrongdoing, whether by themselves or others Provides suitable and secure reporting and communication channels, whilst also ensuring that any information that is reported is properly and effectively dealt with Creates and maintains a rigorous and effective framework for dealing with any suspected instances of bribery or other unethical conduct In our products and services In addition to our general products and services, Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: ■■ Legal and Regulatory Environment Atlas: This includes interactive maps and indices for 21 legal and regulatory risk areas and 173 countries. Included within this is Maplecroft’s Corruption Risk Index, which examines the prevalence and persistence of corruption in the public and private sector on a global basis. Other related indices include the Rule of Law Index, which assesses countries’ judicial independence and effectiveness. In addition the Corporate Governance Index assesses countries based on areas including the ethical behaviour of their firms and the effectiveness of corporate board governance 24 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact ■■ Corruption Risk Dashboard: This utilises Maplecroft’s risk calculator technology to deliver a cost-effective programme for managing third party corruption risk. For more information, please see our Case study on page 26 ■■ Policy Bank: This includes specific guidance to help organisations develop sound policies on anti-money laundering and the combating of terrorism financing, as well as bribery and corruption ■■ Corruption Risk Reports: These provide detailed analysis of the major corruption risks affecting client operations in a selected jurisdiction. In particular, the reports provide a detailed, in-depth assessment of the effectiveness of the domestic legislative framework in tackling corruption, the prevalence of corruption in government and the private sectors, and the highest-risk economic sectors ■■ Corruption Risk Briefings: These offer a concise, two-page overview of corruption-related risks in a particular country. This includes a summary of principal legislation, the relevant enforcement authorities, Key Recent Events (such as notable judicial decisions and prosecutions) and personalities of note ■■ Corruption risk management systems development: This service helps companies strengthen their corruption risk management systems, develop existing processes and procedures, and align them with current best practice Our actions over the last year ■■ Continued to address the challenge of corruption through our Global Risks Portfolio products, including Country Risk Reports, the Global Risks Forecast publication and relevant indices ■■ Active participation by Professor Warhurst in the Board meetings and activities of Transparency International (UK). Professor Warhurst also campaigns on the issues of transparency and anti-corruption on an ongoing basis ■■ Broadening the scope of our Anti-Corruption Practice to provide risk assessment services on related issues, including money laundering and tax transparency ■■ Continued provision of complimentary corruption risk webinars for clients and interested parties, helping viewers to understand the risks posed by corruption throughout the globe Our targets for next year ■■ To maintain the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement ■■ To further develop an Anti-Corruption Practice, providing clients with in-depth insight and analysis into countryand sector-specific corruption risks Measurable results or outcomes No complaints regarding company performance in this respect. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 25 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Case study: Managing legal and reputational risks through Maplecroft’s Corruption Risk Dashboard The Corruption Risk Dashboard is a tool designed to help companies avoid corruption and its associated risks, in countries across the world. The importance of effectively managing anti-bribery compliance risks has increased for businesses in recent years. Heightened enforcement of foreign bribery laws, such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, is placing companies under increased pressure to enhance their compliance procedures. The Corruption Risk Dashboard enables users to: ■■ Overlay the location of third parties on global maps assessing corruption risk across the world. This includes the map of Maplecroft’s Corruption Risk Index, which examines the prevalence and persistence of corruption in the public and private sectors of 198 countries ■■ Understand the inherent corruption risk of third parties via an assessment of their exposure, based on the country and sector of operation ■■ Upload self-assessment, audit and other risk management information regarding third parties to facilitate monitoring ■■ Utilise analytics provided within the dashboard to prioritise mitigation strategies 26 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Maplecroft’s actions to support the Women’s Empowerment Principles Policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the workplace Achieving and maintaining gender equality in senior management and board positions Maplecroft is fully committed to a balanced leadership team. Mentoring and advancement is open to all employees regardless of gender, with opportunities and support for all. Maplecroft’s CEO and co-owner is Professor Alyson Warhurst, who is female and is fully committed to providing equal opportunities. Professor Warhurst was nominated to the ‘top 3’ of the UK Private Business Woman of the Year Awards, sponsored by HSBC and PWC. Maplecroft is constantly looking to improve the ratio of females in senior management positions. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management positions Maplecroft applies the same principle throughout the workforce, promoting balanced leadership at all levels. Equal pay for work of equal value Please see page 18-19 for an explanation of Maplecroft’s actions regarding equal pay for work of equal value. Flexible work options Maplecroft offers employees a flexible system of working hours, whereby work start and end times are not fixed. This flexibility gives employees the scope to manage family and other non-work commitments. Staff can also request a formal flexible work arrangement after they have worked at the company for 26 weeks continuously. Access to child and dependent care Maplecroft does not currently provide employees with access to child and dependent care on a corporate basis. Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave Maplecroft provides full support to pregnant women in terms of access to ante-natal care and enhanced health and safety arrangements. Good practice is followed at all times. While employees are on maternity leave, Maplecroft offers them Keep In Touch (KIT) days to support their eventual return to work. Prior to returning, discussions are held to assist a smooth reintegration into the workplace, including through the provision of flexible working hours. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 27 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Recruitment and retention, including training and development, of female employees Maplecroft is an equal opportunities employer, committed to promoting equality, diversity and an inclusive and supportive environment for its staff. Maplecroft does not discriminate on grounds of gender and men and women are treated equally during the recruitment process and throughout employment. All employees receive training and have opportunity for professional development after they join the company. Gender-specific health and safety issues Maplecroft is committed to ensuring that all precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions that are safe, healthy and comply with all statutory requirements and codes of practice. This commitment applies to all staff, regardless of gender. Gender-based violence and harassment Maplecroft deplores all forms of sexual harassment and seeks to ensure the maintenance of an inclusive, supportive and safe working environment for all its employees. This commitment applies to all staff, regardless of gender. For more information on this matter, please see page 18-19. Education and training opportunities for women workers Maplecroft is committed to the development of all employees to achieve its business aims and objectives. Maplecroft undertakes to provide all of its employees, regardless of gender, with the training necessary to successfully fulfil their job responsibilities. Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of gender equality and, inclusion and non-discrimination for all workers Maplecroft is an equal opportunities employer, committed to promoting equality, diversity and an inclusive and supportive environment for its staff. For more information on our efforts to eliminate discrimination, please see page 18-19. Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers All employees are assigned work mentors when they start at Maplecroft. Work mentors guide new employees through the company’s systems and work methods, and also provide regular feedback on performance. In addition, all employees can apply for sponsorship to support their professional development. In particular, our CEO, Professor Alyson Warhurst, personally supports, mentors and guides young women in the workplace – ensuring their professional progression and giving guidance on overcoming any challenges. These efforts are further supported by our female director, Lizabeth Campbell, who also supports the progression, development and support of the careers of women at Maplecroft. 28 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Other established or emerging best practices N/A Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics, and responsible staff N/A Policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the marketplace Supplier diversity programme N/A Composition of supplier base by sex N/A Support for women business owners and women entrepreneurs N/A Supplier monitoring and engagement on women’s empowerment and gender equality including promotion of the Women’s Empowerment Principles to suppliers N/A Gender-sensitive marketing N/A Gender-sensitive product and service development Maplecroft has developed a range of products and services aimed at helping clients respect the rights of women and girls. For example, Maplecroft has developed the Girls Discovered website for the Nike Foundation and United Nations Foundation. The website provides a range of maps and data that enables researchers, policy-makers, NGOs and business to raise awareness of the issues adolescent girls face globally. These include health and wellbeing, education and economic opportunity, among other issues. www.girlsdiscovered.org Another example is Maplecroft’s Women’s and Girls’ Rights Index. This global index assesses the risks to business from possible association with practices of state and non-state actors that discriminate against or infringe the rights of women and girls. © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 29 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Other established or emerging best practices Maplecroft has an unparalleled range of innovative products and services that help clients respect the rights of women and girls (amongst others). Many of these products and services have been designed to incorporate best practice guidance. For example, the methodology behind Maplecroft’s human rights indices incorporate the United Nations “Protect, Respect, Remedy” Framework as a basis for assessing risk in 197 countries. Additionally, Maplecroft’s Human Rights Due Diligence Practice and the services it provides is fully informed and aligned with the Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework and the United Nations Principles on Business and Human Rights. Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics, and responsible staff N/A The COP describes policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the community Designing community stakeholder engagements that are free of gender discrimination/stereotyping and sensitive to gender issues For the past 10 years, Maplecroft has been helping organisations manage stakeholder relationships, often in highly contentious environments. During this time, Maplecroft has designed and implemented numerous community stakeholder engagements for clients. These projects are carefully planned to ensure that they are free from discrimination and sensitive to gender issues. In many cases, the stakeholder engagement projects that are undertaken require the matter of gender equality to be addressed directly, necessitating a fair and non-discriminatory approach to be taken to data collection. Gender impact assessments or consideration of gender-related impacts as part of its social and/or human rights impact assessments Maplecroft provides Human Rights Impact Assessments as part of a range of services offered by its Human Rights Due Diligence Practice. These assessments focus on assessing clients’ actual and potential human rights impacts. Assessments include gender-related impacts, and are carried out in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Ensuring female beneficiaries of community programmes N/A 30 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Community initiatives specifically targeted at the empowerment of women and girls Maplecroft’s work to develop and host the Girls Discovered website for the Nike Foundation and the United Nations Foundation (carried out on a discounted basis) is an initiative designed to support adolescent girls in their respective communities across the world. The website provides information regarding the issues that adolescent girls throughout the globe face on a daily basis, enabling researchers, policy-makers, NGOs and business to raise awareness of these matters. In addition, Maplecroft makes regular charitable donations – including to Women for Women International. Charitable support has also been given to the Juba Model Secondary School in South Sudan and the George Pantziarka TP53 Trust – benefiting people of both genders. Strategies to ensure that community investment projects and programmes (including economic, social and environmental) positively impact women and girls Maplecroft’s main impact in this respect is through the provision of an extensive range of human rights products and services to its clients. These help clients make a positive contribution to the rights of those affected by their actions, including women and girls. Maplecroft endeavours to provide access to these products and services to as many organisations as possible. As such, NGOs and international organisations can purchase these products at a discount, where practical. Strategies to ensure that community investment projects and programmes (including economic, social and environmental) include the full participation of women and girls N/A Other established or emerging best practices N/A Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics, and responsible staff N/A © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 31 Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact The COP contains or refers to sex-disaggregated data Achieving and maintaining gender equality in senior management and board positions Maplecroft’s Board is made up of one female member and one male member (i.e. a 50% female presence). Of the senior management team (i.e. Directors), 20% are female and 80% are male. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management positions Of the middle management team (i.e. Associate Directors), 33% are female and 66% are male. Equal pay for work of equal value 100% of staff receive equal pay for work of equal value. Flexible work options 100% of staff benefit from a flexible system of working hours, whereby work start and end times are not fixed. Staff can also request a formal flexible work arrangement after they have worked at the company for 26 weeks continuously. Access to child and dependent care Maplecroft does not currently provide corporate facilities for child and dependent care. Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave In the past 12 months we have provided support for 2 female employees in this respect. Recruitment and retention, including training and development, of female employees 18 female employees have been recruited in the past 12 months. All except one remain employed with Maplecroft. In the same time period 27 male employees were recruited. All except four remain employed with Maplecroft. All employees receive training and development as part of recruitment and professional development. 32 © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com Maplecroft | 2014 Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Gender-specific health and safety issues N/A Gender-based violence and harassment No incidents of gender-based violence or harassment were reported during the reporting period. Education and training opportunities for women workers In-depth workplace training was provided by Maplecroft to 100% of female (and male) employees. In addition, all employees can attend external events and conferences as part of their professional development. Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of gender equality and, inclusion and non-discrimination for all workers 100% of employees are required to read and abide by Maplecroft’s equal opportunities policy, sexual and racial harassment policy and employment with disabilities policy. The Employee Handbook contains information on these policies and their application. No complaints were received by Maplecroft’s Human Resources (HR) department regarding discrimination during the reporting period. Please see page 18-19 for an explanation of Maplecroft’s efforts to eliminate discrimination. Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers 100% of new employees are provided with work mentors when they join the company. In addition, all employees can apply for sponsorship to support their professional development. Other established or emerging best practices N/A Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics, and responsible staff N/A © Maplecroft 2014 | www.maplecroft.com 33
