“WELL LIVING” THROUGH VEGETABLE PRODUCTS Groupe Bonduelle 2013-2014 Corporate social responsibility 2013-2014 2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2.1 Introduction AFR 24 2.5 Responsibility 2.1.1 “We must resolutely continue to consumers AFR 89 our CSR initiative!” 24 2.5.1 Quality 89 2.1.2 The Bonduelle Group and sustainable 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional quality 94 development 24 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 95 2.2 Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility AFR 27 2.6 CSR Reporting: note on methodology AFR 96 2.2.1 Results and outlook 27 2.6.1 Context and objectives 96 2.2.2 CSR governance 28 2.6.2 Procedures 96 2.2.3 History 29 2.6.3 Scope 98 2.2.4 Internal requirements 30 2.6.4 Indicators 100 2.2.5 External commitments 36 2.6.5 2014 Reporting schedule 102 2.3 Environmental 2.6.6 Assurance report 103 commitments AFR 44 2.6.7 Overview of indicators 105 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream 46 2.7 Glossary and acronyms 113 2.3.2 Natural resources 53 2.3.3 Transport 67 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility and civil society AFR 71 2.4.1 Social commitments 72 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners 80 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society 83 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol AFR Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 23 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Introduction 2.1 Introduction 2.1.1 “We must resolutely continue our CSR initiative!” Message from Jean-Bernard Bonduelle, whilst energy transition legislation aims to massively reduce Group Head of external relations CO2 emissions and promote the development of circular economies. and sustainable development. Bonduelle is fully aware of these challenges and places them at “The IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – in the core of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy which its last report in April 2014, noted ten points that are key to the consists of striking a harmonious balance between economic future of our planet. One of these was the increase in global performance and respect for the environment, People and society. surface temperatures – set to rise by as much as 4.8°C by 2100. Bonduelle’s employees are passionately committed to this CSR Global warming is, mainly, caused by human activity. This has initiative. Their work in committees and exchange networks, a number of impacts: rise in sea levels of up to one meter, experts’ groups, VegeGo! projects and many other initiatives, more extreme and more numerous weather events, depletion contributes to CSR on a daily basis! of agricultural land. What’s more, these impacts are combined with health issues such as malnutrition and diseases related to Our work is far from complete. We can, however, be proud of the water contamination. enormous progress that we are making, with CSR steering groups appearing within business units. This year the frequency of workThese upheavals also generate acute food insecurity. According related accidents fell by 22%, we reduced energy consumption by to the IPCC, agriculture is the sector hit hardest by the impacts of 9% and consumption of water per tonne of manufactured product climate change. Yields could fall by an average of 2% per decade. by 10.2%. Simultaneously, best practices and suggestions are being This means that production would have to be increased by 14% exchanged internally as part of the Green Attitude community, pilot every ten years in order to meet populations’ needs. Keep in mind farms are being developed and more than 400 Managers have that, according to the United Nations, the world’s population is already followed the ManageGo! program. An Ethics Committee projected to grow from 7.2 billion today to 8.1 billion in 2025 and has also been set up and an Ethics Charter is being deployed climb to 9.6 billion by 2050. throughout the group: Agriculture worldwide also has new challenges to face in order to Corporate Social Responsibility is a formidable lever for creating meet the needs of increasingly urbanized populations and growing shared value between the Company and its stakeholders. Bonduelle’s societal concerns, notably in terms of public health, food safety, ambition is to be the global industry benchmark. This position means traceability and accessibility of vegetables. that we never lose sight of our responsibility to lead the way and to Finally, a range of measures is being considered by the European play our part in the sustainable construction of a better world.” Commission to reduce the volume of food waste by 30% by 2025, 2.1.2 The Bonduelle Group Bonduelle has been a pioneer in sustainable development, in line with the objectives defined by the group’s family Shareholders: and sustainable development sustainability, independence and the individual development of our employees. We take our responsibilities to sustainable development Bonduelle, a family-run group established in 1853, aims to become very seriously and in 2002-2003 formed a dedicated Sustainable the global market leader in prepared vegetables. With a commercial Development Steering Committee to formulate policy and further presence in 100 countries and owning 57 agro-industrial or own strengthen the group’s actions in this area. agricultural production sites, the Company has built its success on two fundamental pillars: respect for the natural environment, which 2012 saw Bonduelle initiate a new phase in its development to is essential for a group whose business is directly linked with the define how the group will develop over the years to 2025. A process earth on a daily basis, and placing People at the heart of its long-term involving the family Shareholders, plus members of the Executive corporate plan. As part of our commitment, we aim to offer the best Committee, 300 Managers and external experts, culminated in the that nature can provide, guided by ethical principles formulated over launch of VegeGo! at the end of 2012. six generations of involvement in agricultural production. 24 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Introduction A visionary and collaborative program, the aim of VegeGo! is to 3. Bonduelle Americas (BAM) covers all canned and frozen position the Bonduelle Group as “the world reference in ‘well vegetable activities in North and South America for the Bonduelle living’ through vegetable products”, wholeheartedly embracing its and Arctic Gardens brands, and private label brands, massresponsibilities to Shareholders, employees, partners, customers market retailing, food service, and B to B sectors; and the environment. 4. Bonduelle Development (BDV) covers the group’s activities VegeGo! is structured around four pillars: and development in the rest of the world, particularly in Eastern Europe for the Bonduelle and Globus brands, and for private 1. We respect the planet and our commitments to civil society label brands, for all technologies and all distribution channels. Backed by our unique agro-industrial expertise, particularly in Of the 22 VegeGo! initiatives, eight are linked with the group’s agricultural upstream, Bonduelle’s proactive policy over the past sustainable development policy: 10 years demonstrates its determination to implement the very best business practices. 2. We promote the development of the men and women 1. Defining what ecologically intensive agriculture means for Bonduelle 2 For Bonduelle, the soil and the earth are a habitat for living People matter most to Bonduelle and are placed at the heart of organisms which must be protected. Ecologically intensive its corporate plan. This pillar demonstrates the group’s intention agriculture (EIA) combines respect for the land and intensive of furthering its actions in the area of equal opportunity, diversity, cultivation using sustainable methods with the aim of reducing internal mobility and safety, setting a target of zero accident. the use of phytosanitary products and employing alternative 3. We are developing our brands and vegetables in all their forms methods: direct drilling, strip-till, etc. These methods are being Bonduelle’s brand portfolio enjoys international recognition. The developed at various pilot farms and gradually introduced by group defined its international positioning in 2013 to create strong Bonduelle’s producer partners. The objective of EIA is to provide unity: “Bonduelle, your inspiration to enjoy vegetables everyday”. greater accessibility to a larger number of foods. This positioning focuses on how our products contribute to 2. Developing the eco-design of products healthy living (health, environment, nutrition, pleasure and taste) The eco-design process launched in 2011-2012 was and demonstrates the group’s intention of developing all its incorporated into the VegeGo! Program. This initiative was brands, across all channels and in all technologies. launched by producing, with all Company stakeholders, a guide 4. Our organization serves our customers and a scoring tool to help teams include environmental and social Bonduelle offers national brands and private label products, criteria at all stages of a product’s life cycle. The principles of the in line with the specific requirements of consumers in different Environmental responsibility guide were approved in April 2014 markets. The group has a global presence in all distribution and circulated in September 2014. channels and prides itself on innovative products and services 3. Improving safety at work with a target of zero work-related delivering differentiating value added. accident by 2025 The Bonduelle Group is now organized into two geographic The safety initiative was rolled out across all the group’s sites, in regions and four business units: particular, using the STOPTM method. 1. Bonduelle Europe Long Life (BELL) covers all of the group’s 4. Participating in local community life canned and frozen vegetable activities in Europe for the Nine projects were rolled out at the Doué-la-Fontaine * (France), Bonduelle and Cassegrain national brands, and for private label Rosporden (France), Labenne (France), Villeneuve-d’Ascq brands, mass-market retailing, food service, and B to B sectors; (France), Sainte-Martine (Quebec, Canada), Strathroy (Ontario, 2. Bonduelle Fresh Europe (FRESH) covers all the group’s Canada), Cristalina (Brazil), Timashevsk (Russia) and Nagykőrös prepared fresh vegetables: fresh-cut bagged salad and prepared (Hungary) sites. salad in Europe, for the Bonduelle brand and private label brands, 5. Developing networking in the mass-market retailing and food service sectors; The VegeGo! Networking project is in the rollout phase. It is based on four priorities: the development of spin-off communities, incorporation of Google applications in workflows, launch of a test phase with Google ambassadors and identification and sharing of practical uses. Google applications were introduced across all group sites over a period of 15 months. * In association with the France Champignon cooperative. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 25 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Introduction 6. Promoting communication in the farming community to entrust this task to a multi-country team as part of the VegeGo! project. The ManageGo! management model was rolled out for In partnership with the French market research agency, over 400 Managers. IPSOS, Bonduelle decided to launch a global survey into the expectations and needs of its 3,440 producer partners and 8. Initiating the on-site manufacture of empty cans suppliers of agricultural raw materials. The results of this survey Following the example of the Novotitarovskaya (Russia) and are expected to be presented at the next Paris agricultural show Békéscsaba (Hungary) sites, the group is developing its knowin February 2015. how in the manufacture of empty cans. This will limit CO2 7. Clearly defining and reporting on the Bonduelle management emissions linked to transporting empty cans. model During the various stages of the joint development of the business plan to 2025, Managers expressed a desire to clarify the group’s management model. Bonduelle’s Executive Committee decided 26 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2 Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.1 Results and outlook ■ Challenges and outlook for 2013-2017 AGRONOMY Produce vegetables Encourage farmers to adopt environmentally-friendly practices 1 Reduce the use of phytosanitary products 2 and promote responsible 1 Increase the number of signatories of the sourcing charter version 5 to 100% within five years and sustainable cultivation 1 Develop pilot farms implementing alternative cultivation methods in countries where Bonduelle methods, in partnership is established with farmers 1 Launch a plan to reduce waste upstream Maintain and develop sustainable relations with producers 1 Develop partner loyalty 1 Support our partners in the use of innovative vegetable-growing techniques NATURAL RESOURCES Optimize the use of non-renewable resources Optimize product design 1 Continue to reduce water consumption, without compromising on product quality and production to achieve 1 Continue to reduce energy consumption greater efﬁciency in resource 1 Have at least five projects using renewable energy in five years use and recovery Avoid, sort and recover waste 1 Recover 80% of ordinary industrial waste in the period 2012-2015 1 Achieve 100% recovery from green waste 1 Launch a plan to reduce waste Minimize packaging impacts TRANSPORT – SUPPLY CHAIN Reduce CO² emissions by 5,000 tonnes for the group’s transport and logistics Control and optimize the supply Implement a transport plan using methods other than road, and trial it by business unit chain (transport and logistics) Roll out the purchasing charter to all suppliers and purchasing PEOPLE AND SAFETY Target zero workplace accident Be an efﬁcient company Promote personnel training and development that listens to and ensures 1 Target individual career development interviews for all personnel (100%) the development of its People 1 Give priority to internal promotion and encourage a policy of local recruitment in countries where Bonduelle Distribute the Ethics Charter to all employees is established Share Corporate Social Responsibility principles in management and in the group’s corporate culture Promote diversity and comply with the principles of equality STAKEHOLDERS Implement a community project at every site and in countries where Bonduelle is established Be a company that is Engage with stakeholders in countries where Bonduelle is established engaged with all its Undertake a group community development project stakeholders across countries QUALITY – NUTRITION Ensure maximum product quality and safety Offer safe products to 1 Target quality process certification for 100% of sites our consumers and support 1 Reduce the complaints rate them in developing a healthy, Promote healthy and natural eating through our products balanced and natural diet, 1 Continue the action plan to develop and update recipes to optimize their nutritional value based on vegetables 1 Reduce additives in products by 2017 Promote healthy and natural eating for all through our support and advisory actions 1 Raise consumer awareness in countries where Bonduelle is established on the importance of a balanced diet and the inclusion of vegetables 1 Support the initiatives of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation and research projects Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 27 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.2 CSR governance promoting the initiative within their own units. Members of business unit Management Committees have a direct link with operating In line with the new Bonduelle Group organization, the composition segments. Area Managers coordinate field initiatives, lead networks and operation of the Sustainable Development Steering Committee of experts, suggest new ideas, encourage the sharing of best have been reviewed and responsibility for steering sustainable practices and ensure consistency with the group’s objectives and development policy now lies with each business unit. The Steering the reliability of information. Committee therefore includes a representative from each of the This key change helps to ensure that aspects specific to the business Executive Committees of the four new business units, in addition to units are taken into consideration in the definition of group-wide committee members from across the group’s disciplines. The work targets. Targets and challenges may vary between technologies and of the Steering Committee is focused in six main areas: agricultural geographical regions, depending on the local context. In this way, upstream; quality and nutrition; natural resources; supply chain and targets become more realistic and are more in line with the concerns transport; People and safety and stakeholders. and ambitions of the business units. This is why the initiatives The Steering Committee, which comprises the heads of these implemented, as well as their rollout status, may differ from one areas and representatives of the business units, ensures the flow of business unit to another. information between all parts of the Company, from functions and Annual group-wide CSR data gathering serves as the basis for operations to management and Executive Management. defining improvement actions. Bonduelle also extends its initiative The heads of the business units serving on the Corporate Social by reporting on its work to stakeholders during formal meetings. Responsibility (CSR) Steering Committee are responsible for CSR GOVERNANCE CHART EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE* Deﬁnes CSR policy BUSINESS UNIT CSR STEERING COMMITTEE Business unit representatives EXTERNAL MANAGEMENT STAKEHOLDERS COMMITTEES Experts and support staff Responsible for Support and coordinate actions React and inﬂuence implementing CSR policy COUNTRY AND FACILITIY EMPLOYEES Implement action plans * The Executive Committee is presented in Section 3.1.3 of the registration document on page 119. 28 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ■ 2007-2011 Since 2014, data (natural resources, human resources, 1 Definition of a fifth focus: transport; quality, transport) has been reported using Metrio an 1 Launch of pilot farms focused on reducing the use of phytosanitary Internet tool introduced across all group sites, thereby products and integrated production and signature of the French enabling data sharing with monthly performance monitoring. Institute for sustainable agriculture charter; Metrio has two main assets: it converts figures into graphs, thereby providing an accurate picture of trends and improves 1 Further actions to promote the inclusion of disabled workers and data consistency monitoring. safety in the workplace; 1 Support for the launch of the World Responsible Economy Forum in Lille, France; 1 Listing on the Gaia index, a listing of the best midcaps in terms of sustainable development. 2 2.2.3 History ■ 2011-2012 1 Increased involvement with stakeholders; Bonduelle’s approach to sustainable development has moved forward over the years since our policy was formulated and launched: 1 Preparation of an Ethics Charter, an environmental responsibility charter, and the fourth version of the sourcing charter for growers; ■ 2002-2003 1 Adoption of the Global reporting initiative (GRI) guidelines and verification of CSR data. 1 Definition of four areas on which to focus: agricultural production; people, nutrition and quality and natural resources; ■ 2012-2013 1 Definition of the priorities for progress; 1 Launch of the VegeGo! program, the group’s vision to 2025; 1 Improvement metrics; 1 Launch of the Bonduelle Sustainable Development website; 1 Publication of initial results; 1 Extension of the international reach of stakeholder dialog; 1 Awareness-building within the Company; 1 The group responds to Article 225 of the Grenelle environment law 1 Membership of the Global Compact. on CSR reporting; 1 Creation of the Bonduelle chair within the Edhec Group, to ■ 2003-2004 contribute to research in and teaching of marketing. 1 Unified indicators; 1 Development of self-assessment tools; ■ 2013-2014 1 Implementation of action plans; 1 First meeting of the Ethics Committee in December 2013; 1 Continued internal deployment of action plans; 1 New sourcing charter launched with producer partners; 1 Response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 1 Bonduelle Group sustainable development reporting using a single tool: Metrio; ■ 2004-2007 1 Initial commitments to sustainable food with Louis Bonduelle Foundation work on food waste; 1 Sustainable development embedded in all subsidiaries’ growth plans; 1 Introduction of new CSR governance with incorporation of the four business units; 1 Internal mobilization; 1 ISO 50001 energy management certification at the Estrées-Mons 1 Evaluation of the first phase; and Renescure sites (France); 1 Launch of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation. 1 Introduction, training and rollout of Google applications for all co-workers connected with the group; 1 Formalization and rollout of the group’s management model, ManageGo!. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 29 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.4 Internal requirements A. ETHICS CHARTER In 2012, the Bonduelle Group produced its Ethics Charter conveying An Ethics Committee was officially appointed to support the the values it has long been committed to and has worked to promote: group’s efforts in this area and to act in an advisory capacity. people-minded approach, confidence, openness, simplicity, integrity, It started its work in December 2013 and has four members: fairness and excellence. This charter demonstrates the group’s Philippe Vasseur (Chairman) intention to pursue continuous improvement. It supplements He is currently Chairman of Réseau Alliances and the World the Company’s existing rules and regulations for employees, Forum Lille and former Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and while encouraging individual ethical behavior in accordance with Food and a former Member of the French Parliament. Philippe Bonduelle’s values. Vasseur is now Chairman of the Crédit Mutuel Nord-Europe The Ethics Charter will reiterate the group’s commitment to Corporate Group and Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Social Responsibility, particularly through its long-standing Industry for the Nord Region of France. He is also a member of membership of the Global Compact (since 2003). This United the Bonduelle Board of Directors. Nations initiative requires signatories to apply ten basic principles Jean-Bernard Bonduelle in the areas of human rights, anti-corruption, environment and labor standards. The group’s Ethics Charter defines the core principles of Director of External Relations and Sustainable Development Bonduelle’s stance as a corporate citizen, responsible, equitable and for the Bonduelle Group. He is also the President of Unilet integrated company. (National Processed Vegetable Trade Association) and Profel (European Vegetable and Fruit Processing Industry Federation), Following on from this Ethics Charter, the purchasing charter was and a member of the Bonduelle Board of Directors. published in January 2014. Arno Van Dongen Having worked within the Bonduelle Group as director of Benelux Sales in the canned products subsidiary, he was subsequently appointed as Benelux Sales and Marketing director and has been director of the Northern European Zone of the Bonduelle Europe Long Life subsidiary since 2013. Marie-France Tisseau From 1970 to 2008, she worked as a Legal Advisor and then Legal Counsel, specializing in company and tax law for family-owned companies and French subsidiaries of foreign groups. She is a member of the Bonduelle Supervisory Board. 30 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ■ THE BONDUELLE GROUP’S ETHICS Responsible corporate citizenship CHARTER Backed by a strong history and a commitment to the long term, the Bonduelle Group’s undertakings in respect of Corporate Social Why have an Ethics Charter? Responsibility are clearly shown by our membership of the Global In 2012 Bonduelle decided to write a charter, drawing inspiration Compact. from our history, epitomizing our values and committing us to a process of continuous improvement. We are fully aware that while People ﬁrst ethics cannot be regarded as absolute, they must inspire each Bonduelle complies with the regulations of a number of international and every one of us as stakeholders, both inside and outside organizations. The group complies with the conventions of the the Company. Our Ethics Charter must lead us to do more in the International Labour Organization and is particularly stringent Bonduelle spirit of corporate responsibility. Bonduelle’s spirit and values about ensuring respect for basic human rights in the workplace, namely freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, 2 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, and the In this Ethics Charter, Bonduelle sets out to expand on the effective abolition of child labor. core values it intends to defend and promote: people-minded approach, confidence, openness, simplicity, integrity, fairness and Building the community excellence. Bonduelle is convinced that its success stems from its Bonduelle’s international reach means that it respects communities corporate culture and is intent on continuing to grow, underpinned and local cultures and seeks to add value and develop local areas by these values. The group is committed to living the “Bonduelle wherever it operates. Reflecting this commitment, the Louis spirit” through ethical behavior that promotes sound practices. By Bonduelle Foundation works with local authorities in areas where acting with integrity, our Company engages with its stakeholders in the Company operates, developing communities and supporting a relationship built on trust. The challenge we face is to consolidate local associations. Bonduelle encourages its employees to play an this connection, sharing and nurturing it in the long term. active role in this type of project. Ethics, how does it work? RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT This Ethics Charter supplements our existing rules and regulations Bonduelle respects the environment and endeavors to reduce for all employees. It defines the framework for the group’s policies the carbon footprint of its activities. The group is a major and and helps to explain their rationale and intentions. The Ethics committed sustainable development player. It takes responsibility Charter is a tool. It can be used to challenge existing practices for the impact of its activities, products and services on the rural and and aid in decision-making. The charter is inclusive, promoting urban environment, as well as their broader environmental impact. individual ethical behavior in line with our corporate values. Ethical We encourage all our employees to embody this commitment in dilemmas can be complex and rarely have clear solutions. For this their day-to-day lives. Bonduelle emphasizes this environmental reason, and in the spirit of openness and trust synonymous with responsibility to all its stakeholders and in particular, to agricultural our Company, the group encourages dialog and discussion on producers and suppliers. ethical issues. COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS, CONVENTIONS AND INTERNATIONAL TREATIES Ethics Committee An Ethics Committee has been formed and may be consulted on Bonduelle complies with all laws and regulations in its relationships issues of general interest when no solution is proposed by general with partners. In addition to its commitment to comply with management, or the group’s experts in Human Resources, Health International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, the Company and Safety or Purchasing. The role of the Committee is to support is committed to respecting the European charter of fundamental the Company on ethical issues, and to issue opinions in an advisory rights in the organization. Bonduelle is meticulous in its attention capacity. The Committee has four members; two appointed from to compliance with health regulations, quality control, food within the Company and two external members, selected based legislation and food packaging legislation. The group also respects on their experience, profiles and expertise. The Ethics Committee communities and seeks to add value and develop local areas reserves the right to invite outside experts or submissions from wherever it operates. employees on specific subjects. The Committee will meet at least twice a year, and a secretary will be appointed. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 31 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility A fair company – Dialog in the Company pleasant and professional working environment in which each Dialog and openness in internal Company relations are important person’s ideas and contributions are valued. All employees must for Bonduelle. The group respects the right of its employees foster and respect this commitment by being open and clear in to form or join the representative organization of their choice, their relations with their fellow workers to maintain a culture including trade unions and workers’ organizations, and to be able founded on loyalty, trust and solidarity. to participate in collective bargaining negotiations. Bonduelle respects the role and responsibilities of the social partners and is TRAINING committed to negotiating issues of collective interest with them. Excellence is the cornerstone of the group’s success and Bonduelle listens to its employees and engages an independent competitiveness. Bonduelle aims to develop employees’ skills at body to conduct international surveys to assess personnel all stages of their career through a voluntary training and coaching satisfaction with working conditions. policy. The Institut Pierre et Benoit Bonduelle was created to deliver training to all group personnel, validated by recognized Health and safety professional qualifications. Each and every person working for or with Bonduelle has the right to a healthy and safe working environment, ensuring their physical, SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS mental and social wellbeing. Bonduelle is committed to maintaining Suppliers and subcontractors are key to ensuring the value of working conditions at the highest standards by developing policies Bonduelle’s products and play an important role in customer to prevent negative impacts on health and working conditions. All satisfaction. They are required to adopt behavior in keeping with employees must comply with Bonduelle’s rules on health, safety Bonduelle’s values, especially when making purchasing decisions. and security in the workplace. Bonduelle’s suppliers and subcontractors must adhere strictly to all legislation regarding their activities and working environment. Work-life balance Moreover, the group encourages its suppliers and subcontractors Bonduelle strives to offer conditions that ensure a healthy work-life to engage in ethical conduct and requests that they sign this balance. It promotes dialog between employees and management charter. Purchasing decisions must be made based on all the values to optimize work organization in order to take individual obligations advocated by Bonduelle, and primarily, the values of excellence, and requirements into account. The group aims to create a working open-mindedness and fairness. Relations with suppliers must take environment where individual wellbeing is valued and nurtured. place in a climate of mutual trust, placing People first and simplicity. DISCRIMINATION Purchasing decisions are based on an objective assessment of the Employee diversity is important for Bonduelle. We are committed reliability and integrity of the supplier or subcontractor, as well as to eliminating all forms of discrimination, either direct or indirect, the overall value of their offer relative to both shortand long-term in the workplace and in employee relations, including that based considerations and objectives. Purchasers must also take into on age, color, civil status, disability, nationality, sexual orientation, account their important role in the local ecosystem. ethnic or social origin, race, religion or gender. This antidiscrimination policy applies to all stages of employment, from A trustworthy company hiring through an entire career. All employees are free to take part, QUALITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES in a personal capacity, in activities or organizations of a political or For Bonduelle, providing high-quality and efficient products and religious nature. services bears testimony to its commitment to and respect for HARASSMENT consumers. The group is meticulous in its attention to compliance Placing People first is a key value for Bonduelle. Its policies with health regulations, quality control, food legislation and food protect employees from all forms of harassment, intimidation packaging legislation. The trust thus created is essential for the or victimization, be it physical, psychological or sexual. Any Company’s reputation and long-term presence. The highest levels form of moral or sexual harassment is resolutely condemned. of food safety are guaranteed through advanced technologies and All employees have the right to be respected, and to a positive, constant adaptation to new regulatory requirements. 32 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility CONFIDENTIALITY harm the group. Objectivity must be our guide in relations with Respect for confidentiality is a measure of Bonduelle’s integrity the group’s partners. Relations with partners may not involve and safeguards the relations of trust built up with our partners. or be influenced by personal factors. It is up to each one of us Therefore, it is vital that each employee pays the strictest attention to ensure such objectivity is maintained at all times and in all to safeguarding the confidentiality of Bonduelle’s information. long-term relations. All potential conflicts of interests must be Information obtained by employees of the Bonduelle Group disclosed so that the appropriate action can be taken to prevent may not be used, either directly or indirectly, for the purposes of or resolve the situation. Moreover, Bonduelle does all in its power personal investment. The confidentiality of all information relating to prevent corruption, reflected in its responsibility policy, defined to the activities of the Company or its partners must be guaranteed in accordance with the rule of law. in all roles and areas in which employees work. In particular, the level of information available to different employees is restricted and data is secured. GIFTS AND INVITATIONS Bonduelle’s marketing activities do not exclude the possibility of exchanging gifts and invitations, provided that these do 2 SAFEGUARDING THE COMPANY’S ASSETS not result in a conflict between personal gain and professional The purpose of Bonduelle’s funds or assets is to ensure the obligations. It is therefore our policy to ensure transparency when group achieves its targeted results and safeguard its financial accepting gifts or invitations, which must not exceed a nominal or independence. Misuse or waste of these resources is potentially insignificant value. For example, such gifts may be accepted in damaging; personnel must guard against any illicit use or use line with the normal rules of courtesy or hospitality, but under no unrelated to the group’s business. We each have a responsibility circumstances may they appear, be considered or interpreted to to safeguard Bonduelle’s tangible and intangible resources, to be complaisance or favoritism. protect against diversion of assets or their use other than for their POLITICAL SPHERE original purpose by providing them to a third party. For example, information systems provided may not be used inappropriately. All All employees are entitled to engage in political activities in Company assets remain the property of Bonduelle. a personal capacity, provided that they take place outside of working hours and do not involve any of Bonduelle’s assets, TRANSPARENCY and provided that it is clear that such activities are in no way Bonduelle ensures that it treats its customers honestly, notably representative of the Company. Bonduelle and its employees by providing all the necessary information on its products and comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing services and by demonstrating openness on all related issues. contributions to political parties, regardless of the location of the The quality of the information we provide to the different parties is Company’s activities. an integral part of the relationship of trust and transparency that REPRESENTING THE COMPANY Bonduelle wishes to establish and maintain. It is our responsibility to ensure that Shareholders receive reliable, transparent, honest Each and every employee is an ambassador for Bonduelle. It is and timely information, with regard to the Stock Market Code therefore important to exercise good judgment in accordance of Conduct. with Bonduelle’s values and interests and to ensure an explicit distinction between personal opinions and interests and those CONFLICTS OF INTEREST of the Company. All of our conduct may have an impact on the We each have a responsibility to avoid situations where personal group’s reputation and we must therefore ensure never to say or interests conflict or may conflict with those of Bonduelle or do anything that could damage Bonduelle’s image. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 33 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ■ RULES OF PROCEDURE The members of the Ethics Committee may validly deliberate by FOR THE BONDUELLE GROUP video conference, telephone conference or in writing, including by ETHICS COMMITTEE mail or fax, provided that all the members agree to this expedient. Article I. Purpose The Ethics Committee Chairman has the casting vote in the event of a tie. The purpose of these rules of procedure is to define the composition, competence and operating rules of the Bonduelle Should a member of the Ethics Committee (including its Chairman) Group Ethics Committee (hereafter the Ethics Committee). find themselves in a situation of conflict of interest regarding an issue handled by the Committee, they must abstain from Article II. Composition participating in the discussion and be available to provide any The Ethics Committee has four members: two from within the information deemed necessary. group, namely the CSR director and an employee; and two nonemployees from outside, one a member of Bonduelle SAS’s Article VI. Missions and competence Board of Directors, and one a member of Bonduelle SCA’s The Ethics Committee is a multidisciplinary, pluralist, advisory and Supervisory Board. independent body, with a mandate from the group Chairman. It is a forum for discussion and is bound by confidentiality rules. It is Article III. Appointment of Ethics Committee members tasked with dealing with all issues arising regarding compliance The Committee’s members are appointed by the Chairman of the with the Bonduelle Group’s Ethics Charter. Bonduelle Group. Its mission includes: Article IV. Terms of ofﬁce and attendance at meetings 1. presenting recommendations on the Ethics Charter, issues Members are appointed for a three-year period, renewable taken up by the Committee independently, or issues submitted by a decision of the group’s Chairman. Members may not be to it; represented during Ethics Committee meetings. 2. promoting discussion of ethical questions related to the group’s business; Article V. Operating 3. promoting compliance with the charter across the Bonduelle Chair: the Chairman is appointed by the group Chairman for a Group; three-year renewable term of office. 4. ensuring the dissemination and understanding of the Ethics The agenda, set by the Chairman of the Ethics Committee, Charter by all employees, according to the local context; must be sent to the members called to the meeting, together with any preparatory documents and the minutes of the previous 5. proposing modifications to the Ethics Charter, where required; meeting, at least three days before the date of the meeting. The 6. issuing recommendations or guidelines based on case Ethics Committee makes decisions on a majority vote of the studies, specific questions or general topics; members present. 7. distributing its opinions and recommendations inside the Working groups: the Ethics Committee may decide to form working Company; groups on particular topics to carry out research in preparation for plenary sessions. 8. participating in preparing communications on the Ethics Charter with outside entities, as required; The Ethics Committee meets as often as required to ensure the performance of its duties and at least twice a year. Its Chairman 9. the Ethics Committee reports to the group Chairman on its may decide to call meetings without notice. work and agenda. The Ethics Committee may request the Bonduelle Group’s The Ethics Committee may not be substituted for other Bonduelle Chairman to provide it with the assistance of any Executive decision-making and dialog structures, or for specific regulations. Manager in the group, or any external person (who would then It is not competent to decide or examine disputes between be bound by confidentiality) whose expertise might facilitate individuals. It is bound by the rules of professional secrecy discussion of an item on the agenda. It may also have access to and confidentiality. all documents deemed useful for its deliberations and may hear submissions from any group employee. 34 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Article VII. Submission of matters The Committee’s opinions are purely advisory and for information. The Ethics Committee may initiate debate on the issues of its choice Opinions must respect the principle of anonymity and must comply within the scope of its mission and competence, by a majority with the rules of professional secrecy. The Ethics Committee decision of the members. Matters may also be submitted to the guarantees that an opinion will be issued to the applicant. Committee in writing to: the Chairman of the Ethics Committee, An annual report on the Ethics Committee presents the issues rue Nicolas Appert, BP 30173, 59653 Villeneuve-d’Ascq Cedex, referred to it, their nature and a summary of its non-confidential France, by: work and general opinions, based on an analysis of actual case 1. the decision-making bodies in the Bonduelle Group; studies. The report is included in the group’s CSR report. 2. any Bonduelle Group employee who encounters difficulties The Committee’s opinions are collective opinions based related to application of the Ethics Charter, when no resolution is proposed by hierarchical management and acting in good on consensus. Article IX. Changes and amendments to the Ethics 2 faith; Committee’s Rules of Procedure 3. any employee receiving correspondence from a third party or The Ethics Committee may change its operating methods, from an employee that calls the business unit or the group composition and missions, according to the terms and conditions into question; specified by the Committee in its rules of procedure. All such 4. any stakeholder concerned by the Ethics Charter who changes are presented to the Bonduelle Group Chairman becomes aware of a breach of the charter. for approval. Article VIII. Recipients and scope of the Ethics Committee’s opinions and work The Ethics Committee answers all questions according to the principle of hierarchical organization, with a focus on dialog with the employee and having examined the case. B. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GUIDE 2. ensure responsible purchasing according to our agricultural sourcing charter or sourcing contracts (covering vegetables, Since 2012, a team with representatives from across the organization ingredients and packaging); (agro-industry services, R&D in relation to the environment and packaging, marketing, purchasing and communications) has been 3. monitor cultivation methods to guarantee the safety of our working on preparing a guide to assist teams to include environmental products by controlling and minimizing the use of inputs for and social criteria at all stages of a product’s life cycle. Its purpose vegetable crops, anticipating regulatory changes and seeking will be to provide direction for the teams responsible for design, alternative solutions; production and marketing. It will set out the core objectives for all 4. limit distances traveled by our vegetables and other ingredients; branded products sold throughout the world (Bonduelle, Cassegrain, Arctic Gardens and Globus) and provide guidelines for improving 5. reduce environmental impacts, ensure socially responsible responsibility, without compromising on aspects such as pleasure, management and guarantee food safety during production; taste and accessibility. Hand-in-hand with this guide, Bonduelle is 6. devise nutritious recipes for our consumers; developing a tool to help teams to plan and quantify improvement 7. reduce the use of additives; actions based on their objectives and the requirements of consumers in their markets. The inventory and test phase is currently under 8. optimize and develop low-impact packaging, while guaranteeing way, prior to publication of the guide and roll-out of the tool to all the quality and safety of our products; teams. This phase will make it possible to plan a rollout and training 9. limit the impact of transport by optimizing the loading rate and timetable up to 2016. routes for road transport and by developing alternative transport This guide, to be finalized in 2014, is informed by 10 basic principles: solutions; 1. measure the environmental footprint of our products and be 10. provide consumers with recommendations for use, factoring in transparent about their impacts; environmental and nutritional impacts and raise awareness of food waste. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 35 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility C. NEW SOURCING CHARTER 2.2.5 External commitments The fifth version of Bonduelle’s agricultural sourcing charter is in the test phase in the Nord-Picardie region of France, with a view to being rolled out throughout the group, once it has been certified by Bureau A. TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS Veritas: It sets out the group’s requirements from our producer In 2012, the Bonduelle Group submitted certain of its CSR partners and its main objective is to limit agronomy-related risks in reporting indicators for verification by an independent third party, order to preserve the quality of the vegetables. This latest version in this instance, Deloitte. The initiative anticipated the entry into reflects new environmental and social challenges for the sector (health force of Article 225 of the French law of July 12, 2010, known as and safety). It supports the group in expanding its international reach Grenelle II. This new law is effective for fiscal years ended on or by defining a single reference base, which may be supplemented by after January 1, 2013 and applies to all companies with a balance any business unit, to reflect our sustainable development policy. sheet total of more than 100 million euros, or with total revenue of This new charter is in three main parts: more than 100 million euros and with more than 500 employees. This law requires that reporting on social, environmental and sustainable 1. Bonduelle and the new sourcing charter: development indicators must be included in the management report 1 Bonduelle’s ambition: and must be verified. In 2014, Deloitte was reappointed to carry out to be the world reference in “well living” through vegetable this work in respect of the 2013-2014 fiscal year. • products, Bonduelle obtained Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) application • the earth, an asset to be protected, level B+ in 2012, and again in 2013 and 2014. Bonduelle is one of the very few companies outside the CAC 40 index to have • improving the group’s links with the farming community; committed to applying the GRI reporting framework, and its B+ 1 the mainstay of agricultural research; rating places it among the best French companies using this frame 1 the purpose of the sourcing charter; of reference. This assessment reflects the group’s commitment to developing a standardized and credible approach to Corporate 1 growth plans and development programs. Social Responsibility. This result also reflects both the excellent 2. the sourcing process: work achieved by all of its teams (all the sites and business units are included, both in this GRI reporting framework and the sustainable 1 growing contracts; development reporting) and Bonduelle’s intention to meet its 1 suppliers of finished goods; stakeholders’ expectations in terms of non-financial reporting. The 1 one-off adjustment purchases. success is testimony to its policy of continuous improvement since 2003, based on the GRI’s main guidelines. 3. our commitments with our partners in terms of quality, environment and health and safety of people: 1 quality: • product quality, • product safety, • traceability, • genetically modified organisms, • foreign bodies, • chemical and microbiological contaminants; 1 environment: • soil conservation, • protection of water resources, • waste management and emergency situations; 1 health and safety of people: • on plots of land, • on harvesting sites and in relation to logistics. 36 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 37 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility B. DIALOG WITH STAKEHOLDERS Bonduelle engages in dialog with its customers across The Bonduelle Group has long engaged in active dialog with its Europe. Bonduelle took part in a meeting of members of stakeholders, both internally (employees and social partners) and the Ahold marketing service (AMS) European buying group outside the Company (farmers, suppliers, and national and local to advance exchanges of best practice on sustainable public bodies). Bonduelle employees participate in the work of trade development. The group also engages in frequent dialog with organizations, as committee members, directors or Chairpersons, its food service customers. Discussions with McDonald’s to ensure the Company’s active and responsible engagement in the are indicative of the group’s desire to take sustainable sector and to defend its interests through the communications of development to another level. This was reflected, in particular, these joint trade groups and federations with government bodies in by McDonald’s approval of Thomas Goeldelmann’s farm in the France and in Europe, the USA and Canada. Areas of work notably Southern Palatinate of Germany as a “Flagship Farm”. This include protection of the environment and agricultural production. farm produces salads for Bonduelle. The Bonduelle Group, in France and in the rest of the world, did not make any contributions to funding any political parties in 2013-2014. In addition, the Company has a history of forging partnerships and Dialog with investors is another means of progressing Bonduelle’s initiating actions to share best practices, with an emphasis on pilot sustainable development strategy. The group answers questionnaires programs run in conjunction with public or private institutions and from SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) funds and, twice a year, organizations. The Director of External Relations and Sustainable organizes one-to-one meetings with representatives of these types Development is tasked with developing relations with a diverse range of funds. of stakeholders: trade federations, institutions, national, European and international regulatory bodies and agencies, NGOs, ratings Global survey into the expectations of the group’s partner agencies, local communities, the media and teaching and research farmers. What are the current concerns of Bonduelle’s institutions. Moreover, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation is particularly 3,440 partner vegetable producers, how do they perceive proactive in promoting lasting changes in eating habits against the their relationship with the group, how can dialog and backdrop of growing public health concerns related to poor diet, communications be improved? These three questions are working in collaboration with its scientific and public partners and at the heart of the global survey project decided by the associations. group’s Executive Committee in February 2014, as part of The Bonduelle Group also improved in dialog with its stakeholders. It the VegeGo! initiative which promotes communication in the expanded the scope of this dialog with the establishment of its CSR farming community. The questionnaire, compiled jointly with approach: extending dialog to new stakeholders (ratings agencies, producers’ associations, was addressed to 15 agricultural and solidarity associations), and incorporating new focus areas (to production area farmers in August 2014. Bonduelle hopes to meet the demands of mass market retailing, partnership on disability, present the results of this survey, conducted by the IPSOS and environmental projects such as the “frugal factory” project), Institute, at the International Agricultural Show to be held in which continue to enrich Bonduelle’s corporate policy. Paris in February 2015. Bonduelle regularly responds to questionnaires from its distributors who also audit the group’s sites, sometimes several times a year. Bonduelle has also created a Tool Box for its business units with the In total, the group responded to 63 “customer” questionnaires in goal of fostering greater dialog with stakeholders in all countries in fiscal year 2013-2014. The 2013-2014 fiscal year was marked by which the group operates. discussions with the Carrefour Group, with which Bonduelle worked This Tool Box provides each business unit and country with the on the “sustainable development” priority area. This work led to general principles concerning: Bonduelle being awarded the Carrefour Sustainable Development self-assessment “Gold” prize, rewarding the self-assessment of all of 1 the identification of local challenges and targets; the Bonduelle Group’s agro-industrial sites in France. Carrefour also 1 the content of corporate information and dialog; inspected the Renescure (France) site in May 2014. This meeting, conducted with France Nature Environment, enabled various areas of 1 resources and tools for media relations; work to reduce food waste and share best practices to be identified. 1 resources and tools for dialog with stakeholders; Finally, Carrefour awarded Bonduelle second prize (Consumer Goods category) for its Group Policy on the inclusion of disabled workers at 1 communication rules. the Renescure (France) site. The Tool Box was formally introduced in 2013-2014 in numerous meetings with different organizations, during which participants were able to learn about Bonduelle Group’s sustainable development policy and voice their comments and expectations. 38 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility GERMANY On the tenth anniversary of the Straelen plant which specializes in Stakeholders mobilized at the Tecumseh site. A fire was the production of fresh-cut salads, in May 2014, Bonduelle invited reported during the night of July 17/18 at Bonduelle’s Tecumseh local stakeholders to visit the plant. This event also enabled the group plant (Ontario – Canada). Fortunately no-one was injured. to present its main areas of development and the VegeGo! initiative. According to the investigation’s initial findings, this incident is likely to have been an accident. Although the damage was CANADA significant, the rapid and effective response of firefighters Following this same logic of dialog, Bonduelle Americas (BAM) and teams of plant workers saved a large percentage of the launched a consultation process with its stakeholders in Quebec. The production equipment and so vegetable processing was able initiative involved internal stakeholders (employees and members to resume the week after the fire. Government bodies, local of Executive Management and totaled 143 respondents, or a 42% firms and other Bonduelle plants in Ontario rallied round, thus participation rate) and external stakeholders: government bodies, citizens/consumers, customers, local communities, CSR experts, trade federations, suppliers, academic institutions, NGOs and social ensuring a rapid solution to storage and packaging issues and demonstrating stakeholders’ commitment to the group. This rapid response should limit the financial impact of this incident 2 partners (56 respondents or a 54% participation rate). The objective for the Company, partner suppliers and growers, all Bonduelle of the consultation was to establish, by means of a 36-points Group plants being fully insured against material damage and questionnaire, the perceptions of these two groups in terms of operating losses. sustainable development and to construct a relevance matrix to guide BAM’s actions in the future. The priorities that emerged include: FRANCE 1 employee health and safety; On December 19, 2013, the Bonduelle Group organized a meeting 1 product quality and safety; with its stakeholders in Paris. These stakeholders included general 1 water consumption; CSR professionals, experts specializing in Bonduelle’s priority 1 corporate governance and operations management; areas and associations. The objective was to challenge the group’s sustainable development policy and its presentation in the CSR 1 effluent management; report and on www.bonduelle.com. Stakeholders were able to put 1 food traceability; forward ideas for topics to be discussed in greater depth and to ask for clarification on published information. This event followed on from 1 employee wellbeing; meetings organized in 2011 and 2012 which, due to the quality of the 1 customer service; dialog, made it possible to improve the group’s CSR reporting and to obtain the GRI B+ level in 2012 and 2013. 1 human rights and working conditions; Bonduelle takes part in the “Big brands committed to the 1 employment and the labor force; future” campaign. The objective is simple: to highlight the 1 locally sourced vegetables; commitments made by large brands to their consumers. This new 1 the environmental impact of agricultural upstream. collective action is the perfect opportunity for these brands to explain how they work towards improving nutrition, environment, An identical questionnaire will be launched in France in the second local jobs, selection of raw materials and sustainable agricultural half of 2014, with the aim of extending the initiative to include the practices. As part of its CSR policy, the Bonduelle Group has group’s other countries. chosen, in particular, to progress its commitments to agricultural upstream, packaging and food waste. A dedicated website was set up: www.lesgrandesmarquessengagent.com At the last World Forum held in Lille between October 23 and 25, 2013, the Fresh business unit’s Human Resources Manager took part in the Performance and Diversity workshop. The aim of this session was to bring together corporate best practice on the recruitment and retention of disabled workers. He was able to present Bonduelle’s policy in this area which consists of integrating disabled employees by asking them, wherever possible, to perform the same tasks as other employees. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 39 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ITALY 1 Meeting with Mario Guidi, Chairman of Confagricoltura, an 1 Meeting with Rossela Muroni, General Manager of Legambiante, organization dedicated to the protection of farmers. the main Italian association involved in environmental education 1 Meeting with Guiseppe Politi, Chairman of the ICA (Italian and the fight against pollution. Confederation of farmers), one of the largest trade associations 1 Meeting with Antonio Longo, Head of the Movimento Difesa del in the Italian agricultural sector, mainly to discuss food safety and Cittadino (Citizens’ rights movement). environmental protection issues. 1 Meeting with Michele Fina, Secretary General of the Department 1 Meeting with Maurizio Martina, Minister for agriculture, food for the Environment. and forestry. 1 Meeting with Mauro Tonello and Stefano Masini, respectively POLAND Vice-Chairman and Head of Environmental Affairs at Coldiretti, The Management Committee has implemented a mechanism for the largest farmers’ association in the European Union with identifying stakeholders, the first stage in various dialogs scheduled 1.6 million members. for 2014-2015 1 Meeting with Managers from the Fondazione per lo sviluppo sostenible (Sustainable development foundation). The table below shows Bonduelle’s stakeholders by type and outlines the methods used to provide them with information and engage in dialog with them. Agreements-PartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog Consultation Collaboration Employees/social 1 Web-based communication tools 1 Dialog with employees, employee 1 In France, two agreements partners (Intranet, Internet) representatives and trade unions (High risk providence and Strategic 1 Brochures and reports 1 European Works Council – and intergenerational workforce 1 Displays (including dynamic at least one meeting per year planning) and 2 riders (Mutual fund displays on some sites) and incentive plan) were signed 1 Specific events in 2013-2014 Customers 1 Corporate Social Responsibility 1 Response to questionnaires 1 In 2014, Bonduelle’s French report in the registration and customer CSR audit – yearly plants won the Carrefour Group document gold medal for their commitment 1 Specific questionnaires to social responsibility Citizens/Consumers 1 Country-specific websites 1 Consultation with consumer 1 Bonduelle was the public’s favorite 1 Websites: panels: attitude and behavior in the 2014 Aressy Awards in 1 www.developpementdurable. survey and specific surveys – the digital marketing category and bonduelle.com an average of one survey was awarded the public choice and per month is carried out within award for its new dedicated www.sustainability.bonduelle.com the group sustainable development website 1 Brochures and reports 1 Louis Bonduelle Foundation 1 The survey conducted 1 Specific events, e.g. awarenessin Belgium, France, Italy, the on 140 companies and raising initiatives by the Louis Netherlands and Canada. The 4,000 consumers by the French Bonduelle Foundation Foundation’s three objectives are: market research agency, IFOP, in • information and awareness January 2014 put Bonduelle in 12th building; place in terms of its “Sustainable • field initiatives; Development” image in France and • support for research. in the lead in the Consumer Goods category 40 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Agreements-PartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog Consultation Collaboration Institutions/ 1 Websites: 1 Participation of national National, European www.developpementdurable. and international institutions and international bonduelle.com in the stakeholders’ session in regulatory bodies and December 2013 in France, yearly and agencies www.sustainability.bonduelle.com 1 Participation in the Global 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Compact * – yearly report in the registration document Farmers under contract with 1 Brochures and reports 1 Specific events, such as plant 1 Dialog and consultation – yearly, and permanent contact during 1 5th sourcing charter test phase rolled out in Nord-Picardie 2 Bonduelle visits the harvest period. The group’s 1 Global survey into the expectations 1 Websites: field supervisors and cultivation of the group’s partner farmers www.developpementdurable. Managers perform these tasks launched in August 2014 bonduelle.com and www.sustainability.bonduelle.com Suppliers 1 Brochures and reports 1 Awareness campaigns focusing 1 Sustainable development clause 1 Websites: on Human rights, working included in purchasing contracts www.developpementdurable. conditions and the environment – (reminder of the ten principles bonduelle.com yearly of the Global Compact) and 1 Evaluations and questionnaires – www.sustainability.bonduelle.com yearly NGOs 1 Websites: 1 Replies to queries www.developpementdurable. 1 Meeting with NGOs – yearly bonduelle.com 1 Participation of environmental and and social associations in www.sustainability.bonduelle.com the stakeholder sessions held 1 Corporate Social Responsibility in France and Italy – yearly report in the registration document Ratings agencies 1 Websites: 1 Response to questionnaires/ www.developpementdurable. queries – yearly bonduelle.com and www.sustainability.bonduelle.com 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report in the registration document 1 Specific questionnaires Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 41 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Agreements-PartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog Consultation Collaboration Investors 1 Quarterly financial information 1 Financial calendar/analysts’ 1 The Bonduelle Group is listed on 1 Annual and interim results meetings – at least twice a year the Gaia index, a listing of the best 1 Annual and interim reports 1 Specific meetings (Socially midcaps in terms of sustainable 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible Investment development report in the registration funds) – at least twice a year and document individual meetings upon request 1 Letter to Shareholders 1 Response to questionnaires/ 1 Specific events, including queries – yearly (for the CDP), the Shareholders’ Meeting e.g.: Bonduelle has answered the and plant visits Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire since it was first introduced in 2003. Its responses are available on the CDP website (www.cdproject.net) Local communities 1 Brochures and reports 1 Dialog with local communities – 1 Two calls to international projects 1 Website upon request conducted by the Louis Bonduelle 1 Specific events Foundation every year. 21 projects 1 Country-specific websites were supported in 2013-2014 1 Bonduelle prioritized participation in local communities where its plants operate. Nine projects were launched under the VegeGo! Program in 2013-2014 Media 1 Press releases – at least 1 Visit by the French press once a year to salad-growing farms in Murcia 1 Websites: (Spain) in July 2013 www.developpementdurable. 1 Presentation to the Italian press bonduelle.com in May 2013 on Bonduelle’s and sustainable development www.sustainability.bonduelle.com initiatives in Italy 1 Specific events Trade federations 1 One or more Bonduelle employees participates in the work of the following trade organizations, as committee members, Board members or chairpersons, to ensure the Company’s active and responsible engagement in the sector and to defend its interests: ADEPALE; FIAC; UNILET; ANIFELT; ANIA; UPPIA; CTCPA; PROFEL; ILEC; ECOPAR; SYNAFAP; SFPAE; AETMD; ANICC (details of acronyms appear in Section 2.7 Glossary and acronyms) – meetings during Board and Shareholders’ Meetings. Together with 52 other European companies, Bonduelle is a signatory to the European Brands Association (AIM) charter on the “Role of brands for health and wellbeing”. 42 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Agreements-PartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog Consultation Collaboration Education and 1 Initiatives in schools close to 1 Trainee and apprenticeship 1 Partnerships with schools research headquarters, subsidiaries and programs 1 €10,000 international research sites 1 Partnerships/studies prize awarded by the Louis 1 Websites: Bonduelle Foundation to a PhD www.developpementdurable. student – yearly bonduelle.com 1 Participation since 2012 in the and Bonduelle chair within the Edhec www.sustainability.bonduelle.com Group in France. This Teaching and Research Department investigates the impact of technological changes on 2 marketing of food brands. CSR experts 1 Websites: 1 Response to questionnaires – 1 Bonduelle received a carbon www.developpementdurable. yearly emissions reduction certificate on bonduelle.com 1 Participation in forums – yearly May 3, 2014 at the International and (e.g.: Responsible Economy Logistics Exhibition held in www.sustainability.bonduelle.com World Forum in Lille) Barcelona (Spain). This recognizes 1 Corporate Social Responsibility 1 Satisfaction surveys – yearly the group’s initiative to introduce report in the registration combined road/rail transport document between Murcia (Spain) and Saint-Mihiel (France). This project saves an average of one tonne of CO2 per trip * Membership of the Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 43 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3 Environmental commitments BONDUELLE’S DEPENDENCE ON ECOSYSTEM SERVICES Bonduelle’s activity is dependent on a number of ecosystem services. The following diagram identiﬁes these along the product life cycle. Ecosystems provide, in particular, important regulation and supply functions known as ecosystem services, on which human activities are dependent. The natural environment, for example, houses fauna which plays an essential role in the reproduction of wild plant species and crops. The natural environment is also a «reservoir» for certain resources such as water, materials and biomass. RAW MATERIAL AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION Bonduelle’s dependence on ecosystem services 1 Pollination 1 Regulation of harmful organisms 1 Genetic resources carrying infection and illness 1 Local and global climate regulation 1 Regulation of water quality 1 Regulation of natural risks 1 Detoxification and degradation of waste INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES Bonduelle's dependence on ecosystem services 1 Local and global climate regulation 1 Food products (ingredient purchase) 1 Regulation of water quality 1 Materials and fibers (packaging) 1 Detoxification and degradation 1 Biofuels of waste (renewable energies) CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCT END OF LIFE Bonduelle's dependence on ecosystem services 1 Detoxification and degradation of waste 44 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments BONDUELLE’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Bonduelle’s activities generate environmental impacts in various natural environments. The following diagram identiﬁes these along the product life cycle. PROCESSES DERIVED FROM NON-RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES Fossil fuels / Water / Packaging / Soil 1 Map consumption 2 1 Optimize and manage consumption 1 Develop alternative resources or techniques DISCHARGES INTO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT Discharge into the Air / Water / Soil / Waste 1 Control the treatment process / Recovery from waste 1 Reduce discharges OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Global warming / Biodiversity 1 Measure and reduce greenhouse gas emissions 1 Promote biodiversity OVERALL IMPACT ON SOCIETY Consumers / Local communities / Employees 1 Inform / Communicate / Train 1 Take our local environmental impact into consideration Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 45 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream The aim of the Bonduelle Group is to produce high-quality vegetables which are accessible to the public and grown according to the values of respect for the land and People and the environment in general. For Bonduelle, the land is not merely a resource, but a habitat for living organisms which must be protected. The group shares these challenges with all of its agricultural producer partners. A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Environmental impact Objectives 2013-2017 Highlights 2013-2014 1 Protect the soil 1 Encourage partner farmers to adopt 1 Promote simplified growing techniques to a group and biodiversity environmentally-friendly practices of farmers in Picardie (France) 1 Reduce the use 1 Reduce the use of phytosanitary products 1 Group-wide exchanges between the different of non-renewable natural with targets for each business unit agricultural production areas via the Agronomy resources 1 Increase the number of partner farmer Research and Development Division signatories of the 5th sourcing charter 1 Circulation amongst all the group’s Agronomy to 100% within five years Departments of a leaflet on best practice in plant 1 Develop pilot farms adopting alternative care product spraying cultivation methods in all countries where 1 Test natural treatment solutions to replace the use the group operates of phytosanitary products 1 Launch a plan to reduce agricultural 1 Test the 5th version of the sourcing charter upstream waste and optimize harvests in the Nord-Picardie (France) agricultural production area with an audit by Bureau Veritas with a view to global rollout 1 McDonald’s approval of the Thomas Goeldelmann’s farm in Germany, one of Bonduelle’s salad suppliers, as a “Flagship Farm” 1 Inclusion of Bonduelle’s Fresco Agricola de Murcia (Spain) in the Inspia (European index for sustainable productive agriculture) network 1 Continuation of strip-till tests in Russia across 150 ha 1 Economic 1 Maintain and develop sound relationships 1 Consultation with producers’ organizations and social impacts with partner farmers to compile the 5th sourcing charter 1 Develop partner loyalty within each 1 group promotion of communication in the farming business unit community via the VegeGo! initiative (presented 1 Support our partners in the use in Section 2.2.5 External commitments – part B) of innovative vegetable-growing techniques 1 Annual contracts with producers and producers’ organizations and multi-year contracts with service providers 46 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED TO SUPPLY CONSUMERS WITH HIGH QUALITY In 2013, an Agronomy Research and Development VEGETABLES Division was created. GROUP’S AGRONOMY ORGANIZATION As well as research and development, its mission consists of identifying the best agronomy practices observed in the areas To meet the needs and challenges of our countries and markets, the where the group operates, circulating them and sharing them. group’s agronomy organization is broken down by business unit, with The division also manages the international agronomy network each being responsible for their own agricultural policy. Their sales and provides the business units with specialized agronomy forecasts determine the activities of their Agronomy Departments advice. In 2013-2014, this division was involved in promoting for each business segment. The Agronomy Departments manage a simplified growing techniques to a group of growers in Picardie range of issues, including: selection of the areas and amount of land and in implementing and monitoring strip-till trials in Russia. It to be sown, signature of contracts and relationships with producers and producers’ associations, selection of varieties according to the sowing plan, monitoring of crops and vegetable maturity, harvest also visited the entire North American agricultural production area in order to identify best practices and to help to promote the group’s agronomy network. The division also supported 2 date and choice of equipment to be used by specialist providers, Bonduelle Americas in compiling protocols for agronomic trials and transport logistics to the plant. They are responsible for ensuring and testing. compliance with the specifications, before the vegetable preparation process. Our field supervisors are the link between Bonduelle and its producer partners and play a key role in ensuring application of Bonduelle’s principles. EIGHT KEY STAGES IN MONITORING VEGETABLE CULTIVATION From seed to harvest, our Sourcing Charter tracks vegetable growing and sourcing in eight stages. Plots are selected This stage is Fertilization involves Approval of the plot according to a rigorous “Planting the crop”. preparing a fertilization before the harvest, process, based It involves correct soil plan using both mineral harvesting and washing on the soil, preparation giving and organic fertilizers. the vegetables. the environment priority to natural and water resources. methods. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Stage 6 Stage 7 Stage 8 THE PLOT SOWING SOIL CULTIVATION FERTILIZATION IRRIGATION HARVEST THE PLANT During this stage, we This last stage choose the seed and Accurate water in the charter variety focusing on Careful management supply management, encompasses quality of taste and of plant protection in terms of both the sequence excluding all GMOs. products. quality and quantity. from ﬁeld to plant. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 47 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments SUPPORTING AGRICULTURAL UPSTREAM PREVENTION Bonduelle maintains close relationships with its producer partners Monitoring crops and providing support to producers are key aspects (3,440 partners grouped into producers’ associations in some of Bonduelle’s agricultural policy, with prevention being viewed as countries). These relationships help ensure the quality and yield key. By selecting the most suitable land for different vegetable required for its business and encourage producer partners to limit varieties and ensuring regular crop rotation, we avoid exhausting the their impact on the environment. soil of nutrients, while promoting biodiversity and improving yields. Our producer partners supply around 90% of the group’s vegetables. After the introduction of geo-referencing of land in France in 2012, Bonduelle rarely produces its own vegetables, choosing instead to Bonduelle is planning to overhaul its computerized agro-management assign this task to trusted partners under contractual agreements. system, adding a mobile field system. Tablets or smartphones will be Those areas where the Company does produce its own vegetables used to locate plots of land, to input data in the field and to improve include Russia, where it runs its own agricultural operations, the traceability and reliability of its data inputting. Spain and Canada, where it operates farms producing part of its requirements and France, where it produces mushrooms. All BAM business unit vegetables appear in the AgPOD This approach allows the group to concentrate on its core business system (agricultural portal for online data), an online program of vegetable preparation whilst at the same time developing its developed specifically for reporting agronomic data recorded agronomic know-how. Bonduelle also works with service providers in the field. The system enables crop data to be compared and able to take care of transport, planting, harvesting and other shared rapidly. cultivation activities. This avoids producers having to invest heavily in special equipment. This initiative supplements the predictive testing method already in For other sources of vegetables, the group requires its suppliers to place to enable prevention of diseases that could endanger seedlings, comply with all laws and regulations in force related to their activity thereby reducing the risks of crop failure and waste of raw materials and their professional environment. The rules and standards are (seeds, fertilizer and water.). According to the same principle of early set out in our sourcing charter, which all producer partners are detection, observation networks have been established to operate as required to sign. This charter is an exclusive contractual commitment early-warning systems if pests are detected. covering the process from seed to harvest to ensure that Bonduelle’s For example, in France, based on the information gathered, producer specifications are strictly adhered to, from selection of plots of land partners receive recommendations on the best techniques to use and seed selection to cultivation methods, etc. to control these risks. This initiative forms an integral part of the 93% of our producer partners have signed the sourcing charter, biological monitoring system established by the French Ministry of which was first launched in 1996. This fifth version, approved in Agriculture, which has been run by industry professionals since 2010. 2014 by the Bureau Veritas certification agency, was tested in NordPicardie. It takes into account the group’s international expansion SEED SELECTION and specific factors encountered in the various geographical Optimum seed selection constitutes the genetic lever of Bonduelle’s regions and production chains. It also emphasizes new topics such policy of respecting biodiversity and reducing the use of phytosanitary as water conservation and protection for the people working in the products. The group works with national and international seed fields. This charter is the result of a participatory process led by producers to identify the varieties with the highest resistance Agronomy Managers in various countries and business lines. The to disease, water stress and climatic variations using traditional charter is testimony to Bonduelle’s ongoing commitment to using cross-cultivation methods. Bonduelle also takes part in testing environmentally-friendly farming techniques. new varieties to measure their suitability and behavior in different geographies. As a result of varietal selection, the right seed choices C. PROTECT THE SOIL AND BIODIVERSITY mean that biodiversity can be preserved without much use of plant care products, whilst still developing new varieties. Soil protection and biodiversity are constant guiding principles of the group’s policies. For Bonduelle, the land is not merely a resource, In 2013-2014, the group launched various soil and biodiversity but a habitat for living organisms which must be respected. We also protection initiatives: seek to optimize the protection of crops and aim to reduce the use of France (Nord-Picardie) phytosanitary products. 1 The BELL business unit set up a multi-year intermediate crop monitoring platform, in partnership with the Chamber of Agriculture of the Somme, the technical benchmark for this project. The 48 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments mechanism has been in existence for two years now and the D. REDUCE THE USE OF NON-RENEWABLE results will be available in four years’ time. NATURAL RESOURCES 1 Assistance with introducing intermediate crops in non-vulnerable Initiatives launched in 2013-2014: areas. Most agricultural land North of Paris, as well as in the West and in part of the South-West, has been classed as a “vulnerable North America (Quebec) zone” following the application of European directive 91/676/ In Quebec, Bonduelle Americas (BAM) has launched tests on CEE, known as the “Nitrates” directive. In these areas, special inoculating peas with a specific bacterium (Rysobium) to encourage agricultural practices are required in order to limit the risk of the production of nitrogen and so limit soil depletion. Other tests water pollution. Bonduelle, via producers’ associations, provides involving mycorrhizas have been conducted on peas with the aim of financial aid to growers whose land is located in non-vulnerable limiting the use of chemical fertilizers. zones, so that they can implement the same practices as those required in vulnerable zones. 1 Via producers’ associations, Bonduelle promotes the purchase France (Nord-Picardie) 1 Launch of a program to update knowledge of crop requirements in terms of nitrogen fertilizer and readjustment of requirements. The 2 of harvesting machinery equipped with caterpillar tracks which data was updated in line with yield targets and varieties currently in are much less damaging to the structure of the soil. In total, 18 use to obtain optimum agronomic and environmental conditions. machines were equipped with caterpillar tracks in 2013-2014. The This work was performed by Bonduelle and shared across the number will grow as older vehicles are replaced. industry (Unilet – National Processed Vegetable Trade Association). France (South-West) 1 Work on nitrogen fertilizer adjustment for haricot beans and root 1 A platform for testing different varieties of sweet corn was set up vegetables by determining optimum fertilization techniques. in partnership with seed producers. Over 300 hybrids were tested In 2014, Bonduelle developed additional means of improving its to select the varieties best suited to the local soil and climatic knowledge of the nitrogen requirements of cultivated land. The conditions of South-Western France. BELL also conducted related work involves green beans and salsify. crop tests in this region to combat sandstorms and so protect 1 Help with calculating the soil’s nitrogen requirements at the end of against soil erosion. winter. This initiative was undertaken with producers’ associations 1 For two years now, seeds have been planted under cover in sweet for all crops, apart from peas, a legume which naturally captures corn plots so as to improve seed planting conditions during the the nitrogen in the air and does not require any added fertilizer. corn cycle. Once harvesting is over, the plot is already planted 1 Program for the circulation of know-how regarding fertilization before winter, thus improving soil structure whilst limiting erosion. techniques acting on the organic life of the soil, in particular, by stimulating microbial flora, thereby reducing the need for fertilizers. Bonduelle is involved in the rollout of this technique to growers In Brazil, Bonduelle signed contracts with independent at meetings organized by producers’ associations and via its producers to supply its Cristalina plant with peas and corn. field supervisors. In 2013-2014, over 3,000 hectares were cultivated. Bonduelle teams are working on two priorities in this area where the 1 Bonduelle, in partnership with the Chamber of Agriculture of the group has had a presence since 2010 and where the climate Somme, launched a water budget for green beans and flageolet allows for up to 3 vegetable harvests per year. The first initiative beans. This project, which is currently in its test phase, will reach involves increasing producer loyalty. Such loyalty guarantees completion in 2015. The water budget makes it possible to compliance with specifications and is a significant asset monitor the status of the water reserves in the soil (RFU or Easily since, in this region of the world, growing vegetables like Used Available Water) by taking a crop’s water requirements into peas is largely unknown. 20% of contracts were renewed in consideration in addition to natural input from rain or irrigation. It 2013-2014 and the target is to improve this figure three-fold is also a technical management tool which enables requirements in 2014-2015. Initiative two: the expansion of direct drilling, and inputs to be analyzed at the end of the season. It means without plowing, only after residues of the previous harvest that periods of shortfall and excess can be tracked throughout have been shredded. In 2013-2014, 100% of Bonduelle’s corn the season. Its analysis, once yields are known, helps to explain crops were cultivated using direct drilling methods. how plots of land function and crops’ reactions to various climatic events. France (South-West) Poland 1 Initial testing of the Nsensor system aims to regulate the amounts Crops grown near the Gniewkowo plant comply with a number of of nitrogen spread depending on biomass and chlorophyll, using criteria which prioritize soil protection and biodiversity. The use an optical reader mounted on the front of the sprayer. In order to of intermediate and plant cover makes it possible to achieve the reduce its water consumption, BELL South-West also rolled out a following objectives: to protect the soil against erosion by water and program of capacitive probe tests to guide the irrigation of sweet wind, recycle minerals, retain organic matter in the soil, supply the corn crops. next crop with nitrogen, combat weeds (harmful to crops), produce silage, structure the soil and control biological pests. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 49 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 1 37 capacitive probes monitor the green vegetable production methods was published in 2014. It covers the cultivation of peas, network. This device, designed with producers’ associations, green beans, flageolet beans and baby carrots. In addition to enables the amount of water needed to grow crops to be adjusted participating in the compilation of this guide, Bonduelle circulated as accurately as possible. An identical project was rolled out on this document via producers’ associations and field supervisors. sweet corn crops in 2014 with the installation of two probes. 1 Spin-off of best practice obtained during years of studying pilot farms with promotion of hoeing: since 2013, Bonduelle has Poland brought together a group of volunteer farmers to start hoeing 1 In this country, Bonduelle prioritizes the use of water-saving crops of beans on land in water collection areas. Following this irrigation techniques (drip irrigation system), particularly in the trial, an EEIG (Environmental and Economic Interest Grouping) cultivation of zucchini and celery. The group is also encouraging was created. In addition, Bonduelle’s partner farmer association partner growers to carry out soil analyses to determine the amount in Picardie (OPL-Vert), in conjunction with the Chamber of of fertilizer to be used. Finally, organic fertilization is prioritized to Agriculture of the Somme, submitted an application within the reduce the use of chemical-based fertilizers. context of a call for proposals from the Department of Agriculture. 1 Launch of tests on bio-stimulants and bio-control products. BioE. REDUCE THE USE OF PHYTOSANITARY stimulants allow for early harvests, while bio-control products are PRODUCTS alternatives to phytosanitary products. Bonduelle is facing a two-fold problem in this area: to produce more to 1 Bonduelle is also involved in plant health bulletins published meet the growing needs of consumers and to produce better in order by the Department of Agriculture on the basis of observations to protect the planet. The group shares these two responsibilities with issued by chambers of agriculture. Data is entered into a national its partner growers. Together they face a fundamental fact: the active database on a weekly basis. ingredients of phytosanitary products disappear more quickly than the diseases being treated. 1 The group helps to develop tools to assist decision-making on how to combat Sclerotinia, a disease which affects haricot beans. This initiative was conducted in partnership with Unilet At group level, Treatment Frequency Indicators (TFI) calculated and Syngenta. It aims to motivate producers to limit their use of in Nord-Picardie in just the last six years, are helping to reduce phytosanitary products and prioritize crop protection practices. the use of plant care products. Each of the group’s business 1 Bonduelle supports and finances the use of organic control units has also implemented different initiatives in this regard. products such as bacterial fermentation products (mushroom spores, for example) which destroy sclerotia present in the soil. Initiatives launched in 2013-2014: France (South-West) North America Green beans in South-Western France are now hoed using camera-guided hoeing machines. The aim is to remove weeds The BAM business unit launched a project to assess the efficacy by mechanical means and thus reduce phytosanitary treatments of combating Sclerotinia disease by organic means using a nonwhilst encouraging the growth of beans throughout the areas chemical, environmentally-friendly product. A chemical adjuvant being farmed. was also replaced by a folar fertilizer to increase weedkiller efficacy and to reduce dosage. Poland Spain The program to reduce protective treatments means that the use of phytosanitary products can be reduced by between 10% and In the Murcia region, Bonduelle launched a program at a pilot 30% for crops of peas, green beans, broccoli and cauliflower. Use farm to reduce chemical input and organize initiatives targeted at of this mechanism is combined with the destruction of weeds using a number of partner farmers, in particular concerning automated alternative methods (hoeing, hand weeding in spinach, broccoli and hoeing machines, netting and trapping systems. cauliflower crops, etc.). France (Nord-Picardie) Russia 1 Several sessions on recommendations for low-volume spraying Since 2013, the BDV business unit has been using a new insecticide techniques were held in 2013-2014 in conjunction with chambers on sweet corn crops. This product has a low-level environmental of agriculture. impact and improves the efficacy of the amounts used to combat 1 As part of the pilot farms trial in Picardie, and in partnership heliothis. with Agro-Transfert, a practical guide to alternative weeding 50 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments F. PREPARING FOR TOMORROW’S AGRICULTURE adoption of sustainable agricultural practices throughout Europe and to raise awareness amongst European Union policymakers, For Bonduelle, agriculture is a vital link in the prepared vegetables technicians and farmers, of sustainable agriculture. value chain. This is why the group has committed, through its VegeGo! program, to promoting sustainable farming with the goal 1 The Company’s commitment is also reflected in the LEAF of protecting the environment while maintaining high levels of crop certification obtained by Bonduelle’s Fresco Agricola farm in Spain. productivity and profitability. The LEAF benchmark certifies that products have been produced as a result of an ecologically responsible initiative. The Ecologically Intensive Agriculture initiative, which forms part of the VegeGo! project is a complete process comprising three stages: 1. defining the scope of the project by carrying out an in-depth review of the agronomy possibilities and customer expectations; 2. establishing clear goals that reconcile customer expectations and agronomy possibilities; 2 3. drawing up action plans designed to achieve these goals. The first stage, which is essential for the success of the project, is already underway. It calls for the scope of possibilities to be clearly defined, taking into account the diverse geographical, technological and behavioral factors. Three action areas have been selected: identifying applicable agronomy practices, determining and formalizing customer expectations and formalizing agri-food initiatives that have already been implemented. This project is consistent with the actions undertaken to promote sustainable development. New seeding techniques, alternative mechanical weeding methods, research on optimizing soil activity, testing the contribution of mushrooms or bacteria to stimulate plant root systems and protect against parasites, controlled irrigation through capacitive probes, etc. are just some of the increasing number of pilot projects run by Bonduelle and its partners to France (Nord-Picardie) promote sustainable agriculture using natural techniques and control mechanisms that are as close as possible to those occurring naturally 1 Bonduelle is developing strip-till trials on crops of flageolet beans in nature. and carrots and is supporting a group of farmers in this innovative initiative. This method prevents soil erosion and limits the use of The group maintains a network of pilot farms in Germany, Canada, tools thus helping to reduce fuel consumption, reduces the need Spain, France and Russia. to purchase often costly equipment and, above all, improves soil Initiatives launched in 2013-2014: fertility. 1 In 2014, the Chamber of Agriculture of the Somme purchased a Germany drone. This device photographs crops and processes datavia a McDonald’s approval of the Thomas Goeldelmann’s farm in the service provider so as to determine fertilization requirements. It is Southern Palatinate in Germany, one of Bonduelle’s salad suppliers, more effective than satellite technology because it is below the as a “Flagship Farm”. This operation produces salads, in particular, clouds. The Chamber of Agriculture offered Bonduelle the chance for Bonduelle. to use the drone in order to test different vegetable-growing techniques. Studies are under way on peas and green beans. Spain 1 Bonduelle’s Fresco Agricola farm in the region of Murcia is one 1 Continuation, in Picardie, of the creation of a network of 40 or so of 50 operations to be included in the Inspia (European index for farmers already involved in the use of growing techniques which do sustainable productive agriculture) network. The Inspia project aims not involve plowing. The goal is to foster interaction and encourage to define a benchmark for sustainable agriculture. The IAD (Institute the implementation of best practices on a much larger scale. for sustainable agriculture), the ECAF (European conservation agriculture) and the ECPA (European crop protection association) are leading this program together. Once it is complete, Inspia will give a measurement indicator of each operation’s capacity to operate in a sustainable manner. This will be calculated using a set of indicators that can be verified on the basis of data supplied by the network of 50 farms. This network will enable the validation, demonstration and reporting of best agricultural practice. The aim of this initiative is to create a European benchmark, to promote the Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 51 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments France (South-West) Bonduelle is a partner in the Ferme urbaine lyonnaise Alternatives not involving plowing were implemented in this (FUL – urban farm) project agricultural production area with the aim of respecting the structure Set up in Genas, in the Lyons region of France, with a and life of the soil as well as its original nature: humus, organic plant specializing in bagged salads and ready-to-use fresh matter, etc. The soil in this area has been prepared using strip-till vegetables, the Bonduelle Group, via its Bonduelle Fresh tools for three years now. Bonduelle is also involved in tests which business unit, is the technical partner in the Ferme urbaine aim to limit soil compaction and erosion linked to sandstorms which lyonnaise project. This project responds to several prospective hit the Northern part of Aquitaine (France). challenges, in line with the Bonduelle Group’s CSR objectives: Russia to feed the planet against a backdrop of shrinking areas of arable land, to reduce environmental impact and produce In this country, the group has launched a test protocol for simplified directly at consumption sites, thereby saving on transportation cultivation techniques, avoiding the use of plowing and encouraging costs. Bonduelle is contributing its agricultural know-how to the re-use of the plant cover from the previous crop. This method, the project in respect of work on varietal selection and the life known as the strip-till method, prevents land erosion, limits the use cycle of salads. The initiative is also enabling Bonduelle to of tools thus helping to reduce fuel consumption, reduces the need to acquire additional knowledge about the cultivation of salads purchase often costly equipment and, above all, improves soil fertility. in closed environments. These new techniques should mean This method, known as the strip-till technique, avoids land erosion, seven production cycles per year and over 280 salads per limits the use of tools thus helping to reduce fuel consumption, square meter, ten times more than in an open field. In addition reduces the need to purchase often costly equipment and, above all, to prospective work on the product itself, the Bonduelle Group improves soil fertility, etc. This trial protocol, launched in 2012-2013, is also a partner in the consumer study being carried out as part entered its operational phase in 2013-2014. 150 hectares of crops of the project, so as to increase understanding of consumers’ have been cultivated using the strip-till method and 150 others perception of the product and this new method of production. using conventional methods. The results of this trial which started in May 2014, will be available in 2015. Canada (Quebec and Ontario) Bonduelle is conducting density tests on peas and corn in order to increase yields, implementing tests to detect aphanomyces before peas are grown, comparing irrigation management using a tensiometer and the water budget and is systemizing tests on different varieties so as to have access to the most suitable genus for the agricultural production area in question. G. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Biodiversity 500 varieties Almost 500 vegetable varieties distributed across the group’s various ranges 199 varietal collections 219 varietal collections enabled 1,355 plant varieties to be observed. 942 varieties observed Agricultural headcount 239 people 246 employees (full-time equivalent Agronomy Department employees, including administrative staff, seasonal staff, trainees and those on permanent and fixed-term contracts). Sourcing charter 91% 93% of farmers ve signed it. Farmer assessed 54% 74% of farmers ave been assessed by an initiative iming to compile an annual budget. Soil analysis 98% 94% of nitrogen fertilizing has been calculated using residual method analysis. Farming intensity 28.7 ha 27.3 hectares of vegetables grown by each producer on average. Security network 168 networks 245 trapping networks. 52 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3.2 Natural resources For Bonduelle, the 2013 growing season turned out to be fairly average on the whole. Except for Northern France, almost all geographical With its unique agro-industrial expertise, Bonduelle is keen to strike areas where the group operates experienced a late, wet spring which a balance between economic performance and protecting the delayed planting, and a short off-season with early frosts. Overall, environment. For more than a decade, the group has implemented based on a similar scope to the previous year, the group’s industrial a proactive policy to reduce its environmental footprint, in line with activity (production and logistics), in tonnes of manufactured product current global issues: depletion of natural resources, volatile energy (TMP), rose by 7.7% compared with 2012-2013. prices, environmental footprinting and global warming. A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Environmental challenges 1 Reduce the use of non-renewable Objectives 2013-2014 1 Reduce energy consumption by 5% Highlights 2013-2014 1 Energy consumption reduced by 9% in 2013-2014 2 resources per year between 2011 and 2014 1 Water consumption reduced by 10.2% in 2013-2014 1 Increase the use of renewable 1 educe water consumption by 3% 1 Removal of heavy fuel oil from the group’s energy mix resources per year between 2011 and 2014 1 In situ biogas recovery from the agro-industrial 1 Control and minimize discharges into 1 Launch five alternative energy facilities of Saint-Denis (Quebec) and Békéscsaba the natural environment projects in five years (2012> 2018) (Hungary). This brings the total number of projects 1 Understand and manage the overall 1 Recover 80% of ordinary industrial implemented since 2012 to three, the first being the impact of the group’s activity on the waste in the period 2012 to 2015 Nagykőrös site. environment and society 1 Roll out the Guide to Environmental 1 Recovery of 78% of ordinary industrial waste Responsibility and develop tools to 1 Tackling waste: 21.5% reduction in the production measure environmental impact ratio of plant by-products at the group’s production facilities 1 Environmental responsibility: production of a joint guide and prototype product characterization tool through VegeGo! 1 ISO 50001 certification – energy management at the Estrées-Mons frozen foods and Renescure sites (France) 1 Creation and first meeting of the BAM business unit’s Energy and Water Network B. RESPONSIBLE USE OF PACKAGING Bonduelle thus uses various types of packaging to ensure the best AND ENERGY possible quality and experience for its customers: Packaging serves numerous functions: 1 steel and aluminum for metal cans; 1 to protect products prior to purchase, prolonging their shelf life 1 glass for jars; and preventing damage; 1 flexible plastic for bags of frozen and fresh vegetables; 1 to be environmentally friendly by being recyclable and smaller 1 rigid plastic for trays of prepared products; and lighter; 1 cardboard for some frozen packaging and all bulk and transport 1 to comply with the relevant legislation; packaging. 1 to be cost-effective; These materials are chosen according to processes, preservation 1 to be user-friendly, i.e. easy to open and to empty/remove; requirements, market convention and their robustness in relation to the product and their use. 1 to enhance the product’s visual appeal so that consumers will want to buy it. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 53 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Energy is essential for Bonduelle. 1. METERING TO SET IMMEDIATE PRIORITIES 1 Electricity is required to operate production processes, store The metering of all energy consumption (water, steam, electricity, frozen produce, generate compressed air and drive motors compressed air) and its breakdown into process stages is the basis (pumps, turbines, product transfer and collection, packaging and for effective short-term management. The Information Systems logistics). Electricity also powers handling equipment, lighting and Department at Bonduelle is developing and rolling out a consumption ventilation, chilled water production and temperature control of and process monitoring tool, together with an operational data refrigerated workshops; retrieval tool. This system can be used to map the most resourceintensive stations. 1 Thermal energy is used to generate steam and hot water. It is also used in heat recovery ventilation and for handling equipment; It is connected to the main technical facilities to satisfy various requirements: 1 Water is used as an ingredient in the finished product (liquid, sauce) and in processes as a vehicle for the transport and transfer 1 provide real-time performance feedback to operator stations to of heat or cold. It is also used to wash vegetables and to clean optimize decision-making; production lines. The usage ratio of these applications depends on 1 provide a methodological tool to improve process control – the industrial activity carried out: it varies at each site. standardization of machine programs, traceability and reproducibility of recipes; C. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED 1 populate a database for post-analysis and to set benchmark ratios. The Bonduelle Group approaches the conservation of natural Since 2012, several sites have been fitted with the system – Saintresources with a dynamic long-term vision, ensuring the industrial Mihiel (France), Estrées-Mons (France) and Straelen (Germany) – to and environmental sustainability of its activities. The resources cover three segments (fresh, canned, frozen). A three-year rollout implemented are deployed in five complementary phases: program has been launched in Europe. 1. metering to set immediate priorities; 2. CONTINUALLY IMPROVING PERFORMANCE 2. continually improving performance in the short term; IN THE SHORT TERM 3. anticipating technological and economic constraints in the Once meter readings have been taken, the management of natural medium and long term; resources consists of making use of the collected data and correcting any divergence from targets as quickly as possible, drawing up 4. galvanizing internal stakeholders and raising awareness specific action plans and fostering topic-based discussions within throughout the process; the group. 5. investing to improve results. 54 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments The 2013-2014 fiscal year saw two major achievements: Production and Human Resources Departments, and obtaining ISO 50001 certification (level 2) for the Estréesmanagement control, each one contributing their expertise to Mons frozen foods and Renescure sites in France. The ensure that the project is a success; international standard ISO 50001 guides businesses through 1 commissioning a site energy audit from a specialist the implementation of an energy management system based on external organization and identifying high usage through a continuous performance improvement. This standard defines a comprehensive energy review; framework of requirements so that companies can: 1 introducing an energy policy for the site with commitments and 1 develop a more efficient energy usage policy; objectives; 1 set targets and objectives; 1 drawing up a prioritized action plan; 1 rely on accurate data to pinpoint energy usage and consumption; 1 make the best optimization decisions; 1 organizing an annual management review and regular Steering Committee meetings to drive progress; 2 1 measure results. 1 raising awareness of all staff through “energy charter” fact sheets summarizing basic energy best practice to be applied To obtain this certification, sites have adopted the following on the job. approach: 1 Creating a project group consisting of plant management, Environmental and Energy Managers, Quality, Technical, ■ Impact of the ISO 50001 energy management approach on changes in energy performance ratios at the Renescure site (in % relative to 2011-2012) Renescure site 2011-2012 2012-2013 * 2013-2014 * Water ratio 1 -13% -31% Thermal ratio 1 -9% -22% Total electricity ratio 1 -4% -15% Cold room electricity ratio 1 30% -22% * Initiative launched in 2013. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 55 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments In the same spirit of continuous performance improvement, the Similarly, in 2013-2014 Bonduelle helped develop the QEEAT (Quality, Russy-Bémont and Bordères plants have adopted a similar internal energy & environmental assessment tool) software for assessing the approach for managing energy consumption. In Canada, the impact of variations in the cold chain on product quality (changes in Tecumseh facility launched a program to monitor and manage its texture or vitamin degradation) and on the energy consumption of energy consumption (electricity, heating and water). In 2014-2015 equipment. this site will act as a pilot for the deployment of the program within the BAM business unit’s. 4. GALVANIZING INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Galvanizing all internal stakeholders is a key factor in the success 3. ANTICIPATING TECHNOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC of Bonduelle’s strategy for conserving natural resources. This is CONSTRAINTS IN THE MEDIUM AND LONG TERM achieved through networks of internal and external experts in energy, The development of new, frugal practices and technologies is an environment, purchasing and packaging. It is supported by the use essential part of the group’s natural resources preservation strategy. of Google applications established by the Networking project for the Bonduelle has always engaged in ambitious research programs to entire group in 2013-2014 (see page 75). develop breakthrough technologies aimed at bringing to market This approach adds value internally and horizontally across the four innovative products or driving its strategy of protecting natural business units to the initiatives and skills developed by employees resources. group-wide. It is coordinated in different ways: For example, the tri-generation system at the Reutlingen plant in Germany was implemented in 2013-2014 after a technical and 1 structured technical networks (environment, energy, packaging): these working groups bring together Operational Managers from economic study. It combines an absorption chiller with electricity multiple business units or countries and corporate experts at cogeneration and positive refrigeration. The environmental benefit periodic meetings organized by an internal facilitator. The aim of derives from the configuration of national electricity generation the networks is to foster the exchange of best practice in terms in Germany, with an aging grid and energy mix. In situ production of control, management, technology choices or investments. Its improves energy efficiency by 40% to 90% over the process cycle. mission is also to raise awareness of global issues in the medium term (regulatory and technological intelligence) and elements of In 2009, the “Frugal Factory” research program was launched the group’s sustainable development policy. In addition to general in partnership with the group’s R&D Department, the French meetings and whenever the need arises, the networks are divided Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME), into sub-working groups during “targeted technical sessions” and investor partners and private and public-sector research tasked with examining outstanding issues and drafting fact sheets bodies. The aim of the “Frugal Factory” program is to look at or guides to best practice for operational use. Thus, in 2013-2014, the energy challenges of the group’s product range (canned, fact sheets for the blanching and freezing processes and technical frozen, bagged salads and ready-to-use fresh vegetables). water management were published; The program entered its second phase in 2012, with two key research projects supported by the ADEME Total program on 1 in 2013, the Fresh Europe Packaging network was set up with representatives of all stakeholders in the agro-industrial process: the efficiency of our processing: buyers, packaging developers from different countries, Corporate, 1 concept of a self-powered machine: the pilot phase in 2013Industry and Logistics, and Marketing Managers; 2014 confirmed that energy consumption was 60% below the standard, with no negative impact on the processed 1 in North America, a new network was set up in 2013-2014. The first energy and water technical meeting of Bonduelle Americas food item; was held in February 2014. Bringing together all Energy and 1 concept of a heat engine with a threefold reduction in energy Environment Managers from the business unit and the 11 agroconsumption: the modeling phase in 2013-2014 confirmed industrial facilities in Canada and the United States, this was an the industrial feasibility and potential quality associated with opportunity to discuss the characteristics of each entity, to present the product. work strategies at the business unit level and at the group level, and to draw up an action plan; 1 communities of specialized employees (Best Environmental & The group’s involvement in European projects such as FRISBEE Economic Practices; Energy Efficiency Group; Fresh Pack) use (Food Refrigeration Innovations for Safety, consumers’ Benefit, Google applications set up by the Networking project to share Environmental impact and Energy optimization along the cold chain operational or forward-looking information quickly; in Europe) demonstrates its commitment to environmental issues. The FRISBEE program brings together 26 partners from 12 countries (13 companies, six SMEs, five research centers and two NGOs) and ended in August 2014 with a demonstration/presentation day in Paris. 56 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 5. INVESTING TO IMPROVE RESULTS Offering the best packaging In Europe, the group’s Packaging Managers and Operational In 2013-2014, the amount of investment spent on protecting Managers work with suppliers, Marketing Departments and the environment came to 7.239 million euros, or 13.6% of the sites to identify the most suitable product packaging. Its group’s total investment. Of this, 72% (5.242 million euros) was approach using purchasing pairs, consisting of technical spent on energy and atmospheric emissions management, specialists and salespeople, allows the best initiatives to be 25% on water management (1.816 million euros), and 3% on shared and ensures compliance with the regulatory framework. waste management (0.181 million euros). In order to offer the best packaging, the group relies on its R&D Department to identify and work on breakthrough technologies and initiate optimization projects (e.g. on packaging thickness, Bonduelle is closely involved in the mandatory European energy cost-effectiveness, etc.). In each business unit and country, a Packaging Department develops projects in the short and medium term and conducts practical tests in association with saving mechanism. For example, the group’s agro-industrial facilities have investment programs comprising technological 2 and organizational improvements eligible under certified energy the R&D Department. saving schemes. The value of energy savings certificates (ESCs), obtained or being obtained for work carried out in fiscal 2013-2014 on energy1 appraisal visits and grassroots discussions are organized across the efficient systems and technology, is equivalent to more than entire group scope by the Energy and environment and Packaging 1,101,000,000 kWh cumac *. Managers or a specialist service provider. The visits are scheduled according to current issues and the requests made by the group’s The ESCs break down as follows: agro-industrial facilities. The aim is to construct and follow up on 1 45% thermal energy saving (heat exchanger, insulation, boiler); prioritized action plans, disseminate group recommendations in the field, identify and share best practices and provide support and 1 38% management practices (ISO 50001); corporate culture standards for recently integrated sites. Overall, 1 17% saving on electricity consumption (variable speed control, around 30 visits were organized in 2013-2014; regulators). 1 technical training: organized by the group’s internal university – the Institut Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle – in 2013-2014 training courses covered various fields such as optimization of commercial freezing and refrigeration. D. REDUCING THE USE OF NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCES ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF AGRO-INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES The energy policy implemented for electricity, gas and steam achieved the following results: Total energy Electricity Thermal kWh of electricity kWh of electricity (fossil + renewable) Group CSR per TMP per TMP kWh GCV per TMP 2013-2014 scope 806 316 489 2012-2013 scope 885 355 530 Change in ratios in 2013-2014 versus 2012-2013 -9% -11% -7.7% Target -5% -5% -5% * The kWh cumac is the unit of measurement of French energy savings certiﬁcates. It corresponds to the cumulative ﬁnal energy consumption in kWh discounted over the life of the product (kWh of cumulative discounted ﬁnal energy) and represents the amount of energy saved by the actions implemented. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 57 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments The optimization of energy consumption at agro-industrial facilities 1 performance of energy diagnostics by specialized external is based on a dual approach: management and guidance through companies at eight facilities in Europe. Studies have enabled a the exchange of best practices, and technical optimization. This hierarchical consumption map to be drawn up, specific technical approach was formalized in 2013-2014 in different areas: and economic reviews to be carried out on the consumption of certain production lines or equipment, and a list of areas where 1 cold rooms: in Europe, the overall energy consumption ratio of technological improvements can be made to be drafted. deep-freezing chambers was reduced by 7.8% compared with the previous year. Over the last five years, the efforts taken have saved WATER CONSUMPTION EFFICIENCY 13 GWh of electricity (equivalent to the annual consumption of 1,700 French people) and have avoided 133 tCO2e being released Water consumption in 2013-2014 amounted to 12,032,822 m3, which into the atmosphere; represented a ratio per tonne of manufactured product of 10.6 m3/TMP and a 10.2% reduction from the level observed in 2012-2013. 1 lighting: continuation of the replacement program for traditional lighting with low energy systems such as light-emitting diode (LED) Water in all of the group’s plants; Group CSR Ratio m3/TMP 1 mushroom production: by improving processes and renovating 2013-2014 10.6 buildings, the ratio of natural gas consumption has been reduced by more than 36%, which enabled the emission of 400 tCO2e to be 2012-2013 11.8 avoided in fiscal year 2013-2014; Change in ratios in 2013-2014 versus 2012-2013 -10.2% Target -3% ■ Change in the ratio of water consumption by Bonduelle (m3/TMP) over 10 years (baseline 2003-2004) Index m3/TMP 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006 2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 Basis Over the past decade, the group’s water consumption ratio has been reduced by half. Over the past three years (2010-2011 baseline), the ratio has improved hydraulic conveyor belts (consumption ratio reduced by 30%), and by 26%. This represents a saving of almost 8.7 million m3 of water, in the Canada-Ontario area through improvement and management equivalent to the annual consumption of 158,000 French people. plans (consumption ratio reduced by 12%). These actions have resulted in a saving of more than 150,000 m3 of water. Significant improvements have been made at various facilities, including the Timashevsk plant (Russia) following the removal of 58 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PACKAGING POLICY 1 for the first time in 2013-2014, the Békéscsaba site (Hungary) The prevention of waste generated by packaging products for recovered biogas from its wastewater treatment plant for use in sale is a regulatory requirement in packaging design. The essential its new boiler. requirements stipulate that packaging “shall be so manufactured Other projects are also under way: that the packaging volume and weight be limited to the minimum adequate amount to maintain the necessary level of safety, hygiene 1 purchase of biomass-based steam for the Estrées-Mons site (France). This project, which is due to become operational in the and acceptance” (2/Article R. 543-44 of the Environmental Code and first quarter of 2015, involves the construction by a partner of a European Directive 94/62/EC). biomass cogeneration boiler with a capacity of 62 MW (thermal) Waste prevention through the reduction at source of the packaging and 13 MW (electrical). “CBEM” (Cogénération Biomasse materials used is therefore an integral part of the group’s approach to d’Estrée-Mons) will supply nearly 60% of the steam requirements designing, optimizing and upgrading its packaging. of the agro-industrial facility while avoiding 15,000 tCO2e per year. In 2013-2014, Bonduelle launched various initiatives to reduce the use of raw materials needed to make packaging: Aside from its environmental credentials, the project is providing a boost to the local biomass industry in Picardie; 2 1 the work carried out at the Saint-Benoist-sur-Vanne site (France) 1 construction by a specialist company of a process for the in conjunction with the Purchasing Department and cardboard methanation of agricultural by-products near the Bordères-etsupplier saved three tonnes of raw materials, or 0.5% of the total Lamensans plant (France). This project, named EGISOL, is part cardboard mass; of a consortium of local agricultural partners created in 2011 with the goal of increasing the production of non-fossil based 1 optimization through analysis of the value of canned packaging electricity and meeting the objectives of France’s national energy (AVEC), a project that was first launched in 2012, continued in policy, as well as supporting an industry for by-product recovery. 2013-2014 and will be completed in 2014-2015. This initiative The Bordères-and-Lamesans plant will cover 75% of the biomass relates to secondary packaging and seeks to optimize shrinkrequirement using by-products from its vegetable processing. The wrapping systems (shrink-wrap film, boxes, machinery) through project is due to come onstream during 2016; various improvements: optimizing the thickness of the shrink-wrap film for batches and individual units, reducing the size of boxes 1 the methane plant at the “Agri-Flandre-Energie” farm near the (trays and pots), improving the wrapping machines so as to reduce Renescure site (France) will be operational in late 2014. The plant the film thickness more easily and cut energy consumption; was designed to process 10,000 tonnes of inputs per year (cow manure, grass cuttings, sprouted seeds, vegetable peelings, 1 the scheme to optimize the wall thickness of canned packaging vegetable waste from the plant, etc.). The heat generated has been running for several years. This aims to reduce at source will be used for heating industrial premises near the WOSTIN the quantities of raw materials (iron or aluminum) used, while taking agri-food business; into account the specific constraints of the various processes and industrial plant. In Europe, an optimization program has been 1 intelligence and monitoring in relation to packaging materials are developed around a targeted metal saving of around 500 tonnes carried out by the purchasing and R&D Departments. The Ecoper year compared with the quantity used in 2013. A multi-year Friendly project identifies market opportunities and assesses their test plan (2013-2016) has been developed to qualify assumptions. technical and economic potential. E. INCREASING THE USE OF ALTERNATIVE As part of its sustainable development policy, the group has set RESOURCES itself the target of supporting five innovative projects promoting In 2013-2014, alternative energy represented 3.7% of Bonduelle’s the use of alternative energy in five years (2012-2018). To fossil energy mix. date, three projects have been completed: biogas recovery at Nagykőrös (Hungary) in 2012-2013; biogas recovery at SaintThe introduction of alternative process solutions (dry transport, Denis (Quebec) and Békéscsaba (Hungary) in 2013-2014. cooling technology) and improved sourcing of energy and packaging materials are two areas of improvement in terms of sustainable development. The 2013-2014 fiscal year saw the launch of two projects for energy recovery from biogas produced by biological anaerobic wastewater treatment plants: 1 since 2013-2014, the Saint-Denis site (Quebec) has been equipped with a biogas-fired steam boiler; Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 59 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments F. CONTROLLING AND MINIMIZING DISCHARGES CONTROLLING THE USE OF CHEMICALS INTO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN WATER TREATMENT Control of the physical, chemical and bacteriological characteristics MANAGING TREATMENT PLANTS of the water used in the process is subject to close scrutiny. Together The industrial effluent generated by the plants is treated in the with equipment cleaning operations, the associated treatments following facilities: are the only activities involving chemical product consumption at the sites. 1 24 independent ventilated biological treatment plants managed by Bonduelle. 6 sites have a treatment stage using an anaerobic Introduced in 2011, the rationalization process continued in 2013-2014 biological reactor (production of biogas); with the transfer of a comprehensive benchmark procedure from service providers within the Environment network. The best practices 1 12 sites use urban infrastructures for the full or finishing treatment of their effluent; adopted in Europe were put forward. This approach was extended to the Bonduelle Americas business unit. 1 11 Bonduelle sites have an agricultural wastewater recycling system after physical or biological treatment. TACKLING WASTE OF AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES BY REDUCING LOSSES IN PRODUCTION FACILITIES The group’s Environment Department rigorously control and monitor AND RECOVERING PLANT BY-PRODUCTS the quality of plant effluent before it is discharged into the natural environment. 86% is released into rivers, groundwater or agricultural Bonduelle’s activities generated 487,318 gross tonnes of green waste fertigation depending on local requirements, having been fully (GW) or mushroom by-products in 2013-2014, equivalent to a ratio of treated in biological treatment plants. 14% is treated and recycled 428 kg of GW per TMP, a fall of 21.5% compared with 2012-2013. In agronomically (spreading). addition to the variability in the vegetable mix used, this fall reflects the efforts made by the group’s plants to reduce losses from agricultural In 2013-2014, industrial effluent contained an organic load of raw materials and to improve the efficiency of their processes. approximately 44,392 tonnes of chemical oxygen demand (COD). 96% of this load was treated through operating processes controlled During this fiscal year, 97% of this tonnage was reused for animal directly by Bonduelle (treatment plants and agricultural spreading). feed, methanation or standardized composting products (NF 44Bonduelle uses external resources for 2% of the load to be processed. 051). Other agricultural uses accounted for the remaining 3%. At group level, discharge into the natural environment represents 1,092 tonnes of COD, or 2% of the initial load. RECYCLING INDUSTRIAL WASTE In 2013-2014, the group produced 45,001 tonnes of ordinary Wastewater treatment generated around 2,180 tonnes of biological industrial waste, equivalent to a ratio of 39.6 kg per TMP, a fall of sludge dry matter (DM) in 2013-2014. Sludge is recycled in controlled 4.6% compared with 2012-2013. agricultural processes, mainly through agricultural spreading. Recycling industrial waste is another priority for the group, which has Bonduelle’s agro-industrial facilities experience significant changes targeted an 80% recycling rate in 2015. The initiatives taken relate in activity over time. The composition of the effluent produced to employee awareness, improved sorting, actively seeking local during the manufacturing process changes as a result. Treatment channels for material or energy recovery, and the supplier purchasing plants, constructed based on an initial situation, may therefore policy. In 2013-2014, the Quebec-Canada region (Saint-Césaire, have insufficient capacity or aging equipment that affects their Bedford and Saint-Denis sites) introduced materials recovery performance. Bonduelle, which manages the vast majority of processes for the treatment of their non-compliant products. its waste treatment processes, is committed to having the right equipment to fulfill its obligations and invests to maintain maximum Thanks to the efforts of all plants, the group’s overall performance in waste treatment efficiency. terms of energy recovery or recycling improved in 2013-2014, with a rate of 78% compared with 76% in 2012-2013. Six years ago, in In addition to technical investments, the group also arranges special 2008-2009, this was 71%. training. For example, a refresher course on the principles of nitrogen and phosphorus treatment was held in March 2014, fostering the In 2013-2014, the group generated 182 tonnes of special industrial exchange of best practice in view of the seasonal nature of the waste (SIW) (i.e. 0.216 kg/TMP), which was disposed of through group’s activities. This initiative, intended for field operators, was a specialized waste management provider. Annual variations in launched under the aegis of the group’s Environment network and the tonnage disposed of through specialized companies are due was led by an external facilitator. to variations in the timing of individual disposal operations and investment programs. 60 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments RECYCLING PACKAGING by the local residents’ association of SOLEAL Bordères and the Publishing waste sorting guidelines is another way for the Bonduelle Landes branch of the regional federation of nature conservation Group to affirm its commitment to sustainable development. New associations for the Aquitaine region (SEPANSO). After the hearing on product packaging now includes information on the sorting and May 15, 2014 before the district court (Tribunal de Grande Instance) recycling systems of the country of sale, with – in France – the label in Mont-de-Marsan, the presiding judge appointed a legal expert Info-tri – Point vert, accompanied by custom instructions. to conduct a joint technical assessment. The management of the Bordères plant is continuing the improvements begun several years ago, acting transparently with State departments, and is providing Renescure joins the circular economy the necessary means to allow a proper assessment to be carried out. According to the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME), the circular economy is PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY designed to increase the efficient use of resources and to reduce the impact on the environment at all stages of the product life cycle. Supported by the regional association In 2012-2013, Bonduelle launched an initiative to identify all of its local issues relating to sustainable development. Its implementation at group level will allow it to review the current situation and draw 2 Ecopal, the Renescure site (France) has launched a circular up suitable action plans to respect biodiversity in the areas where economy project. Several initiatives have been planned for Bonduelle operates. This Tool box is presented in Section 2.2.5 – B 2014: intra-company initiatives to raise awareness of waste of this report. sorting among site employees – 120 of whom attended the The following sites, all of which belong to Bonduelle, are located in first session – and inter-company initiatives to produce an areas deemed to be biodiversity hotspots: inventory of material flows to identify all inflows and outflows in terms of water, energy and raw materials. The end goal is to 1 Mediterranean basin: Santarém (Portugal), Torre-Pacheco (Spain); identify industrial synergies with other local actors. 1 Caucasus: Timashevsk (Russia), Novotitarovskaya (Russia); 1 Cerrado: Cristalina (Brazil). To qualify as a hotspot (source: conservation.org), a region must meet G. INTEGRATING ACTIVITIES two strict criteria: INTO THE ENVIRONMENT 1 it must contain at least 1,500 species of vascular plants (with INTEGRATING INTO THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT vessels through which the water drawn up by their roots is circulated) and endemics (plants that only exist spontaneously in Sensitivity to odors, road transport and noise is one of the key issues that area), i.e. more than 0.5% of the world’s total; facing Bonduelle’s efforts to integrate its agro-industrial facilities into their environment. The group addresses this issue in three ways, with 1 it has to have lost at least 70% of its original habitat. each plant director managing his or her own action plan to suit local needs as closely as possible: COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE In 2011-2012, Bonduelle began the voluntary measurement of 1 investing in technical solutions: improving equipment, optimizing management, implementing additional treatments, applying its carbon and water footprint. Data collection is based on life specific solutions; cycle analysis (LCA), as described by ISO 14040. Net greenhouse gas emissions for 2011-2012 were estimated at approximately 1 opening up to residents: organizing public debates, creating odor 1,800,000 tCO2e, equivalent to the average annual emissions monitoring panels composed of independent volunteer residents, of about 235,000 Europeans (ADEME – 8.8 tCO2e/Western organizing public open days, impact studies and surveys to assess European/year). complaints objectively; The stages in the life cycle analysis are as follows: 1 raising awareness among all employees and funding local initiatives through the VegeGo! project described in the Section on 1 cultivated and purchased food raw materials: emissions for “Community commitments and participation in local life” production, growing and supplying production facilities: 42%; (Section 2.4.3 Societal commitments, Part B. Local communities). 1 non-food materials, such as packaging: emissions for production, Dialogue with local communities is generally constructive, as reflected supply, end-of-life and emissions avoided through recycling: 34%; in the low number of disputes. It should be noted, however, that in 1 industrial processing: direct and indirect energy emissions relating France, legal proceedings for noise and odor pollution were brought to scope 1 and 2 GHG Protocol emissions, and emissions from the against the SOLEAL plant in Bordères-et-Lamensans in February 2014 treatment of ordinary industrial waste: 10%; Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 61 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 1 transport of intermediate and finished products: emissions CONTINUING ENERGY SUBSTITUTION generated by inter-site flows and customer deliveries to the In 2013-2014, the share of thermal energy supplied by liquid fossil distributor’s warehouse: 13%; fuels (very low sulfur heavy fuel oil and domestic fuel oil) accounted 1 transport of employees and work-related travel: 1%. for only 1.8% of the group’s thermal energy mix. In 2013-2014, the group ceased using heavy fuel oil as a fuel: five years ago, in Direct and indirect water consumption calculated in 2011-2012 for 2008-2009, this represented almost 9% of the thermal energy the manufacture of input materials is estimated at 87,500,000 m3 per consumption and an extra 1,600 tCO2e in emissions compared with year, broken down as follows: 100% use of natural gas. 1 agricultural production (for food crops): 62%; The share of renewable energy in the thermal energy mix is comprised 1 manufacture of non-food materials, such as packaging: 23%; of two sources: biomass and biogas. It represents 3.7% of the group’s thermal energy mix. 1 industrial processing: 15%. These results were shared with contributors, section Managers and employees. Since 2006, Bonduelle has responded to the international The group’s industrial greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (from the questionnaire issued by the Carbon Disclosure Project purchase of fossil fuels and steam, refrigerant leaks and electricity (CDP), specifying the main principles by which it seeks to consumption) totaled 187,914 tCO2e in 2013-2014, of which 0.25% combat climate change: related to ozone-depleting refrigerants. 42% relate to indirect 1 diversifying its agricultural sourcing regions and its emissions from electricity and the purchase of steam, while 58% production locations; relate to direct emissions from fossil fuels. 1 implementing an industrial process that reduces its consumption of fossil fuels; 1 offering the consumer product ranges that produce lower Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse greenhouse gas emissions; gas emission allowance trading within the European 1 developing expertise in quantifying the greenhouse gas Community applies to the Bonduelle Group for its European emissions generated by its processes and products; sites equipped with a boiler with a capacity of more than 20 MW. Since January 1, 2013, the new emissions trading 1 working in partnership with external process operators. scheme (ETS) covers the period 2013-2020 and concerns three of Bonduelle’s sites: Estrées-Mons, Vaulx-Vraucourt and Renescure (France). For 2013, the allocation of free quotas ENSURING ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT TOWARDS CONSUMERS equates to 32,371 tCO2e. Certified and transferred emissions totaled 43,269 tCO2e. Through energy savings made at its Eco-responsibility charter sites since 2008, Bonduelle has surplus allowances available The eco-responsibility initiative launched in 2011-2012 has been in its account; as such it did not have to make purchases in the integrated into the VegeGo! program in 2013. This project was carbon allowance market in 2013. designed with all Company stakeholders. It culminated in the production of a guide and a prototype scoring tool which factor in the environmental and social criteria throughout the entire product life cycle (agricultural production, recipes and processes, logistics and procurement, packaging) and which will cover the entire new product development process. Part of this approach is designing a tool for calculating the carbon footprint of each product. After defining the requirement and method in 2013-2014, the project will get under way in 2014-2015 with an active awareness-raising phase for the teams involved on the issues of sustainable development and environmental responsibility and a pilot phase to validate the proposed method. 62 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Ban on the use of bisphenol A meet the demands of its customers. Thus, despite the enormous Since 2009, Bonduelle has been working alongside all industry complexity of this technology transfer (large number of products, stakeholders on a solution that avoids using bisphenol A (BPA) on different acidity levels, seasonal nature of production, etc.), an the inside of its packaging. Widely used since the 1960s, BPA is the alternative solution is now in place. From the 2014 season, French main component of polycarbonate plastics. The varnish that coats plants have packaged all of their products in BPA NI packaging the inside of cans contains very small amounts in order to give them (BPA Non-Intent or BPA-free packaging). European plants use BPA the necessary flexibility to preserve products and ensure food safety NI packaging for products destined for the French market, as well and taste. On December 13, 2012, France unilaterally banned the use as for the majority of those destined for European markets. Outside of BPA in food containers, with effect from 2013 for the packaging Europe, the use of BPA is still permitted. Bonduelle keeps abreast of products intended for infants; it will apply to all packaging from of developments and the results of ongoing studies as well as the January 1, 2015. Naturally the Bonduelle Group complies with the positions expressed by the various food safety agencies in countries where the group operates. regulations in force in the countries where it operates and strives to 2 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 63 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments CONSUMPTION, EMISSIONS AND RECYCLING IN BONDUELLE’S PLANTS The following diagram shows consumption of natural resources and emissions into the natural environment generated by all of the Bonduelle Group’s industrial facilities. The main emissions recoveries are also shown. For more details, see page 65. Energy: 3,187,816 GJ Water: 12,032,822 m3 Packaging: 150,845 tonnes <1% LPG 3% Surface water 1.6% Plastic trays <0% Fuel (very low sulfur content) 20% Urban water 2.8% Labels and other <1.7% Biomass 7% Well water 2.8% Lids 1% Domestic fuel oil 4.9% Plastic film 2% Propane 12.3% Glass jars 3.6% Steam and biogas 19.9% Cardboard 40.6% Electricity 55.7% Metal cans 51% Natural gas 36% of biogas recovered for boilers Plant CO 2 Metal cans : Greenhouse gas emissions 44,392 tonnes of chemical (industrial) : 187,914 tCO2e oxygen demand 475 tCO2e From refrigerants 2% Effluent returned directly 77,734 tCO2e From indirect to the natural environment on account of its clean emissions quality (electricity Industrial waste : 532,501 tonnes and steam) 27% Treated via the soil 109,705 tCO2e From direct (spreading) <0.1% Special industrial waste emissions 71% Discharged to biological 8% Non-hazardous industrial waste (fossil fuels) treatment plant 92% Green waste 72% recycled in other ways and 88% of green waste reused for animal feed and 6% of ordinary waste recycled as energy 8% recycled as standardized products 64 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments H. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES The indicators below were prepared in accordance with our reporting framework, whose main components are summarized in the methodology note in Section 2.6 of this report. Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 TMP 1,055,837 TMP 1,137,305 TMP (tonnes of manufactured product) Water consumption 12,434,274 m3 12,032,822 m3 consumed 11.8 m3 Equivalent to 10.6 m3 per tonne of manufactured product Water sourcing 9,281,434 m3 3 9,275,455 m3 of drilling water 3 2 2,802,329 m 2,391,002 m of urban water 350,510 m3 366,365 m3 of surface water Energy consumption 3,247,707 GJ (gigajoules) 3,187,816 GJ of total consumption 1,350,776 GJ of which electricity: 1,294,188 GJ 1,663,950 GJ of which natural gas: 1,626,199 GJ 2,082 GJ of which fuel oil (very low sulfur content): 0 GJ 48,744 GJ of which propane: 60,863 GJ 6,275 GJ of which LPG: 3,351 GJ 39,749 GJ of which domestic fuel oil: 34,036 GJ 29,943 GJ of which biomass: 54,953 GJ 95,213 GJ of which purchase of steam: 98,447 GJ 10,975 GJ of which biogas: 15,779 GJ Electricity consumption by country: 50% 51% France 24% 22% Canada 13% 13% United States 4% 4% Portugal 3% 4% Poland 2% 3% Hungary 2% 2% Germany 1% 2% Russia 0.5% 0.6% Brazil Production of ordinary waste 43,802 tonnes 45,001 tonnes 41.5 kg i.e. 39.6 kg/TMP Treatment: 24% Industrial landfill: 22% 4% Energy recovery: 6% 72% Recycling: 72% Production of special waste 262 tonnes 182 tonnes 0.25 kg i.e. 0.16 kg/TMP Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 65 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Production of green waste 576,361 tonnes 487,318 tonnes 546 kg i.e. 428 kg/TMP Use: 3% Agricultural spreading: 2.7% 77% Animal feed: 88% 1% Energy recovery: 0.7% 19% Marketable product: 8% 1% Other (compost): 0.6% Pollution discharge Breakdown of treatment in m3: 85% 86% m3 discharged to treatment plant 10% 11% m3 discharged for spreading after pretreatment 2% 3% m3 discharged directly for spreading on crops 3% 0% m3 discharged as clean effluent Discharge of pollutants and proportion treated: 24,591 tonnes of BOD 44,392 tonnes of COD* produced at production facilities 84% 69% of COD trated at Bonduelle treatment plants 13% 27% of COD trated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural spreading) 2% 2% of COD trated at external treatment plants 0.6% 2% of COD discharged into the natural environment in compliance with regulations Biosolids 1,936 tonnes Production of 2,180 tonnes of dry biological sludge 3 1,591,006 Nm Production of 1,576,263 Nm3 of biogas Packaging 146,140 tonnes 150,845 tonnes Breakdown by type of material: 57.6% Metal cans: 55.7% 20.3% Cardboard: 19.9% 9.8% Glass jars: 12.3% 5.1% Plastic film: 4.9% 3.6% Lids: 2.8% 1.6% Plastic trays: 1.6% 2.1% Labels and other: 2.8% * Change in the unit of measurement from biological oxygen demand (BOD) in 2012-2013 to chemical oxygen demand (COD) in 2013-2014. 66 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Expenditure for minimizing the impact €3,777,825 Wastewater and sludge treatment: €1,816,014 of activities on the environment €241,403 Industrial and green waste: €181,172 €3,253,175 Air and energy: €5,242,105 Greenhouse gas emissions 68,383 tCO2e 77,734 tCO2e from indirect emissions (purchase (expressed in tonnes of carbon of electricity and steam) dioxide equivalent – tCO2e) Emissions of ozone depleting gas 121,205 tCO2e 2,446 tCO2e 110,180 tCO2e from direct emissions (purchase of fossil energy, refrigerant fluid leaks) 475 tCO2e for R22, R134A, R404A and R422A 2 2.3.3 Transport Transporting vegetables to production facilities and finished products to distribution points is central to Bonduelle’s product distribution activities. The group is implementing a wide range of projects to optimize flows and reduce the environmental impacts of transport and minimize greenhouse gas emissions. A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Environmental impact Objectives 2013-2014 Highlights 2013-2014 1 Understand and control the 1 Reduce CO2 emissions by 5,000 tonnes 1 Working together in France with the ADEME impact on climate change 1 Extend CO2 emissions metrics to include (the French Environment and Energy Management all business units Agency) on developing a method of metering 1 Identify and share pilot actions CO2 emissions from road transport approved 1 Optimize logistics and increase the use by the Agency of alternatives to road transport 1 Bonduelle’s participation in the shipper’s voluntary commitment (Engagement volontaire chargeur) scheme launched by the ADEME and AUTF (French association of freight transport users) 1 Development of combined rail-road transport 1 4,600 tonnes of CO2 saved in 2013-2014 through combined rail-road and maritime transport Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 67 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED PRODUCT TRANSPORT FLOWS AND ALTERNATIVES TO ROAD HAULAGE Bonduelle is developing alternatives to road haulage for part of its transport ﬂows from harvesting to ﬁnished products. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AREA Customers Plant Plant Fields Commercial depot Plant Logistics/ packaging Customers centre Plant Plant Upstream agricultural activities: agricultural commodities Inter-site ﬂows: semi-finished products Fields Distribution: finished products AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AREA Since transport is a particular focus for Bonduelle, it has formed It has always been Bonduelle’s policy to locate production facilities a Transport and Sustainable Development Committee to monitor close to agricultural production areas to optimize product quality, strategy in this area. The Committee members include representatives allowing crops to be harvested at maturity and reducing the time from the logistics divisions of agro-industrial facilities, members of between harvest and processing. This reduces transport requirements the Supply Chain Departments of the Business Units and Purchasing and boosts the local economy. Bonduelle is also committed to Departments, as well as Sustainable Development Officers. the creation of large-scale storage infrastructures. Logistics sites are thus organized by geographical area and are responsible for The Committee is responsible for legislative intelligence in the selecting carriers for distribution to customers according to the most sector, monitoring legislative developments in the sector and appropriate transport options. researching long-term solutions to minimize the environmental impact of transport flows. 68 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Working in partnership with the ADEME and AUTF The French Environment and Energy Management Agency to comply with these new provisions. The group had several (ADEME), part of the French Ministry of the Environment, devised meetings in 2013-2014 with the ADEME, which was involved in a method for calculating CO2 emissions from transport in 2005. developing the standard. Aside from calculating greenhouse Bonduelle adopted this metering method in 2008. Following the gas (GHG) emissions, Bonduelle has signed up to the shipper’s enactment of Decree 2011-1336 on October 24, 2011 establishing voluntary commitment (Engagement volontaire chargeur) scheme the calculation principles common to all modes of transport and launched by the ADEME and AUTF (French association of freight the publication of the new European standard for the calculation transport users). The aim is to provide guidance on how shippers and declaration of energy and greenhouse gas emissions from can reduce their GHG emissions, mainly by optimizing flows, transport services (NF EN 16 258), Bonduelle has undertaken palletization or using new modes of transport. 2 Initially set up for product flows between French plants and logistics In addition to combined rail-road transport, Bonduelle has teamed centers for canned goods, the emissions measurement program was up with two of its long-standing service providers to deploy 44-ton subsequently extended to all countries in Europe to which finished loads for all inter-site road transport flows in France. This new system products are delivered. The group is constantly on the lookout for follows the official authorization given in France in 2011 permitting alternative solutions to road transport in each of its regions. this type of trailer to be transported, with the goal of drastically reducing the number of trucks on the road. This measurement program is ongoing under the group’s new organizational structure, which is now comprised of four business In accordance with Bonduelle’s sustainable development policy, each units for separate geographical areas. In 2013-2014, the scope of the group’s four business units has undertaken various actions to covers almost all BELL, BDV and FRESH business units. In order to reduce CO2 emissions from transport: stimulate the process, the CO2 performance of the BELL business 1 Europe – Mediterranean basin: unit is regularly reported on the group’s collaborative platform. In addition to measuring the progress made, the purpose of this • Introduction four years ago of alternatives to road transport savings metric is to allow the results obtained to be shared with other by the FRESH business unit. 4% of flows are by sea freight business units and encourage them to develop their own specific, (Valencia-Naples, Agadir-Port-Vendres, Agadir-Dunkerque and measurable actions that can be integrated into the overall program. Tunis-Marseille) and 3% by train: Rennes-Macon, Straelen (Germany)-Northern Italy, the Netherlands-Italy. The FRESH business unit has also set up a working group with McDonald’s France and its logistics partner Martin Brower to optimize flows On May 3, 2014, Bonduelle received a carbon emissions and reduce its CO2 footprint. Also in Europe, the BELL business reduction certificate at the International Logistics Exhibition unit has stepped up its use of road-rail transport in Hungary and held in Barcelona (Spain). This award was given in recognition maritime transport between Northern France and Spain; of the scheme set up by the FRESH business unit to introduce combined road/rail transport between Murcia (Spain) and 1 Eastern Europe: Saint-Mihiel (France). On average this project saves one tonne the production of 6,000 tonnes of corn and 2,000 tons of • of CO2 per journey, or 29 tonnes of CO2 in the first year of the peas was transferred from the Nagykőrös plant (Hungary) to scheme. The certificate was presented by rail operator VIIA to Timashevsk (Russia). This reorganization reduces transport Bonduelle, as a user, as well as to the carrier Campillo. between Hungary and Russia, ultimately reducing traffic by 300 trucks per year, or 223 tonnes of avoided CO2, • the introduction of a scheme to optimize deliveries to customers in Southern and Eastern Russia with a direct NagykőrösFrom Zeebrugge to Bilbao via the sea highway. Since Novotitarovskaya link is generating an annual saving of April 2013, Bonduelle has been using this innovative solution 79 tonnes of CO2 emissions, for one load per week. A tractor and trailer depart from the group’s heritage Renescure site. The trailer is loaded onto a • Hungary is Russia’s leading “external” supplier, with ship. After a three-day journey, the cargo arrives in Bilbao, approximately 20% of the tonnage sold. Given the distance where the trailer is hooked up to a Spanish tractor and towed between the Nagykőrös plant in Hungary and Moscow to the Bonduelle distribution center in Sesena, near Madrid, (1,800 km), Bonduelle prefers road-rail (300 km by road, 1,500 which serves the whole of Spain. km by rail) to transport its goods. This solution is helping to save 2,097 kg of CO2 per tonne delivered compared with road transport alone. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 69 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments A new manufacturing unit for the wall-to-wall production of Road-rail transport is also used for transporting frozen cans at the Novotitarovskaya plant (Russia), in partnership produce destined for the Italian food service market. The with a group supplier – Crown Cork – represents a saving of produce is loaded onto trains at Valenton station (France) bound 1,500 trucks per year, or the equivalent of 140 tonnes of CO2 for Novara (Italy) and then transported by road to the Bonduelle emitted when the site used to be supplied with packaging depot in Calcinate, near the San Paolo d’Argon agro-industrial containers. A similar initiative was launched at the Békéscsaba facility. In total 2,845 tonnes of goods were transported this way site (Hungary), where Bonduelle manufactures its own cans. during fiscal 2013-2014. C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES (EXCL. CANADA AND THE UNITED STATES) Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 CO2 emissions (tonnes) 15,657 tonnes of CO2 Upstream agricultural transport, 15,698 tonnes of CO2 16,716 tonnes of CO2 Inter-site, 14,645 tonnes of CO2 72,941 tonnes of CO2 Distribution, 76,568 tonnes of CO2 105,314 tonnes of CO2 i.e. 106,911 tonnes of CO2 (excl. Canada and the United States) Ratio of kg of CO2/tonnes 18 kg CO2 Upstream agricultural transport, 19 kg CO2 emitted/ tonne transported 20 kg CO2 Inter-site, 19 kg CO2 emitted/tonne transported 75 kg CO2 Distribution, 74 kg CO2 emitted/tonne transported Although the geographic scope of transportation remains unchanged, analysis of the results against the previous year is made difficult by the change in the method used to calculate CO2 emissions. 70 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility and civil society Bonduelle’s aim is to be seen as a benchmark, not only for our performance, but also for our responsible approach to our employees, partners, customers and our societal environment. We view our commitments to social responsibility and civil society as essential to the group’s vision and its growth in the long term. BONDUELLE’S IMPACT ON SOCIETY Bonduelle’s activities have social and community impacts on its stakeholders. 2 RESPECT FOR STANDARDS OF BEHAVIOR: ETHICS Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Ensure fair marketing and communication 1 Comply with the International Labour Organization’s conventions 1 Commit to the principles of the Global Compact SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Control food safety throughout the product life cycle 1 Commit to quality from end to end of the value chain 1 Promote good nutritional practices 1 Offer new recipes to encourage diversity 1 Ensure workers’ safety and protection against illness 1 Promote diversity in the workplace WEALTH CREATION Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Develop local employment 1 Develop economic relations with local suppliers 1 Strive to ensure economic sustainability for partners 1 Ensure customer satisfaction 1 Make products accessible DEVELOP SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Develop employees’ skills 1 Disseminate best practices along the value chain 1 Inform consumers and raise awareness 1 Establish research programs Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 71 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4.1 Social commitments VegeGo!, the group’s vision to 2025, was effectively deployed in 2013-2014. The objective in terms of human resources is to support the future growth of the business by focusing on three complementary priorities: our international growth model, the creation of economic value, and the development of human capital. ManageGo!, the group’s skills development tool, is directly derived from VegeGo! and was rolled out in 2013-2014 to more than 400 Managers. These developments are consistent with our original corporate values: people-minded approach, integrity, confidence, excellence, fairness, open-mindedness and simplicity. A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Social impacts Objectives 2013-2014 Highlights 2013-2014 1 Safety of people 1 Ensure safety at work, with a target of zero 1 Reduction in the work-related accident 1 Develop potential work-related accident by 2025 frequency rate to 9.22 in 2013-2014, 1 Diversity 1 Promote our employees’ personal compared with 11.75 in 2012-2013 development and training, conduct career 1 Continued deployment of the STOPTM development interviews with all personnel safety procedure 1 Pursue initiatives aimed at ensuring equality, 1 The Trophée des Chênes en Or award diversity and the inclusion of people with for family-owned businesses disabilities 1 Adoption of the Ethics Charter and 1 Roll out new performance review tools first meeting of the Ethics Committee as part of the ManageGo! HR project 1 Dissemination and training on ManageGo!, 1 Distribute the Ethics Charter to all employees the group’s new management model B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED and contributes to all of the group’s strategic decisions. He has a team of four people, with responsibility for: Social dialog, working conditions, training, diversity, and health and safety are all central concerns of the Bonduelle Group’s human 1 defining group-wide policies and processes for Personnel resources policy, which is founded on seven corporate values. The development; policy revolves around three core priorities: 1 developing and steering programs to enhance key competencies 1 the international growth model, integrating skills development, and management; increasing the internationalization of management and anticipating 1 designing and implementing international communication needs; initiatives, in line with the challenges facing the group and designed 1 the creation of economic value, through hiring high-potential to promote sharing and networking; employees, knowledge and skills transfer, and the management of 1 steering the Bonduelle Group’s compensation and benefits policy, value-creation with quantified targets; and supporting the business units. 1 the development of human capital, including talent development, The HR teams from the business units (BAM, BDV, BELL and cohesion and a shared corporate culture, and embracing FRESH) and the group meet at a twice-yearly international seminar. Bonduelle’s corporate goals. Bonduelle’s global human resources strategy is presented at each Bonduelle employs 9,569 people (full-time equivalent), 6,983 of them seminar and the action priorities are identified for and within the in permanent positions. 30% of our workforce is outside Europe, scope of each business unit. Monthly coordination meetings between 22% in Europe (excl. France) and 48% in France. the HR directors of the business units and the group discuss vacant positions and available resources. The policy is then approved by ORGANIZATION the Executive Committee and applied in each business unit, where To implement its human resources policy successfully, Bonduelle has the human resources contact leads a network of dedicated human a group Human Resources director. The HR director participates in resources correspondents. 72 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS Each and every person working for or with Bonduelle has the right to The STOPTM method (Safety Training Observation Program), a healthy and safe working environment, ensuring their physical and developed by DuPont de Nemours, is based on a preventive mental well-being and preventing occupational disease. Bonduelle is behavior observation approach. It enables employees to committed to maintaining excellent working conditions by developing integrate the safest working practices into their work culture, prevention policies to ensure the highest standards of health and the to optimize safety performance and reduce or eliminate injury best working conditions. and occupational illness. Participants are trained in methods to provide them with the skills, tools and motivation to work Safety is a mandatory point on the agenda for Executive Committee more safely. They then return to their workplace and pass on meetings, weekly plant Management Committee meetings, monthly these skills to their co-workers to ensure that safety is the meetings between the Industrial directors of each subsidiary and responsibility of everybody, every day. Plant directors, and quarterly meetings between subsidiaries’ general management and Country Managers. To intensify employees’ commitment to safety, the group’s policy is designed The various initiatives deployed in 2013-2014 have considerably 2 to encourage Managers to include safety performance in the improved results in terms of safety. criteria determining variable compensation bonuses for operating personnel. In addition, a safety network was created in May 2012 1 North America: with site representatives. The network’s purpose is to discuss best Introduction of a reward program for sites with zero accident practices and priorities for action programs and investment. The during each fiscal year. The amount – between 5,000 and work also includes a monthly reporting. 10,000 dollars per year without accident – is invested in facilities that help improve the quality of life at the sites or employees’ work environment. Creating a safety network has enabled the group to achieve significant progress. The accident frequency rate fell from 24.4 1 Brazil: in 2010-2011 to 18.76 in 2011-2012, 11.75 in 2012-2013 and No work-related accident with lost time was recorded during fiscal 9.22 in 2013-2014. These results reflect the close care and year 2013-2014. attention by Bonduelle to safety issues at all sites around the 1 Europe: world, such as in Strathroy (Canada), which has recorded zero accident for the past six years. They also serve as a reminder Launch of the STOPTM method by the business units FRESH and that safety is everyone’s responsibility and day-to-day concern, BELL. This business unit has managed to halve the number of and that constant vigilance is essential to avoid accidents, work-related accidents with lost time over the past two years. such as the one that cost the life of a group employee at the 1 Russia: Bordères site (France) in August 2013. Thanks to the initiatives put in place, only two work-related accidents with lost time were reported in the country in 2013-2014. In addition to the measures undertaken in the business units, BELL SALARY AND OVERTIME and FRESH have rolled out the STOPTM (Safety Training Observation Program) program developed by DuPont de Nemours. Deploying Bonduelle’s wage policy in all its four business units is based on STOP is one of the 22 VegeGo! initiatives targeting zero accident with offering wages in line with those in the industry, above and beyond lost time by 2025. The program draws on the experience of DuPont the minimum levels in force in each activity sector. de Nemours, which implemented solutions to achieve an accidentfree workplace. Employees of Bonduelle Fresh Europe have been SOCIAL DIALOG trained to manage and deploy the method at their sites. BELL has Bonduelle promotes an open culture and dialog with people inside begun rolling out STOP at its Renescure, Estrées-Mons (frozen the Company, in accordance with its Ethics Charter, communicated products division), Bordères and Labenne facilities. The feedback to directors and officers in 2012-2013 and rolled out in all group from these plants will then guide implementation at the business countries in 2013-2014. The group respects the right of its employees unit’s other French and European sites. to form or join the representative organization of their choice, including trade unions and workers’ organizations, and to be able to participate in collective bargaining negotiations. Bonduelle respects the role and responsibilities of the social partners and is committed to negotiating issues of collective interest with them. The group had no labor disputes during the 2013-2014 fiscal year. During this period, it signed a total of 45 collective agreements with employee representative bodies in the countries in which it is present. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 73 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society The European Works Council (EWC) meets at least once a year for Depending on the employment areas in which its sites are located, a presentation on the group’s strategic direction and a report on the Bonduelle focuses on local employment or opportunities for people fiscal year just ended in Europe. The French group Works Council from areas with few economic prospects. Hiring procedures focus on is the representative body for Bonduelle’s four product segments in recruiting local employees and Managers, following the example of France (canned, frozen and fresh products and prepared foods). Hungary where the majority of employees and management staff are Hungarian (with only two French expatriates). The group Works Council provides French employee representative bodies (48% of the workforce) with additional information, above and beyond its legal obligations, on Bonduelle’s activities in Europe and The Bonduelle Group is a co-founder of – and since early outside of Europe. 2014 a financial contributor to – the endowment fund Agir The strength of social dialog within the Bonduelle Group was avec la jeunesse du Nord-Pas de Calais. This fund helps illustrated in 2013-2014 when various agreements and addenda were pay for various initiatives, including the École de la deuxième signed in France, in addition to the mandatory annual negotiations on chance Foundation. The Villeneuve-d’Ascq head office pay and working conditions: decided to become involved with this organization under the aegis of the VegeGo! project – S’impliquer dans la vie locale de 1 agreement on significant risks cover, signed in August 2013. This nos implantations (Participating in local community life). is a collective agreement implementing changes in supplementary disability and death cover. The agreement standardizes how benefits are handled within the Company; MANAGEGO! A NEW SKILLS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE 1 agreement on intergenerational workforce planning, which meets Throughout its history, Bonduelle has applied a specific management the obligations of France’s “generation contract” (an initiative to model, influenced by its business, its mode of governance and its encourage job creation for young people while increasing the values. This model is central to the group’s success. It is also one of employment rate of older workers), the agreement on strategic the keys to building its future and long-term survival. With VegeGo! workforce planning, and the agreement on older workers (to Bonduelle has set itself ambitious goals for growth, value creation, develop late-stage careers). It also makes reference to agreements international expansion and safety. ManageGo! today serves as on physical strain and the promotion of professional equality; a common benchmark for all group Managers. This program, 1 addendum to the agreement on mutual health insurance; designed jointly by Bonduelle Managers and the Company’s human resources experts, is in the process of being rolled out. More than 1 addendum to the profit-sharing agreement. 400 employees have already been trained and the process will continue in 2014-2015. LOCAL EMPLOYMENT These agreements signed by Bonduelle continue its long tradition of ManageGo! rallies and encourages Managers to find the right initiatives in this area, including specific actions aimed at seasonal balance between setting high standards and compassion, in line with workers. The very nature of its business and the rhythm dictated by our values and ambitions. ManageGo! establishes the three aspects the harvests mean that the Bonduelle Group employs a large number of Bonduelle management: of seasonal workers. Seasonal employment accounts for 18% of 1 nurturing performance: Managers are ambitious, demanding and all Bonduelle Group’s contracts (full-time equivalent). We develop performance-driven and create sustainable value; loyalty through an attractive remuneration policy and employment contracts by type of harvest, affording them work that is compatible 1 developing people: Managers are committed to supporting, developing and helping all their staff to progress; with other seasonal employment. At some sites, Bonduelle works with employer groupings to pool skills, provide regular seasonal 1 being nimble: Managers are open-minded, have good listening work and offer specific training, such as a fork-lift truck operator skills and can plan ahead. They tailor their management style to qualification. Another aspect of this policy, in the United States and the situation and individual concerned. Canada, is the provision of good quality accommodation for seasonal This management model must further the group’s ambition: “to be workers. The group also offers specific video-based training courses the world reference in ‘well living’ through vegetable products”. for seasonal workers with little or no English. In Italy, for example, dedicated programs are run for seasonal workers with limited ManageGo! also seeks to offer people support and opportunities to knowledge of the local language, and in Hungary, Bonduelle runs a develop their potential. These two elements are central to the group’s bus service for workers so that they save on the cost of travel to their HR policy. For the group to continue its international expansion and place of work. All of these measures help to ensure the loyalty of our seize opportunities for growth, it must be able to rely on the best seasonal workers. 74 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society skills in each country in which it operates. This international vision 1 training and raising awareness amongst those directly involved in underpins the group’s HR policy as a whole. disability policy on the specific needs of employing people with disabilities; Training is all the more essential as our headcount continues to grow: 6,983 permanent employees in 2013-2014 compared with 6,736 in 1 developing a program for trainees from the sheltered employment 2012-2013. Bonduelle’s training policy gives priority to providing sector. support, enhancing safety in all our activities, developing skills, learning about the Bonduelle culture, integration within the group and Bonduelle won the Responsible Economy Gold Trophy developing new talents. The training rate stands at 1.60% (training (Trophée de l’Économie Responsable Mention Or) in July 2013, expenditure as a percentage of payroll) and the average length of in recognition of its policy to integrate workers with disabilities. training is 27 hours. Organized by the Réseau Alliances (Northern France) every year, the Responsible Economy Trophies reward the efforts of « Networking, connecting people and growing together” » companies that integrate Corporate Social Responsibility into the core of their strategy. This trophy, which is awarded in the 2 category of companies with over 500 employees, was presented In February 2013, Bonduelle launched its group-wide plan by Pierre De Saintignon, Vice-President of the Conseil Régional to acquire and deploy a new collaborative tool: “Networking, du Nord-Pas de Calais to Christophe Bonduelle, the group’s connecting people and growing together”. The tool has been Chairman, and to Hélène D’Huyveter, director of the Renescure developed around the Google platform and its applications: plant, the pilot for the group’s integration policy. Since 2008, the e-mail/chat, diaries, social networking, real-time simultaneous historic site and cradle of the Bonduelle Group has employed document editing and a virtual meeting room. As well as three workers with intellectual disabilities on permanent training, a support program has also been set up for users. contracts. After extensive preparatory work in collaboration Today, the 3,500 connected employees of the Bonduelle Group with the Papillons Blancs Hazebrouck ESAT (French disability are all users of the Networking platform. employment and support agency), a selection procedure was established by the plant’s Human Resources Department, together with training for three Bonduelle liaison employees DIVERSITY tasked with facilitating and supporting their integration. This Employee diversity is important for Bonduelle. It is committed initiative strengthens ties between the Bonduelle factory at to eliminating all forms of discrimination in the workplace and in Renescure and its environment. employee relations, both direct and indirect. This anti-discrimination policy applies to all stages of employment, from hiring through an entire career. It is underpinned by programs to promote diversity. To supplement its diversity policy, Bonduelle has reached an agreement with the French unions on intergenerational workforce The number of women in management continued to rise in 2013-2014 planning. It meets the obligations of the generation contract, the with the appointment of a female Marketing director in the FRESH agreement on strategic workforce planning and the agreement on business unit and a female Marketing Manager in Brazil. In the United older workers. It also makes reference to agreements on physical States and Quebec, two women now each hold the post of Human strain and the promotion of professional equality. Signing this Resources director. In addition, a woman was appointed Group agreement is set to further embed existing diversity schemes in place Management Controller. for a number of years with new internal corporate awareness actions Employing people with disabilities is another pillar of the group’s and the involvement of all employees. diversity policy. In France, numerous disability initiatives already exist: 1 creation of the Disability Mission in the HR Department in France, Bonduelle receives the jury’s prize during the Chênes with a pilot unit in each facility and a group-wide Joint Monitoring en’Or awards Committee; The Chênes en’Or, or “Golden Oaks”, awards, now in their 1 organization of information and awareness-building campaigns for second year, are organized by French Bank Société Générale employees with a disability rating of 10% or more; and were held in May 2014. The awards are designed to 1 regular communication on actions through the Company reward family-owned businesses in the Nord-Pas de Calais, newsletter and the Intranet; Haute Normandie and Picardie regions that have reported sustainable growth and that have been more than 50% owned 1 opening up of all accessible positions to people with disabilities; by the same family for at least two generations. 1 possible tutoring with the agreement of the disabled employee; Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 75 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society HUMAN RIGHTS 1 convention No. 111 on discrimination in employment and Bonduelle complies with international labor laws. It is committed occupation: the United States. to respecting the European charter of fundamental rights in the All countries in which Bonduelle operates have ratified the following organization. The group also lays particular emphasis on respecting conventions: and promoting the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO): the elimination of discrimination in respect 1 convention No. 182 on the worst forms of child labor; of employment and occupation, freedom of association and the 1 convention No. 105 on the abolition of forced labor. recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the effective abolition Under its Ethics Charter, Bonduelle requires all employees, suppliers of child labor, and the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. The and subcontractors to adhere strictly to all laws regulating their majority of countries in which Bonduelle operates as an employer are activities and working environment. We encourage our subcontractors signatories to these conventions. Bonduelle’s internal commitments and suppliers to commit to ethical conduct. ensure compliance with these conventions, over and above countries’ commitments. The countries that are not signatories are: Bonduelle has been a member of the Global Compact since 2003. This United Nations initiative launched in 2000 encourages 1 convention No. 135 on workers’ representatives: Belgium, Canada companies to adopt fundamental values according to ten universal and the United States; principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1 convention No. 98 on the right to organize and collective the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental bargaining: Canada and the United States; Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention 1 convention No. 87 on freedom of association and protection of the Against Corruption. right to organize: Brazil and the United States; 1 convention No. 138 on the minimum working age: Canada and the United States; C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Workforce 6,736 permanent 6,983 permanent 9,758 full-time equivalent 9,569 on permanent, fixed-term, seasonal and other contracts (FTE) ■ Total employees by type of employment contract and geographical area (full-time equivalent) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Permanent 3,343 1,422 2,058 6,824 Non-Permanent 300 137 95 532 Seasonal 628 441 637 1,706 Other 217 167 123 507 76 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society ■ Total employees by gender, age, status and geographical area (permanent staff) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women 1,390 625 760 2,775 Men 1,986 875 1,347 4,208 Executive 693 316 223 1,232 Non-Executive 2,683 1,184 1,884 5,751 Permanent employees aged under 26 ans 122 36 177 335 Permanent employees aged 26 35 ans Permanent employees aged 36 45 ans 678 993 356 518 490 514 1 524 2 025 2 Permanent employees aged 46 49 ans 371 180 193 744 Permanent employees aged 50 55 ans 661 230 345 1 236 Permanent employees aged over 55 ans 551 180 388 1 119 Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Seniority (permanent staff) 0 to 3 years: 1,530 0 to 3 years: 1,910 4 to 9 years: 1,571 4 to 9 years: 1,476 >9 years: 3,635 >9 years: 3,597 Average seniority: 13.29 Average seniority: 12.81 New hires, in number of contracts Permanent contract: 589 Permanent contract: 784 Fixed-term contract: 1,095 Fixed-term contract: 1,187 Seasonal: 4,986 Seasonal: 6,473 Workers with a disability 232 (full-time equivalent). 268 (full-time equivalent). Total group turnover 11.64% * 12.84% * ■ Departures by type of contract Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Executive Due to layoff 9 9 3 21 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure. 15 1 5 21 Due to the employee 17 12 6 35 (resignation, end of probationary period) Due to transfer 20 0 0 20 Non-Executive Due to layoff 76 65 198 339 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure 70 94 78 242 Due to the employee 172 92 667 931 (resignation, end of probationary period) Due to transfer 13 1 6 20 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 77 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society ■ Turnover by gender * Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover – Women 5.0% 8.3% 24.3% 11.24% Turnover – Men 6.9% 9.8% 27.0% 13.96% Departures – Women 94 78 269 441 Departures – Men 180 121 487 788 ■ Turnover by age * Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover of employees aged under 26 1.5% 2.6% 8.9% 3.99% Turnover of employees between 26-35 1.7% 2.7% 6.9% 3.51% Turnover of employees between 36-45 0.8% 1.6% 3.7% 1.86% Turnover of employees between 46-49 0.3% 0.6% 1.6% 0.77% Turnover of employees between 50-55 0.3% 0.6% 1.8% 0.83% Turnover of employees aged 55+ 1.5% 1.1% 3.1% 1.88% Departures of employees under 26 67 57 258 382 Departures of employees between 26-35 76 59 201 336 Departures of employees between 36-45 34 35 109 178 Departures of employees between 46-49 14 12 48 74 Departures of employees between 50-55 15 13 51 79 Departures of employees aged 55+ 68 23 89 180 Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Training 1.57% % of gross payroll: 1.6% 123,795 Number of training hours: 168,293 23 hours Average training duration per individual: 27 hours 39.08% women Breakdown of training hours by gender: 29.48% women 60.92% men and 70.52% men Safety conditions 11.75 Frequency of work-related accidents: 9.22 0.61 Work-related accidents severity rate: 0.42 1.39 Severity rate of occupational diseases for France: 1.00 * Scope: departures at the request of the employee, due to death, retirement or agreed departure. 78 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society ■ Breakdown of work-related accidents Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women – Frequency rate 14.56 6.75 6.21 10.16 Men – Frequency rate 12.26 8.53 4.30 8.61 Frequency rate 13.20 7.80 4.98 9.22 Women – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 42 10 12 64 Men – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 51 18 15 84 Number of work-related accidents with lost time Women – Severity rate 93 1.04 28 0.16 27 0.38 148 0.63 2 Men – Severity rate 0.41 0.31 0.13 0.29 Severity rate 0.67 0.25 0.22 0.42 Women – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 3,005 231 727 3,963 Men – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 1,713 655 458 2,826 Lost days due to work-related accidents 4,718 886 1,185 6,789 Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women – Occupational disease severity rate 1.95 NA NA 1.95 Men – Occupational disease severity rate 0.33 NA NA 0.33 Occupational disease severity rate 1.00 NA NA 1.00 Women – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 5,632 NA NA 5,632 Men – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 1,382 NA NA 1,382 Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 7,014 NA NA 7,014 Data not available Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Industrial restructuring 454 Staff affected by industrial restructuring plans who have received outplacement support: 0 Work time organization 15,914,984 Number of hours worked: 16,058,864 4.46% Absenteeism rate: 3.42% Remuneration and development €241,900,106 Amount of remuneration (permanent + fixed-term + seasonal contracts): €246,789,278 80.45% Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews: 78.05% 87.13% women Breakdown by gender of employees receiving regular performance and 78.70% men and career development reviews: 77.71% women and 78.28% men Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 79 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners Integrity, confidence, simplicity, excellence, open-mindedness, fairness and people-minded approach: these seven fundamental values form the core of the group’s corporate plan. Bonduelle is focused on developing equitable and innovative collaboration with its economic partners, particularly through the purchasing charter launched in 2013-2014 on all continents where the group is present. A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Social impacts Objectives 2013-2014 Highlights 2013-2014 1 Respect for standards 1 Extend the scope of suppliers 1 Extension of the scope of monitoring of of behavior: Ethics who have joined the Global Compact Global Compact commitments in Canada 1 Consumer food safety 1 Extend the scope of suppliers 1 Extension of the monitoring of supplier CSR satisfying the 23 Corporate Social risks to three more countries: Germany, Hungary Responsibility (CSR) criteria and Poland 1 Inclusion of the CSR questionnaire during the pre-selection stage for new tenders 1 Finalization of the purchasing charter B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED Bonduelle’s suppliers and subcontractors must adhere strictly to all legislation regulating their activities and working environment. BONDUELLE GROUP’S PURCHASING POLICY Moreover, this purchasing policy is reflected in the inclusion of CSR The Bonduelle Group’s commitment to society is illustrated by criteria in tenders (either at group level or locally). These criteria, applied its involvement in the value chain: sourcing policy, training and to contracts, take into account the principles of the Global Compact awareness-building incorporating environmental and social criteria. and the sourcing charter for purchasing agricultural raw materials. The aim of Bonduelle’s Purchasing Department is to contribute to For foodstuffs, Bonduelle has specific procedures to evaluate and the group’s long-term growth and development by implementing a control the relevant health risks and risks of malicious acts. For purchasing policy according to a defined and consistent quality and packaging, it constantly seeks to optimize consumption of raw a balanced price/quality ratio, by ensuring the resources required materials. to control product safety and security, financial risks, technical requirements and risks of malicious acts. These purchasing principles ENCOURAGE SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS TO notably include constant research by the sector and competitive COMMIT TO A SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE APPROACH intelligence to ensure appropriate market prices. As part of the contractual relation, suppliers undertake to respect Purchasing quality policy reflects the group’s overall quality policy the principles of the Global Compact (Bonduelle has been a member according to three key priorities: since 2003). This approach is currently being extended across the group. In 2013-2014, Russia, Italy and Canada joined the scheme. 1 listen to and meet the needs and requirements of internal For example, in 2013-2014, more than 95% of purchase agreements customers; for food cans embraced the principles of the Global Compact. Metal 1 ensure the quality of products and services purchased, in cans represent the main purchase item. accordance with specifications and regulations, and guarantee Purchasing decisions are based on an objective assessment of the food safety; reliability and integrity of the supplier or subcontractor, as well as 1 implement a dynamic continuous improvement process. the overall value of their offer both economically and in terms of CSR. Buyers from the group’s Purchasing Department, with local Bonduelle places strong emphasis on its founding values of contacts for some products, must also take the importance of excellence, open-mindedness and fairness during its purchases of their role in the local ecosystem into account. This is a core part of supplies (metal cans, cardboard boxes and packing wrap, vegetables Bonduelle’s activities. and ingredients used in its recipes and not grown or produced by the group, energy, animal products, advertising and communication Relations with suppliers are based on mutual trust, placing people first or seeds), as well as for vegetables grown by our producer partners and simplicity. Bonduelle is committed to working with its partners (3,440, grouped into producer organizations), who are signatories to guarantee the best economic, qualitative and environmental of a particularly rigorous sourcing charter reviewed in 2013-2014. performance in the long term. 80 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society Although the group’s policy is to source supplies close to centers HIGHLIGHTS 2013-2014 of consumption, some types of product may have to be sourced 1 Extension of the scope of monitoring of Global Compact from countries further afield, in particular, in Africa. In this event, the commitments in Canada. Company selects partners to work with small producers, providing them with an additional revenue stream to their food producing 1 Extension of the monitoring of supplier CSR risks to three more activity. Bonduelle’s partners are quality-certified. They support countries: Germany, Hungary and Poland. their producers to manage and minimize the use of crop treatments. 1 Inclusion of the CSR questionnaire during the pre-selection stage This long-term partnership with recognized partners is one way for for new tenders. This approach focuses our attention on assessing Bonduelle to make an effective contribution to the local economy the CSR risk of prospects and is now one of the factors when while maintaining traceability. One of its partners, for example, offers scoring suppliers. its small producers micro-credit solutions to fund such requirements as rental and labor costs, as well as health care for the employees 1 Finalization of the purchasing charter. Signed by all of Bonduelle’s in its production facilities. To ensure compliance with the production criteria specified by Bonduelle and to support its partners as part of a buyers, this is part of the group’s ethical charter and sets out the seven corporate values in the context of the purchasing function and from the perspective of Bonduelle’s social responsibility. It 2 continuous improvement process, the group ensures a permanent or seeks to define coherent behavioral guidelines for our prospects periodic presence by its own employees. and suppliers, irrespective of the buyer and country, thus meeting the expectations of our customers. C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Indicator Proportion of the budget accounted for with commitment to respecting the principles of the Global Compact (contract and non-contract) Scope * 2012-2013 2013-2014 France 77% 85% Hungary 85% 87% Poland 70% 78% Germany 34% 42% Italy --43% Portugal --9% Russia --64% TOTAL ALL COUNTRIES – 2012-2013 SCOPE 70% 80% Canada 96% TOTAL ALL COUNTRIES – 2013-2014 SCOPE 82% * Purchases made by the group, including metal cans, cardboard boxes and packing wrap, vegetables and ingredients used in its recipes and not grown or produced by the group, energy, animal products, advertising and communication and seeds. This scope varies by country. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 81 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2013 PURCHASING INDICATORS = PROPORTION OF THE BUDGET ACCOUNTED FOR WITH COMMITMENTS TO RESPECTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT ■ ALL COUNTRIES (2013-2014 scope) GLOBAL 87% COMPACT 13% of which 92% have signed 82% of which 20% have signed the Global Compact the Global Compact ■ ALL COUNTRIES (2012-2013 scope) GLOBAL GLOBAL COMPACT COMPACT 70% 80% 2012-2013 results 2013-2014 results Percentage of budget covered by BONDUELLE contracts Percentage of budget covered solely by tariff agreements Percentage of the budget accounted for with commitments to respecting the principles of the Global Compact 82 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society Bonduelle intends to play a full role in current issues in society to promote healthy eating habits and confirm its commitment to the communities in which its facilities operate. A. SUSTAINABLE FOOD The Company’s Louis Bonduelle Foundation has launched a call for projects every six months since 2007, to support local DEVELOPING AND DISSEMINATING KNOWLEDGE initiatives improving eating habits. These international calls Bonduelle partners with VeggiEAT, a European research program have already resulted in support for 195 projects, with more designed to encourage vegetable intake among teenagers and the than 300,000 beneficiaries for a total budget of 452 thousand euros. elderly. Bonduelle has joined forces with three European universities Similarly, each year since 2005, the Foundation as awarded a (Bournemouth in the UK, Aalborg in Denmark and Florence in Italy) and with the Research Center at the Paul Bocuse Institute in Lyon. The VeggiEAT project, set up by a consortium of academic and private 10 thousand euros research prize for a thesis on a subject related to nutrition, also open to researchers around the world. The Louis 2 Bonduelle Foundation has committed more than 1,180 thousand partners, was granted a budget of 1.6 million euros by the European euros to supporting research. The Foundation’s website features Commission and will run from October 2013 to October 2017. For theoretical and practical information on changing eating habits. The four years, Bonduelle’s research and development team, as well content is available in English, French, Italian and Dutch. It has also as the marketing teams from the countries concerned, will work on been available in Spanish since April 2014. improving knowledge of the levers behind vegetable consumption. The Bonduelle Group will be closely involved in the project, given its The Louis Bonduelle Foundation is administered by a Board of expertise in the fields of sensory science, consumer science, plant Directors with seven voluntary members: physiology and nutrition. 1 three independent experts: Marie-Laure Frelut, Pediatrician and Secretary of the European Childhood Obesity Group, JeanCharles Fruchart, President, International Atherosclerosis Society, NutriGO, a benchmark for nutrition and Béatrice de Reynal, Nutritionist; Launched in late 2013, the NutriGO platform, accessible 1 four representatives of the Bonduelle Group: Christophe Bonduelle, internally to the group’s employees via the Google Drive Chairman of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation and Chairman of the application, is a resource center for all nutrition-related topics: Bonduelle Group, Jean-Bernard Bonduelle, Director of External products, manufacturing processes, group commitments Relations and Sustainable Development, Christophe Château, in this area, information on nutrients, regulations governing Director of Corporate Communications and Marketing, and communication on nutritional aspects and answers to Laurence Depezay, Nutrition Manager. frequently asked questions. It caters especially for the marketing, sales, communication, quality, R&D and packaging teams. The aim is to share Bonduelle’s nutritional know-how The three pillars of the Foundation’s work are: and to help employees develop their own projects using objective and reliable information, with a view to communicating 1 inform and raise awareness, providing practical tools and transparently with customers in compliance with the regulatory information on vegetables on its website, www.fondationframework. NutriGo is the result of the Mistral Gagnant project louisbonduelle.org for teachers, health professionals, launched in 2011-2012. journalists and the general public; 1 support research, with a research prize awarded to fund work on a thesis each year, as well as a partnership with the FOSTERING A PERMANENT CHANGE IN EATING European Childhood Obesity Group. The Foundation is also HABITS: THE LOUIS BONDUELLE FOUNDATION the co-founder of the Fondation Coeur et Artères (Healthy Created in 2004, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation was born of the Heart and Arteries Foundation), recognized for its work in group’s desire to contribute to the debate on healthy eating and to the public interest; demonstrate its commitment to nutrition. The aim of the Foundation 1 initiatives and practical support to improve eating habits, is to contribute to long-term change in eating habits by focusing on carefully targeted at groups most in need, such as children vegetables and their benefits. or disadvantaged groups, to help them make vegetables a core part of their diet. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 83 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society HIGHLIGHTS 2013-2014 In 2014, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation celebrated its ten-year Partnership between the Louis Bonduelle Foundation anniversary: ten years of raising awareness among the public and and the European Childhood Obesity Group (ECOG) health professionals of how to foster a permanent change in eating The Louis Bonduelle Foundation finances and is involved in habits, supporting grassroots actions and research. developing a knowledge base for child obesity practitioners and researchers. The project will take the form of an e-book available on the ECOG website by the end of 2014. As part of the European Year against Food Waste, the Foundation’s 2014 Conference, which took place on Tuesday, May 20 at the headquarters of the RATP in Paris, was on the HISTORY theme of “Eating habits and waste: food losses, denial and contradictions”. Researchers, nutrition experts and journalists 2004-2005 attended a presentation by three speakers, who gave an 1 Launch of the Foundation in France; overview of the current situation and described the areas 1 Launch of Vegetable Day; currently being researched to try to curb this phenomenon. They then listened to a talk on one of the grassroots actions 1 Launch of the Louis Bonduelle Research Prize; supported by the Foundation: La Brigade des compotes, a 1 Launch of the Foundation’s website; project to tackle waste carried out by the association Active. This was followed by a report on the work done by the two 1 Co-founding of the Fondation Coeur et Artères (Healthy Heart and winners of the 2012 research prize. Finally, the Louis Bonduelle Arteries Foundation), recognized for its work in the public interest. 2014 Research Prize was presented to the two winners: Géraldine Camilleri from the University of Paris 13, a French 2005-2006 student working on the psychological determinants of eating 1 Launch of the Foundation in Italy; habits and the nutritional status of nutrition research volunteers 1 First initiatives to raise awareness of healthy eating among as part of a major nationwide survey, Nutrinet-Santé; Nùria Bonduelle employees; Rosique Esteban, a Spanish student currently in the first year of her PhD at the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands, who 1 Launch of Les Robins du potager (“Heads of the Vegetable Garden”) scheme for children (aged 9-11) in France; is researching the effect of chronic stress on food preferences. 1 Launch of Amici per la Tavola for children (aged 6-12) in Italy. Another major element this year was the grassroots actions conducted 2006-2007 in partnership with elderly care homes in rural areas (Marpa). The 1 Launch of the Foundation in Belgium and the Netherlands; Foundation has partnered with the Fédération Nationale des Marpa, the French rural care homes federation, to develop workshops 1 Launch of Het Groente & Fruit Lab in the Netherlands for children (aged 4-12); for the 162 rural care homes in France. In March 2013, the Art et saveurs nature initiative distributed kits approved by the national food 1 Launch of Légumes 2000 (Vegetables 2000) for young adults in program to all rural care homes. Assessments were conducted during France; the second half of 2013. Results: with an average of 11 participants 1 Nutridor prize awarded to the Foundation for its communication per workshop, 65% of care home Managers considered the kit fit for on nutrition. purpose and 68% would repeat the workshops. The Foundation was also present at the Journées Francophones 2007-2008 de Nutrition in Bordeaux, a conference on nutrition held on 1 First international calls for proposals; December 11-13, 2013. As well as its information stand, Bonduelle 1 First Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference organized in Paris; gave a presentation at the plenary session on research work entitled “Impact of the variety of vegetables on offer on the eating habits of 1 Launch in France of initiatives in partnership with the Secours the elderly living in care homes”. populaire français, the Ronde des légumes (Vegetable Round) project for vulnerable groups and award of the French National Finally, Bonduelle’s ambition is to develop its societal commitments Program for Health and Nutrition logo; in each of the countries where it is present, which is why the Foundation regularly opens new offices. In 2014, its activities were 1 Launch of 5ive for children (aged 6-12) in Italy. extended to Spain. 84 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2009-2010 1 Launch of the Foundation’s website in Spain; 1 Launch of the European Childhood Obesity Group and Louis 1 Launch of two calls for proposals on food waste; Bonduelle Research Prize; 1 Opinion Way study on the Foundation (see insert); 1 Extension of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in France for a period of 99 years; 1 Publication of two new scientific reports available on its website, which now has over 60,000 visitors each month: “How to support 1 Lunch-discussion at the European Parliament in Brussels; and empower adolescents in their food choices?” and “Food 1 Collaboration with Age Platform Europe; waste: issues, causes and reality”. 1 Launch of Orto in Condotta for children (aged 6-14) in Italy. 2010-2011 The study carried out in May 2014 by the Opinion Way market 1 Launch of the Foundation in Canada; 1 Conclusion of a partnership with the Fédération Nationale des research organization for the Louis Bonduelle Foundation demonstrates that this is mentioned spontaneously by 18% of health professionals and 23% of specialized journalists. 2 Maisons d’accueil rurales pour personnes âgées (Rural retirement The Foundation also enjoys a good image in general, with homes federation) in France; 91% of health professionals expressing a positive opinion 1 Foundation recognized by health professionals (see insert: Study in 2014 (compared with 81% in 2009), together with 88% of carried out by the Opinion Way market research institute). health journalists (74% in 2009) and 86% of the general public. Overall, the Foundation ranks among France’s top three 2011-2012 organizations and foundations committed to changing long1 Presentation before the European Parliament in Brussels; term eating habits, particularly through increased vegetable consumption. 1 Signing of a partnership with the French Ministry for Agriculture, Agri-foods and Forests; 1 Launch in France of the Art et saveurs nature initiative. The workshops won recognition from the French Ministry for B. LOCAL COMMUNITIES Agriculture, Agri-foods and Forests, and the project was awarded The Foundation runs its own field initiatives and also provides the PNA (French National Food Program) logo; financial support for local projects. In June 2013 and December 2013, 1 Launch in Italy of Il Gioco di in Orto, designed to introduce children it launched two international calls for proposals, both on the theme (aged 6-12) to the world of vegetables and teach them how to of reducing food waste. create a vegetable garden. CALLS FOR PROPOSALS ON FOOD WASTE: PROJECTS 2012-2013 SELECTED IN 2013-2014 1 Sixth Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference, under the France patronage of the Minister for Agriculture, Agri-foods and Forests; ACTIVE – LA BRIGADE DES COMPOTES (71) 1 Launch of the Gustaterrium project with the Ministry of Agriculture and Agri-foods, for the development of an educational program to Fruit collection from individual donors by volunteer pickers. The create a portable vegetable garden for children or adults; association puts volunteers in touch with individuals who want to donate fruit from their orchards. The project consists of picking 1 Stand at the Sustainable Diet and Food Security Conference fruit for distribution to people in need via the Saône et Loire charity organized in May 2013 by French, Belgian and British nutrition networks. The main aims of the Brigade des compotes are: to avoid companies; fruit waste and tackle food insecurity, to encourage everyone to eat 1 Three new scientific case studies, available on the Foundation’s local fruit, and to create opportunities for dialogue and solidarity website: within the local community. During the 2013 season, two tonnes of fruit were prevented from going to waste and were distributed to the • healthy eating for healthy aging, beneficiaries of charity associations via the food bank. • dietary behavior of 11to 15-year-olds in Europe, LA SOUPE AUX CAILLOUX – CUISINER LES RESTES (92) • dietary magnesium in plants. This association conducts awareness-raising actions on responsible 2013-2014 food consumption and organizes cookery workshops on this theme. 1 10 years of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation; In 2013, the association held 13 cookery workshops in Nanterre, near Paris, with young professionals and children aged 9-11. The 1 Seventh Foundation Conference on the theme of “Eating habits concept is simple: learn how to cook and reuse leftovers, and get and waste: food losses, denial and contradictions”; Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 85 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society tips on how to keep food for longer. At the end of each workshop, UNITÉ VOISINALE DES 400/ODACE (17) the participants sit down to a communal meal and are given a recipe For 20 years, this organization, based in an underprivileged area of book to take home. La Rochelle, has run a cooperative store. Volunteers sell food from short supply chains at cost price. Workshops and social events LA TENTE DES GLANEURS DE GRENOBLE – UNSOLD FOOD HANDED OUT are held to raise awareness of food preservation techniques and to EVERY SUNDAY (38) suggest ideas for leftover recipes. The association’s volunteers collect unsold produce from market traders and redistribute it equitably while forging new social bonds. VICE ET VERSA (26) The initiative was the brainchild of a volunteer working for the Restos Practical workshops on food waste and the use of food waste. du Cœur charity restaurant in Lille. The idea came from a simple observation: each week, several tonnes of produce which are too SOLIDARITÉ DOM TOM HÉRAULT (34) damaged to be sold but still perfectly edible are thrown away at The project is intended for beneficiaries of the Solidarité Dom Tom the end of the market (fruit, vegetables and bread donated by local community grocery store. It consists of cookery workshops and market traders). Since the scheme was launched in December 2010, information sessions on the processing and preservation of fruit and 84 tonnes of food have been handed out to some 2,500 families. vegetables. The topics covered include recipes, sterilization, freezing, reading labels and how to organize the fridge, etc. ECO ET LOGIQUE (02) Awareness-raising, information and cookery workshops on the APRÈS (44) subject of food waste for families in financial difficulty. The aim of this Developing basic food knowledge and habits through science project is to raise awareness of the financial and social issues of food activities in schools and communities in Nantes. The scheme is waste and to adopt new eating habits. offered to 25 secondary school pupils and their families. GROUPE D’APPUI ET DE SOLIDARITÉ (80) LES SAPROPHYTES – LA CUISINE PUBLIQUE (59) Various events held in youth centers (Accueils Collectifs de Mineurs, The association organizes various food events in public places for or ACM) on the theme of food waste. The aim: to raise awareness local communities. Its mobile kitchen project is aimed at residents among children and young people of the ethical, economic, health of the Fives district in Lille. It is an entertaining and effective way of and environmental issues of reducing food waste and to encourage sharing recipes and tips on food preservation and alternative storage them to adopt more responsible eating habits. solutions. À FLEUR DE PIERRE – LE POTAGER DANS L’ASSIETTE: ASSOCIATION LES ANGES GARDINS – RESTE ! (62) RIEN NE SE JETTE (04) This project seeks to encourage young people aged 15 to 25 to Based in Digne les Bains, the association provides and manages four reduce food waste, educating them on the importance of a varied communal gardens by organizing introductory workshops on food diet and on developing positive eating habits throughout life. The preservation. project specifically focuses on new eating disorders and on teaching cooking skills. CENTRE COMMUNAL D’ACTION SOCIALE (CCAS) DE BEAUSOLEIL (06) The community social welfare center (CCAS) in Beausoleil is LE PANIER DE LA MER – MANGEONS BIEN ENSEMBLE (62) developing an outreach program for underprivileged sections of the The project launched by the Le Panier de la Mer 62 association is population on the reduction of food waste. The project combines designed to provide access to a healthy, balanced, affordable diet communal gardening with a community grocery store, offering tips which is responsible in terms of reducing food waste. Outreach on shopping, arranging workshops on food storage, and providing workshops will be held with people in financial difficulty in Boulogneinformation on waste treatment. sur-Mer and nearby towns. CREA, MONDEVILLE – P’TITE PLANÈTE (14) ASSOCIATION ELLES AUSSI (94) The CREA community arts center in Caen hosts events for primary The community grocery store in Créteil helps people buy and prepare school children in a touring bus. Designed with teachers and waste products with a limited shelf life: it does this through consumer management experts, the P’tite planète projects raises awareness of surveys, fact sheets, cookery workshops and tips on how to present food waste, composting and recycling of packaging. food. Every Thursday, a dish based on sorted or repackaged products is created for people to try. 86 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society Italy COMMUNITY COMMITMENTS AND PARTICIPATION IN LOCAL LIFE SOCIETÀ UMANITARIA – FEEDING THE PLANET IN YOUR KITCHEN MILAN The “Feeding the Planet in your Kitchen” project, run by the Alongside the Foundation’s work, Bonduelle views local involvement Umanitaria association in Milan, Italy, organizes workshops on health, as a priority for its plants. The objectives of the VegeGo! project are nutrition and the prevention of food waste for primary and secondary complementary: to foster a brand image in harmony with the group’s school pupils, as well as their teachers. All participants are issued values, galvanize employees and help make local communities a better with a special educational resource kit. place. Depending on its specific characteristics, each production facility plans to develop at least one project in partnership with local ASSOCIATION FILODRAMMATICA FOR.T.E – STILL (A) LIFE – LERICI stakeholders. In total, nine projects were launched in 2013-2014: The “STILL (A) LIFE” project, the brainchild of the Filodrammatica association based in Lerici, Italy, organizes awareness-raising dramaDoué-la-Fontaine (France) * based workshops for 11to 14-year-olds. The association also plans to develop a food waste app for smartphones and tablets. The aim of this project is to create a vegetable garden at the plant and to invite children from the town of Doué-la-Fontaine to get involved in the main stages of its life cycle, from choosing which vegetables 2 Lebanon to grow to sowing the seeds and harvesting the produce. For the children, the educational goal is to teach them about vegetables ARC EN CIEL – BEIRUT “from the seed to the plate”. For the plant employees, the idea is to Awareness-raising workshop on the prevention of food waste, held in get involved in a community project and share their knowledge. The a mobile tent. These workshops are intended for vulnerable children project is in line with the policy of the local authority, which, as part aged 6 to 16 and are held in Arc en Ciel community centers. of the new school week, must offer children extra-curricular activities on generic themes (e.g. the environment, economy, etc.). For the first Canada time, when the new term starts in September 2014, a class-sized CANADA SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MUSEUMS CORPORATION FOUNgroup will take part in the scheme organized by plant employees, with DATION – HARVEST FESTIVAL – OTTAWA-GATINEAU three visits combining theory and practical lessons on the vegetable The Canada Science and Technology Museum, in Ottawa, Ontario, garden. Ten employees from the plant are involved in the project. holds a two-day “Harvest Festival” on the theme of “Reducing food waste”. As part of this event, the museum hosts an exhibition on Rosporden (France) food preservation. As part of this project, employees give talks about their job, qualifications and experience to young people during careers Benin guidance sessions or to the unemployed to help them find the right NGO JEUNESSE SANS FRONTIÈRE – COTONOU career path. Employees will be able to showcase their skills, job and In the Fidjrossè-Kpota district of Cotonou, the Jeunesse sans training, as well as providing information about the Company. The frontière NGO organizes a series of training courses and events for talks will take place during local careers and training events, e.g. job local residents. The courses are aimed at people responsible for fairs, industry week, sixth form colleges, etc. Five employees from the meals in homes and schools. As well as targeting waste, the aim is to plant are involved in the project. improve the management of food waste in the local area and ensure better hygiene. Labenne (France) The aim of this project is to educate children on the importance of healthy eating by providing a tailor-made nutrition program. The Food donations project consists of a classroom introduction followed by a second Bonduelle donated 2,575 tonnes of food in 2013-2014 in meeting with a tour of the plant during the vegetable growing season. France, Italy, Poland and Hungary, including canned, frozen The idea is to teach children the basics of nutrition, and specifically and prepared foods, and fresh-cut salads. the benefits of vegetables, while simultaneously demonstrating and explaining how vegetables are harvested and then processed at the plant. Six employees from the plant are involved in the project. * In association with the France Champignon cooperative Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 87 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society Villeneuve-d’Ascq (France) Cristalina (Brazil) The Bonduelle Group is a co-founder of – and since early 2014 a Planting a vegetable garden to grow vegetables for the canteens of financial contributor to – the endowment fund Agir avec la jeunesse nearby schools. The aim is to educate children and teenagers on the du Nord-Pas de Calais. This fund helps to pay for various initiatives, links between citizens and their environment. Five employees are including the École de la deuxième chance Foundation. The involved in this project, with the support of local schools. Villeneuve-d’Ascq production facility decided to become involved with this organization under the aegis of the VegeGo! project – Timashevsk (Russia) S’impliquer dans la vie locale de nos implantations (Participating in Organizing events with local schools on the theme of canned local community life). In 2013-2014, employees at the facility will give vegetables: introduction to nutrition, plant tour, drawing competition, presentations about their work and sponsor young people. cookery competition with prize certificates. This is also an opportunity to show the local community what the plant does and to promote Sainte-Martine (Quebec, Canada) vegetables in general. The project is conducted in partnership Assisting underprivileged families in partnership with a local charity. with local schools in the city of Novokorsounskaya and involves This is achieved through numerous tailor-made initiatives. For 15 employees. example, at the start of the 2014 school year, plant employees collected the supplies that will be needed for children of four underprivileged Nagykőrös (Hungary) families in partnership with the Actions Familles charity. The group has been involved in several projects with children from schools near the site: planting flowers and plants in school Strathroy (Ontario, Canada) gardens, designing school gardens to encourage the cultivation of Helping to install amenities in a nature reserve near the plant. Clearing vegetables and protection of the environment, organizing visits to the reserve and trails, constructing tables and benches, laying a trail crop production fields and tours of the plant. These initiatives also around the lake, building a wooden kiosk, etc. All this is undertaken in support orphanages through donations of vegetables, highlighting order to protect the environment and increase the enjoyment of local the benefits of a balanced diet. residents. The idea is to participate in local development and create opportunities for people to meet and interact in partnership with the Saint-Clair Conservation Authority of Strathroy. 88 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers 2.5 Responsibility to consumers Being a world reference means wholeheartedly embracing responsibilities. Bonduelle has created numerous initiatives to help consumers enjoy cooking and eating vegetables. 2.5.1 Quality The Bonduelle Group’s quality policy ensures the Company fulfills its commitment to its customers, individuals and food service companies and is continuously being updated internally as well as with suppliers. 2 A. OBJECTIVES Product-related impacts Objectives 2013-2014 Highlights 2013-2014 1 Consumer food safety 1 Extend the sourcing charter to all fruit and 1 48,600 food safety tests on canned goods, vegetable suppliers 18,100 on frozen and fresh or prepared produce 1 Reduce the complaints rate 1 Substitution of bisphenol A in food packaging 1 Maintain certifications and recognition by 1 Review of recipes to reduce or limit the amount external bodies of additives 1 Implementation of the international quality management tool, REQUEST project Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 89 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED MANUFACTURING PROCESSES Dozens of quality control inspections are carried out from initial reception to storage of the products, including temperature, bacteriology and weight. Bonduelle’s quality control system provides full traceability from field to dispatch, ensuring we can react swiftly in the event a quality problem is detected. The charts below show the main checks conducted throughout the production process. CANNED AND FROZEN VEGETABLES ✪ ✪ ✪ ✪ 1 VEGETABLE 2 ACCEPTANCE 3 SORTING BY 4 STONE 5 END 6 GRADING 7 BLANCHING SELECTION AT PLANT VENTILATION REMOVAL/ TRIMMING Extra-ﬁne, very ﬁne, Vegetables are brieﬂy AND HARVEST On intake to An air-ﬂow WASHING The tips of ﬁne, etc. Certain plunged into boiling Bonduelle’s the plant, a series system separates An air-ﬂow system the vegetables products pass into water and/or steam partner producers of checks are the denser removes the denser are trimmed perforated cylinders at temperatures harvest and supply conducted on products (seeds) products (such as mechanically when where they are from 70°C to vegetables in the vegetables: from the lighter stones) from the they protrude beyond selected according 100°C. The process accordance with ones (leaves, pods). vegetables. the slots in the to their size. eliminates the gases the Sourcing Charter. • analysis; machines. Washing is an in the vegetables • checking (ﬂavor, essential part of For example, this and tones down color, size, maturity, the preparation process removes overpowering tastes. etc.); process, removing the tips and stalks It also reduces foreign matter of green beans. enzymatic activity • compliance with that could affect speciﬁcations. (soil, dust) and contamination vegetables during from the soil. storage. CANNED VEGETABLES FROZEN VEGETABLES 8 CANNING consumption, are destroyed by heating (several minutes ✪ 8 FREEZING ✪ 11 PACKING The required quantity is placed at +/130°C). This stage also To optimize quality, the core AND STORAGE in the can, in compliance with ensures that the vegetables temperature of the vegetables The packaged vegetables the label. These are extremely are cooked and preserved. is quickly reduced to -18°C are packed in cardboard boxes accurate volumetric and in a matter of minutes. and stored in refrigerated weighing procedures. 12 STORAGE OF From this point, the vegetables warehouses. BLANK CANS are maintained in a controlled 9 JUICING 12 SHIPPING Once cooled, the cans are temperature environment Juice composed of water, salt placed on pallets, then stored of -18°C. The vegetables are dispatched ✪ and spices is used in most in warehouses. 9 in refrigerated trucks (-18°C) canned products, giving taste BULK STORAGE to the point of sale. 13 LABELING and aiding cooking. The vegetables are stored The label provides in refrigerated warehouses ✪ 10 SEALING consumers with information in special containers. The cans are hermetically sealed by crimping the body on the contents of the can, recommendations for use, ✪ 10 WEIGHING AND BAGGING and the base of the can. They weight, composition and The product is weighed and are clamped tightly to ensure nutritional information. divided into bags or boxes. a perfect seal to preserve the The best-before date is printed 14 PACKING vegetables. The best-before on each pack. date is marked on the can. AND STORAGE ✪ The labeled cans are stored 11 STERILIZATION on pallets in the warehouses. OR APPERTIZATION 15 SHIPPING Microorganisms and toxins naturally present in The cans are dispatched vegetables, which could by truck to the point of sale. render the product unﬁt for ✪ Quality control checks 90 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers READY-TO-USE FRESH VEGETABLES (BAGGED SALADS) AND READY-TO-EAT FRESH VEGETABLES (SEASONED, PREPARED) ✪ ✪ 1 VEGETABLE SELECTION Bonduelle’s partner producers harvest and supply vegetables in accordance 2 ACCEPTANCE AT PLANT From this point, the vegetables are maintained in a controlled temperature 2 with the Sourcing Charter. environment at +4°C. Harvesting is a delicate operation for all fragile vegetables, especially salads. On intake to the plant, a series of checks are conducted: • analysis; • checking (ﬂavor, color, size, maturity); • compliance with speciﬁcations. FRESH VEGETABLES PREPARED VEGETABLES 3 CUTTING 7 PACKING ✪ 3 ORDERING AND ✪ 7 WEIGHING AND BAGGING Salads are cut, sorted The bags and trays are RECEPTION The salads are measured and carefully inspected placed in boxes, taking care Seasoned, prepared salads out and weighed in the before they are sent to avoid shocks or crushing have a short shelf life; different types of packaging. for washing. the produce. therefore they are only 8 ✪ 4 WASHING 8 STORAGE supplied and produced on receipt of the customer LABELING The lid is pressured sealed The salad leaves are Before shipping, the products order. and the label afﬁxed giving thoroughly washed to remove soil and insects, without are stored for a maximum of several hours, at +4°C. ✪ 4 PREPARATION the contents, storage and consumption instructions ✪ damaging the leaves. Vegetables are rinsed, and the best-before date. 9 SHIPPING ✪ cut, grated and drained. 5 9 ✪ SPINNING A constant temperature STORAGE OR DRYING 5 ASSEMBLY of +4°C is maintained Before shipping, the products Excess water is carefully throughout the entire Each recipe has its own are stored for a maximum of removed after washing logistics chain and to ingredients, which are several hours, at +4°C. ✪ by draining or ventilation. the point of sale using prepared before the order 10 SHIPPING ✪ refrigerated trucks. is produced. 6 ✪ WEIGHING AND BAGGING A constant temperature 6 MIXING The salad is weighed and of +4°C is maintained packed in bags or trays. The ingredients for throughout the entire The best-before date is printed the recipe are combined. logistics chain and to on each pack. Bonduelle ensures careful the point of sale using measurement of the refrigerated trucks. ingredients in each recipe so that the end product is well-balanced. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 91 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers CONTROLLING PROCESSES 1 28 units are IFS and/or BRC certified. The policy implemented by Bonduelle to ensure maximum product (IFS: Private international food standard, owned by the French quality is based on a process and management system under the Food Retail and Wholesale Federation (FCD – Fédération des control of a Quality director in each business unit. Working in a entreprises du commerce et de la distribution) and its German network, these Quality directors report to a general coordinator and counterpart. The IFS evaluates food product suppliers focusing meet twice a year. Each business unit has a quality plan tailored to on product quality and safety. The current version is IFS V6. BRC their specific technological needs (canned, frozen or fresh food., etc.), (British Retail Consortium): private standard, owned by the British and the requirements – particularly regulatory – applicable to their Retail Consortium, and very similar to the IFS. The current version locations. is BRC V6); Quality plans are implemented in all of the group’s production 1 5 are FSSC 22000 accredited and 3 American sites are SQF (Safety facilities, based on three main aspects: incoming quality control Quality Food accredited.). of vegetable raw materials and all other supplies, production line (Private international standard owned by the Foundation for Food quality control, and quality control of end products before dispatch. Safety Certification, based on ISO 22000 and PAS 220 for food Bonduelle also operates a continuous monitoring system. In producers). 2013-2014, 48,600 analyses were carried out on canned goods and 18,100 on frozen and fresh or prepared produce. Regular audits are carried out to keep certification up to date: every three years for ISO certification, and every year for IFS, BRC and Moreover, the group is continuing its annual policy of renewing and FSSC. ISO certification also requires an annual audit. upgrading optical sorters to detect the presence of foreign bodies during the vegetable preparation process. These investments are The Company’s quality designations also include other specific areas part of our program to reduce the use of pesticides and to promote (“organic”), or client-specific requirements, which are also audited by greener farming methods, which necessarily entail sorting of the appropriate accredited external bodies. vegetables on receipt. SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS Bonduelle undergoes a thorough and rigorous certification process for its production facilities, requiring each one to be at least ISO 9001 Sourcing of raw materials is central to the group’s quality policy. Our certified or certified under an equivalent system. In addition to vegetable producer partners sign a specific sourcing charter with the such certification, it also complies with other standards (IFS, BRC) group guaranteeing compliance with the cultivation specifications for related to its industry, operating regions, or at its clients’ requests each type of vegetable. The fifth version of this charter, being piloted (McDonald’s, for example). in the Nord-Picardie area, will, after validation by the independent certification agency Bureau Veritas, be rolled out across the group. 97% of Bonduelle production sites have at least one certification. The majority of our quality-certified agro-industrial production facilities As part of our policy of continuous improvement, in 2010 Bonduelle are certified by several bodies: also drew up a dedicated sourcing charter for suppliers of food products used in the composition of its recipes, but not grown 1 16 have obtained ISO 9001 certification. directly or indirectly by the group. In addition to signing this charter, (International quality management certification standard delivered the suppliers may be subject to an audit to check their performance by an accredited external body. It sets out the requirements for and measure compliance with their product quality commitments. an effective quality management system ensuring that products This audit does not examine the supplier’s societal commitments. comply with the requirements of customers and applicable For vegetables, ingredients and products purchased by the group, regulations. The most recent version is ISO 9001 V 2008); Bonduelle asks its suppliers for quality guarantees and implements 1 2 sites are ISO 22000-certified. specific monitoring plans based on the types of products and potential risks. These plans mainly consist of tests carried out on (This standard specifies the requirements for food safety samples. In addition, its suppliers in Africa must each have quality management systems and aims to improve customer satisfaction process certifications. by effectively controlling food safety hazards); 92 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Total quality control personnel 589 employees 598 employees (full-time equivalent), of which: 8.3% 1 8.8% in the subsidiaries’ Quality Control Departments and in the Purchasing Department 35.9% 1 33.7% in the plants’ Quality Control Departments 40.4% 1 44.9% in quality control on the production lines 18.1% 1 12.7% in controls on receipt Certiﬁed factories 17 sites 1 site 16 sites are ISO 9001 certified 2 sites are ISO 22000 certified 2 23 sites 22 sites are IFS-certified 4 sites 5 sites are FSSC 22000-accredited 17 sites 15 sites are BRC-certified (British Retail Consortium) 4 sites 3 sites are SQF-accredited 9 sites 11 produce certified “organic” produce Customer services 1 Customer Services Department 1 Customer Services Department operates in each country Purchases of prepared vegetables 78 suppliers 92 suppliers (excluding vegetable producer partners) 32% have signed the simplified charter (i.e. 32%) 277 analyses 439 phyto and TME analyses carried out, of which 94% 96% were in compliance 44 suppliers 59 suppliers have been audited (i.e. 21%) 18% 126 suppliers 93 suppliers have been assessed (i.e. 32%) 51% Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 93 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers 2.5.2 Product composition 1 reformulating recipes: The 200 recipes that did not meet the nutritional standards were reviewed by the Development and nutritional quality Departments in the respective business units; For Bonduelle, respecting nutritional quality, environmental criteria 1 all new vegetable products developed must meet a number of and the principles of sustainable agriculture is essential. Alongside minimum criteria defined by Visa Santé. its quality policy, the group has therefore introduced a product Depending on the categories defined by Visa Santé, Bonduelle is also development charter in each of its business units which goes beyond working on removing or limiting certain additives found in recipes. the regulatory requirements. The Visa Santé initiative ensures that Bonduelle offers products These charters include a list of ingredients and additives that whose nutritional quality is carefully controlled, by reducing salt Bonduelle has banned from use in its products. For example, content across all product ranges, eliminating palm oil and reducing Bonduelle’s products do not contain any GMOs in accordance the fat content in salad dressings. with applicable legislation. Palm oil is no longer used in products manufactured or sold by any Bonduelle Group company. The program’s objectives also include the development of well-thought out, simple, transparent and objective nutritional Nutritional quality is a key priority for the group. 2008 saw the launch communication. The group will therefore not put nutritional claims on of Visa Santé, a continuous improvement initiative built around the packaging of “prepared and gourmet” foods. reviewing and optimizing our products. Visa Santé was launched by general management and, in addition Visa Santé is organized around four essential points: to the Nutrition Department, now involves engineers in the Quality 1 classification of products into three “nutrition” groups, according Department, R&D and Marketing Departments of the various to their levels of certain nutrients: business units. In all, more than 100 employees are involved in this mature, cross-disciplinary project, which constitutes one of the • “raw products, that have undergone minimum processing”, group’s ongoing, day-to-day commitments. • “lightly cooked vegetables”, • “prepared and gourmet products”; Listening to consumers’ expectations is key for Bonduelle. 1 the development by the Group’s Nutrition Department of a reference Tastes vary from one country to another and from culture framework of nutritional values related to recommendations on to culture. To fulfill its customers’ expectations, Bonduelle the quantity and quality of salt, sugar and fat content in food. conducts tests relating to both sensory perception and 1,158 products – from all segments – were thus analyzed to enjoyment, enabling it to select the most appealing ingredients determine if they were in line with the recommended nutritional and to adjust its recipes. values; 94 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers 2.5.3 Consumer information Bonduelle is also committed to fighting against food waste. The group offers its consumers different packaging to allow them and satisfaction to make informed decisions based on their household and way of consumption. Practical tips can be found on its sustainable This approach goes hand in hand with the actions undertaken to development website, such as regarding the use-by date which communicate transparently on products and their health benefits. In applies to all products that could present a health risk after a short addition to high food quality, pleasure, taste and Corporate Social time period, and the best-before date which relates, in particular, to Responsibility are fundamental principles for Bonduelle in producing canned goods and frozen foods. its products. All Bonduelle products provide the consumer information required under European law. In the interests of transparency, in 2004 The “summer 2013” and “winter 2013-2014” call for Bonduelle voluntarily introduced nutritional labeling for its products, proposals by the Louis Bonduelle Foundation addressed listing the following properties: energy value, amounts of protein, carbohydrate and fat, saturated fatty acids, sugar, dietary fiber and the issue of food waste. This is a major issue as French people throw away an average of 20% of the food that they buy each year, including 7 kg of unopened and unconsumed 2 sodium. All of this information is now mandatory under European Food Information Regulation No. 1169/2011, which became effective food! This problem can be seen across the whole of Europe: on December 13, 2011. The general provisions of the regulation will be in Belgium the equivalent of 174 euros in food is thrown applicable from December 31, 2014. In the second quarter of 2014, away per inhabitant each year. In the United Kingdom, 25% 80% to 90% of the Bonduelle Group’s own-brand products had of food purchased is thrown out. This waste not only impacts nutritional labeling. In accordance with INCO rules, the 100% target household budgets, but is harmful to the environment. This will be reached before the end of 2014. Bonduelle goes even further call for proposals aims to support actions to reduce consumer and presents the RDA (Recommended Daily Allowance) of minerals household waste. and vitamins on the majority of its containers (size of container permitting) to encourage a varied diet and a healthy lifestyle. In a similar vein, during the second Veggi’Week, Bonduelle and the In each country where Bonduelle has a presence, a dedicated Paul Bocuse Institute organized a challenge based on food waste department focuses on customer satisfaction, responds to consumer at school cafeterias. The event – a real vegetable brainstorming complaints and feeds information back to Quality Managers. Each session – was an opportunity for students in their second year of the label provides a toll free number that customers may call at any time Masters in Culinary Management & Innovation at the Paul Bocuse to speak to a customer service representative, whether to make a Institute to pit themselves against an educational challenge: to come complaint or request information. Complaints may concern the up with five innovative ways of reducing vegetable waste during presence of foreign bodies, unequal distribution of vegetables in meals taken by children outside the home. Bonduelle also chose this mixed packs, packaging defects, etc. theme of tackling food waste for the seventh conference of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation held on May 20, 2014 in Paris. To further improve its customer service, in 2014 Bonduelle introduced a new quality management tool via the REQUEST project. The software enables the collection of requests and comments from customers in all countries where the group operates and their integration into a special program. Ultimately this will lead to improved response times, a more detailed analysis of potential quality issues and swifter implementation of corrective actions. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 95 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6 CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.1 Context and objectives 2.6.2 Procedures The analysis of Bonduelle’s sustainable development performance is The group’s director of Sustainable Development is responsible for reported annually in this registration document. oversight of reporting, in addition to the Managers of the five areas concerned (transport, quality-nutrition, agriculture, natural resources, Bonduelle set out its commitment to progress in sustainable People and safety). development in 2002-2003, using a traditional phase-based project management methodology: The data is collected annually by the correspondents on the sites and in the business units. The group’s Management Consolidation 1 phase 1: set and validate objectives and communicate these Department checks and consolidates this data. throughout the organization; 1 phase 2: implement progress plans to achieve these objectives; 1 phase 3: measure and monitor the results. June 2014 saw the launch of the new reporting tool, Metrio Relevant Managers have drawn up lists of indicators for Bonduelle’s Covering the entire Bonduelle Group and all aspects of sustainable development priority areas, in association with their sustainable development, this tool is used to input the data exchange networks and approved by the operating departments. needed to calculate the indicators. Each user has their own The indicators were chosen based on a combination of Bonduelle’s personal access, depending on the plant and his or her area sustainable development commitments and GRI version three of responsibility in the report. To ensure that everyone fully guidelines, as well as the expectations of stakeholders and the understands the indicators, definitions (scope, data requested, regulatory requirements of the Grenelle environment law (France), units and examples) can be found in the data entry interface. culminating in the drafting of Bonduelle’s own reporting guidelines. The results of the indicators are directly accessible to the report’s contributors using tables and graphs. The group’s Reporting has taken place every year since 2002-2003. This year the production facilities can also compare their results with each reporting period is from July 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014. The indicators other to encourage the exchange of best practice. published in the registration document include the results of the past year and those from the 2012-2013 report to allow changes in Metrio is currently available in French and English and will soon indicators to be monitored. be translated into all group languages. The 200 contributors have been trained on how to use the tool. Human resources The primary aim of reporting is to enable the group to enhance reporting uses the COGNOS HR database tool. The results its sustainability management. With this in mind, the findings are are then imported into Metrio to consolidate the sustainable analyzed by the Sustainable Development Steering Committee and development indicators within the same tool. Similarly, CO2 the Bonduelle Executive Committee to determine the objectives emissions from transport are not yet calculated using the for the following year. The production facilities also have direct Metrio reporting tool. access to their indicators so that they can monitor and analyze their performance. The 2013-2014 registration document was prepared in accordance with the level B+ requirements of the GRI and Article 225 of the ■ CONTROL AND VALIDATION French Grenelle II law of July 12, 2010. An automatic consistency check is carried out in all areas: if the The GRI association verified the registration document (version 3.1 value entered deviates by more than 15% from the previous year, this of the GRI Food Sector Supplement – its certificate can be found on triggers an alert. The member of staff concerned can then modify or page 37). confirm the value by adding a note. For this fiscal year, the audit firm Deloitte, the Joint Auditors, also Approval is required for each value entered. Plant Managers are verified the Corporate Social Responsibility report, the reporting responsible for validating their site’s “Natural Resources” and procedures and a selection of indicators to meet the certification “Quality” data. Agricultural Managers must validate the “Upstream requirement of the Grenelle II law and to provide external verification Agricultural” data sheets, while country purchasing Managers must of the reliability of the reporting to obtain a GRI B+ rating (see the validate the “Purchasing” sheets. assurance report on page 103). 96 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology For “People and Safety”, the data are reported by the human collection, traction and distribution, taking into account the unladen resources officers at each site. They are then consolidated and distance in each of the collection and distribution segments. This validated by Managers for France, Europe excluding France, and model may be adjusted according to the actual logistics flows to the Non-Europe zone, before being consolidated by the People and optimize data monitoring; Safety Manager. Internal audits were conducted throughout the year 1 for distribution, the unladen return journey was taken to be 20%, in by HR teams for data control purposes and to improve the reliability accordance with ADEME guidelines; of the process. 1 for the Canned and Frozen businesses, the gross weight Supply chain services are responsible for reporting data on transported (including the weight of additional packaging) is used transport and CO2 emissions. Each subsidiary verifies its indicators in the emissions calculation, whereas the net product weight is before they are consolidated by the group (management control + used for the Fresh and Prepared businesses, since there is no specialist experts). method for obtaining reliable data on the gross weight for fiscal ■ DATA CONSOLIDATION 2013-2014; 1 for maritime transport to Cameroon, an average container vessel 2 Because this is the first year that the Metrio software has been used, of 1900-3849 TEU was considered, unless otherwise specified. indicators at the business unit and group level are consolidated by For transport to Kenya and the intercontinental transport of the group management control using Excel spreadsheets. BDV subsidiary, a container vessel of over 7,500 TEU is used. For transportation via the sea highway, which corresponds to a regular A group consistency review is carried out by specialist experts and high-frequency maritime transport service for road vehicles, management control. two types of vessels are available: RO-PAX and RO-RO. Unless The group’s Sustainable Development Steering Committee validates otherwise specified, we use an average emissions factor for these all of the (group-level) indicators in September. two types of vessel; 1 rail transport: for countries in Europe (France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, the United ■ SUPPLY CHAIN METHODS AND TOOLS Kingdom), it was assumed that rail transport is powered by The methods for calculating CO2 emissions for Bonduelle’s freight electricity. For other countries, it is assumed that trains mainly run transport were devised by supply chain teams working closely with on diesel. the ADEME (French Environment and Energy Management Agency) Some marginal flows are not taken into account: in 2009. Following the enactment of Decree No. 2011-1336 on October 24, 1 returns and sample orders; 2011, which establishes the calculation principles common to 1 customer orders dispatched by external suppliers; all modes of transport, and following the publication of the new 1 purchases of ingredients and raw materials and/or packaging; European standard for the calculation and declaration of energy and greenhouse gas emissions from transport services (NF EN 16 258), 1 credits due to returned goods; we have sought to comply with these principles and have reviewed 1 inter-site orders that are not transported; the methods used for calculating emissions as a result. 1 sales to brokers, gifts, staff sales, sales to colleagues; The calculation covers the carriage of goods (fuel consumption, which is higher in temperature-controlled vehicles due to the refrigeration 1 other sales: disposal of end-of-line products or products that are unit) by road (trucks), rail or maritime freight. Truck manufacture and past their BBD (best-before date). depreciation is not taken into account. Used only marginally by the For the transport of fresh produce, it should be noted that when group, air transport is not taken into consideration. occasional troubleshooting is required (for example, due to a strike at The assumptions used are: the storage depot), the standard logistics model is used. This year, the calculation for the FRESH business unit included flows 1 road transport: the maximum truck payload is taken to be 25 tonnes for a 40-tonne road tractor and for a 44-tonne tractor, related to customer pick-ups, that is, when customers arrange the with the following two exceptions. For upstream agricultural transport to pick up the produce at the plant. activities, the maximum payload was considered equal to the maximum vegetable tonnage that can be transported, according to ■ METHODOLOGY AND TOOLS FOR PEOPLE the density and crush resistance of the produce. For temperatureAND SAFETY REPORTING controlled trucks (+4°), the maximum payload was considered equal to 24 tonnes; The in-house tools used for social reporting are: 1 emissions generated by road transport for the Fresh and Prepared 1 database tool: COGNOS (excl. Canada); food businesses are calculated according to the messaging model 1 training management tool: FOEDERIS; recommended in the ADEME guidelines, in three segments: 1 payment platforms: ARCOLE, HOROQUARTZ, CEGID, ADP GSI. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 97 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ COORDINATION OF REPORTING newsletter has been launched to keep this correspondents’ network up to date on reporting issues and current events in sustainable CSR reporting involves approximately 200 correspondents in development. As part of the development of collaborative working various roles across the group’s production facilities: quality control, methods in the VegeGo! Networking project, a Google community environment and supply chain experts. To facilitate communication, a was also created to improve sharing of best reporting practices. 2.6.3 Scope Sustainable development reporting extends to all Bonduelle Group 1 logistic centers are also excluded from the reporting scope, with sites and business units (see 1.6 Group organization structure on the exception of transport, and People and safety; page 16). The reporting scope is specified based on the scope of 1 the headquarters of fully consolidated companies are excluded consolidation (see 5.5 Notes to the consolidated financial statements, from the scope, with the exception of People & Safety. Note 31, page 199) and according to the following rules: No change in scope occurred during ﬁscal 2013-2014. 1 new sites and business units acquired during the fiscal year ended will be included within the scope for the following year; 1 sites and business units either disposed of or no longer in operation ■ AGRICULTURAL UPSTREAM during the year ended are excluded from the scope for the entire Reporting is based on the agricultural production areas: France period, to enable comparability of results; Nord-Picardie; France South-West; Fresh Europe; Hungary; Poland; 1 equity affiliates are excluded from the scope. Their activities are Russia; Portugal; Quebec (Canada); Ontario (Canada); United States. reported as external purchasing; Exceptions are made for the transportation area; ■ TRANSPORTATION Transportation has been included in Bonduelle’s sustainable development strategy since 2007-2008. Data will be added to group-wide data on a gradual basis. Accordingly, the operational scope of reporting for transport in 2013-2014 is defined as: Frozen vegetables Canned vegetables Mushroom Fresh Prepared Canada Upstream France Nord-Picardie Hungary Mushroom France France agricultural France South-West France Nord-Picardie picking Saumur Italy activities France South-West (France) region Germany Africa Inter-sites France Hungary France France France Poland France Nord-Picardie Poland Italy Portugal France South-West Distribution France France Poland France France Spain Europe France Italy Italy Russia Belgium Germany Benelux Brazil Spain Germany/Austria Export Italy Germany The geographical scope of transport is unchanged, however the comparison of results with the previous year is difficult owing to the change in calculation method for CO2 emissions. ■ RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING 1 Italy: packaging, indirect plant; The scope of responsible purchasing is as follows: 1 Russia: excluding technical purchases, general and administrative expenses and energy; 1 France: including seeds Europe; 1 Canada: packaging and vegetables, excluding agronomy. 1 Hungary: excluding transport and general and administrative expenses; 98 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ 2013-2014 purchasing indicators= Proportion of the budget accounted for with commitments to respecting the principles of the Global Compact ■ FRANCE ■ POLAND GLOBAL GLOBAL 84% COMPACT 16% 75% COMPACT 25% of which 97% have signed 85% of which 25% have signed of which 96% have signed 78% of which 24% have signed the Global Compact the Global Compact the Global Compact the Global Compact 2 ■ GERMANY ■ PORTUGAL GLOBAL 66% COMPACT 34% GLOBAL 9% COMPACT 91% of which 62% have signed 41% of which 2% have signed of which 100% 9% of which 0% have signed have signed the Global Compact the Global Compact the Global Compact the Global Compact ■ CANADA (Family of Ingredients, packaging) ■ RUSSIA GLOBAL GLOBAL 100% COMPACT 100% COMPACT dont 96% have signed 96% of which 64% have signed 64% the Global Compact the Global Compact ■ HUNGARY ■ ALL COUNTRIES (2013-2014 scope) GLOBAL 93% COMPACT 7% GLOBAL 87% COMPACT 13% of which 94% have signed 87% of which 0% have signed of which 92% 82% of which 20% have signed have signed the Global Compact the Global Compact the Global Compact the Global Compact ■ ITALY (Not including family of semi-ﬁnished Vegetable Products ■ ALL COUNTRIES (2012-2013 scope) and Finished Goods) GLOBAL GLOBAL GLOBAL COMPACT COMPACT 85% 15% of which 50% COMPACT 43% of which 0% 70% 80% have signed have signed the Global Compact the Global Compact 2012-2013 results 2013-2014 results Percentage of budget covered by BONDUELLE contracts Percentage of budget covered solely by tariff agreements Percentage of the budget accounted for with commitments to respecting the principles of the Global Compact Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 99 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.4 Indicators Turnover SCOPE The quantitative reporting indicators are found on page 266 (8.4 Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), non-permanent Cross-reference tables). In addition, a cross-reference table lists the staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and GRI indicators and their correlation to the Grenelle initiatives. temporary workers). DEFINITION ■ DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN INDICATORS VERIFIED BY DELOITTE Turnover is calculated by dividing the total workforce by the number of departures (at the request of the employee, due to death, retirement HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS or agreed departure), expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE). Total employees by type of employment contract, age Absenteeism rate and geographical area (full-time equivalent) SCOPE SCOPE Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), non-permanent Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and temporary workers). temporary agency workers). DEFINITION Scope includes France, Europe (excluding France) and Non-Europe. Percentage of the hours of absence for a work accident, a commuting accident, occupational sickness, unjustified or unpaid absence Hiring during the ﬁscal year justified at the last minute (authorized or unpaid absence) based SCOPE on the number of theoretical hours worked during the given period. Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts) and temporary staff Absences on maternity and paternity leave are not taken into account. (fixed-term contracts). Frequency of work-related accidents Scope includes France, Europe (excluding France) and Non-Europe. SCOPE DEFINITION Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), non-permanent Number of hires staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and Number of external hires in the reference fiscal year. temporary workers). The following cases are not included in the indicator: DEFINITION 1 employees on fixed-term contracts who have been offered Number of work-related accidents during the fiscal year leading to at permanent contracts; least one full day off work per million hours worked. 1 renewal of fixed-term contracts; Severity rate of work-related accidents 1 intra-group transfers of employees requiring a new work contract; SCOPE 1 returns after extended leave of absence. Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), non-permanent staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and Departures and Transfers temporary workers). SCOPE DEFINITION Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary Number of days lost as a result of work-related accidents per million staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and hours worked. Days lost which relate to accidents that occurred temporary agency workers). prior to the fiscal year (before July 1, 2013) and which continue into Scope includes France, Europe (excluding France), Non-Europe. the subsequent fiscal year are included in the calculation. Figures Takes into account departures: concern calendar days. Lost time occurring after the end of a contract is not included. 1 at the employee’s request (resignations); 1 at the employer’s request (layoffs); Number of training hours (hours) SCOPE 1 due to death, retirement or agreed departures; Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff 1 due to transfer to another group company. (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal workers. 100 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology DEFINITION Generation of green waste and recycling Continuing Professional Development (gross tonnes/year) Gaining and developing knowledge and skills within one’s SCOPE professional activity. Work-study contracts are considered to be Tonnage weighed upon exiting from plant (gross weight) or where continuing professional development. a weighing is not possible, calculated according to a rule to be To be considered as training, the session must be at least four hours established by each plant. long (continuous or not). Generation and recovery of ordinary industrial waste NATURAL RESOURCES INDICATORS (OIW) (gross tonnes/year) Indicators are the result of quantitative measurements (invoices, SCOPE weight, meter readings, etc.). If no direct quantitative measure is Gross weight invoiced by the service providers for the fiscal year. available, data may be estimated according to calculation rules duly described and validated by the production facilities. DEFINITION OIW = non-hazardous industrial waster as classified under European 2 Subcontractors’ energy consumption, such as the boiler operators, is waste terminology, with disposal carried out by companies licensed included in the volume of gas consumed by the relevant production to process waste. For example, paper, cardboard, wood, plastic, sites, and not in the volume of steam consumed by the plant. glass, food oils, discarded food, factory rejects, etc. Renewable energies (for example, the biogas produced on site or close by) consumed by on-site boilers are included along with fossil Generation of special industrial waste (SIW) (kg/year) fuels. SCOPE Gross weight invoiced by the service providers removing the special Water usage and sourcing (m3) industrial waste during the fiscal year. SCOPE DEFINITION 1 Drilling water. Special industrial waste is environmentally hazardous waste under 1 Surface water. European terminology. Disposal is carried out by companies licensed 1 Drinking water distribution network. to process special waste. For example, technical oils and greases, solvents, barrels of chemical products, medical waste, neon and DEFINITION ink cartridges. Local legislation varies, therefore the BAM business Total water consumption for plants with three possible sources: well unit sites identify the appropriate treatment channels for certain water, surface water or the drinking water distribution network. categories of waste (neon, batteries and ink cartridges) to ensure comprehensive monitoring of these data. Quantity of pollution generated and treated at the production facility in tonnes of chemical oxygen Electricity consumption in Megawatt Hours (MWh) demand (TCOD) produced and TCOD treated SCOPE SCOPE Total consumption at production facilities includes: production, 1 COD treated at Bonduelle’s treatment facility. storage, treatment, etc. This consumption corresponds to the total 1 COD treated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural invoiced at the facility. spreading). Natural gas consumption in MWh Gross Caloriﬁc Value 1 COD treated at external treatment facilities: in this case, the (GCV) assumption of a 90% elimination rate is applied if the actual rate is SCOPE not known; a residual 10% discharge into the natural environment is also taken into account. The total consumption of natural gas expressed as MWh. 1 Discharge into the natural environment in compliance with Tonnes of packaging used and packaging type (T/yr) regulations. This is the discharge after treatment by a Bonduelle or SCOPE external treatment plant. Primary, secondary and tertiary packaging of goods supplied during DEFINITION the fiscal year. Packaging of raw materials used in production is This pollution was measured in tonnes of biological oxygen demand excluded from the scope. (BOD) until last fiscal year. Since BOD is estimated based on COD, TYPE OF PACKAGING we opted to directly report monitoring in COD as of this year in the interests of greater accuracy. Accordingly, given the change in the 1 Primary packaging: packaging in contact with the product (boxes, indicator, the data are not comparable between the two years. plastic films, plastic trays, bags, cans, etc.). Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 101 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 1 Secondary packaging: bulk boxes used in palletization. CO2 emissions related to transporting our products (tCO2e) 1 Tertiary packaging: plastic films for palletization and transport. DEFINITION Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) directly related to plants Direct emissions during the transport of goods. (expressed in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent – tCO2e) Variable scope in relation to the subsidiary. SCOPE As a minimum: Emissions related to the consumption of fossil fuels, electricity and steam at the production facilities. 1 inter-site transport: between Bonduelle plants; DEFINITION 1 distribution transport: from Bonduelle plants to our customers. Conversion of total quantities of energy consumed at the facilities DEFINITION using the appropriate Ademe emissions factors (carbon footprint The methodology used was developed in partnership with ADEME calculator (Bilan Carbone) V7.04), with the exception of Canada for according to the methodology guidelines for CO2 emissions by which more detailed emission factors by state have been used where transport providers, pursuant to Article L. 1431-3 of the French data are available locally. Transport Code. 2.6.5 2014 Reporting schedule Date Action Department January Update of the reporting matrix incorporating Area Managers and reporting coordinator the requirements of GRI and Article 225 of the Grenelle law February Update of definition guidelines Area Managers and reporting coordinator April Translation of reference frameworks Reporting coordinator June Training of representatives on the new reporting tool Reporting coordinator and representatives July Gathering of information Subsidiary sites/areas to the subsidiary coordinator August Data validation Persons responsible for approval in the reporting tool August Consolidation at group level by area and validation Group management control and Area Managers of consolidation September Reporting audits at the production facilities Production facilities audited and Deloitte September Audit of the group consolidation Group management control and Deloitte September Audit of the sustainable development policy Area Managers and Deloitte September Review of the registration document for GRI check GRI & Deloitte and regulatory compliance with the Grenelle law September Validation of the registration document and detailed Area Managers, group communications and management charts group management control For all questions relating to the content of this report, please contact: developpement_durable@bonduelle.com. The most recent published sustainable development report is included in the Bonduelle Group’s registration document, available on www.bonduelle.com as of October 2013. 102 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.6 Assurance report 1 to express limited assurance on the fact that, taken as a whole, the CSR Information is presented fairly, in all material aspects, in Report of the statutory auditor, designated as an independent accordance with the adopted Reporting Criteria (Conclusion on third-party entity, on the review of consolidated environmental, the fair presentation of the CSR Information) ; social and societal information published in the management Our work was carried out by a team composed of six people between report August 2014 and October 2014, i.e. a period of around five weeks. (This is a free translation into English of the original report issued To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to our corporate in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English responsibility experts. speaking readers) We conducted the following procedures in accordance with Year ended June 30, 2014 professional standards applicable in France, the order of May 13, 2013 determining the methodology according to which the independent ■ FOR THE ATTENTION OF THE SHAREHOLDERS, third party entity conducts its assignment and the ISAE (International Standard on Assurance Engagements) 3000 (2). 2 In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Bonduelle, and designated 1. ATTESTATION OF COMPLETENESS as an independent third-party entity, of which the admissibility of OF CSR INFORMATION the application for accreditation has been accepted by the French Based on interviews with management, we familiarized ourselves National Accreditation Body (COFRAC) under the number 3-1048(1), with the Group’s sustainable development strategy, with regard to the we hereby present you with our report on the social, environmental social and environmental impacts of the company’s business and its and societal information presented in the management report societal commitments and, where appropriate, any resulting actions prepared for the financial year ended on June 30, 2014 (hereinafter or programs. the “CSR Information”), pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French We have compared the CSR Information presented in the Commercial Code (Code du commerce). management report with the list set forth in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. ■ RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY In the event of omission of certain consolidated information, we have verified that explanations were provided in accordance with the third The Management Board is responsible for preparing a management paragraph of the Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code. report including the CSR Information provided by Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, prepared in accordance with the We have verified that the CSR Information covered the consolidated reporting criteria used by Bonduelle (the “Reporting Criteria”), some scope, i.e., the company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of of which are presented throughout the management report. Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code and the companies that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, subject to the limits set forth in the methodological ■ INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL memo paragraph presented in the management report. Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the profession’s Based on our work and considering the aforementioned limits, we Code of Ethics as well as by the provisions set forth in Article L. attest to the completeness of the required CSR Information in the 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. Furthermore, we have set management report. up a quality control system that includes the documented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with rules of ethics, 2. CONCLUSION ON THE FAIR PRESENTATION professional standards and the applicable legal texts and regulations. OF THE CSR INFORMATION Nature and scope of procedures ■ RESPONSIBILITY OF THE AUDITOR We held interviews with around ten persons responsible for preparing Based on our work, our responsibility is: the CSR Information with the departments in charge of the CSR Information collection process and, when appropriate, those who are 1 to attest that the required CSR Information is presented in responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in the management report or, in the event of omission, is explained order to : pursuant to the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation of completeness of 1 assess the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria with respect the CSR Information) to its relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, by taking into consideration, when relevant, the sector’s best practices ; (1) See www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 103 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 1 verify the set-up of a process to collect, compile, process, and tests on a sampling basis, consisting in verifying the calculations check the CSR Information with regard to its completeness and performed and reconciling the data with supporting evidence. The consistency and familiarize ourselves with the internal control and selected sample represented on average 21% of the headcount risk management procedures relating to the compilation of the and 31% of quantitative environmental information. CSR Information. Regarding the other consolidated CSR Information, we have We determined the nature and scope of the tests and controls assessed its consistency in relation to our knowledge of the Group. according to the nature and significance of the CSR Information with Finally, we have assessed the relevance of the explanations relating to, regard to the company’s characteristics, the social and environmental where necessary, the total or partial omission of certain information. challenges of its activities, its sustainable development strategies and the sector’s best practices. We believe that the sampling methods and sizes of the samples we have used in exercising our professional judgment enable us to express Concerning the CSR Information that we consider to be most limited assurance; a higher level of assurance would have required significant (3): more in-depth verifications. Due to the use of sampling techniques 1 for the consolidating entity, we consulted the documentary and the other limits inherent to the operations of any information and sources and held interviews to corroborate the qualitative internal control system, the risk that a material anomaly be identified information (organization, policies, actions), we implemented in the CSR Information cannot be totally eliminated. analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations as well as the data consolidation and we verified their consistency with the other ■ CONCLUSION information shown in the management report ; Based on our work and subject to the above-mentioned qualification, 1 for a representative sample of entities (4) that we selected according we did not identify any material anomaly likely to call into question the to their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, fact that the CSR Information has been presented fairly, in all material their location and a risk analysis, we held interviews to verify the aspects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. correct application of the procedures and implemented substantive Lille, September 26, 2014 The Auditors Deloitte & Associés Gérard Badin (3) Quantitative data: Water consumption; Electricity consumption; Natural gas consumption; Non-hazardous industrial waste produced; Special industrial waste produced; Tons of packaging used and breakdown by type of material; Amount of chemical oxygen demand (COD) treated at external treatment plants; Amount of COD discharged into the natural environment in compliance with regulations; Indirect greenhouse gas emissions; Direct greenhouse gas emissions ; Greenhouse gas emissions linked to transportation; Total permanent employees on June 30 by gender, age and geographical area; Total seasonal employees (full-time equivalent); Departures due to layoff, to the employee and to transfer; Permanent and ﬁxed-term new hires; Number of training hours; Number of hours worked; Absenteeism rate; Frequency rate of occupational lost-time accidents; Occupational lost-time accidents severity rate; number of fatal occupational accidents. Qualitative data: Health and safety at work (STOP methodology implementation); Training and development of ‘high-potential’ employees via the tool ManageGo!, Overview of collective agreements signed during the reporting period; Environmental issues in agricultural upstream operations (Sourcing charter); Implementation of the oversight mechanism for utilities and processes associated with environmental reporting; Odour nuisances management and relationship with affected stakeholders; Roll-out of the Ethics Charter; Purchasing Charter; CSR supplier questionnaire; LEAF certiﬁcation process; Simpliﬁed sourcing charter; Product development charter. (4) Estrées-Mons canned and frozen; Renescure (social information, COD); Saint-Denis; Gniewkowo (COD), Rosporden (COD), Bordères (COD), Cristalina (permanent hires) ; Tecumseh (departures, COD). 104 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.7 Overview of indicators ■ ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS AGRICULTURAL UPSTREAM Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Biodiversity 500 varieties Almost 500 vegetable varieties distributed across the group’s various ranges 199 varietal collections 219 varietal collections enabled 1,355 plant varieties to be observed. Agricultural headcount 942 varieties observed 239 people 246 employees (full-time equivalent Agronomy Department employees, including administrative staff, seasonal staff, trainees and those on 2 permanent and fixed-term contracts). Sourcing charter 91% 93% of farmers ve signed it. Farmer assessed 54% 74% of farmers ave been assessed by an initiative iming to compile an annual budget. Soil analysis 98% 94% of nitrogen fertilizing has been calculated using residual method analysis. Farming intensity 28.7 ha 27.3 hectares of vegetables grown by each producer on average. Security network 168 networks 245 trapping networks. NATURAL RESOURCES Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 TMP 1,055,837 TMP 1,137,305 TMP (tonnes of manufactured product) 3 Water consumption 12,434,274 m 12,032,822 m3 consumed 11.8 m3 Equivalent to 10.6 m3 per tonne of manufactured product Water sourcing 9,281,434 m3 9,275,455 m3 of drilling water 2,802,329 m3 2,391,002 m3 of urban water 3 350,510 m 366,365 m3 of surface water Energy consumption 3,247,707 GJ (gigajoules) 3,187,816 GJ of total consumption 1,350,776 GJ of which electricity: 1,294,188 GJ 1,663,950 GJ of which natural gas: 1,626,199 GJ 2,082 GJ of which fuel oil (very low sulfur content): 0 GJ 48,744 GJ of which propane: 60,863 GJ 6,275 GJ of which LPG: 3,351 GJ 39,749 GJ of which domestic fuel oil: 34,036 GJ 29,943 GJ of which biomass: 54,953 GJ 95,213 GJ of which purchase of steam: 98,447 GJ 10,975 GJ of which biogas: 15,779 GJ Electricity consumption by country: 50% 51% France 24% 22% Canada 13% 13% United States 4% 4% Portugal Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 105 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 3% 4% Poland 2% 3% Hungary 2% 2% Germany 1% 2% Russia 0.5% 0.6% Brazil Production of ordinary waste 43,802 tonnes 45,001 tonnes 41.5 kg i.e. 39.6 kg/TMP Treatment: 24% Industrial landfill: 22% 4% Energy recovery: 6% 72% Recycling: 72% Production of special waste 262 tonnes 182 tonnes 0.25 kg i.e. 0.16 kg/TMP Production of green waste 576,361 tonnes 487,318 tonnes 546 kg i.e. 428 kg/TMP Use: 3% Agricultural spreading: 2.7% 77% Animal feed: 88% 1% Energy recovery: 0.7% 19% Marketable product: 8% 1% Other (compost): 0.6% Pollution discharge Breakdown of treatment in m3: 85% 86% m3 discharged to treatment plant 10% 11% m3 discharged for spreading after pretreatment 2% 3% m3 discharged directly for spreading on crops 3% 0% m3 discharged as clean effluent Discharge of pollutants and proportion treated: 24,591 tonnes of BOD 44,392 tonnes of COD* produced at production facilities 84% 69% of COD trated at Bonduelle treatment plants 13% 27% of COD trated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural spreading) 2% 2% of COD trated at external treatment plants 0.6% 2% of COD discharged into the natural environment in compliance with regulations Biosolids 1,936 tonnes Production of 2,180 tonnes of dry biological sludge 3 1,591,006 Nm Production of 1,576,263 Nm3 of biogas. * Change in the unit of measurement from biological oxygen demand (BOD) in 2012-2013 to chemical oxygen demand (COD) in 2013-2014. 106 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Packaging 146,140 tonnes 150,845 tonnes Breakdown by type of material: 57.6% Metal cans: 55.7% 20.3% Cardboard: 19.9% 9.8% Glass jars: 12.3% 5.1% Plastic film: 4.9% 3.6% Lids: 2.8% 1.6% 2.1% Plastic trays: 1.6% Labels and other: 2.8% 2 Expenditure for minimizing €3,777,825 Wastewater and sludge treatment: €1,816,014 the impact of activities on the environment €241,403 Industrial and green waste: €181,172 €3,253,175 Air and energy: €5,242,105 Greenhouse gas emissions 68,383 tCO2e 77,734 tCO2e from indirect emissions (expressed in tonnes (purchase of electricity and steam) of carbon dioxide equivalent – tCO2e) 121,205 tCO2e 110,180 tCO2e from direct emissions (purchase of fossil energy, refrigerant fluid leaks) Emissions of ozone 2,446 tCO2e 475 tCO2e for R22, R134A, R404A and R422A depleting gas TRANSPORTATION (EXCL. CANADA AND THE USA) Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 CO2 emissions (tonnes) 15,657 tonnes of CO2 Upstream agricultural transport, 15,698 tonnes of CO2 16,716 tonnes of CO2 Inter-site, 14,645 tonnes of CO2 72,941 tonnes of CO2 Distribution, 76,568 tonnes of CO2 105,314 tonnes of CO2 i.e. 106,911 tonnes of CO2 (excl. Canada and the United States) Ratio of kg of CO2/tonnes 18 kg CO2 Upstream agricultural transport, 19 kg CO2 emitted/ tonne transported 20 kg CO2 Inter-site, 19 kg CO2 emitted/tonne transported 75 kg CO2 Distribution, 74 kg CO2 emitted/tonne transported Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 107 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ COMMITMENTS TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND CIVIL SOCIETY COMMITMENTS TO CIVIL SOCIETY Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Workforce 6,736 permanent 6,983 permanent 9,758 full-time equivalent 9,569 on permanent, fixed-term, seasonal and other contracts (FTE) ■ Total employees by type of employment contract and geographical area (full-time equivalent) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Permanent 3,343 1,422 2,058 6,824 Non-Permanent 300 137 95 532 Seasonal 628 441 637 1,706 Other 217 167 123 507 ■ Total employees by gender, age, status and geographical area (permanent staff) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women 1,390 625 760 2,775 Men 1,986 875 1,347 4,208 Executive 693 316 223 1,232 Non-Executive 2,683 1,184 1,884 5,751 Permanent employees aged under 26 ans 122 36 177 335 Permanent employees aged 26 35 ans 678 356 490 1 524 Permanent employees aged 36 45 ans 993 518 514 2 025 Permanent employees aged 46 49 ans 371 180 193 744 Permanent employees aged 50 55 ans 661 230 345 1 236 Permanent employees aged over 55 ans 551 180 388 1 119 Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Seniority (permanent staff): 0 to 3 years: 1,530 0 to 3 years: 1,910 4 to 9 years: 1,571 4 to 9 years: 1,476 >9 years: 3,635 >9 years: 3,597 Average seniority: 13.29 Average seniority: 12.81 New hires, in number of contracts: Permanent contract: 589 Permanent contract: 784 Fixed-term contract: 1,095 Fixed-term contract: 1,187 Seasonal: 4,986 Seasonal: 6,473 Workers with a disability 232 (full-time equivalent) 268 (full-time equivalent) Total group turnover 11.64% * 12.84% * 108 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ Departures by type of contract France Europe excl. France Non-Europe Total Executive Due to layoff 9 9 3 21 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure. 15 1 5 21 Due to the employee 17 12 6 35 (resignation, end of probationary period) Due to transfer 20 0 0 20 Non-Executive Due to layoff 76 65 198 339 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure 70 94 78 242 Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period) 172 92 667 931 2 Due to transfer 13 1 6 20 ■ Turnover by gender * France Europe excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover – Women 5.0% 8.3% 24.3% 11.24% Turnover – Men 6.9% 9.8% 27.0% 13.96% Departures – Women 94 78 269 441 Departures – Men 180 121 487 788 ■ Turnover by age * France Europe excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover of employees aged under 26 1.5% 2.6% 8.9% 3.99% Turnover of employees between 26-35 1.7% 2.7% 6.9% 3.51% Turnover of employees between 36-45 0.8% 1.6% 3.7% 1.86% Turnover of employees between 46-49 0.3% 0.6% 1.6% 0.77% Turnover of employees between 50-55 0.3% 0.6% 1.8% 0.83% Turnover of employees aged 55+ 1.5% 1.1% 3.1% 1.88% Departures of employees under 26 67 57 258 382 Departures of employees between 26-35 76 59 201 336 Departures of employees between 36-45 34 35 109 178 Departures of employees between 46-49 14 12 48 74 Departures of employees between 50-55 15 13 51 79 Departures of employees aged 55+ 68 23 89 180 Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Training 1.57% % of gross payroll: 1.6% 123,795 Number of training hours: 168,293 23 hours Average training duration per individual: 27 hours 39.08% women Breakdown of training hours by gender: 29.48% women 60.92% men and 70.52% men Safety conditions 11.75 Frequency of work-related accidents: 9.22 0.61 Work-related accidents severity rate: 0.42 1.39 Severity rate of occupational diseases for France: 1.00 * Scope: departures at the request of the employee, due to death, retirement or agreed departure. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 109 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ Breakdown of work-related accidents Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women – Frequency rate 14.56 6.75 6.21 10.16 Men – Frequency rate 12.26 8.53 4.30 8.61 Frequency rate 13.20 7.80 4.98 9.22 Women – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 42 10 12 64 Men – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 51 18 15 84 Number of work-related accidents with lost time 93 28 27 148 Women – Severity rate 1.04 0.16 0.38 0.63 Men – Severity rate 0.41 0.31 0.13 0.29 Severity rate 0.67 0.25 0.22 0.42 Women – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 3,005 231 727 3,963 Men – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 1,713 655 458 2,826 Lost days due to work-related accidents 4,718 886 1,185 6,789 Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women – Occupational disease severity rate 1.95 NA NA 1.95 Men – Occupational disease severity rate 0.33 NA NA 0.33 Occupational disease severity rate 1.00 NA NA 1.00 Women – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 5,632 NA NA 5,632 Men – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 1,382 NA NA 1,382 Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 7,014 NA NA 7,014 Data not available Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Industrial restructuring 454 Staff affected by industrial restructuring plans who have received outplacement support: 0 Work time organization 15,914,984 Number of hours worked: 16,058,864 4.46% Absenteeism rate: 3.42% Remuneration and development €241,900,106 Amount of remuneration (permanent + fixed-term + seasonal contracts): €246,789,278 80.45% Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews: 78.05% 87.13% women Breakdown by gender of employees receiving regular performance and 78.70% men and career development reviews: 77.71% women and 78.28% men 110 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ COMMITMENTS TO ECONOMIC PARTNERS Indicator Proportion of the budget accounted for with commitment to respecting the principles of the Global Compact (contract and non-contract) Scope * 2012-2013 2013-2014 France 77% 85% Hungary 85% 87% Poland Germany 70% 34% 78% 42% 2 Italy --43% Portugal --9% Russia --64% TOTAL ALL COUNTRIES – 2012-2013 SCOPE 70% 80% Canada 96% TOTAL ALL COUNTRIES – 2013-2014 SCOPE 82% * Purchases made by the group, including metal cans, cardboard boxes and packing wrap, vegetables and ingredients used in its recipes and not grown or produced by the group, energy, animal products, advertising and communication and seeds. This scope varies by country. 2013 PURCHASING INDICATORS = PROPORTION OF THE BUDGET ACCOUNTED FOR WITH COMMITMENTS TO RESPECTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT ■ ALL COUNTRIES (2013-2014 scope) GLOBAL 87% COMPACT 13% of which 92% have signed 82% of which 20% have signed the Global Compact the Global Compact ■ ALL COUNTRIES (2012-2013 scope) GLOBAL GLOBAL COMPACT COMPACT 70% 80% 2012-2013 results 2013-2014 results Percentage of budget covered by BONDUELLE contracts Percentage of budget covered solely by tariff agreements Percentage of the budget accounted for with commitments to respecting the principles of the Global Compact Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 111 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ RESPONSIBILITY TO CONSUMERS Indicator 2012-2013 2013-2014 Total quality control personnel 589 employees 598 employees (full-time equivalent), of which: 8.3% 1 8.8% in the subsidiaries’ Quality Control Departments and in the Purchasing Department 35.9% 1 33.7% in the plants’ Quality Control Departments 40.4% 1 44.9% in quality control on the production lines 18.1% 1 12.7% in controls on receipt Certiﬁed factories 17 sites 16 sites are ISO 9001 certified 1 site 2 sites are ISO 22000 certified 23 sites 22 sites are IFS-certified 4 sites 5 sites are FSSC 22000-accredited 17 sites 15 sites are BRC-certified (British Retail Consortium) 4 sites 3 sites are SQF-accredited 9 sites 11 produce certified “organic” produce Customer services 1 Customer Services Department 1 Customer Services Department operates in each country Purchases of prepared vegetables 78 suppliers 92 suppliers (excluding vegetable producer partners) 32% have signed the simplified charter (i.e. 32%) 277 analyses 439 phyto and TME analyses carried out, of which 94% 96% were in compliance 44 suppliers 59 suppliers have been audited (i.e. 21%) 18% 126 suppliers 93 suppliers have been assessed (i.e. 32%) 51% 112 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Glossary and acronyms 2.7 Glossary and acronyms ■ GLOSSARY Carbon footprint Measure of the volume of carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted by the burning Agronomy of fossil fuels, by companies or living organisms. Science of agriculture. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Biodiversity Oxygen concentration, expressed in mg/l, equivalent to the Biodiversity is a generic term used to refer to the diversity and richness in living species inhabiting the Earth, a region or an ecosystem. It quantity of oxidant consumed and matter dissolved or in suspension when a sample of water is treated with this oxidant 2 is assessed in terms of the number of different genes, species and under specified conditions. ecosystems in a given geographical area. Cleanlabel This notion applies to the different species of plants and animals, from monocellular organisms to the most complex organisms. Literally means clear, clean and understandable food labeling, which excludes technical terms as well as certain artificial ingredients. Biogas Cogeneration Biogas is the gas resulting from the biodegradation of organic animal or plant matter when no oxygen is present. It is primarily comprised A simultaneous production method in which two different energy of methane and carbon dioxide. It is produced in waste storage forms are produced in the same process. facilities or in methane digesters. It is combustible and can be Ecological footprint recycled as energy. The ecological footprint is a measure of the pressure being placed on Biological oxygen demand (BOD) nature by Humans. This tool is used to assess the productive surface Amount of oxygen necessary to break down organic matter required by a population to satisfy its consumption of resources and (biodegradable) biologically (oxidation of biodegradable organic its requirements in terms of waste absorption. matter using bacteria). The biological oxygen demand (BOD) is an Efﬂuents indicator of the level of pollution of water, which enables assessment of the biodegradable fraction of the carbon pollution load of Usually refers to used domestic and urban waste water (effluents waste water. are received by Bonduelle’s waste water treatment plants) and, by extension, waste water from industrial processes. Biomass Energy performance Biomass is a term used in ecology to refer to the total mass of living organisms in a given biotope at a given moment. It can be measured The energy performance of an operation or a technology is measured by surface unit for a land environment or by volume unit for an aquatic by the ratio of the energy provided to the energy used. In energy environment. techniques, energy performance can be used to ensure that more energy is recovered than has been used. Carbon Disclosure Project Environmental impact The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organization whose objective is to enlighten the investment decisions of its members Environmental impact refers to all qualitative, quantitative and by informing them of how carbon constraints and climate change functional environmental modifications (negative and positive) can impact companies. Each year, the CDP sends major global resulting from a project, process, procedure, one or more organisms corporations a questionnaire on how they are responding to and one or more products, from its conception to its end-of-life. climate change (strategy, risks and opportunities, etc.) and on their Enzymes greenhouse gas emissions (GHG: direct, indirect and other indirect emissions, objectives and reduction policy, etc.). The CDP helps Molecules naturally present in vegetables, which are involved in improve the quality of the information published by companies, by chemical reactions and result in loss of color or the appearance of creating a worldwide database of GHG emissions. undesirable tastes. Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 113 CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Glossary and acronyms Global Compact Seed company The Global Compact was launched in January 2000 at the World A seed company is a business dedicated to the production of seeds Economic Forum in Davos by Kofi Annan, the then-Secretaryfor the cultivation of plants through agriculture. General of the United Nations. The goal of the Global Compact is to align the power of markets with individual ideals in order to place Strip-till greater responsibility on businesses. Crop planting technique which involves working a strip of land a few centimeters wide around the seed row. GRI Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative is an independent organization that Tonnes of manufactured product (TMP) brings together stakeholders from different backgrounds: companies, Tonnes of manufactured product correspond to net drained weight. NGOs, universities, researchers, trade unions. The GRI develops the international directives intended to structure and standardize Weed organizations’ management reports in terms of sustainable Refers to a plant that grows naturally among crops and whose development. The GRI’s main contribution has been the definition presence is harmful to them to a greater or lesser degree. (The of guidelines covering almost 80 (extra-financial) indicators used to harmfulness of weeds can be seen by the effects of competition with measure and monitor the performance of organizations’ Corporate the crop for water, light and mineral elements contained in the soil.) Social Responsibility policies. Inputs ■ ACRONYMS In agriculture, “inputs” are the various products used on land and 1 ADEPALE: Association des entreprises de produits alimentaires crops. This term includes fertilizers and soil enrichment products élaborés (Association of Food Processing Industries – France). (elements used to improve the physical and chemical properties of the soil, such as sand, peat and lime, etc.). 1 AETMD: Association européenne des transformateurs de maïs doux (European Association of Sweet Corn Producers). Integrated or Ecologically Intensive Agriculture (EIA) 1 Agro-Transfert ressources et territoires: This organization was Agricultural method that prioritizes agronomy (working the soil, crop created by the Conseil Régional de Picardie, the Institut national rotation, intermediate crops, etc.). The main objective is to optimize de la recherche agronomique (INRA) and the agricultural chambers the producer’s economic results while minimizing the quantities of of Picardie. It is both an application platform and a network for the input materials (particularly chemical substances such as fertilizers or transfer of agronomic research. other phytosanitary products) in order to limit their negative impacts 1 ANIA: Association nationale des industries alimentaires (National on the environment as much as possible. Food Industry Association – France). Methanation 1 ANICC: Association nationale interprofessionnelle du champignon Natural treatment of organic waste leading to combined production de couche (National Joint Trade Association of Cultivated of a gas which may be converted into energy (biogas), produced Mushrooms Producers – France). from the biological breakdown of organic matter in an environment 1 ANIFELT: Association nationale interprofessionnelle des fruits et with very little air (called “anaerobic fermentation” as there is no légumes transformés (National Joint Trade Association of Fruit and oxygen), and a digestate (“digested” waste), which is usable in its Vegetable Processors – France). raw state or after treatment (dehydration and composting, sanitation) as a compost. 1 CTCPA: Centre technique agro-alimentaire (Agri-foods Technical Center – France). Palm Oil 1 ECOPAR: Compagnie pour la participation éco-emballages (Eco Palm oil is an oil extracted from the pulp of oil palm tree fruits using packaging company – France). a hot pressure system. Around 100 kg of fruit produces 22 kg of oil. 1 EDHEC: École des hautes études commerciales. Pests 1 FIAC: Fédération française des industries d’aliments conservés Living organisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites. (French Preserved Food Industry Federation). 1 GHG: Greenhouse gas. Phytosanitary products A phytosanitary product is a product used to treat or prevent diseases 1 IAD: Institut de l’agriculture durable (Institute for Sustainable in plants. Agriculture – France). 114 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com CORPORATE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION 1 ILEC: Institut de liaisons et d’études des industries de 1 SFPAE: Syndicat des fabricants de fruits et légumes prêts à l’emploi consommation (Institute for Consumption Industry Liaison and (Union of Prepared Fruit and Vegetables Producers – France). Research – France). 1 SYNAFAP: Syndicat des fabricants de produits traiteurs frais 1 IFT: Frequency indicator of phytosanitary treatments. (Union of Freshly Prepared Products Producers – France). 1 GMO: Genetically modified organism. Bonduelle products do not 1 UNILET: Union nationale interprofessionnelle des légumes contain GMOs, in accordance with current regulations. transformés (National Processed Vegetable Trade Association). 1 ORSE: Observatoire de la responsabilité sociétale des entreprises 1 UPPIA: Union pour la promotion des industries conserve appertisé (Corporate Social Responsibility Observatory – France). (Union for the Promotion of Canned Foods – France). 1 CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility. 1 PROFEL: Organisation européenne des industries transformatrices de fruits et légumes (European Association of Fruit and Vegetable Processing Industries). 2 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 115 REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table between the Corporate Social Responsibility report and GRI and Article 225 of the Grenelle II law ●: full indicator – ◗: partial indicator Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number PROFILE Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior ● 1.2 Message from the Executive Management 6 decision-maker of the organization 2.1 Introduction 24 1.2 Description of key impacts, ● 1.3 Strategy and Company policies 8 risks and opportunities 4.2.4 Industrial and environmental risks 146 Organizational proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organization ● 7.5 General information 248 regarding the Company 2.2 Primary brands, products ● 1.7 Our activities 17 and/or services 7.5 General information regarding the Company 253 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 14 2.3 Operational structure ● 1.6 Group organization structure 16 of the organization 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated 199 financial statements – Note 31 2.4 Location of organization’s ● 7.5 General information regarding 248 headquarters the Company 2.5 Number of countries in which ● 1.6 Group organization structure 16 the organization operates 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 14 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 7.5 General information regarding the Company 248 2.7 Markets in which ● 1.7 Our activities 17 the organization operates 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 1.7 Our activities 17 5 Consolidated financial statements 150 5.5 Notes to the consolidated financial 166 statements – Note 7 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 2.6.3 Scope 98 2.4.1 Social commitments Section C 76 7.2 Shareholder structure 242 2.9 Significant changes during ● 4.1.7 Highlights 140 the reporting period 2.10 Awards received during ● 1.7 Our activities 17 the reporting period 1.7.5 Responsible commitment 19 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period ● 2.6.1 Context and objectives 96 3.2 Date of most recent previous report ● 2.6.1 Context and objectives 96 (if any) 2.6.5 2014 reporting schedule 102 3.3 Reporting cycle ● 2.6.1 Context and objectives 96 3.4 Contact point for questions ● 2.6.1 Context and objectives 96 on the report or its contents 2.6.5 2014 reporting schedule 102 266 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com THE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON BONDUEWWLLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B 39 2.6.1 Context and objectives 96 2.6.2 Procedures 96 3.6 Scope of the report ● 2.6.3 Scope 98 3.7 Statement of any specific limitations ● 2.6 CSR Reporting 96 on the scope or boundary of the report 2.6.3 Scope 98 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, ● 2.6 CSR Reporting 96 subsidiaries, etc. 2.6.2 Procedures 96 3.9 Data measurement techniques ● 2.6 CSR Reporting 96 and the bases of calculations 2.6.4 Indicators 100 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any ● 2.6 CSR Reporting 96 re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous ● 2.6 CSR Reporting 96 reporting periods in the scope, 2.6.3 Scope 98 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of ● 8.4 Cross-reference tables 266 the standard disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with ● 2.6.6 Assurance report 103 regard to seeking external assurance for the report GOVERNANCE AND COMMITMENTS Governance 4.1 Governance structure ● 3.1 Administrative, management 118 of the organization and supervisory bodies 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 121 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman ● 3.1 Administrative, management 118 of the highest governance body and supervisory bodies is also an Executive Officer 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 121 4.3 Independent and/or ● 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 121 non executive directors 4.4 Mechanisms for Shareholders ● 2.2.4 Internal requirements – Ethics Charter 30 and employees to provide 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B. 40 recommendations or direction Dialog with stakeholders to the Board of Directors 8.3 Documents available to Shareholders 260 and the public 4.5 Link between remuneration and ● 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated 197 the performance of the organization financial statements Note 29 6.4 Notes to the annual parent company 218 financial statements – Note 16 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 267 REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number 4.6 Processes implemented by ● 2.2.4 Internal requirements – Ethics Charter 30 the Board of Directors to 3.3 Conflicts of interest involving 128 avoid conflicts of interest the Management Board and the Supervisory Board 4.7 Procedure for determining ● 3.5 Chairman of the Supervisory Board report 130 the composition, qualifications and expertise of directors and committees 4.8 Statements of mission or values, ● 2.2.4 Internal requirements 30 Codes of Good Conduct and principles defined internally by the organization 4.9 Procedures allowing management ● 2.1 Introduction 24 bodies to assess performance 2.2.2 CSR governance 28 management 2.2.4 Ethics Charter 30 3.1 Administrative, management 118 and supervisory bodies 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board ● 3.4 Supervisory Board report 129 of Director’s own performance Commitments for external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how ● 3.5 Internal control and risk management 132 the precautionary approach or procedures principle is addressed by the organization 4.12 Charters, principles and other external ● 2.2.5 External commitments 36 initiatives which the organization subscribes to or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/ ● 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B. Dialog 40 or national/international advocacy with stakeholders organizations Commitments to stakeholders 4.14 List of stakeholders having Conditions for dialog ● 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B. Dialog 40 a relationship with the organization with stakeholders with stakeholders 4.15 Basis for the identification Conditions for dialog ● 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B. Dialog 38 and selection of stakeholders with stakeholders with stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Type of partnership with stakeholders 1 Conditions for dialog ● 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B. Dialog 38 with stakeholders with stakeholders 1 Support, partnership and sponsorship actions with stakeholders 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised Conditions for dialog ● 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B. Dialog 38 through dialog with stakeholders with stakeholders with stakeholders MANAGEMENT APPROACH Sourcing ● 2.5.1 Quality 89 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners 80 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream 46 2.3.2 Natural resources 53 268 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com THE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON BONDUEWWLLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number Economy ● 1.1 Bonduelle Group key figures 4 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 14 2.2 Commitments to Corporate 27 Social Responsibility 2.2.2 CSR governance 28 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility 72-80 and civil society Environment Company’s arrangements ● 2.3 Environmental commitments 44 to take environmental issues 2.2 Commitments to Corporate 27 into account Social Responsibility 2.2.4 Internal requirements 30 Employment 1 Work time organization ● 2.4.1 Social commitments 72 1 Organization of social 2.2 Commitments to Corporate 27 dialog Social Responsibility 1 Summary of collective agreements 1 Workplace health conditions 1 Workplace safety 1 Agreements signed with labor unions on workplace health and safety Human rights ● 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners 80 2.2.5 External commitments 36 2.2.4 Internal requirements 30 Society ● 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility 71 and civil society 2.2.5 External commitments 36 2.2.4 Internal requirements 30 Product liability ● 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners 80 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society 83 2.5 Responsibility to consumers 89 SOURCING FP1 Proportion of volumes purchased ◗ 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream – Section G 52 from suppliers that comply with 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 81 the Company’s sourcing policy. Section C FP2 Proportion of volumes purchased ◗ 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream – Section G 52 and verified as compliant 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 81 with internationally-recognized ethical Section C production standards 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 269 REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated 1 Territorial, economic ◗ 5 Consolidated financial statements 150 and distributed and social impact of 6.4 Notes to the annual parent company 218 the Company’s activity financial statements – Note 16 on neighboring and local 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society – Fostering 83 populations a permanent change in eating habits 1 Relations with people or organizations with an 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society – Section B 85 interest in the Company’s activity, such as job placement associations EC3 Coverage of financial commitments ● 5 Consolidated financial statements161 to employees Note 2 – Section K EC4 Significant subsidies received ● 5 Consolidated financial statements – 176 (Commentary added to describe Note 16 the impact of governmental support 5 Consolidated financial statements – 160 in the sector. Reference added) Note 2 – Section I Market presence EC6 Policies, practices and proportion 1 Territorial, economic ◗ 2.5.1 Quality 89 of spending with local suppliers and social impact of the Company’s activity 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners 80 on neighboring and local populations Extent 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream 46 of subcontracting and incorporation of CSR into relationships with suppliers and subcontractors 1 Incorporation of environmental and social issues into the purchasing policy EC7 Procedures for local hiring Territorial, economic ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Local employment 74 and proportion of senior management and social impact of the hired locally Company’s activity in terms of employment and regional development Indirect economic impacts EC9 Understanding and description Territorial, economic and social ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Local employment 74 of significant indirect economic impact of the Company’s 2.4.1 Social commitments – Social dialog 73 impacts activity in terms of employment 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society 83 and regional development ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Consumption of raw materials ◗ 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H – Packaging 66 and measures taken to use results them more efficiently 2.3.3 Natural resources – Section F – Recycling 61 packaging 270 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com THE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON BONDUEWWLLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number EN2 Percentage of materials used Consumption of raw materials ◗ 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section D – 59 that are recycled and measures taken to use Effectiveness of the packaging policy them more efficiently 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section F – Recycling 61 packaging 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption Energy consumption, measures ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 from a primary energy source taken to improve energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources EN4 Indirect energy consumption from Energy consumption, measures ◗ 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 a primary energy source taken to improve energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources EN5 Energy savings made through Energy consumption, ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section D 57 improvements in energy efficiency measures taken to improve 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section E 59 and storage energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Energy consumption, ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section D 57 or renewable energy-based products measures taken to 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section E 59 and services improve energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section D 57 energy consumption 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section E 59 and reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water consumption (by source) Water consumption and supply ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 with respect to local constraints Biodiversity EN11 Location and surface area of Measures taken to conserve ◗ 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 land owned, rented or managed or develop biodiversity in or in the vicinity of habitats rich in biodiversity EN12 Description of significant impacts Measures taken to prevent, ◗ 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream – Section C 48 of activities, products and services reduce or repair emissions 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 on biodiversity into the air, water and soil seriously harming the environment EN14 Strategies, ongoing actions Measures taken to conserve ● 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream – Section C 48 and future plans for the management or develop biodiversity 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 of impacts on biodiversity Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 62 gas emissions (in tonnes) 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 67 EN17 Other significant indirect greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions ● 2.3.3 Transport 67 gas emissions (in tonnes) 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 67 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 271 REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Measures taken to prevent, ● 2.3.3 Transport 67 emissions and reductions achieved reduce or repair emissions 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 into the air, water and 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 soil seriously harming the environment EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Measures taken to prevent, ● 2.3.3 Transport 67 substances reduce or repair emissions 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 into the air, water and 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 soil seriously harming the environment EN21 Total air emissions by type Measures taken to ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section F 60 and destination prevent, reduce or 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 66 repair emissions into the air, water and soil seriously harming the environment EN22 Total weight of waste Waste prevention, ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section F 60 by type and treatment method recycling and disposal measures 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to reduce the environmental 1 Waste prevention, recycling ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section F 60 impacts of products and services and disposal measures 1 Adaptation 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 65 to the consequences of climate change 1 Account taken of the impacts of climate change Transportation EN29 Significant environmental impacts Adaptation to the ◗ 2.3.3 Transport – Section C 70 related to the transportation consequences of climate of products, other goods and change materials used by the organization for its activity and the transportation of members of its staff Global EN30 Total expenditure on and investments 1 Company’s arrangements ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section C 56 in environmental protection, by type to take environmental issues into account 1 Amount of provisions 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 67 and guarantees for 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 environmental risks 1 Resources devoted to the 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section F 60 prevention of environmental hazards and pollutants 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section H 67 Training and information 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section C 56 for employees on environmental protection Account taken of noise 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 pollution and, where applicable, all other forms of pollution specific to an activity Land use 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream 46 272 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com THE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON BONDUEWWLLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON LABOR PRACTICES AND DIGNITY AT WORK Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment Total workforce and breakdown ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section C 76 type, employment contract, of employees by gender, region and gender age and region LA2 Total staff turnover in number Recruitments and dismissals ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section C 77-78 of employees and percentage by age group, gender and region LA3 Benefits paid to full-time employees Remuneration and development ● 5 Consolidated financial statements161 Note 2 – Section K Labor relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered Compliance with the provisions ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 76 by collective agreements of the fundamental conventions Human rights of the ILO (Nos. 87 and 98) Summary of collective agreements FP3 Percentage of time lost through labor ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 73 disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, Social dialog by country Health and safety in the workplace LA7 Rate of workplace accidents, Frequency rate and severity ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section C 78-79 occupational illnesses, of workplace accidents absenteeism, etc. and occupational illnesses Absenteeism LA9 Health and safety issues covered Summary of agreements signed ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 73 by formal agreements with with labor unions or employee Social dialog labor unions representatives on workplace 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 73 health and safety Safety and working conditions Education and training LA10 Average number of training hours Total number of training hours ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section C 79 by year, employee, gender and employee category LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Training policies implemented ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section C 79 regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Diversity and equal opportunities LA13 Composition of management bodies 1 Measures taken to ● 3.1 Administrative, management 118 and breakdown of employees by promote gender equality and supervisory bodies gender, age group, minority status 1 Measures taken to 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 75 and other diversity indicators promote the employment Diversity and integration of disabled persons 1 Anti-discrimination policy 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section C 77-79 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 273 REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and sourcing practices HR1 Percentage and total number Initiatives undertaken ● 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 80 of significant investment agreements to promote human rights Section B and contracts including clauses requiring respect for human rights HR2 Percentage of major suppliers, Initiatives undertaken ◗ 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 80 subcontractors and other partners to prevent corruption Section B that have undergone screening on human rights; measures taken Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents Promotion of and compliance ◗ 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 75 of discrimination and corrective with the stipulations of Diversity measures taken the fundamental conventions 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 76 of the International Labor Human rights Organization pertaining to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Major operations and suppliers 1 Promotion of and ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B 76 identified for which the right compliance with Human rights to freedom of association the stipulations of and collective bargaining may the fundamental be violated conventions of the International Labor Organization pertaining to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 1 Incorporation 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 80 of environmental and Section B social issues into the purchasing policy Child labor HR6 Major activities and suppliers 1 Promotion of and ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B 76 identified as presenting a significant compliance with Human rights risk involving child labor, and the stipulations of measures taken to help effectively the fundamental eliminate child labor conventions of the International Labor Organization pertaining to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 1 Incorporation 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 80 of environmental Section B and social issues into the purchasing policy 274 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com THE REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON BONDUEWWLLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Major activities and suppliers 1 Promotion of and ● 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B 76 identified as presenting a significant compliance with Human rights risk of incidents involving forced or the stipulations of compulsory labor, and measures taken the fundamental to help eliminate all forms of forced conventions of the and compulsory labor International Labor Organization pertaining to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 1 Incorporation 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 80 of environmental Section B and social issues into the purchasing policy Civil society performance indicators / Communities SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness Territorial, economic ● 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society – Section B 85 of all programs and practices that and social impact of assess and manage the impacts the Company’s activity of activities, at any stage of progress, on neighboring and on communities local populations Health and accessibility FP4 Program promoting a healthy lifestyle ● 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional quality 94 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society – Fostering 83 a permanent change in eating habits SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures ◗ 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional quality 94 implemented for operations that 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society – Section B 85 have a significant potential or proven adverse impact on local communities 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 61 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained Initiatives undertaken ◗ 2.2.4 Internal requirements – Ethics Charter 30 in the organization’s anti-corruption to prevent all forms of 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners – 81 policies and procedures corruption Section B 2.4.1 Social commitments – Section B – 73 Social dialog Public policy SO5 Political positions taken ● 2.2.4 Internal requirements – Ethics Charter 30 and lobbying 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B 38 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind ● 2.2.4 Internal requirements – Ethics Charter 30 contributions to political parties 2.2.5 External commitments – Section B 38 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 275 REPORT OF THE CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE BOARD STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Cross-reference tables Degree of compliance Page GRI 3.1 Art. 225 Grenelle II with GRI 3.1 GRI 3.1 reference in the registration document number HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CONSUMERS PR1 Stages of the life cycle at which Fair practices Measures taken ● 2.5.1 Quality – Section B 90 the impacts of products and services to ensure the health and safety 2.5.1 Quality – Section C 93 on health and safety are assessed of consumers with a view to improving them 2.5.2 Product composition and 94 nutritional quality FP5 Percentage of production volume Fair practices: Measures taken ● 2.5.1 Quality – Section B 92 produced on sites certified by to ensure the health and safety 2.5.1 Quality – Section C 93 an independent third party of consumers FP6 Percentage of the total sales volume Fair practices: Measures taken ◗ 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 95 of products for which the quantity to ensure the health and safety of saturated fat, fatty acids, sodium of consumers and added sugars has been reduced Information on products and services PR3 Type of information on products ● 2.2.4 Internal requirements – Section B 35 and services required by the 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 95 procedures and percentage of major products and services subject to these information requirements PR5 Customer satisfaction ◗ 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 95 practices, including customer satisfaction surveys FP8 Policies and practices on ● 2.3.2 Natural resources – Section G 62-63 communication to consumers 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 95 with respect to ingredients and nutritional information exceeding regulations 276 Bonduelle / Registration document 2013-2014 www.bonduelle.com Photo credits: Barbara Grossmann Gettyimages/Hero Images piotrszczepanek Fotolia.com Katya Anokhina AFP Services Cover: Eurokapi www.eurokapi.fr Rue Nicolas Appert – BP 30173 59653 Villeneuve-d’Ascq Cedex France www.bonduelle.com
