report Akademiska Hus Sustainability Report 2013 Responsible, ­value-adding ­property ownership Contents Statement by the President 1 Sustainability at Akademiska Hus 2 Stakeholder dialogue and key issues 7 Sustainability work 10 Strategic property development 12 Construction and development 15 Property management 19 Employees 22 Global Reporting Initiative 25 Signing of the Sustainability Report 28 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 29 Widerströmska Building, Karolinska Institute, Solna Responsible, value-adding Our ambition is to ­property ownership be at the f­ orefront in sustainability issues. As one of the largest property companies in S ­ weden, we Akademiska Hus is one of the largest property companies in have the potential to Sweden. Our mission is to construct and manage attractive drive development learning environments for universities and colleges as part forward. of reinforcing Sweden as a nation of knowledge. A s a state-owned company we have specific responsi­ bility for conducting our operations in a manner that is both efficient and sustainable in the long term. ­Sustainability issues have become a clear and self-­ evident part of our business strategy and control procedures and work in this area will be intensified in the future. A new Sustaina­ bility Policy and Code of Conduct were adopted during the year. By clarifying our position in these two areas we will have a clearly defined, level playing field for partners, suppliers and employees. Management of buildings is one of our primary tasks. By having a carefully considered strategy and by managing the properties wisely, we can reduce energy use and maintain our holdings in such a way that we create environments that maintain a high standard over a long period. Constructing correctly from the outset is a challenge as many different interests need to be taken into account. By putting new build­ ings in their context, and by combining energy and environmentally smart solutions with a high degree of flexibility, we create buildings and areas that fulfil their function, both now and in the future. As a property company that is at the forefront in development, we create good conditions for maintaining a constructive dialogue with our customers and increasing the skills and knowledge of our employees. We carry on operations efficiently and with a high degree of customer value. In this Sustainability Report we present the strategy that underpins our sustainability work and some of the most important events that took place during the year. The Report draws attention to a number of major, complex issues as well as issues that are not quite as wide reach­ing and which perhaps do not have the same degree of impact but are nevertheless relevant within their specific frame of reference. The Sustainability Report supplements the Akademiska Hus Annual Report and is aimed at everyone who is interested in the work that is taking place at Akademiska Hus. Our aim is to address the issues that are most important for us and our stakeholders. We would like to see the Report used as a tool and as a basis for future dialogue. Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President, Akademiska Hus 1 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY FOR AK ADEMISK A HUS Sustainability for Akademiska Hus Common objectives for sustainable societal development The Akademiska Hus mission includes working to bring about sustainable, long-term development of ­university and college campuses. Sustainability work is a strong and distinct part of our business strategy and control procedures and we are working actively to integrate sustainability issues even further throughout the organisation and to do so in a clear and effective way. In collaboration with our stakeholders, we create leading knowledge environments and contribute to sustainable societal development. T hrough involvement and perOWNER DIRECTIVE LAYS Satisfying the demands that are laid sonal commitment we are creTHE FOUNDATION down in the new guidelines means to a cerating a responsible company. As a state-owned company, we have a spetain extent changing the working methods We promote a climate and a cific demand from our owner to act in an related to reporting but above all it affects culture where both business considerations exemplary manner and to pursue operathe choice of key aspects to ensure that the and the future are taken into account when tions with a clear focus on sustainability. focus is on areas that have the greatest decisions are made. To create a common view of what corporate impact. A key prerequisite is that the entire comsocial responsibility entails, the Ministry This year’s Sustainability Report follows pany, including the Board of Directors and of Finance presented a model that includes the guidelines in GRI G3 and our aim is that the Executive Management, are involved to the environment, human rights, working they reflect our most important operating ensure issues have the correct operational conditions and anti-corruption. These areas. impact. During 2013, Akademiska Hus areas also include business ethics, equality developed and coordinated sustainability and diversity. STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY WORK issues even further within the organisation The Akademiska Hus sustainability In order to pursue our operations with a in order to ensure that optimal effect is reporting system has complied with Global high degree of credibility, we have built up achieved. Responsibility for sustainability Reporting Initiative (GRI) since 2007. In our sustainability work around a number of work rests ultimately with the Akademiska 2013, a new version of these guidelines was areas. Customer benefit is the most central Hus President. launched – GRI G4 – where the focus is element of corporate social responsibility. more on essentiality. This implies a greater The aim is to create shared added value for focus on areas that could have quite a conus and for our customers and stakeholders. siderable impact on operations as well as By doing so, we create permanent value a focus on how we can mitigate risks and for society and our owner. Good business ­utilise the opportunities that are presented. practice is the foundation of our strategy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MODEL Diversity Environment Business Human Long-term sustainable Equality rights model business model Business Working ethics ­conditions Anticorruption 2 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY FOR AK ADEMISK A HUS and property industry. Akademiska Hus ILO Core Conventions and OECD guidehas a unique part to play and has specialist lines for multinational companies. expertise in the development of premises The Sustainability Policy and the Code for education and specially adapted premof Conduct apply to all Akademiska Hus ises, such as laboratories, as well as entire employees and representatives. A complete campuses. We work according to clear, version of both documents can be found at structured ­processes together with other www.akademiskahus.se. bodies and stakeholders, which leads to In a recently launched Purchasing Policy carefully considered solutions and wise we clarify the way we work with purchasing investments. and procurement within the organisation. This means that we make clearer demands POLICIES AND GUIDELINES at the procurement stage on contractors To create clarity and transparency for our and suppliers regarding the environment Akademiska Hus has been a full member employees and stakeholders, Akademiska and working environment and that audits of the Global Compact since 2013. Hus produced two new governing docuwill be conducted to establish a dialogue ments in 2013: a Sustainability Policy and and monitor compliance. a Code of Conduct. The documents are Making demands in the purchasing and business plan and means that basic closely linked. The Sustainability Policy ­process is a challenge. Viewed in terms operating requirements, such as profitabildefines our positions and values in a numof our major purchasing volumes we need ity, stability and efficiency, are achieved. ber of areas that we consider to be particuto develop routines in order to be clearer The fulfilment of statutory requirements larly important – working environment, about what we expect of those with whom is also covered by the concept of good busienergy and environment and business ethwe do business. The work that has now ness practice. A future-proofed way of ics and corruption – and it covers issues commenced is something that we consider thinking is the part where account is taken that affect our employees, suppliers, custo be a starting point for a future working of future challenges and where opportunitomers and other partners. The Code of method and which will ultimately make our ties are seized, providing scope for sustainConduct aims to provide guidance on how operations more secure and more transparable solutions and decisions. we should act in order to comply to the ent for all concerned. No significant fines or In an efficient, long-term company, approaches and values embodied in the other sanctions for infringements of laws account is taken of all parts. The decisions Sustainability Policy. or rules were imposed on Akademiska Hus that are reached, in both the strategy and A basic operating prerequisite is that we during 2013. No environment-related fines business plans, lead to plans that are susact in accordance with the principles laid or other non-monetary sanctions were tainable both now and in the future. down in the Global Compact regarding imposed on Akademiska Hus during 2013 As a major organisation, Akademiska human rights, labour law, environment and and nor have any disciplinary measures Hus has an important role in the developcorruption, as well as the UN Guiding Prinarising from corruption been taken, either ment of a more sustainable construction ciples on Business and Human Rights, the towards employees or partners. epro ofed way of t hi n Code of Conduct ur As a state-owned company our aim is to act in an exemplary manner. Our Code Fut king of Conduct provides guidance on how we should act correctly in business and in other relationships. Customer A basic operating prerequisite is to act in accordance with international benefit human rights principles, conventions and guidelines. The Code of Conduct applies to all Akademiska Hus employees and representatives. A dialogue on compliance with the Code of Conduct takes place each year Go in the form of discussions between employees and managers. We also encourage od ice busin ss pract our partners to act according to the Code, which is available on our website. e 3 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY FOR AK ADEMISK A HUS Sustainability Policy The Akademiska Hus Sustainability Policy defines our positions and values with regard to sustainability whilst the Code of Conduct describes how we should act in order to live up to the positions and values. The Sustainability Policy covers our core operating areas, which contribute to the development of a long-term sustain­ able society and include the following areas: EMPLOYEES We treat each other with honesty, helpfulness and in a spirit of support. As an employer we assume responsibility for offering each employee work that is stimulating and which carries responsibility. Diversity enriches and we therefore work actively with diversity and equality issues. In balance with our responsibility as an employer is the responsibility of the employees, where each individual is personally responsible for contributing to the development of the Company. SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS The relationship with our suppliers, customers, partners and other stakeholders is based on a structured dialogue and an understanding of each other’s work. We regard ourselves as a constructive, proactive partner in the development of the communities in which we operate. We safeguard the integrity of our customers and partners and we handle information in a way that it is safeguarded and managed responsibly. We have a clear sustainability focus in our operations and we regard it as self-evident that our suppliers share our sustainability values. WORKING ENVIRONMENT Job satisfaction and a safe, healthy workplace are success factors and they have therefore been assigned high priority in our work and in the projects we pursue. ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY We give high priority to energy-efficient solutions as our greatest source of potential to mitigate environmental impact is to minimise energy use in our properties. Environmental certification of our new buildings is standard and we also have a long-term strategy in place for certifying existing buildings. BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Our operations must be carried on in a professional, cost-effective way. We dis­ associate ourselves from all forms of corruption. An obvious element is that our business entertainment is always linked to our work. We disassociate ourselves from situations where personal interests could conflict with the interests of­ ­A kademiska Hus. Lindellhallen, Umeå University 4 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY FOR AK ADEMISK A HUS Fulfilment of environmental objectives 2013 Akademiska Hus controls its sustainability work based on long-term and short-term objectives. The environmental objectives have been formulated in line with, among other things, our four most significant environmental aspects: energy management, phasing out of hazardous substances, material management and a good indoor environment. The outcome of the objectives for 2013 is presented in the table below. With effect from 2014, measurement will take place based on the new sustainability objectives that were defined during the year. LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES 2013 FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES COMPLETED ACTIVITIES ENERGY REDUCTION Purchased energy will be The annual rate of reduction of • Activity plans are prepared as part of Annual purchased energy, reduced each year by almost purchased energy was achieved the long-term energy programme. kWh/m2 will decrease at a rate 2 per cent to ensure we follow during the year and work on the that will result in a 40 per cent the long-term 40 per cent curve long-term objective is proceed• Investments in energy savings and reduction by 2025 compared through to 2025. ing according to plan. ­optimisations have been implemented. with 2000. During the period the absolute • Research and development collaboratarget figures for energy were tion has taken place with universities adjusted marginally due to an and colleges to develop small-scale, area calculation error. local energy production. • Coordinated energy procurement ­(primarily district heating) has the remaining potential to achieve full effect. ENVIRONMENTAL Ensure that: New buildings and major • Build-up has commenced of a long-­ CERTIFICATION All new constructions and major ­reconstruction projects term strategy for certification of All new buildings and major redevelopment projects are in ­completed during 2013 have ­buildings and districts where different ­construction projects will be line with the ‘Miljöbyggnad’ been certified as planned. certification systems are included. environmentally certified ­certification process, which according to ‘Miljöbyggnad’, means that preliminary All new construction and • Involvement in the development ­ achieving at least Silver level. ­registration and a certification major redevelopment projects process for sustainability certification application are submitted to commenced are following the of districts. Sweden Green Building Council process in order to facilitate certification. • Training programmes run for property (SGBC). managers to increase the level of ­expertise and assure the management New buildings and major reconof an environmentally certified building. struction projects completed in 2013 have been environmentally • In collaboration with SGBC, we produced certified according to ‘Miljöbygga guideline for examining laboratories nad’, achieving at least Silver with protective ventilation for certificalevel. tion according to ‘Miljöbyggnad’. • Member of the SGBC Technical Council for ‘Miljöbyggnad’ and acted as chair of the SGBC ‘Miljöbyggnad’ Committee. Akademiska Hus will proceed This target area is handled The joint process was developed • We build on the basis of generality cautiously with finite through the long-term objective in 2013 to investigate the conseand flexibility in order to minimise resources and conduct ongoing of acting with caution when it quences of system and material and facilitate future redevelopment improvement work in construccomes to finite sources. choices in construction projects. requirements. tion and management processes. Several projects are being run in • Further development of BIM method­ accordance with BIM methodolology in order to assure material manogy and with an emphasis on agement aspects in the construction analysing material volumes. process. CAMPUS PLANS Our campuses have campus At the end of 2013, Akademiska • I nvolved in development work for sus100 per cent of campuses will plans that are no more than Hus had 37 campuses. 84% had tainability certification have documented visions for the five years old. confirmed campus plans (24) or of urban districts. physical environment. plans that were in progress (7). The target for 2013 was 75 • P roduction of a model for incorporatper cent. During the period, work on caming sustainability aspects into campus plans continued in close colpus plans has commenced. laboration with our customers. • Involvement in a number of developAll regions have worked with ment projects to create more sustain­ and/or adopted campus plans able campuses from several dimensions. during 2013. SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES Energy management Material management Fulfilled entirely Not fulfilled Good indoor environment Phasing out of hazardous substances 5 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY FOR AK ADEMISK A HUS WE PURSUE SUSTAINABILITY As one of Sweden’s largest property commade staff resources available for this ISSUES TOGETHER panies, we have both the responsibility and development. A critically important area in which the potential to develop and pursue issues ­A kademiska Hus will need to be know­ that are common to the construction and FUTURE SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES ledgeable is learning environments of the property sectors. The boards of state-owned companies future and the importance of the physical Akademiska Hus is one of 13 companies have been assigned the task of formulating and digital environment for teaching and which in 2009 established the Sweden objectives for corporate social responsi­ research. That is why we have entered into Green Building Council (SGBC) initiative, bility that should be ambitious, relevant new collaborative ventures. We are investthe primary aim of which is to promote and long term and which can also be foling SEK 5 million, for example, in two green construction and to develop and lowed up. It must also be possible to presresearch projects dealing with learning implement environmental and sustainabilent strategies for achieving these objecenvironments of the future that are part of ity work in the property industry. SGBC is tives. In addition, there are demands that a larger investment at Umeå University. a non-profit organisation, owned by the the objectives are clear and simple to This will give us the opportunity to access members and open to all companies and ­communicate to ensure that external exciting results that we can use when we organisations in the Swedish construction ­parties can understand and evaluate the develop new knowledge environments and property sector. Akademiska Hus is work of these companies. throughout the country. currently represented on the board of SGBC In 2013, Akademiska Hus defined new We are also involved in the co-funding through our President and contributes sustainability objectives as well as overall of Sweden’s first professorship in property operationally through representation on objectives for assuring a model that is susmanagement, which has been established the SGBC Technical Council and as chair of tainable in the long term. The sustain­ at the Royal Institute of Technology. its ‘Miljöbyggnad’ Committee. ability objectives have been adopted by ­D uring 2013, we also funded a PhD posiWe have for many years, along with the Akademiska Hus Board of Directors tion at the Royal Institute of Technology. other bodies, worked actively to produce a and comprise a small number of strategic The research pursued by the holder of joint system for environmental assessment ­objec­tives that will be evaluated by the this position was aimed at examining and of construction materials, ‘Byggvaru­be­ owner with effect from 2014. Together developing systems for modelling smalldöm­n ingen’ (BVB), a system that major with the overall strategy and the associated scale, c­ limate-neutral energy systems with organisations in the industry have been activities and plans, we have good coverage renewable energy sources. able to support. Akademiska Hus also within the sustainability field. THE NEW SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES IN BRIEF Collaboration with our customers Reduce the volume of purchased 1 2 in sustainability initiatives energy by 50 per cent through to 2025 Together with the customers, we have reached agreeTo ensure we are at the forefront, the volume of purment on joint sustainability initiatives that will involve chased energy must be reduced by 50 per cent through both parties. The aim is to create involvement and visibilto 2025 compared with 2000. Heating, cooling and ity with regard to sustainability issues and to link up the ­electricity are included under ‘purchased energy’, knowledge at the centres of education with our ambition where Akademiska Hus also includes the electricity to be at the forefront. used by tenants in the objective. Carbon footprint from operations Accident-free workplace 3 4 to be eliminated Job satisfaction and a safe and healthy workplace are success factors and are assigned high priority in We will eliminate our carbon footprint from energy use all parts of the Company and in our projects. Our aim is arising in conjunction with operation of our buildings to achieve a totally accident-free workplace, something (heating, cooling and electricity). To achieve this objecwhich requires collaboration and joint agreements with tive, we need to carry out general energy efficiency all organisations in the industry. enhancement measures and establish a dialogue with energy providers in order to eliminate fossil elements as far as possible. Evaluating the potential of small-scale energy production with a low carbon impact is also included as a sub-component in the objective. 6 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND KEY ISSUES Stakeholder dialogue and key issues Sustainability driving forces Increased resource efficiency and reduced energy use are important elements if ­current climate changes are to be mitigated. Demand for energy is increasing and in Sweden construction accounts for over 40 per cent of energy use. This calls for a concerted effort by the whole of the construction and property industry. S ocial development is also affected environments from an environmental, making demands on us to present and monby the increase in urbanisation, social and financial point of view. itor sustainability objectives that are forwhich means there ought to be a mulated specifically for the work that we greater focus on understanding DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS pursue. The owner discusses directly with resilience in our ecosystem. We collate the views of stakeholders the Akademiska Hus Board of Directors but through surveys and in open dialogue. also with individual representatives for the EXTERNAL WORLD AND MACRO-FACTORS By listening to our stakeholders we Company. In the overall campus planning Akademiska Hus is affected by a series of acquire a better understanding of the issues process, many different stakeholders are external factors that represent both chaland views that are considered to be of parbrought together to discuss the long-term lenges and opportunities. We are dependent ticular importance and which we are in a strategic direction for a physical area and on the work being pursued at universities position to address. We can also pick up where sustainability aspects have a key role and colleges, which in turn is affected by on new trends and thoughts regarding the to play. We also discuss with our suppliers demographic factors in the form of the future.Good insight creates sound condiand contractors through the procurements number of students and researchers. Techtions for us to prioritise correctly and adapt and negotiations that take place and where nical development also needs to be taken our operations, develop our customer offer our demands in areas such as environment, into account and could entail a change in and create added value for stakeholders. working environment, working conditions requirements and new opportunities for We meet the Association of Swedish and social responsibility are clarified. premises and campuses. Macro-factors, Higher Education on a regular basis on The table on the next page presents the such as climate change and the demand ­different levels and in different groupings. most important dialogues with stakeholdfor efficient resource utilisation, also Working together, we are attempting to build ers and the issues that are of greatest signifaffect our decisions. up a collective picture of the needs of our cusicance in the dialogue with each individual As a state-owned company we have tomers. We also meet representatives from stakeholder. ­particular responsibility for remaining colleges and universities on an individual at the forefront in terms of efficiency and basis at collaboration and strategy meetings ­corporate social responsibility. For a more to pick up on issues that are specific to a parde­tailed description of the Akademiska Hus ticular college or university. Apart from this long-term challenges and opportunities, dialogue, we remain continuously updated Akademiska Hus stakeholdsee the 2013 Annual Report, page 5. on developments in the higher education ers are the organisations or The Akademiska Hus remit involves world in general. We are also inspired by building and constructing attractive know­ good examples from teaching environments persons who are affected by ledge environments for universities and and campuses in other parts of the world. our operations and who can colleges. Inspiring, purpose-designed enviWe also have personal meetings with influence our potential to ronments stimulate education and developfinanciers, politicians and other decisuccessfully discharge our ment, which can reinforce Sweden as a sion-makers, which is a vital element in our nation of knowledge and contribute to a dialogue with stakeholders. The views and remit. The stakeholders that sustainable society. It is a source of inspiraobjectives of our stakeholders have a conwe have identified as being tion that Akademiska Hus is part of this siderable impact when we develop Akademmost important, apart from process and it reinforces the level of motiiska Hus sustainability strategies and make the owner, the state, are cusvation in the Company. We assume responoperational priorities. sibility by striving to bring about the longOur owner has a clearly stated strategy to tomers/centres of education, term development of knowledge ensure that we work with sustainability by lenders, employees, suppliers, industry, the local community 7 and politicians. AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND KEY ISSUES Stakeholder dialogue By l­istening to our stakeholders we become better at understanding key issues and how we should prioritise them. WHERE IS THE DIALOGUE STAKEHOLDER MAIN AREA OF INTEREST WHAT EFFECT IS IT HAVING? BEING PURSUED? THE SWEDISH STATE, Contribute to the State objective Annual meeting. Corporate Governance Report. OUR OWNER of reinforcing Sweden as a nation Work of the Board of Directors. Clearer mission. of knowledge. Meetings. Yield and dividend according High degree of resource efficiency. Annual Report. to plan. Increased customer benefit through Sustainability Report. ­collaboration with centres of education. Sustainability network. Actively contribute to increased ­competition on campuses. Act as a forerunner in corporate social responsibility. FINANCIERS Financial stability. Meetings. Good credit rating. Stable, long-term operations Annual Report and Sustainability Confidence in our financial ­operations. with profitability and yield in accordReport. Business opportunities. ance with objectives and strategies. Quarterly reports. Corporate social responsibility in all processes. Clear financial communication. CUSTOMERS AND THEIR Plan and create attractive ­k nowledge Customer satisfaction surveys. Customers’ views picked up at an ­EMPLOYEES environments and campuses that Focus discussions and campus early stage. ­support the customer in inter­ ­planning. Long-term planning facilitated. national competition. Ongoing meetings with customers. A common set of objectives is The contribution made by ­Akademiska Energy planning work. being created. Hus to the customer’s long-term ­sustainability work. Clarity in the Akademiska Hus ­business model. High degree of energy efficiency and minimised environmental impact. OUR EMPLOYEES An attractive employer with good Regular discussions with ­managers. Regular training initiatives adapted ­working conditions. Employee survey. specifically to the special role of the A safe, healthy working ­environment. Potential for conducting a d ­ ialogue via individual but also g­ eneral training Good opportunities for ­competence the intranet, ­questionnaires etc. ­i nitiatives. development. Focus on working environment issues. Each person should understand their role in the work that is taking place at Akademiska Hus. SUPPLIERS Clear, relevant procurement terms In conjunction with procurement Greater understanding of our and conditions. ­negotiations. ­requirements. Clear requirements regarding the Ongoing during the term of the Greater driving force to bring about ­environment, working ­environment, ­contract. operational improvement. quality and social responsibility. Long-term relationships. INDUSTRY Active role in the dialogue about Takes place through consultation Balanced establishment of ­i ndustry on how society and the region can ­d iscussions as part of, for example, and in the p­ roximity of campuses. be developed. the campus planning process and Possibility of establishing operations other collaborative initiatives. on campus. LOCAL COMMUNITY Active participation in the dialogue Dialogue takes place in conjunction Greater understanding of the on how society and the region can be with campus planning and through changes that are taking place. developed, e.g. in urban development planning processes and other colla­ Benefits are being derived from joint projects. borative initiatives. planning – public transport for example. Akademiska Hus plays an active part in Contributing to involvement. promoting the construction of student Preparing for the normal planning accommodation. ­process. POLITICIANS Ensure the development of Sweden as Annual Report. Create understanding of the a nation of knowledge, both nationally Sustainability Report. ­Akademiska Hus mission and the role and regionally. Articles in the press and of the region in the development of Contribute to the long-term sustain­press meetings. ­universities and colleges. able development of knowledge Understanding of how industry is ­environments. ­developing, both regionally and locally. Make land available to other bodies in order to develop campuses, e.g. student accommodation and offices. 8 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND KEY ISSUES KEY ISSUES Within the framework of our strategy work The results of the essentiality analysis of particular importance to our stakeholdwe have conducted an intensive dialogue have provided us with the opportunity to ers, alongside our unique body of data on within the Company with the aim of produce a strategy in which sustainability knowledge environments and campuses. ­a nalysing what our owner, our customers, issues have been integrated in relation to This review also reveals that the work our employees and other stakeholders the potential risks and opportunities that done by Akademiska Hus on the environexpect of Akademiska Hus. Using the stakewe have identified. ment, working environment and energy holder dialogue as a starting point and The essentiality analysis confirms that are areas where we have great confidence together with the other driving forces and the objectives that Akademiska Hus is in our stakeholders whilst areas such as challenges that affect us, we have formed a working towards are relevant and that anti-­corruption and business ethics are picture of the issues that are of greatest sigenergy, environment, working environment re­gard­ed as areas that are in need of nificance to our operations. and anti-corruption are perceived as areas greater transparency. Art of Change W orking with artistic represent­ ation is part of our work in the social and cultural dimensions of sustainable development. This year we therefore took the initiative to run an art exhibition ‘Art of Change 2013’ on the Chalmers University of Technology campus in Johanneberg in Gothenburg. The choice of name for the exhibition is intended to demonstrate that works of art over a period have affected and changed the existing envi­ron­ ments on campus. The exhibition was a colla­ bora­t ive venture between Akademiska Hus, ­centres of education and cultural institutions and in which seven selected students from the region’s arts programmes took part. In con­ junction with the exhibition, Akademiska Hus awarded an arts grant to one of the participating students. 9 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY WORK Akademiska Hus has been certified Sustainability work Sustainability is an integral according to ISO 14001. part of operations Sustainability work at Akademiska Hus is pursued at all stages in our processes, from concept to ­customer benefit. We have structured operations which together with support values provide the ­conditions for a property company that generates added value. We see challenges and opportunities in all aspects of our work and we have a clear desire to bring about improvements through continuous learning – from each other and in collaboration with other parties. A kademiska Hus has for a plan includes working to bring about greater oper­ations. We should never resort to methnumber of years complied ethnic diversity and each time a person ods such as corruption, bribes and disloyal, with international principles needs to be recruited, this is taken into competition-inhibiting measures that and frameworks, such as the account as a key factor. In 2013, no cases of ­distort the markets and prevent economic, Global Compact and the UN Guiding Prindiscrimination were notified or examined. social and democratic development. This ciples on Business and Human Rights, as a The aim at Akademiska Hus is to be a approach is described in our policies and starting point in our operations. The equal company which with a high degree of integgoverning documents, such as the Code of value of all people is a basic premise and we rity and good ethics pursues and develops Conduct and the Purchasing Policy, and it is strive to maintain a working environment operations that generate added value. We the responsibility of each employee to make that is based on mutual respect and where assume personal responsibility, we are themselves aware of these documents and everyone is given the same opportunities committed and honest and we are involved comply with them. We also encourage our regardless of gender, nationality, religion, in helping and supporting each other. suppliers to follow the guidelines and the ethnic affiliation or sexual orientation. We strive to adopt an open attitude in values reflected in our Code of Conduct. The Akademiska Hus equality and diversity dialogue with those who are affected by our Management Investing for and leasing the future Sustainability work is pursued at all stages in Akademiska Hus processes. Property and New construc­campus­ tion and planning redevelopment 10 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SUSTAINABILITY WORK ADDED VALUE FOR OWNERS Generating added value not only comAND ­STAKEHOLDERS prises aspects that are entirely quantifiable FINANCIAL RELATIONS WITH ­STAKEHOLDERS Akademiska Hus has considerable responin economic terms. Over the years we have sibility to carry on property operations in a satisfied the tenants’ wishes regarding cremanner that generates added value. This is ative knowledge environments, where it has confirmed in the financial objectives that not just been the design of the premises that the owner has formulated for the Company. has been a prerequisite but also efficiency The basis for this is an efficient division of and professional property management. responsibility between Akademiska Hus According to our clearer remit, our operand our customers. We are responsible for ations will be pursued in line with market Suppliers the risks that property ownership entails con­ditions. By constantly developing oper­ SEK 1,836 million, 35% and our customers are given the opportuations and capitalising on the economies Shareholder's dividend SEK 1,355 million, 26% nity to focus on their core operations. of scale, we can pursue cost-­effective operaRemaining in the Company, Since the Company was founded in 1993, tions and offer competitive rents. Market excluding the proposed dividend the property portfolio has increased in value terms and conditions also include re­levant SEK 1,194 million, 23% from SEK 7.6 billion to SEK 57.6 billion. The pricing of the market risks that we are ex­ Interest to lenders main reason is the extensive investments posed to through our property ownership. SEK 527 million, 10% that have taken place over the past 20 years. A necessary precondition for expanding Employees – salaries SEK 207 million, 4% As Akademiska Hus has had the opportunity the property portfolio is that confidence in Employees – social security expenses to raise loans to finance part of the investAkademiska Hus operations is maintained SEK 104 million, 2% ments, it has been possible for the property among lenders, which at present finance Board of Directors, President and portfolio to expand. In addition, part of the around SEK 20 billion of the property holdExecutive Management profit, after payment of tax and dividends, ings. This presupposes that the Company – remuneration SEK 8 million, 0% has been consolidated into the Company demonstrates financial stability and generover the years. A further explanation for the ates a profit that creates value for our owner increase in the property portfolio is that it and ultimately for society. has experienced a positive growth in value. Furniture – for those who need it I n Lund, Akademiska Hus will make ­available premises on the university ­c ampus that can be used for selling ­pre-used ­furniture. Students can buy and sell ­furniture and by doing so they create a resource-efficient recycling system that b ­ enefits both the wallet and the environment. The proceeds go to charity. 11 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | STRATEGIC PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Strategic property development Sustainable development of campuses Our vision is to develop leading knowledge environments to satisfy present and future needs. This demands long-term planning and strategic development of individual properties and entire campuses. I nvolving tenants, public authorities, neighbours and other stakeholders in the task of planning in order to realise common visions for a campus has proved to be both a successful and popular approach. As part of the process, we open up discussions regarding Green travel plan A planning on campus and in the surrounding s the Johanneberg Campus at Chalmers area. This means that we know what other University of Technology expands it is parties are planning and it gives us the important that expansion takes place opportunity to discuss difficulties and plan sustainably. That is why, together with the City of Gothenburg and Chalmers future measures together. University of Technology, we have produced a green travel plan for the area. The aim is that car traffic into the campus should not increase CAMPUS PLANS – A UNIQUE PROCESS despite the fact that the campus is growing. Akademiska Hus has in recent years worked Akademiska Hus’s undertaking in the green travel plan means that we are committed to not with centres of education to develop new, increasing the number of parking spaces on the future-oriented campus plans with the aim Chalmers Johanneberg Campus even if the need of realising a common vision and a developshould arise. Instead, we will endeavour to ensure that the Chalmers Johanneberg Campus has more, ment plan for a university or college cambetter and safer parking facilities for bicycles pus. The campus planning system employed and to work to arrange parking spaces for electric vehicles and pool cars. Akademiska Hus will also by Akademiska Hus is unique. work to make pedestrian paths and cycle paths In general, campus planning takes place within and through the campus more distinct. in close contact and collaboration with the municipal authorities, which increases the potential for Akademiska Hus and the university or college in question to influence the planning of different built environment measures, such as the infrastructure and a communications. The campus development vision has increasingly come to include the whole person. This means that Akademiska Hus also wants to plan and be open to facilities where we are not the prime mover but which are desirable in terms of the totality. This includes student accommodation, which is important to alleviate the general housing shortage, but also because housing 12 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | STRATEGIC PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT The impact of ecosystem services on urban development will increase. adjacent to a campus means that people By building up knowledge together with CERTIFICATION OF BUILDINGS move around the campus much more, thus different stakeholders through seminars, AND DISTRICTS contributing to security and safety. Many work­shops and study visits, we broaden Sustainability certification is an assesspeople who visit campuses walk, cycle or our knowledge and acquire new perspecment of the environmental sustainability use public transport. Consequently, good tives re­gard­i ng needs, conditions and of a building or a district. The aim is to public transport links and an environment opportunities. ensure that planning and implementation in which cyclists and pedestrians are priorSince 2011, the aim at Akademiska Hus is are sustain­able in several dimensions and itised are examples of factors that contribthat our campuses should have a plan that is act as a guarantee that the building or the ute to greater sustainability and make the no more than five years old. The reason for ­district satisfies the agreed requirements. campus more attractive. The fact that these this time limit is that a renewed vision and There are a number of certification sysmodes of transport are assigned at least the reconfirmed and accepted objectives reintems that suit different types of buildings same level of priority as car traffic is someforce cooperation with the tenants regardand property owners. Akademiska Hus has thing we consider to be a key factor in reining our common physical environment. opted for the Swedish ‘Miljöbyggnad’ system, forcing the campuses of the future. During the period, work has taken place with the aim that all new construction and in all regions to create, renew and update major redevelopment will be certified and LEADING EDGE SPECIALISTS campus plans – all in close collaboration achieve at least Silver level. Akademiska Hus has its own archi­tecwith our customers. At the end of 2013, we The system rewards low energy use with ­t ur­a l experts who work with property had 37 campuses, 24 of which had a current a low environmental load, a good indoor development in different ways, including plan and a further seven where a plan was environment, a good choice of materials campus plans. being formulated. and phasing out of hazardous substances. 13 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | STRATEGIC PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT A further benefit is that we acquire good ment and innovation. The pilot projects are (Q-book Albano Sustainability). At knowledge of what is built into a construcexpected to be completed in 2014. ­A kademiska Hus we regard knowledge tion, which is extremely important for of eco­system services as a future asset and future adaptation and disposal. ECOSYSTEM SERVICES AND SOCIOour mission is to further integrate these In the Akademiska Hus holdings there ECOLOGICAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT into upcoming projects. are many different types of premises, Ecosystem services is a factor that needs to ranging from offices to advanced, energy-­ be taken into account in sustainable urban COOPERATION WITH OUR CUSTOMERS intensive laboratory environments with development. The concept includes a di­verse ON SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES specific stipulations regarding noise, vibrarange of values, from environmental and One of the success factors in our work is tion, electromagnetic fields and other strict economic to social and cultural. The theory collaborating with customers. In 2013, a requirements. To meet our certification surrounding ecosystem services is based on sustainability objective was adopted where objective, it is required that we maintain the principle that urban greenery and high-­ the focus was on creating a structured diaa close dialogue with our customers, quality water have a very positive impact on logue with our customers regarding how we ­contractors and suppliers to ensure that biological diversity and water and climate as a property owner can support the centres everyone works towards the same goals. regulation, which in turn leads to improved of education to enable them to realise their Within the framework of the Sweden public health and quality of life. Ecosystem sustainability ambitions. Green Building Council (SGBC), work is in services also have a role to play in holding A sustainability initiative can take progress to facilitate sustainability certifiback expected climate changes. ­d ifferent forms, ranging from small, re­lacation of entire districts. In 2013, AkademiSince 2009, Akademiska Hus has worked tively simple projects to major, complex ska Hus was involved in two pilot projects with the Stockholm Resilience Centre to projects. They can vary in terms of the together with the Royal Institute of Techcreate a model that includes ecosystem sertime taken to implement, their signifinology and Chalmersfastigheter AB with vices in the planning process. In this case, cance to operations or their symbolic the aim of adapting the British BREEAM it is the Albano campus in Stockholm that value. The aim is to create joint involveCommunities system to Swedish condihas been studied. The work, which has been ment and a high degree of visibility regardtions. The system is based on the paramevery enlightening and instructional for all ing sustainability issues and at the same ters of involvement, well-being, resource concerned, has resulted in a scientific publitime reinforce the relationships between management, ecology, transport and movecation at the Royal Institute of Technology the parties involved. Urban Planning Administration, Stockholm Albano, Stockholm 14 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Construction and development Strict requirements in the construction process Akademiska Hus has an extremely important part to play in the development of campuses and knowledge environments of the future, where together with other parties we contribute to dialogue and collaboration, using each party’s expertise as a starting point. We are at present one of the largest property developers in the country and we are currently going through a very intensive period of construction. The nature of the projects varies from multi-storey parking facilities to high-tech premises and projects with a socio-­ ecological hallmark. This puts us in an important position when it comes to promoting sustainability issues from a broader perspective. T o further improve our conIn our construction projects we have ought to be made as early as possible in struction process we comover a long period made impact assessthe project and thus influence planning at menced development in 2013 ments when choosing systems and mate­ future stages in the construction process. of a joint platform for choosrials and during 2013 we developed a comUsing BIM (Building Information Moding technical system solutions and materimon process for this work. Each enquiry elling) there is considerable scope for creatals where the focus is on effective, resource-­ incorporates several assessment criteria, ing a more efficient construction process, efficient and sustainable systems. Through including management aspects, life-cycle particularly optimised use of materials in feedback of experience and technical and cost assessment, design and functionality. projects. Through simpler and more effifinancial analyses, solutions can be chosen The final choice is based on an objective cient presentation of material volumes, that promote the best level of construction and carefully considered assessment. To the volume of wastage and variants can be quality and material management. achieve the best outcome, the final choice minimised. Akademiska Hus is currently In each new project at least one alternative energy supply system is studied. 15 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT running several projects using BIM methare included as well as information about based on the stipulations laid down in­ odology with an emphasis on analysing manufacturing, transport, packaging and ‘Miljö­­byggnad’ to secure Silver level certifimaterial volumes. Akademiska Hus assesses handling of materials at the user stage cation although it can also be made stricter. construction products using a c­ onstruction and in conjunction with waste disposal The decision to make the stipulations materials assessment system (‘Byggvaru­ and demolition. This provides an overall stricter can be based on a goal agreed bedömningen’ – BVB). Our basic premise is picture of the total environmental impact between Akademiska Hus and our custhat products that are assessed as ‘To be that a material or product generates during tomer but also on the conditions stipulated avoided’ must not be used unless there are its life cycle. However, we can see developwithin the framework of the building plans particular reasons or arguments for doing ment potential by also including social and the building design. so. We also stipulate that sub-­suppliers, aspects – in conjunction with manufac­ In each new project at least one alternaboth consultants and contractors, use the turing for example. tive energy supply system is studied, often BVB system. To achieve a long-term effect, it is vitally as an alternative to district heating and disWe have chosen to include construction important that Akademiska Hus and other trict cooling. The most common alternative materials in the assessment but exclude bodies in the industry support BVB to studied is underground thermal energy installation materials. The reason for this ensure more extensive documentation is storage. The latest example of the use of is that BVB does not provide assessments produced in the form of correct, reliable underground geothermal energy storage is of installation products from suppliers to and comprehensive assessments. the Student Building at Frescati in Stockthe required extent. At Akademiska Hus holm, which was opened in August 2013. we regard this as a challenge and an area STRICT ENERGY AND The estimated energy for heating and coolthat needs to be developed for the future. ENVIRONMENTAL STIPULATIONS ing is a record-low 25 kWh per square metre Environmental assessment of materials During new construction we specify mateper year, which can be compared with a according to the BVB declarations is relarial properties and environ­mental requiremore n ­ ormal 150 kWh per square metre per tively extensive and apart from chemical ments, which are presented in a way that year in existing buildings. content, the system also includes the very low energy use is achieved during the Our technical specialists are involved at ­materials and material components that operating phase. Our basic specification is the beginning of a project and on a number Erséus Arkitekter AB Student Building at Frescati – a role model in sustainability T hanks to a good outer shell and underground ­t hermal storage in combination with specially manufactured, high-output heat pumps, the ­Student Building at Frescati in Stockholm, will be able to report extremely low energy requirements – as low as 25 kWh per square metre per year. E ­ nergy-­o ptimised measures are a consistent feature of this 6,000-­s quare metre building, ranging from seasonally adapted ventilation systems to waste rooms with ozone cleaning instead of cooling as well as green sedum roofs. There has been a particular emphasis on creating a good sound climate. 16 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT of occasions subsequently to ensure that through our demand that the BVB (Building energy issues are assigned a high priority Materials Assessment) system is used for all and are handled appropriately. building materials. There will continue to be a considerable All new buildings focus in new construction to assure energy ELIMINATION OF MOISTURE must as a minimum efficiency stipulations. In order to meet our Moisture is a risk factor for ill-health in a strict energy-saving targets, the large volbuilding. We therefore attach considerable satisfy the requirements ume of properties in our existing holdings importance to ensuring correct handling stipulated to achieve must be optimised through energy plans of moisture during the planning phase. ‘Miljöbyggnad’ Silver and directed investment. Energy use in the A moisture expert is linked to the project production phase is one aspect in the conorganisation and we stipulate that a conlevel. struction process that still needs to be dealt tractor appoints a person in its organisation with. With the low levels of operating who has specific responsibility for moisture energy that are now possible, the relative in the building. A number of activities have been initienergy use in the construction phase will Akademiska Hus uses the ‘ByggaF’ ated to clarify our ambition and we are be considerable, estimated to be equivalent industry standard, a method designed to ­currently reviewing our governing docuto the energy requirements for 10–15 years achieve a moisture-safe construction proments and the demands linked to the enviof operation. This is a changed prerequisite cess, from planning through to manageronment, working environment and safety compared with previously and in time ment. The method includes routines and in conjunction with procurement of conenergy use in the production phase will processes to help all the parties involved, tractors. Both the environment and workneed to be included in the process. from the developer, the architects and other ing environment are included as evaluation consultants through to material ­suppliers, criteria when procuring contractors. The GOOD INDOOR ENVIRONMENT contractors, operating staff and property Akademiska Hus Purchasing Policy speciThrough the strategic decision that all new managers. fies the basic values that permeate purchasbuildings and major redevelopment should Akademiska Hus highlights the imporing and procurement. achieve at least the Silver level in the tance of risk analysis in the project at an At the tendering stage, the tenderer ­‘ Miljöbyggnad’ system, we assume responearly stage – and where moisture safety ­submits a completed ‘Supplier assessment sibility for a good indoor environment as is one of the aspects – in order to assure of quality, environment and working the system includes specific stipulations sustainable construction. To verify that ­environment’ to Akademiska Hus. To regarding sound environment, air quality, the method is being used as prescribed, check compliance with the requirements, moisture, thermal climate, daylight and Akademiska Hus each year carries out a Akademiska Hus carried out internal enviwater quality. The indicators for these number of moisture audits in construction ronment and working environment audits aspects comprise nine specified and quantiprojects. of a number of projects during the year. fiable stipulations regarding the perforThe audits were conducted on a random mance of the completed building. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT OF basis and should be regarded as the first The system clarifies what needs to OUR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS step in raising the level of ambition with be ­satisfied and through the demand for Sustainable procurement is a challenge regard to monitoring compliance. ­‘ Miljöbyggnad’ verification it will be but also an opportunity to achieve greater checked after final inspection and after clarity regarding expectations and targets. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY the tenant has moved in. This must take Within Akademiska Hus we can see develIN CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS place within three years of the date the opment potential by generating interest In conjunction with procurement, a person building was brought into use. and involvement in sustainability issues in responsible for environmental issues is Avoiding hazardous substances is conjunction with procurement, not only appointed within the project, both at another key aspect in achieving a good in-house but also among our contractors ­A kademiska Hus and at the procured indoor environment. This aspect is assured and other stakeholders and partners. ­consultant or contractor. After an agree17 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ment has been signed, it is the responsi­bility During the final inspection, the contractor bility and create conditions for a safe of the supplier to present an en­v ironmental is required to compile a list of the building workplace, not only for our own employ­ees plan for the contract. The en­­v i­­ron­mental products and chemical products that have but also for all those who work with us in plan is the supplier’s documented underbeen incorporated into the building and our projects. taking and describes how the stipulations submit the list to Akademiska Hus. The One of the challenges of creating targets in the project’s environmental programme basic purpose of the environmental plan is related to an accident-free workplace is to will be satisfied. This plan should include to assure traceability of products, materials establish a culture where everyone sees the the following: and risks. This work is a key requirement benefit of acting as a role model and making • T hat a risk assessment is made and that if we are to be able to realise our ambition safety their first priority. All near-accidents any environmental risks in the project of achieving at least ‘Miljöbyggnad’ Silver and accidents need to be recorded correctly have been identified level. in order to be able to direct measures and • T hat an environmental assessment initiatives where they are of greatest benefit takes place using BVB AN ACCIDENT-FREE WORKPLACE but also to be able to evaluate the progress • T hat a list of assessed products is As one of the largest building developers in we are making. To do this effectively, our ­prepared using the project tool in BVB Sweden, we have a responsibility to address current system for reporting and handling • T hat an efficient deviation management working environment and safety issues. near-accidents and accidents needs to be system is in place and that deviations In 2013, Akademiska Hus formulated new developed. are reported and approved corporate social responsibility objectives, The aim is ambitious and requires • T hat a list of deviations from the environone of which is to achieve an accident-free expanded collaboration with other bodies mental programme is drawn up. workplace. We wanted to assume responsiin the industry. Aula Medica at the Karolinska Institute in Solna is a complicated building that attracts a great deal of attention with its tilting glazed facade and its impressive depth. The building was granted ‘Miljö­ byggnad’ Silver certification in 2013. 18 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Property Management Long-term sustainable management Property management is the core of our operations. The majority of our energy use arises in existing holdings and it is through property management that we come into contact with the work that is taking place at our customers and where we become acquainted with their need to operate buildings in a way that is both proactive and long-term. B y having an agreed, long-term As part of our ambition to act as a role regional targets therefore vary between strategy for a campus, we can model and adopt a leading position in the two and four per cent. plan development and mainenergy field, we revised our target in 2013. tenance projects for our We have found that this target can be COMMON TARGETS properties and create environments that made even stricter with the aid of directed In our statistics, as in our objectives, all maintain a high standard over a long initiatives and a clear focus and we have energy used in buildings has been included, period. With a carefully considered mantherefore decided to raise the target to even energy used by tenants. This varies agement strategy, we can optimise energy 50 per cent using the same reference point. considerably between different buildings use and manage our premises efficiently An increase from 40 to 50 per cent may and activities although on average it is estiand at the same time maintain a high level appear modest but as the increase is taking mated to be one-third of the total energy of quality, both in the short term and the place in the middle of the target period use. Our tenants therefore need to be long term. (2000 to 2025) the savings rate needs to involved in efficiency improvement work almost double. The raising of the level is to ensure that by collaborating we can help 50 PER CENT REDUCTION IN equivalent to an average rate of reduction to achieve the energy efficiency levels that PURCHASED ENERGY of around 3.3 per cent per annum from 2014 are necessary. For the tenants to be able to Since 2008, Akademiska Hus has had an to 2025. monitor their own use and the effects of the energy reduction target of 40 per cent The target has been broken down on a efficiency initiatives, we commenced work through to 2025, using 2000 as the base regional basis and where the division is during the year on making it possible for year. This target has involved intensive based on current regional use: a high level tenant electricity to be reported separately. ­efficiency enhancement work within the of use results in a high rate of reduction. Further work has commenced to improve energy field and today we use approxiAccount has also been taken of the chalthe tenants’ access to energy statistics via mately 25 per cent less energy per square lenges that exist in each region as well as our energy portal. metre per year in our buildings compared the level of ambition and involvement In order to achieve the overall target with 2000. demonstrated by customers. The annual of 50 per cent, work must be intensified. USE OF ENERGY AND WATER PER REGION Electricity kWh/m2 Heating kWh/m2 Cooling kWh/m2 Water litres/m2 Region 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 South 131 129 129 107 106 116 34 33 34 413 430 438 West 96 97 96 62 67 72 8 9 9 352 342 362 East 105 108 105 88 87 87 32 39 41 395 345 372 Uppsala 116 119 125 121 121 131 16 5 4 269 256 254 Stockholm 105 110 109 117 122 120 30 31 33 415 437 438 North 106 110 103 69 72 75 11 8 10 351 342 368 AVERAGE 109 112 111 99 101 105 23 21 22 369 371 377 19 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | PROPERTY MANAGEMENT This means that investment is required, The process means that to some extent both financial and in terms of personnel, the most profitable measures support the ELECTRICITY USE and new methods need to be implemented. less profitable but that the portfolio as a At the same time, it is important and self-­ whole meets the yield target. By doing so we Gwh kWh/m2 evident that the work takes place in a way assure ourselves that as many as possible of 500 200 that the established yield targets are met. the identified efficiency enhancement meas400 160 ures are included, which is probably neces300 120 TIME FOR ACTION sary if we are to meet our energy efficiency 200 80 In addition to ongoing maintenance, energy target. Special joint projects with tenant 100 40 efficiency measures are being taken in con­ involvement are also included in the plans. 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 junc­tion with specifically focused initiatives. The energy target at Akademiska Hus, as Electricity, GWh Electricity, kWh/m2 A model that could be used to assure profde­fined through to 2013, means that the volitability in our improvement work is a portume of purchased energy, including tenant In 2010 and 2012, origin-labelled electricity was purchased from hydroelectric folio approach, where a building or a group re­quire­ments, will fall at a rate that will re­sult power sources. In 2011, bioenergy-based of buildings undergoes a detailed analysis. in a 40 per cent reduction by 2025 com­pared electricity was purchased and during 2013 a mixture of hydroelectric power and bioEfficiency enhancement measures are with 2000. This means a reduction of just based power was purchased. Electricity drawn up, costed and scheduled separately. be­low two percentage points per annum. The purchased by Akademiska Hus prior to The measures are then ranked in order of annual rate of reduction of purchas­ed energy 2010 is estimated to have had a proportion of carbon dioxide-free generated power profitability and are added to the portfolio was achieved during the year and achieve(hydroelectric power and nuclear power) gradually, commencing with the most profitment of the long-term target is pro­ceeding amounting to 90 per cent, with 10 per cent coming from fossil fuels. able. When a package of measures as a whole according to plan. During the per­iod, the touches on or falls below the yield requireabsolute energy target figures were adjusted HEAT USE ment, the remaining measures are excluded. marginally due to a calculation error regardThe package of measures in question is then ing an area in one of our re­g ions. This has Gwh kWh/m2 implemented as a collective project. not affected our long-­term re­duc­tion target. 500 200 400 160 300 120 200 80 Akademiska 100 40 Hus will be the 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 leader in energy effiHeat, GWh Heat, kWh/m2 ciency enhancement and The proportion of carbon dioxide-free genwill halve the volume erated heat (bioenergy and residual energy) of purchased used by Akademiska Hus was 89 per cent. 11 per cent came from fossil fuels. energy. COOLING USE ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT Gwh kWh/m2 % 25 100 100 80 20 90 60 15 80 70 40 10 60 20 5 50 0 0 40 09 10 11 12 13 00 05 10 15 20 25 Cooling, GWh Cooling, kWh/m2 Actual trend Akademiska Hus reported that cooling Annual improvement in conjunction with a 40% reduction in energy energy comes from district cooling, which is largely based on free cooling, bottom Annual improvement in conjunction with the increased water and traditional cooling generation. target figure, a 50% energy reduction, introduced in 2014 20 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | PROPERTY MANAGEMENT ELIMINATED CO2 This has in itself exerted pressure on sev­ – OPERATING FOOTPRINT er­a l district heating suppliers to gradually WATER USE A further target that was introduced in in­crease the proportion of renewables as it 1,000 m 3 Litres/m2 2013 means that the carbon footprint ariswould in effect cut off the possibility for 1,500 1,000 ing from operation of our buildings will in entire communities and cities to have build800 time be reduced to zero. This work can be ings environmentally classified. A process 1,200 divided into four elements and where all aimed at increasing the proportion of renew900 600 forms of energy efficiency form the foundaables is also taking place in this segment. 600 400 tion. The second step is to urge our energy 300 200 suppliers to eliminate fossil elements as far PERCEIVED INDOOR ENVIRONMENT 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 as possible. The next level means that we The health and well-being of the tenants Water, m³ Water, litres/m 2 will gradually be able to purchase what is is our first priority. If different environtermed guarantees of origin for all forms of mental aspects were to conflict, such as Akademiska Hus uses water from the municipal system. energy. Guarantees of origin can already be energy e­ fficiency and indoor environment, purchased for electricity although even dis­A kademiska Hus would prioritise a good CO2 EQUIVALENTS trict heating suppliers could in time envisindoor environment. CO2 kg/m2 age offering such guarantees. Akademiska Hus has surveyed and meas20 After these three groups of measures ured the presence of radon in all buildings 16 have been utilised fully, the CDM (Clean with permanent workplaces. In a few places 12 Development Mechanism) project can be where the radon level has exceeded 200 Bq, 8 applied for the remainder of the carbon steps have been taken to reduce the level. 4 footprint. A CDM project means that we Materials that contain PCB, such as insu0 invest in projects to reduce emissions in lating glass, floor coverings and jointing 09 10 11 12 13 developing countries in order to compenmaterial, are being removed in conjunction Cooling, kg/m2 sate for our own emissions. with planned redevelopment. Heating, kg/m2 Electric power, kg/m2 Akademiska Hus already purchases BVB is also used as a tool in manageguarantees of origin for all electricity used ment to assess construction materials and CO2 EQUIVALENTS, TOTAL in our buildings and our demand is that property management products in conthese should refer to renewable raw materijunction with less extensive redevelopCO2 1,000 tonnes als. Up to now, only guarantees of origin for ment, tenant adaptations and day-to-day 60 biobased and water-based power producbuilding operation. 48 tion have been purchased although wind 36 and solar-generated power could also be 24 included in the guarantees. 12 Environmental certification must be 0 09 10 11 12 13 applied to all new construction at AkademiCooling total ska Hus. The lowest acceptable category is At Chalmers University of Tech­ Heating total ‘Miljöbyggnad’ Silver level. The criteria nology in Gothenburg, Akademiska Electric power total included in the certification system include Hus has a research and production demands for a high proportion of energy facility for energy – the Chalmers from renewable raw materials and sources. Power Centre. Using the boilers as a base, research and education is conducted and at the same time the boilers supply energy for use on campus. In 2013, around 22,000 MWh of heating was generated through the combustion of wood­ chips in the facility’s research boiler and around 43 MWh of elec­ tricity and 400 MWh of heat were generated through bio-oil firing in the facility’s steam boiler. The energy produced at the Chalmers Power Centre is a subset in the overall presentation. 21 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | EMPLOYEES Employees Motivated employees in a stimulating environment Akademiska Hus employees are offered continuous competence development in order to create a working day marked by motivation and inspiration and to meet the needs of the customers. Maintaining a pleasant working environment is part of the day-to-day work and the views of the employees are gathered through regular employee surveys. M otivation and commitment lead to good results and are a key ­element in employee empowerment. The Employee Survey is an important means for the Executive Management and other managers to monitor and develop operations although in particular within their own working group. The main issues are employers, duties, skills, leadership, communication, cooper­ation and organisation. The latest Employee Survey showed that we have an Employee Satisfaction Index (NMI) of 68 (69), which is clearly higher than the average for the private and public sector (CMA Employee Survey 2013). To The Akademiska Hus way of working together supplement satisfaction with motivation with our customers to develop Sweden as a nation of knowledge motivates our employees we have for the first time introduced a Motiand creates a working life that is stimulating vated Employee Index (MMI), which measand inspirational. ures how motivated the employees are in their work. In 2013, the MMI index was 70. The survey also showed that 80 per cent of employees are extremely satisfied with the perceived environment and that 81 per cent feel that Akademiska Hus handles the working environment well. The proportion the latest NMI survey contained in-depth we invest in training in recruitment, labour of employees who frequently or always questions in this area and the results have law, property finance and working environexperience stress in their work situation provided us with a basis for future work. ment, and we are constantly endeavouring is increasing and the figure now stands at to coordinate and broaden the range of pro27 per cent. This is one of the issues that COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT AND grammes. It is important to clarify what the we have focused on in the annual working EXCHANGE OF EXPERIENCE different professional roles need in terms of environment improvement process. In Ongoing competence development is vital if basic and advanced training. Work is taking order to provide a better overall picture of we are to satisfy our customers’ needs. We place to coordinate and clarify operational the reasons for the perceived stress, and to have established leader development proand management requirements linked to create the potential to take relevant action, grammes for managers and project leaders, the working environment. 22 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | EMPLOYEES Our core processes have cross-functional ­challenging, time-specific, quantifiable BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES fora aimed at developing and refining our objectives. Alongside these objectives, ­ACCORDING TO POSITION AND GENDER Women Men working methods. Although we realise a ­dialogue takes place regarding the busiOperating technicians 9 133 that working with feedback of experience ness plan, Code of Conduct, work super­ Property engineers/­ and creating structural capital is a major vision, relationships at work and how the Operating engineers 3 44 Property managers 8 26 challenge, these fora are the key to estabemployee perceives the balance between Senior property managers 1 9 lishing uniformity and greater efficiency in work and l­ eisure. Project managers 13 28 our organisation. Accounting personnel/ A good example of how we worked during RECRUITMENT FOR THE FUTURE Administration 49 21 Executive Management 5 6 the year is our ‘Company Days’, where During the past three years we have IT/Communication 20 24 employees from all parts of the organisation recruited around 100 new employees into Other positions 10 20 present good examples and new working the Company and we can see that we will Total 118 311 methods. For a period of five hours, 11 stacontinue at this rate in the years to come. Proportion 28% 72% tions were available covering a range of In the property industry we can expect The proportion of women and men in managerial positions reflects the gender division in the Comareas. Apart from stations that dealt with increased competition for expertise, pany as a whole. projects, property management and energy which means that we need to reinforce optimisation, there were also stations that our employer brand. It also requires us to dealt with areas such as change, the capacity attract future employees from outside the NUMBER OF MANAGERS, WOMEN AND MEN to feel good and ethical values. This is industry and to encourage young people known as the Knowledge Race. It proved to apply for training aimed at property highly popular and the model will be used and the built environment. 20 in the future. We already have established collabora16 Akademiska Hus aims to ensure that all tion with vocational colleges in our larger 12 employees should have regular appraisal regions. We are members, for example, of 8 discussions with their immediate superior. programme committees and we take in 4 During the year, 90 per cent (88) of employtrainees. During the autumn we decided 0 ees had an appraisal discussion. The discusto become involved in the development e th st st la lm th fic Sou We Ea psa kho Nor Of Up toc sions are documented in an individual of a trainee programme for the built enviad S He action plan that should contain clear, ronment arranged by CMB (Centre for Women Men SATISFIED EMPLOYEE INDEX (NMI) AND STAFF TURNOVER ATTENDANCE MOTIVATED EMPLOYEE INDEX (MMI) % % 75 15 100 70 12 80 65 9 60 60 6 40 55 3 20 50 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 NMI MMI 2013 was the first year for MMI. Staff turnover in 2013 was 5.4 per cent Absenteeism due to illness during the (10.1). In 2013, 5 (9) people retired. year amounted to 3.0 per cent (2.5), of which long-term absenteeism was 1.2 percentage points (0.8). Akademiska Hus works actively with health issues. 23 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | EMPLOYEES ­Management of the Built Environment). The environment is naturally part of the day­-­ Office. During the year, absence due to programme will commence in autumn 2014. to-day work and the health and safety illness in the Company was 3.0 per cent. In Stockholm, a student programme ­committees and working environment A total of 52 employees (12 per cent) are commenced during the year aimed at stu­networks are just some examples of the involved in the Company’s formal working dents specialising in the built environment ­collaboration fora that exist and through environment committees. where we offer survey assignments, tempowhich we discuss and work with improverary summer positions and the opportunity ments and at the same time promote conCOLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS to carry out degree projects. A similar sensus and involvement around issues Akademiska Hus is a member of the Almega arrangement will be introduced in more related to the working environment. Property Owners branch of the employer regions. Knowledge of the working environment organisation Almega Service Sector Associ‘My Life’ is a social company that works that is obtained through property manageation. There is a collective agreement with diversity and integration on the Swedment is continuously fed back into our consigned by Almega Property Owners and ish labour market. Its activities include a struction projects. The property managethe trade unions Unionen, Ledarna, the mentor programme – ‘The Chance of My ment organisation, for example, is involved Swedish Association of Engineers and Life’ – aimed mainly at people with a forin and examines construction documents SEKO. All employees at Akademiska Hus eign background. In 2013, we became a and drawings in order to arrive at the best are covered by this agreement. partner company and we have appointed solution together with the project team. Akademiska Hus does not conduct operaseven mentors who will be involved in the Akademiska Hus is working actively to tions where the employees’ right to associaprogramme in 2013–2014. inspire all employees to live a healthier life. tion and right to a collective agreement are There are special ‘health and fitness motivamaterially threatened. ENJOYABLE AND STIMULATING tors’ in each region. In addition, all employWORKING ENVIRONMENT ees receive an annual health and fi ­ tness Akademiska Hus has for several years been grant of SEK 3,000 for personal health and certified under the systematic working fitness activities. environment programme AFS 2001:1, A routine is in place for handling sickness which means there is a structured approach and rehabilitation, which complies with the to the working environment. The working system introduced by the Social Insurance EDUCATION LEVEL AGE DISTRIBUTION PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT High school/ Up to 30 years < 5 years Vocational college 30 to 50 years 5–10 years Academic qualification 51 to 60 years > 10 years Academic education, 61 years and older more than 30 credits Vocational training/operations/property technicians Secondary school The majority of employees belong to the operMore than half of the e ­ mployees 65 per cent of employees have been ating technician category with relevant proare aged 30–50 years. employed for more than 5 years. fessional training or experience. Managerial staff frequently have an academic education. 24 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | GRI INDEX Global Reporting Initiative Akademiska Hus follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) recommendations for sustainability reports. The table on pages 26–27 show the GRI indicators that are reported and also where the indicators are to be found in the Akademiska Hus reports. T he Akademiska Hus Sustainin sustainability information, such as stakeat akademiskahus.se. The data presented is ability Report follows the holder organisations, customers, sustainafor the 2013 calendar year, from January 1 financial year and is pubbility analysts and our owner. to December 31, and covers Akademiska lished annually. The most For 2013, Akademiska Hus reports Hus as a group. recent Sustainability Report was published according to GRI level B+ and thus satisfies on March 28, 2013. In the Sustainability the requirements laid down by the governContact person: Report, Akademiska Hus presents its work ment for state-owned companies and Mia Edofsson on corporate social responsibility based on which are part of owner governance. The Sustainability Manager: our main processes, with a focus on areas Sustainability Report is the Akademiska mia.edofsson@akademiskahus.se that are considered to be most relevant. Hus Sustainability Report 2013, which has The Sustainability Report is aimed parbeen assured by Deloitte. An account of the ticularly at those groups who are interested prizes and awards received can be found “The future interests me – I want to live the rest of my life in it” – Mark Twain 25 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | GRI INDEX PROFILE 1. Strategy and analyses 1.1 Statement from the CEO SR 1 4.12 E  xternal statutes, principles and initiatives www 1.2 P  resentation of impact, SR 2–3, 8–9, 4.13 M  embership of organisations www risks and opportunities AR 5, 48, 68–69 Involvement in stakeholders 4.14 S  takeholders SR 7 2. Organisation 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders SR 7–8 2.1 Name of the organisation SR Front page 4.16 Methods for co-operation with stakeholders SR 7–8 2.2 Primary brands, products and services AR 4 4.17 K  ey issues that have emerged in discussions SR 8–9 2.3 Organisational structure AR 15, 76 with stakeholders 2.4 Location of the headquarters SR 29 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates AR 4, 15 2.6 Ownership structure and company form AR 4 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2.7 Markets AR 4, 15 5. Economic indicators 2.8 Size of the company AR 50–51, 102 Economic results 2.9 Significant changes during SR 1, AR 1–3 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 11, AR 51 the reporting period EC2 F inancial implications and other risks SR 7, 13–14, 20, 2.10 Awards received during the financial year www and opportunities due to climate change AR 68–69 EC3 C  overage of the organisation’s defined AR 102–103 3. Reporting parameters benefit plan obligations Reporting profile EC4 S ignificant financial assistance received Not applicable 1) from the government 3.1 Reporting period SR 25 Market presence 3.2 Date of most recent report SR 25 EC6 P  olicy, practices, and proportion of spending Not applicable 1) 3.3 Reporting cycle SR 25 on locally-based suppliers at significant ­locations of operation 3.4 Contact person regarding the report SR 25 EC7 P rocedures for local hiring and proportion of Not applicable 1) Report scope and limitations senior management hired from the local com3.5 Process for defining report content SR 7–9 munity at significant locations of operation 3.6 Limitations on the report SR 25 Indirect economic impact 3.7 Limitations on the scope or delimitation SR 25 EC8 I nvestments in infrastructure SR 12, and services for public benefit AR 42–45 3.8 Reporting principles for jointly AR 94–98 owned companies, subsidiaries etc. SR 19–21, 23–24, 6. Environmental indicators 3.9 Measurement methods and calculation basis AR 28–29, 51 Materials 3.10 E  xplanation of the effect of SR 19–21, 23–24, EN1 M  aterials used by weight or volume any re-statements AR 28–29, 51 EN2 P  ercentage of materials used that 3.11 S  ignificant changes in the scope, limitation SR 19–21, 23–24, are recycled input materials or measurement methods compared with AR 28–29, 51 ­p revious annual reports Energy Audits EN3 D  irect energy use SR 21 by primary energy source 3.12 T  able showing where the information SR 26–27 for all parts of the GRI (Standard Disclosures) EN4 I ndirect energy use SR 19–21 can be found by primary energy source EN5 E  nergy saved due to conservation SR 5, 19–21 3.13 P olicy and practice for external audits SR 25 and efficiency improvements EN6 I nitiatives to provide energy-efficient SR 15, 19–21 4. Governance, undertakings and involvement or renewable energy-based products and services and r­ eductions in energy Governance ­requirements as a result of these initiatives 4.1 Governance structure AR 72–76 Water 4.2 Role of the Chairman AR 72–76 EN8 T  otal water withdrawal by source SR 19, 21 4.3 Independent or non-executive AR 73 Biodiversity members of the Board EN11 L ocation and size of land owned, leased, 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees AR 72–73 ­m anaged in, or adjacent to, protected areas to submit proposals etc. to the Board and areas of high biodiversity value outside 4.5 Remuneration to senior executives SR 11, protected areas AR 78, 103–104 EN12 D  escription of significant impact of activities, products and services on biodiversity in pro4.6 Avoidance of conflicts of interest AR 73, 75–76 tected areas and areas of high biodiversity vawithin the Board lue outside protected areas 4.7 Process governing qualification requirements AR 72–73 Emissions, effluents and waste for Board members EN16 T  otal direct and indirect greenhouse SR 21 4.8 Mission, values, code of conduct etc. SR 3–4, AR 8–9 gas e ­ missions by weight 4.9 Monitoring of the sustainability work by the Board SR 6, AR 68–69 EN17 O  ther relevant indirect greenhouse 4.10 Evaluation of the work of the Board AR 75 gas emissions by weight Involvement in external projects EN18 I nitiatives to reduce greenhouse gas SR 5, 19–21 ­e missions and reductions achieved SR 15–17, 19–21, 4.11 Application of the precautionary principle EN19 E  missions of ozone-depleting substances AR 68–69 by weight 26 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | GRI INDEX EN20 N  O, SO and other significant air emissions HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and by type and weight ­c ontractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken EN21 T  otal water discharge by quality Not applicable 1) and destination Non-discrimination EN22 T  otal weight of waste by type HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination SR 10 and disposal method and actions taken EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Freedom of association and collective bargaining Products and services HR5 Operations identified in which the right to Not applicable 1) EN26 I nitiatives to mitigate environmental impact SR 5, 19–21 ­exercise freedom of association and collective of products and services as well as results bargaining may be a significant risk and ­actions taken to support these rights EN27 P  ercentage of products sold and their packaNot applicable 1) ging materials that are reclaimed by category Child labour Compliance HR6 Operations identified as having a significant Not applicable 1) risk for incidents of child labour and measures EN28 M  onetary value of significant fines and SR 3 taken to contribute to the elimination of child total number of non-monetary sanctions labour for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Forced or compulsory labour EN29 Significant environmental impact of transport HR7 Operations identified as having a significant Not applicable 1) risk for incidence of forced or compulsory ­labour and measures taken to contribute to 7. Social indicators the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Employment conditions and working conditions Society Employment Community LA1 Total workforce by employment type, SR 23, ­e mployment contract and region AR 102 SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any SR 12–13 ­p rogrammes and practices that assess and LA2 Total number and rate of employee SR 23 manage the impact of operations on communiturnover by age group, gender and region ties, including entering, operating and exiting Labour/Management relations Corruption LA4 Percentage of employees covered SR 24 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units by collective bargaining agreement analysed for risks related to corruption LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant SR 24 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the SR 3–4, 10, 23 operational changes, including whether it is organisation’s anti-corruption policies specified in collective agreements and procedures Occupational health and safety SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents SR 3 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in SR 24 of corruption formal joint management-worker health and ­s afety committees that help monitor and advise Public policy on occupational health and safety programmes SO5 Public policy decisions and participation Not applicable 1) LA7 Percentage of total workforce represented in SR 23–24 in public policy development and lobbying formal joint management-worker health and ­s afety committees that help monitor and advise Compliance on occupational health and safety programmes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total SR 3 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention SR 22–24 number of non-monetary actions for noncompand risk-control programmes in place to assist liance with laws and regulations workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Product liability Training and education Customer health and safety LA10 A  verage hours of training per year PR1 Life cycle stages in which the health and SR 5, 12–13, 15–16 per employee by employee category ­s afety impact of products and services is ­a ssessed for improvement and the percentage LA11 P  rogramme for skills management and life­ SR 22–23 of significant product and service categories long learning that support the continued subject to such procedures ­e mployability of employees and the system in managing career endings Product and service labelling LA12 P  ercentage of employees receiving regular SR 22–23 PR3 Type of product and service information SR 5 ­p erformance and career development reviews ­required by procedures and the percentage of significant products and services subject to Diversity and equal opportunities such information requirements LA13 C  omposition of governance bodies and breakSR 23 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, SR 7–9 down of employees per category according to AR 74–77 ­i ncluding results of surveys measuring gender, age group, minority group membership ­c ustomer satisfaction and other indicators of diversity Market communication LA14 L A14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing comHuman rights munication, including advertising promotion HR1 Percentage and number of significant investand sponsorship ment agreements that include human rights Compliance clauses or that have undergone human rights screening PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for SR 3 ­n oncompliance with laws and regulations ­c oncerning the provision and use of products and services SR = Sustainability Report 2013 = Reported in full 1) I ndicators not applicable in the light of operations carried on AR = Annual Report 2013 = Reported partially at Akademiska Hus. www = akademiskahus.se = Not reported 27 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | SIGNING OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Signing of the Sustainability Report The Sustainability Report 2013 has been approved for publication by the Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus AB. Gothenburg, March 13, 2014 Eva–Britt Gustafsson Olof Ehrlén Per Granath Chair Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Leif Ljungqvist Employee representative Employee representative Board member Pia Sandvik Gunnar Svedberg Board member Board member Maj–Charlotte Wallin Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President 28 AKADEMISKA HUS 2013 | AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report as well as the accounting and calculation Reporting Guidelines G3, published by on Akademiska Hus AB’s principles that the Company has developed The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Report and disclosed. which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and cal­ To the readers of Akademiska Hus AB’s RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR culation principles that the Company has ­Sustainability Report Our responsibility is to express a limited developed and disclosed. These criteria are assurance conclusion on the Sustainability presented on pages 25. We consider these INTRODUCTION Report based on the procedures we have criteria s­ uitable for the preparation of the We have been engaged by the Board of performed. Sustainability Report. Directors of Akademiska Hus AB to underWe conducted our limited assurance We believe that the evidence we have take a limited assurance engagement of the engagement in accordance with RevR 6 obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Akademiska Hus’s Sustainability Report for ‘Assurance of Sustainability Reports’ issued provide a basis for our conclusions below. the year 2013. The Company has defined by FAR. A limited assurance engagement the scope of the Sustainability Report on consists of making inquiries, primarily of LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION page 25. persons responsible for the preparation Based on the limited assurance procedures of the Sustainability Report, and applying we have performed, nothing has come to RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF analytical and other limited assurance our attention that causes us to believe that DIRECTORS AND THE EXECUTIVE MANAGE­ ­procedures. The procedures performed in the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, MENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT a limited assurance engagement vary in in all material respects, in accordance with The Board of Directors and the Executive nature from, and are less in extent than for, the above stated criteria. Management are responsible for ongoing a reasonable assurance engagement conactivities regarding the environment, ducted in accordance with IAASB’s StandGothenburg, 13 March 2014 health & safety, quality, social responsibilards on Auditing and Quality Control and ity and sustainable development, and for other generally accepted auditing standDELOITTE AB the preparation and presentation of the ards in Sweden. The procedures performed Sustainability Report in accordance with consequently do not enable us to obtain Signature on Swedish original the applicable criteria, as explained on page assurance that we would become aware Hans Warén 25 in the Sustainability Report, and are the of all significant matters that might be Authorized Public Accountant parts of the Sustainability Reporting ­identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do Guidelines G3, published by The Global not express a reasonable assurance opinion. Signature on Swedish original Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are The criteria on which our procedures are Andreas Drugge ­applicable to the Sustainability Report, based are the parts of the Sustainability Expert Member of FAR ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE REGIONS Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus Southern Region Akademiska Hus Eastern Region Akademiska Hus Uppsala Region Box 483 Ole Römers väg 2 Olaus Magnus väg 34 Box 185 Stampgatan 14 SE-223 63 Lund SE-583 30 Linköping Artillerigatan 7 SE-401 27 Göteborg Telephone: +46 (0)46-31 13 00 Telephone: +46 (0)13-36 45 00 SE-751 04 Uppsala Telephone: +46 (0)31-63 24 00 Telephone: +46 (0)18-68 32 00 www.akademiskahus.se info@akademiskahus.se Akademiska Hus Western Region Akademiska Hus Stockholm Region Akademiska Hus Northern Region Box 476 Box 1394 Box 7985 Stampgatan 14 Berzelius väg 8, vån 3–5 Artedigränd 2 SE-401 27 Göteborg SE-171 27 Solna SE-907 19 Umeå Telephone: +46 (0)31-63 25 00 Telephone: +46 (0)8-685 75 00 Telephone: +46 (0)90-17 62 00 Photographs: Jean-Baptiste Béranger (Pages Cover, 18) Paul Björ (Page 9), Åke E:son Lindman (Page Contents), Kristofer Hedlund (Page 22), Peter Joensson (Page 1), Ola Kjelbye (Pages 4, 11, 12, 25), Brita Nordholm (Page 15) Illustrations: Erséus Arkitekter AB (Page 16), Urban Planning Administration, Stockholm (Page 14) Production: Solberg Translation: Patrick O’Malley 29
