Communication on Progress 2014 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED December 8, 2014 Prepared by: Muhammad Arshad Human Resources and CSR department INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Communication on Progress INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED Human Rights Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights Commitment: Indus Motor Company Limited always respects and honors the human rights of people involved in its operations. Through its social responsibility program, “Concern Beyond Cars”, it also supports the rights to education, health care and basic facilities of the community. SAFETY Safe Working Condition: • At Indus Motor Company Limited, we ensure that our employees are provided with a safe working environment. Personal protective equipment (PPE) is provided to employees as per their job requirement. • We implement the Japanese 5S concept which stands for Sifting, Sorting, Sweeping, Spick/Span and Supreme Attitude. These five elements mainly focus on improving cleanliness and working condition. Top Management conducts 5S-Walks of the plant and work places and audits against standard at regular intervals. • We strictly follow the safety guidelines as per Plant Management Requirement (PMR) under KI-J program of our principal, the Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan (TMC) • In the area of safety, the KI-J philosophy of TMC is to strive for preventing fatal or near fatal Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 accidents. KI-J stands for “Kaizen Initiatives through Jiritsuka Self Reliance”. • Our Press Shop achieved the distinction of 100% implementation of step-3E of Safety Jiritsuka (self reliance) that assures safety in handling and operating machines. • In 2014, the concept of Safety DOJO Simulation Training was introduced to give the real time feeling of the potential hazards that employees may face in plant and office environments. Dojo training is being imparted to 100% employees. • We celebrate Safety Month in November with the slogan “No Safety Know Pain, Know Safety No Pain” with special focus on visualization of Safety Rules at work places, training on emergency response procedures and surprise fire drills. • We undertake periodic checkups of fire extinguishers, fire alarms, sprinkles, etc. 1 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • Being a Toyota affiliate, we endeavor to follow Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) Global Safety Standards and are subject to their audit. • A joint platform has been established within the Toyota network in which every assembly plant shares safety examples and accidents to take proactive measures for prevention. • All IMC employees are insured while traveling either locally or internationally. • IMC’s SHE (Safety Health and Environment) activities are part of new employee orientation and ATM's (Apprentice Team Member) classroom training module • Fire drill practices to test fire alarm systems, fire reporting evacuation procedures under simulated emergency conditions are carried out on routine basis. • Including workplaces emergency plan consisting of staff actions, evacuation plans and arrangements for contacting the fire brigade. • All workforces, serving in plant are provided Safety Shoes as PPE • All IMC workers are encouraged to walk on defined Walk-Ways with Safety Call-Points on each intersection. Employee Transport Safety Safety • We provide pick & drop transport facility to all employees. All our contractors’ drivers have attended Safe Driving Courses and are given regular safety briefings. There is an assigned coordinator in every Staff Van who monitors and reports any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or employee complaints regarding transport. • Wearing seat belt is mandatory for company transport drivers • Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving. • Road Safety awareness and compliance session for Company's drivers being held at regular interval • Internal Company Road Safety branding for awareness creation • First Aid and safety training sessions are held for drivers and Vehicle Coordinators • Availability of Fire Extinguishers and First Aid Box in each vehicle. • Frequent vehicle maintenance and fitness checks. Customer Vehicle Safety Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • We are committed to world-class safety to protect the lives of customers who choose Toyota vehicles and to let them feel good about driving. • Passive safety technologies, typified by the Global Outstanding Assessment (GOA), and active safety technologies towards pre-crash-safety, are incorporated in the Integrated Safety Management Concept for the safety technology aiming at eliminating traffic casualties. • SOPs have been developed to ensure that Shipping Quality Audits (SQA) at plant, proper transportation and vehicle delivery inspections at dealerships is done. • All vehicles are insured during transit to dealership network. 2 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Road Safety Campaigns: • Our Company has a CSR slogan, Concern Beyond Cars , and as a good corporate citizen, we have undertaken several initiatives on Road Safety as mentioned in our website. These initiatives involve different stakeholders in various sectors, including government, private organizations, NGOs, Corporates, Health and Educational institutions, Traffic Engineering and Law Enforcement agencies. • In 2012, a research project named “Toyota–Research on Traffic Congestion” (T-RTC) was initiated in collaboration with NED University of Engineering & Technology, a leading engineering institution in Pakistan with an objective to determine the cost borne and create pollution due to traffic delays and to highlight relevant authorities to take corrective measures • The findings of this research project were shared with all its concerned authorities that help to quantify the underlined problems objectively • Construction of overhead Fly-over bridges is underway at the major traffic choke points identified by the research • In 2014, around 63 drivers of IMC participated in road safety awareness session conducted by the Program Manager (Road Traffic Injury Research Project), as a part of in-house road safety campaign to educate traffic ethics, to reduce traffic accidents and to create safer environment for all road users. HEALTH Healthy Environment for Employees: • Our Company has 'Green Areas' where we always plant trees. Every year new trees are planted in the deserted area around the plant. So far, more than 7000 trees have been planted. • We provide excellent working conditions in line with ISO 14001. • Spot coolers are installed to improve air circulation and lower temperature on a production line for better working conditions. • A Committee has been formed to regularly monitor and improve IMC canteen environment. • Further expansion and renovation of IMC canteen was carried out in 2014 to provide healthy environment and improve the quality of food Renovation of Corporate Building was completed in 2013 as per modern office atmosphere Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • and comforts • Inside the plant, Rest areas are developed for technical workers. Refreshments are served to technical staff member during break time. Basic Health and Education Facilities: • Our company follows the Basic Health Factory Act, which includes factory environment, hygiene, employee personal hygiene, vaccination, emergency medical assistance, employee hygiene cards and periodic medical checkups. • In 2013-14, the annual Hepatitis-B Vaccination program was undertaken for 150 newly recruited ATMs and Team Members 3 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • We have a common cafeteria for all employees where nutritious food at subsidized rates is served. • Distribution of milk, bread, juices and high energy foods are provided to production workers as per operational best practices. • Drinking water is filtered, cleaned and regularly tested to ensure fitness for human consumption. • For any health emergency, employees are rushed to hospital for checkup and first-aid service • Hospitalization insurance and life insurance coverage are provided to employees. • Employees Financial Assistance Committee meets at least once a month to provide financial assistance to employees for illnesses or accidents, not covered by insurance or hospitalizations cover as well as educational expenses, etc. • Under the Social Security Ordinance and Education CESS we make contributions to institutions for educational assistance to the children of permanent workers. • We contribute to EOBI (Employees Old Age Benefit Institutions) for each employee. • There is IMC Scholarship Scheme for staff children up to higher education. INDISTRIAL INDISTRI AL RELATIONS AND EMPLOYEES Fair Investigation Procedures: • The Company follows the Industrial and Commercial Employment (Standing Orders) Ordinance 1968, which contains the procedures for disciplinary actions against misconduct. Investigations and disciplinary actions at Indus protect employees' rights; ensure fair treatment and the opportunity to be heard. • Suggestion boxes are placed at prominent locations for employees to provide feedback • In June 2012, whistle blowing policy was designed to enable Directors, officers and employees including temporary staff to raise complaints internally and at a high level. • Purpose of developing whistle blowing policy is to provide an opportunity to employees at all level and across all function to identify activities that deviates from company policy Quality of life and entertainment actions for the internal public: Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Every year, Indus Family Day is held where employees and their families participate • Every year the company sponsors Hajj package for team members through balloting. • In 2014, four team members were selected through balloting for Hajj sponsorship • IMC encourages sports and health activities, like Inter Department Cricket Tournament, in which every department participates. IMC also has an official Cricket Team, which takes part in various tournaments • In 2014, a Cricket Tournament was undertaken between 12 teams of IMC corporate and technical team • All departments are allocated with an annual entertainment budget for staff welfare and entertainment. 4 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • Every department at IMC regularly holds departmental picnics to increase motivation and for team building. • LFA for non-management employees is also provided. Employees Survey • Surveys of Staff Canteen and Company Transport are regularly done. Results of the survey are used to make positive improvements in the standard and quality of service and food. • IMC conducts morale survey as per TMC Global Employee Morale Survey (conducted once in two years and results are shared and countermeasures adopted. • Periodic sessions are held with new employee groups to get positive feedback and to improve orientation process Preventing forcible displacement of individuals Preventing • There has been no forcible displacement case reported in 2014 • Company follows the prescribed Labor Laws Employee Achievement Recognition • In 2014, total 98 employees qualified for Best Attendance Award with 100% attendance during the year. • In addition, 15 employees also qualified for CEO's Best Attendance Award 2011-14 with 100% attendance during the last three years. • Attendance incentives (monetary benefits) are also offered which have led to significant increase in attendance. • Quality Man of the month Award • Long Service Award is given to the employees in appreciation of 15 year working relationship with the company • Special Farewell parties for retiring employees. • Recognition and mention of outstanding employees who have contributed at various milestones. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Scholarship awarded to children of single parenting female employees • Awarding “Man-of-the-Month” to outstanding performer at Shop Floors (7 departments) Employment Policy for disabled people • Our Company follows the Workmen Compensation Act in matters related to disability. Alternate job assignments are given to employees who are handicapped or who suffer service disabilities. 5 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD COMMUNITY AND EXTERNAL PUBLIC Protect economic livelihood of communities: • Wherever we do business, we actively promote and engage, both individually and with partners, in social contribution activities that help strengthen communities and contribute to enrichment of society. • We are helping the local community by providing free meals of good quality (Chicken Biryani) once a week to economically marginalized people in the neighboring villages, and during the year around 22,415 people benefited through this activity. • During the holy month Ramazan, we provide free ration items to around 200 families, after discontinuing the weekly distribution of meals • Three medical camps at different allocated locations being held weekly that provide treatment with free medical supplies and advisory. Last year 29,427 patients were treated. • IMC provided relief goods majorly edible items to around 1,000 families of North Waziristan IDPs sheltered at Bannu, district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) Province of Pakistan. • In order to promote education in neighboring areas, IMC provides 270 scholarships to deserving students under its “Toyota-Goth Education Program” with the prime objective of providing education to underprivileged and disadvantaged communities. The word “Goth” is taken from Sindhi language, which means “Village”. Supplier/Contractor prepre-qualification requirement regarding human rights • We ensure that our supplier or contractor pass the pre-qualification criteria to be a business partner with IMC. • Every contractor is advised to meet IMC's and SHE (Safety, Health &Environment) requirements • Principles of transparency, fairness and equal opportunity for qualified and capable suppliers and contractors are followed. Use of Security services to protect operations standards for use of force are respected Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • SOP with communication and command levels have been established to meet emergencies and security threats • Travel Advisory is issued to all members and visitors to IMC • Safety handouts for Safe Traveling are provided to foreign travelers and visitors to IMC. • Liaison with Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce and Industries (OICCI) for an update regarding Security Situation of the City. • Regular visits of Local Police personnel on Motor cycles during day / night around IMC to watch for any abnormal activity. • Complete manning of IMC premises 24 hours, through Security Towers/ Security Guards for early warning. 6 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • CCTV installed and being monitored for security/surveillance • Conscious security awareness by evolving standard operating procedures for scaling up from routine functioning to ALERT and HIGH ALERT status. • Car Parking area for Staff and Visitors in IMC is properly marked and sign boards installed • In the event of Traffic Jam or any untoward situation, employees travelling between home to work been prompted quickly through email guiding for alternate routes Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 7 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Businesses to make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 2 abuses Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to avoiding complicity with human rights abuse in all areas of operations. ETHICS Our Vision and Values aspire the company to be the Most Respected and as a Good Corporate Citizen. The company expects its employees to uphold and enhance the reputation of the business by: • Maintaining a high level of integrity in all business relationships, both inside and outside the Company. • Fostering the highest standards of conduct and competence amongst those for whom they are responsible. • Ensuring transparency in business transactions, and rejecting any business practice which might be deemed to be improper. • Promoting fair business practices and ensuring compliance with regulatory and legal requirements. The Company’s Statement of Ethics asks employees to maintain an environment that is free from harassment and in which all employees are equally respected. This means any action that creates a hostile or offensive work environment, e.g. sexual harassment and any disparaging comments based on gender, religion and race or ethnicity, are prohibited. • Statement of Ethics is signed by each employee. • Complaint tracking is done to ensure intervention and countermeasures. • Compliance with Standing (Order) Ordinance 1968. • We believe in open environment and respect for people. • Every year the Code of Ethics is reviewed for any upgrade. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Violations of Code of Ethics are viewed seriously and have resulted in disciplinary action and in some cases led to termination of service. • Code of Conduct on Sexual Harassment and Harassment at work is in place EMPLOYEES Equal opportunity programs: • Female employees are given equal opportunity in all aspects of employment including international assignments and trainings. 8 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • We have female employees in various functions, including engineers in our manufacturing departments. • There are Equitable Career paths and growth opportunities for female employees. • Ladies Day Out is a special training designed for female workers motivation being impacted EXTERNAL PUBLIC Vendor/Supplier PrePre-Qualification: • We encourage all vendors and suppliers to be ISO certified or have an acceptable Industry or Trade Certification Education, Research, Health and Community Development Programs with NGOs: • Aiming at to eliminate the menace of hunger and malnutrition in our neighboring community, our Community-based feeding program is more likely to improve income generation, poverty reduction and rapid development • We distribute out-sourced cooked food weekly to the point of need in a coordinated and timely manner to financially downtrodden families throughout the year (without Ramadan month) • During the holy month Ramadan, ration items are distributed to around 200 families • Community-based Free Medical Service activity is an integral to any poverty reduction strategy, which is being undertaken on every Tuesdays and Wednesdays. • On monthly average, 2,500 patients are being treated for major diseases like: Respiration Tract Infection, Asthmatic Bronchitis, Hepatitis Gastroenteritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Jaundice, Malnutrition, etc. • Apart from treatment, family planning advisory service and pills as well as vaccination on need basis are also being provided • In order to promote education in neighboring areas, IMC provides 270 scholarships to deserving students under its “Toyota-Goth Education Program” with the prime objective of providing education to underprivileged and disadvantaged communities to make the children a productive members of the society in coming days. The word “Goth” is taken from Sindhi language, which means “Village”. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 9 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Labour Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Commitment: Indus Motor Company believes in freedom of association and the right of collective bargaining of all its workers. It believes in taking a proactive approach to employee issues. INDUSTRIAL RELATION RELATI ON AND EMPLOYEES Freedom of Association • Employees of Indus Motor are represented by Labor Union, as Workers have the freedom to form a Trade Union of their choice without any fear of intimidation or reprisal • The company complies with Industrial Relations Act 2010, wherein employees are free to join any trade union of their choice • The company, at present, has two registered Trade Unions – one is CBA comprising of 95% of total strength. Using Collective Collective Bargaining for addressing working conditions and terms of employment and relations: • CBA along with their stewards and Union members coordinate with the management for improving their working conditions and other job related issues. • The Union has the right to negotiate for its demands related to working conditions as per the Industrial Relations Act. • Collective bargaining has provided employees with better benefits and working condition while also enhancing their morale and productivity. Union Charter Signing: Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • On the expiry of the last agreement on March 31, 2013 a new agreement was signed on June 29, 2013 for the period up to March 31, 2015 by the union and management in a win-win situation and in record time. • No cases of unfair labor practices have been filed by the union Freedom of Union to protect employee employee interest without management recrimination: • Union activities are governed by the Standing Ordinance 1968 and Industrial Relation Act 2008. • The Company complies fully with the law for all cases pertaining with disciplinary action and termination of employees, including any members of the union. 10 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management • The company provides special leave to CBA union/steward for appearance in court cases, if it is party to disputes • The company also provides special leave or early release to CBA union/steward for attending trainings, workshops, conferences arranged outside by ILO and Union. Cases related to Unions and how they were decided: • No cases related to Labor Unions reported during the year • Industrial relations and organizational climate is very cordial. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 11 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Business should ensure elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 4 labor: Commitment: Indus Motor Company forbids any form of compulsory labor in any of its areas of operation, or by any of its business partners. EMPLOYEES Employment Contracts state terms and conditions of service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any penalties associated with departure or cessation or work: • Employment contracts do not violate any human rights or labor laws. • Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. • Exit Notice period varies from 30-90 days. • Exit Interviews are taken to solicit feedback. Record of Checking lowest wage rate against regulated amount: • All workers in the Company are above minimum wage as specified by the government and are paid according to market conditions. Third Third party audit of supplier/contractor/vendor labor conditions: • Basic Employer is responsible for encouraging and ensuring all vendors and contractors to fulfill their legal requirements regarding the health and safety of their employees and workers according to the Law of Land. • No supplier has been excluded because of forced labor issues. Supplier Registration: Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labor practices and no forced labor. Vendor, Supplier and Business Partnership contract: • Contracts are executed with Suppliers after they confirm that they are not using any form of forced labor in the supply chain • Encouraged after performing evaluation 12 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Principle 5 The effective abolition of child compulsory labor: Commitment: Indus Motor Company forbids any form of child labor in any of its areas of operation, or by any of its business partners. EMPLOYEES: Failsafe documents and procedures for preventing underunder-age employees: • All our permanent workforces are in the category of an adult person in accordance with the Factories Act 1934 and no under-age employee was hired in any period of time. • To prevent under-age hiring, at the time of their induction, the ages of all candidates are confirmed through their Matriculation Certificate, Form-'B' of NADRA (National Database) or Birth Certificate or National Identity Card. • No underage employee is working in the Company. Third party audit of labor conditions: • Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor Directorate which covers health and safety, working hours and environment and other requirements of the Labor Laws. EXTERNAL PLUBLIC Suppliers, Suppliers, Contractors, Vendors and other business partner’s PrePre-qualification: • All contractors are liable to fulfill their social security and human rights requirements as prescribed by different laws, including prohibition of under-age workers • Company’s employees visiting suppliers and vendors are encouraged to visually observe and report non-compliance with any laws to the Company’s management. Program for Community Children to keep them out of workforce: Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Food distribution and Ration distribution in neighboring communities • Scholarships program for underprivileged children pursuing education • Distribution of School bags, books, stationary, tuition fees to 270 students on roll • Based on results of exam, regular mentoring session conducted with students and their parents seeking support in properly carrying out their education. • Weekly programed, three Free Medical Camps organized in neighboring community for their healthcare services • Under its Preventive Blindness Program, around 3,000 children screened, medicines provided as per requirement, and eyes operation of one child undertaken successfully for Bilateral Congenital Cataract plus Nystagmus. 13 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation: Commitment: Indus Motor Company supports equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion for its employees and does not discriminate against them. The company strives to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. EMPLOYEES: Ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities: minorities: • IMC endeavors to be an Equal Opportunity Employer. • Women and minorities are offered jobs in the Company without any discrimination. • Minorities are given special holidays in accordance with their religious customs. Workforce Diversity: • Workforce 2014: Total 2,234 including Apprentices • Average age: Team Members 27 years and Management 35 years • Number of Male 2,214 and Female 20, in spite of the nature of our operations and plant location discourage woman in applying for jobs at IMC. Career Progression: • Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification • Constant disclosure in Company’s internal communication • Creating working environments for various employees to work proudly and with loyalty and confidence in fulfilling their potential, which realize their self-growth Maintenance of the Code of Ethics: Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Code of Ethics document is signed by all employees hired by IMC Ethics Committee: • Ethics Committee aims to analyze possible violations of the Code and directs the most serious cases to senior management for action • In weekly and monthly management meetings, serious violations are highlighted • HR Committee also assists in compliance of the Code of Ethics and considers cases of violation 14 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Avoid systemic applications of job requirements that disadvantages certain groups • Our system ensure no disadvantage to any group EXTERNAL PUBLIC T-TEP and Apprenticeship Program: • The T-TEP (Toyota-Technical Education Program), in collaboration with Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan and three leading institutes in Pakistan provides skills training in the latest automotive technology to young technicians in three major cities. • Started from the year 2000 upto June 2014, the accumulative 1,850 students were successfully graduated of this program and ready employment. • Till date above 500 graduating students have been hired by the Toyota network • Besides the three institutes, a fourth T-TEP institute is currently under establishment in collaboration with the Aman Foundation’s subsidiary AMANTECH in Karachi. The would be the first of its kind in Pakistan to provide training in the discipline of Auto Body and paint repairs technology. • Our company provides technical professional education related to automobile production to high school graduates under the Apprenticeship Program at plant. • We have in-house Technical Training Center for developing multi-skilled workers. • All deserving students from universities are eligible to apply for meritorious internships at IMC. • Desirous students from recognized universities are encouraged and provided support in their research projects with IMC. • Plant Tours/Study Tours, especially for college/university students, are facilitated on regular basis (max 3 visits/month). Programs and partnerships to aid minority Suppliers, Contractors, Vendors and Business Partners: • Minorities’ business partners and suppliers are provided equal opportunities and right as per our company policy. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • The Company operates a Vendors Development Program where vendors can obtain financial, technical, managerial and other assistance without any discrimination. • Study tours are conducted for vendors to foreign manufacturers, so that they can see and learn by observing onsite (Genchi Genbutsu). • SPTT (Supplier Part Tracking Team) consisting of IMC and TMC representatives visit vendors as a project to monitor vendor performance. • To ensure quality of Suppliers product, regularly audits are conducted as per SQAM (Suppliers Quality Assurance Manual) 15 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Environment Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges: Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to actions in all areas of operations that avoid or mitigate the negative impact on the environment, complying with the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT Comprising of senior management, our SHE Steering Committee reviews compliance requirements, approves plans and monitors their progress: • Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) Steering Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, meets regularly as per agreed calendar. • SHE Sub-committee comprising of representatives from all departments has led to improvement of SHE practices • At IMC, our management philosophy is based on a professional and transparent attitude towards SHE. A proactive attitude to minimize risk is in accordance with best management practices. • 2013-14 is the third year running that we achieved the distinction of no Lost Work Day (LWD) injury and in process posted • Towards our continuous efforts to safety improvement, we successfully achieved reduction of total number injuries by 50% during the last two years. • During the year, IMC also achieved another milestone by winning the Toyota Global Safety Award for Karakuri Activity, undertaken in Weld Shop. • This success was appreciated as proactive attitude to minimize risk accordance with best management practices Initiatives to advance environmental awareness within within the company: • Safety Healthcare and Environment is the top most agenda item in daily, weekly and monthly meetings. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Regular training and education programs conducted for our employees. • Communication through Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Visualization Boards and SHE Bulletins. • Daily Production Circle Meetings held to communicate safety tips in the plant. • “World Environment Month” is celebrated every year in June at IMC according to the guidelines of principals (TMC/TMAP) to commemorate under the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP). • During Environment Month company-wide awareness Posters and Notices are displayed for all employees. Senior Management and employees planted more than 150 trees in the plant area during environment month every year. 16 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • For awareness enhancement on environmental issues, movie screening sessions were conducted for around all employees. • Banners displayed based on energy conservation theme and promoting the 3R Concept of recycle, reduce and reuse. Performing Environmental Environmental Impact Assessment: • We have established a procedure for identifying, recording and mitigating the environmental impacts of our operations each year. • Gas emissions from generator, ovens and vehicles are regularly being monitored. • Sound Levels are monitored on regular intervals at the plant. • Over the last six years, IMC maintained its impressive record of zero non-compliance in EMS ISO 14001 audit ensuring strict adherence to the requirements. Regular Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards: • Surveillance Audit of ISO 14001 was completed for 2014. No major or minor non-compliance was observed during audit by the external body • Certificate renewal for ISO 14001 was successfully done by external bodies. • Toyota EMS Audit: Toyota Motor Asia Pacific conducted a stringent environmental audit to ensure compliance with the Toyota EMS in which IMC achieved an overall score comparable with the best of Toyota plants across Asia Pacific Region. • IMC has developed own five year plan for environmentally friendly business to take along our business, in line with Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan. Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategy: • “Respect for the Planet” is a special emphasis as a global car manufacturer. • We committed to promote clean environment and encourage efforts made by our employees and management to enhance Ozone protection and minimize Green House Effect by continuously reducing consumption of ozone threatening Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) constituents as well as reduction in electricity consumption. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • As our contribution to low carbon society we always promote the use of designs, based on the recycling concept with effective utilization of resources borne in mind • We monitor electricity and natural gas consumption on a monthly basis in various sections of the plant and every year, set electricity and natural gas consumption reduction targets to contribute indirectly to CO2 emission reduction as a responsible corporate citizen. • We strive towards minimize electrical power consumption due to the prevailing national power shortage. • IMC has its own Co-Generation Power Plant for electricity supply to plant and corporate office. By using Co-Generation, IMC has significantly reduced CO2 emissions and also saved energy as compare to last year. • Burners are tuned and calibrated on monthly basis to reduce CO2 emission and save energy. 17 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • We have implemented Energy Management System (EMS) to monitor the consumption of gas in process areas which help us in monitoring overall efficiency and target achieving. E XTERNAL PUBLIC : Prere-Qualification of untested materials: • We have established a Green Purchasing Guideline in consultation with Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan to promote environmental activities at Suppliers’ end. • Periodic visits are arranged at vendor sites to check product quality. • IMC achieved noteworthy results in the annual environmental audit conducted by certified auditors from TMAP, who evaluate the workplace in line with standard criteria set by Toyota Motor Corporation. • With the support of WWF-Pakistan, 100 saplings were planted near Parking area of Karachi Airport • In collaboration with WWF-Pakistan, IMC launched an awareness campaign “Say No to Plastic Bags” and undertook free distribution of 100,000 paper bags of 5 kg capacity to prominent Superstores in Karachi with the message “Save the Earth, Use Paper Bags!” TwoTwo-Way Communication with Stakeholders about uncertainties and potential risks: • IMC provides significant platform for employees to share individual/departmental contribution, success/achievements and experience through internal newsletter Inspire Magazine . • Annual report for the year 2014 was dedicated to our 2,091 strong workforces in appreciation to their passion and commitment. • Periodic visits by external stakeholders, regulatory bodies, government officials, financial analysts, shareholders are arranged in which they are given presentations and plant tours. Participate in industryindustry-wide collaborative efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues: • As per TMC’s guidelines, a self-audit and awareness system has being introduced at dealership to fulfill a number a stringent requirement of DERAP (Dealers Environmental Risk Audit Program) Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Currently 30 dealers (out of 39) are certified for DERAP. • Under IMC’s Environment Management System, we are planning for Green Dealer Program – upper level of DERAP. 18 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 environmental responsibility: Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within the company through encouragement of better environmental friendly practices. We also believe in spreading this thinking to our extended family of suppliers and dealers. ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Under the Environmental Section of Company’s Code of Ethics, employees are required to: a. preserve and protect the environment b. design and operate the Company’s facilities and processes so as to ensure the trust of adjoining communities c. promote conservation of resources, waste minimization and the minimization of the release of chemical and gas into the environment • Code of Ethics is signed by all employees for compliance during their tenure with the Company. • Company-wide goals: o ensuring non-smoking offices o adopting basic rules in office premises (Stop, Point, Call) for crossing internal roads o identify potential hazards and taking corrective actions o No major accidents and lost working day were reported during the year. Environmental Inspection and Improvement plan: • Emission aspects are identified, and EMP (Environment Management Plan) is developed accordingly. • Team from PE&M (Plant Engineering & Maintenance) inspects the plant at regular intervals. • Environmental inspection by TMAP Audit Team. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Monthly monitoring EPI (Environment Performance Indicators) including CO2, water and waste and Volatile Organic Compound (VOC). • To achieve the target of EPIs, Visualization Board has been created for progress review on set frequency. Introducing, certifying and continually improving environmental management systems: • ISO 14001 Certified. • Gas meter and electricity meters have been installed to monitor regular energy consumption • IMC remained committed to Environmental Management by complying to all National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 19 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Future Activities of IMC’s Chemical Management Task Task Force: Force: • SOP under preparation for implementation of new chemical introduction in IMC • Restriction upon usage of Toyota Banned Chemicals by all direct & indirect suppliers to IMC • As per Green Purchasing Guidelines (GPG) of Toyota, IMC has a plan to implement SoCs (Substances of Concerns) Management System (subject to reaching at level-2 of Green Dealer Program) • As per Green Purchasing Guidelines (GPG) of Toyota, IMC has implemented No Use of SoCs (Substances of Concerns) in Suppliers’ products. • All direct and indirect Suppliers to submit declaration certificate of non-usage of banned chemicals and No Use of SoCs (Substances of Concerns) Training Program: • We support environmental management by affiliates through the sharing of best practices and exchanges information to mutually strengthen relationships, as well as environmental audit trainings. • As part of our efforts to protect the environment, we have also involved our dealers, by introducing our Dealer Environmental Risk Audit Program and training to fulfill a number of stringent requirements including water and hazardous waste management. • During the year 2013-14, all Shop Floor members received extensive training in Kiken Yochi (Hazard Prediction) in order to develop their ability to recognize hazards at a glance. Energy Conservation Reduction in per unit usage of utilities: • The 5 Years Environmental Action Plan (2011-15): Main Status of Actions Field Status of Action Missed the CO2 reduction goal in 2014 due to restricted Energy Global Warming production volume Number of parts receiving in returnable plastic bins Recycling of Resources decreased in 2014 due to full model change activities Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 Consolidated Environmental Continuous compliance of NEQS for air emission and waste Management water, noise and drinking water Implementation of VOC Reduction Program: • Significant reduction in thinner usage with the help of regulator in reciprocator. Reduction in usage of consumables: • Thinner recycling activities are done twice per day. • Color guns have been separated for each color, Bell flushing consumption reduced. 20 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Minimize the Production of Solid Waste: • Promote double side use of paper for reducing paper consumption. • Reduced packing materials and introduced returnable boxes for some vendor supplies. National Environmental Environmental Quality Standards: Air and Waste Water Quality Data Achievements No. KPI Equipment Parameters NEQS 2014 Limits Sox (mg/N.m) 1700 34 1 Air Emission Gas Generation Nox (mg/N.m) 400 226 CO (mg/N.m) 800 741 pH 6-9 7.53 BOD (mgll) 80 20 2 Waste Water COD (mgll) 150 43 TDS (mgll) 3500 1796 Pollution Prevention or Reuse/Recycling Programs: • Move towards paperless office environment. Concerted efforts to reduce stationary costs. • Use of recycled paper for photocopies and rough work. • Internal Memos are circulated through emails • Gate Passes and departmental Attendance Sheets are processed through SAP software • Seasonal Greeting Cards being sent through email Use of Recycled Materials and Consumables: • More than 70% per day of thinner recycling is being done. • Industrial water is treated in our Waste Water Treatment Plant and reused for plantation. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 Monitoring Soil & Underground (S& (S&UG) S&UG) Fuel Tanks: • Monthly checks of UG fuel tanks to avoid soil and underground water contamination Practicing Hazardous Solid Waste Management: • Incineration of hazardous solid waste is carried out through an external contractor. • Scrap contractors segregate scrap before disposal or resale 21 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • Hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are properly segregated in order to avoid environment risk minimization and properly disposal and incineration through external contractor as per legal requirement. Working with Supplier, Vendors and Business partners to improve environmental performance and exclude environmental hazardous raw material in manufacturing of vehicles: • Most suppliers are ISO 9001:2000 Certified • Suppliers are also implementing Environment Management System ISO 14001. Currently, 15 Supplier out of 49 suppliers are certified, while further 15 planned and targeted for FY14-15 • One of our dealerships is ISO 14001 Certified and we are encouraging others to follow suit. • IMC initiated programs with Toyota Motor Asia Pacific (TMAP) to reduce SOC from our vendor and suppliers to ensure a clean working environment for employees. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 22 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Business should encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies: Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to the adoption of environment friendly technologies which minimize the environmental impact from its day-to-day operations and from its products ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY Implementation of energy efficient projects Research and development towards “design for sustainability” Programs involving technologies to improve internal energy efficiency or reduce water use • Co-Generation Power Plant for environment friendly energy production with natural gas operated engines and turbine. • Maximize use of environmental friendly parts in car manufacturing. • We use transparent porcelain sheets in our plant roofs for natural sunlight during day time that reduces consumption of electricity for lighting. • Recycled water is used for plants, duly treated through our Waste Water Treatment Plant. Environment friendly product certifications Implementing Ozone protection measures: • All products are environment friendly certified under the environmental laws of the Country. Building cars that burn cleaner fuels: • With the research and our continuous efforts, we launched Corolla Ecotec (factory fitted CNG) in 2012 as a cleaner fuel car, that was later discontinued due to Government’s restriction upon all auto industry • We fulfill all government regulations regarding environmental policies and get renewed NOC every year from regulatory body SEPA. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 Building car that emit less emissions • Continues technical improvements are made in vehicles to minimize exhaust emission. • Corolla Altis and New Generation Corolla are in compliance with Euro-II Standards • IMC sponsors teams from various engineering universities to design and build fuel efficient vehicles under the banner of Shell Eco Marathons, held in abroad. 23 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Support vendors for environment friendly technology transfers Support dealers for environment friendly technology transfer Support university students to focus on environment friendly technologies • We assist our vendors in obtaining TAAs (Technical Assistance Agreements) with foreign manufacturers, organize study tours and plant visits abroad, arrange technical drawings, assist in improving their manufacturing processes, etc. • We are continuously supporting engineering universities to innovate Environment friendly technologies. • Traffic Congestion is one of major factors that impact badly the environment creating pollution. IMC commissioned to NED Engineering University for conducting a research “Toyota – Research on Traffic Congestion” (TRTC) in 2012 for the determination of overall impact in the environment and on economy in dollar term. • The findings of TRTC were made public and shared with its stakeholders in December 2013 that provide valuable planning data to development authorities. • As identified by TRTC, construction of overhead flyovers in underway at the major traffic choke points. This is likely to be an efficiency game changer for the industries at Port Qasim and minimizing the impact of environment overall. Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 24 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Anti-Corruption Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 extortion and bribery Commitment: Indus Motor Company acts to eliminate corruption in all its forms, through the implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. EMPLOY EES: EMPLOYEES: Code of Ethics for Employee • Every employee at the time of joining signs the Statement of Ethics of Business Practices and this commitment is renewed every year. • All employees are forbidden to accept gifts or borrow money from another employee of the Company or from a Distributor, Dealer, Vendor or a Customer. • Full compliance is required to give full disclosure every year on their business interests, if any, and trading of Company shares. • Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business are required by all employees of the Company. • Rumor mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited Corporate Governance • Statement of Ethics and Business Practices followed. • Adopt internationally acceptable accounting standards. All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 • Company. In particular, no funds or accounts are established or maintained for purpose that is not fully and accurately reflected in the books and records of the Company. • Comply with regulations of the Security & Exchange Commission of Pakistan. • Signed Statement of Compliance included in the Company's Annual report. • Regular checks by Internal Audit department are carried out for all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures and ensure course correction, if required. 25 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD • IMC achievements were recognized with couple of distinctive awards at a national level. Both these recognitions are a matter of pride for us and we laud the efforts of employees and business partners for their contributions (1) The prestigious Corporate Excellence Award in the overall industrial category has been awarded once again to IMC by the Management Association of Pakistan. This honor was for the second consecutive year. (2) The Consumer Association of Pakistan granted our product “Corolla” as “Brand of the Year” in 2013 on basis of consumers’ choice and preferences in the passenger car segment. EXTERNAL PUBLIC IMC adopts a policy that is grounded on transparency, creditability and trust regarding the disclosure of material information to investors and external publics • Plant Operations data displayed transparently in production and other areas for visual information and management control. • Quarterly briefings for Financial and Security Analysts. • Quarterly Board of Directors Meetings. • Plant Tours for shareholders and other stakeholders. During the year we conducted around 33 plant tours for over 800 people. • Quarterly Media/Press briefings and interviews after disclosure of each financial performance • Consultative meetings with CSR partners, NGOs, industry and trade bodies, etc. The end Communication on Progress| 12/8/2014 26
