September 3, 2014 H.E. Ban Ki-­‐moon Secretary-­‐General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-­‐General, I am pleased to confirm that The Brewer Group and the Jack Brewer Foundation will have a continued support for the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-­‐corruption and wishes to renew the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principals. With this communication, we are expressing our intent to implement these principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a continual part of the strategy, culture and day-­‐to-­‐day operations of our company, and will continue to engage in collaborative projects to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. The Brewer Group and The Jack Brewer Foundation will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I recognize that this expression of continual support by myself as the CEO of The Brewer Group is the first step in the requirements needed for continual participation in the Global Compact. Following this letter, the United Nations Global Compact will receive our annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency and will include a description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-­‐corruption). Additionally, a measure of outcomes will be presented in this COP in order to further disclose The Brewer Group’s degree of which it has addressed its targets, the indicators that were met, and any other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results. Kind Regards, H.E. Ambassador Jack Brewer The Jack Brewer Group The Jack Brewer Foundation United Federation for Peace and Development IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus The Brewer Group’s Communication on Progress Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy, and Goals The Brewer Group’s goal is to ensure that all of our employees and business partners respect and achieve the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every person in the world is entitled to freedom, justice and peace. It is the a continual mission of The Brewer Group, The Jack Brewer Foundation, and the role of the CEO Jack Brewer as the Ambassador for Peace and Sport for the US Federation of Middle East Peace (USFMEP) at the United Nations, to promote the development of friendly relations between communities and nations. The Brewer Group and Jack Brewer Foundation’s stance on corporate social responsibility (CSR) is that, “The Brewer Group actively engages in philanthropic initiatives around the world through The Jack Brewer Foundation (JBF Worldwide), and our corporate social responsibility (CSR) organization. JBF Worldwide’s core principle is ‘Empowering From Within,’ and the Foundation empowers staff and clients to make positive changes in their communities at home and abroad.” The Brewer Group is focused on creating sustainable partnerships and empowering individuals to make positive social changes in both the community as well as in the business world. This is conveyed through presentations and dissemination of overall company orientations. “The Brewer group is committed to the highest standards of conduct in our relationships with each other, as well as with our clients, consultants, sponsors and others involved. This requires that we conduct our business in accordance with the highest standards of both personal and business conduct. The Code of Conduct and Employee Handbook helps us in this endeavor by providing a statement of fundamental principals and key policies and procedures that govern the conduct of our employees with general information about employment with TBG and our expectations of you as an employee.” – TBG Company Revised Orientation The Brewer Group and its affiliated organizations engage in participations with: UNAIDS, AmeriCares, USFMEP, Project Medishare, IDB Youth, Starkey Hearing Foundation, Montessori Model United Nations, Smile Network International, China World Peace Foundation, Africa Rising, and the Joyce Banda Foundation amongst many more. IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus All business partners, suppliers, and manufacturers are expected to adhere to the principals on Human Rights. Any violation of the articles outlined in this universal declaration would lead to The Brewer Group’s disassociation with this organizations and the reporting of the violations to the proper authorities. The Brewer Group has sectors spanning: Biotechnology and Healthcare, Wearable Technology and Consumer Products, Sustainable Technology and Agriculture, Sports, Media and Entertainment; Education and Cultural Exchange, and Hospitality. The countries in which we operate/have operated with our respective business affiliations and interests include: United States, Brazil, Mexico, China, Malawi, India, Nigeria, South Africa, Haiti, Egypt, Jamaica, Democratic Republic of Congo, Sri Lanka, Djbouti, Guatemala, Benin, Malaysia, Kirbati, Kyrgyzstan, Brunai, Grenada, Samoa, and Afghanistan. In each of these countries listed, there is the risk of violations of human rights, labour, environment, and corruption. To ensure that violations do not occur, TBG and our affiliates take a hands-­‐on approach to the implementation, production, and development of each sector and product in each respective region. Our goal is to empower the people of these countries to become more self-­‐sufficient, employ more local people, and develop in a way that is sustainable from a business and ecological standpoint. Often times, as seen in developing countries, the vision for growth is short term, and profits often times over power ethics. Related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation Biotechnology and Healthcare: Often times, the dignity of people is overlooked in this sector in regards to access to medical necessities and healthcare. Discriminations exist between race, color, sex, language, religion, and political views in many of the countries listed. Inconsistencies particularly exist in regards to Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stating that, “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-­‐being of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” Wearable Technology and Consumer Products: The major risks that are associated with this sector in the countries listed include people being subjected to cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment; everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work; and the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association, specifically with regards to the manufacturing of the products. IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus Sustainable Technology and Agriculture: The major risks that are associated with this sector involve the degradation of the environment, ecosystems, and surrounding communities by practicing harmful methods of energy and food production. Without safe systems in place, populations run the risk of negative health effects, reduced nutritional gains, and overall degradation of their quality of life. Education and Cultural Exchange: The major risks that our company and affiliation have in regards to this sector and the declaration of human rights, is the cooperative nature of certain populations in the promotion of unbiased education and cultural exchange. Often times, sex, religion, status, and gender play a major role in whether or not a child has the opportunity to pursue educational opportunities. The Brewer Group’s specific goals in the area of human rights for the upcoming year: • Improve the accessibility of affordable medications to places that lack proper medical alternatives, or access to medications in general. • Encourage the advancement of neurological assisting devices for therapeutic, precautionary, and protective services. • Maintain a supply chain for all affiliations that is in compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Empower women to attain greater levels of equality across all sectors of society through our organization’s non-­‐profit foundation and other charitable organizations we involve ourselves with. • Increase the opportunity for organic, sustainable farming solutions to be used in small to large-­‐scale operation in all economic environments. • Increase the global capacity for countries and its citizens to access nutritious foods. • Promote the advancement of research and technologies that are geared towards improving the quality of life in individuals spanning all economic, religious, ethnic, and political barriers. Implementation TBG has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations at its work locations: • A reporting structure has been implemented throughout the workplace which allows for any person to report a violation to their superior, or if IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus uncomfortable with reporting that that individual, they can communicate directly with the CEO. • Incorporated into the company associates meeting in an overview about the stance of TBG on human rights, as well as in the disclaimer of company literature. Measurement of Outcomes • TBG has maintained 100% accountability throughout its supply chain of various offerings without a single report of human rights violations. Labour Principals Assessment, Policy, and Goals TBG’s policy on labor principals acknowledges the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and stands behind the principals of eliminating all forms of compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Additionally, TBG has an open stance against discrimination ranging from traditional forms such as sex, race or religion, to newer forms based on age, sexual orientation, HIV/AIDS status and disability. Implementation • Newly revised company orientation manual highlights the assessment, policy and goals of our labor principals as well as standards on personal behavior, harassment, and discrimination. • TBG has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, or the employment of others associated with The Brewer Group. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. Measurement of Outcomes • TBG has hired, brought on associates, and conducted business with companies, individuals, countries, and foundations with equal opportunity and without discrimination. IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus • TBG has had zero reports of any form of compulsory labor or child labor in any of its operations in which it has had involvement. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals The environmental policy of The Brewer Group is reflective of our environmental commitment to industry and individuals alike. TBG will continually strive to find ways to increase efficiencies, support technologies that are better for the environment, and seek to enact change at all levels of corporate engagement. It is our policy to comply with all environmental laws of the respective region in which we are doing work, and when possible, institute changes that will have a positive impact on the community from an environmental standpoint. The Brewer Group actively seeks out stratagies that ensure environmental protection, mitigate inputs that negatively impact the local ecosystem, and change the fundamental approach in many instances to make production and commerce as low-­‐impact and sustainable as possible. TBG is implementing a sustainability reporting procedure for all companies with which it does business in the effort to enhance the company’s public image, highlight what stewardship objectives are most accomplishable in their respective sector, and as a way to identify key opportunities in which each company can have a maximum impact for the greater good of the environment. TBG Specific Goals for our environmental commitment: • Promote the use of sustainable, organic farming procedures in all countries in which we operate, reducing the amount of contaminating, synthetic chemicals currently used in operations today. • Continue to advocate for sustainable farming practices in regards to having a positive impact on the ecosystem involved, while also reducing the expansion of “slash and burn” practices. • Provide alternative sources of plastic waste disposal and energy generation through pryolysis, creating waste into energy, reducing the amount of non-­‐ biodegradable plastics clogging landfills, and creating economic opportunities for local populations. • Increase access to clean water for residential and commercial purposes through technological methods (atmospheric water generators), helping to IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus reduce disease, increase sanitation, and lessen the strain on over-­‐stressed, traditional sources. • Continue to involve high profile individuals in humanitarian efforts worldwide in order to increase knowledge and solutions to problems that the world is currently facing. Measurement of Outcomes • TBG has been able to achieve a 20% reduction in synthetic crop inputs on the field in which we have operated, while at the same time, increasing the harvest yields and nutritional content of the crops themselves. • The distributed commercial atmospheric water generators are currently providing thousands of gallons of fresh, clean drinking water to areas previously prone to contamination and general lack of infrastructure. Anti-­‐Corruption Assessment, Policy, and Goals It is the policy of the The Brewer Group that corruption, fraud, theft, maladministration or any other dishonest activities of a similar nature will not be tolerated. In addition, such irregular activities will be investigated and followed up by the application of all remedies available within the full extent of the law(s) internationally, and in the country in which we are operating. Outlined in our company handbook, employees are expected to uphold at all times, standards of integrity and behavior that will reflect positively upon themselves, their community, and The Brewer Group. All information and materials are regarded as confidential or proprietary. Employees should treat all of TBG business affairs, information, materials, plans and projects as confidential information. TBG complies with all anti-­‐corruption regulations set by the national government where we do business and international bodies worldwide. It is TBG policy to conduct business in an honest way, and without the use of corrupt practices or acts of bribery to obtain an unfair advantage, and the company does not tolerate or engage in any actions constituting corruption, fraud, theft and maladministration collectively such as: theft, misconduct while handling money or transactions, insider trading, false or misleading reporting, or the omission of any acts under similar contexts. IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus Implementation • TBG has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, employment of others associated with The Brewer Group, or the business actions of the company. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. • TBG has a system of checks and balances between its divisions, executives, and managers that intends to disclose any concerning issue as they arise. • Proper diligence into transactions and business proposals is mandatory between advisors, managers, lawyers, and executives involved in order to ensure that infractions do not occur. • The consequences of any corruption-­‐based activity has been clearly outlined in the company overview that was presented to all member’s of TBG and its affiliated interests. Measurement of Outcomes • TBG has assigned specific personal to check over, and look into past transactions of the company to identify any irregularity. • New reporting and communication procedures have been put into place to reduce the amount of redundant information and streamline the dissemination of information. IDS Center, 80 South 8th Street – Suite 900 | Minneapolis, MN 55402 P: 866.955.6267 | F: 866.578.3480 | E: info@thebrewergroup.com | W: www.thebrewergroup.com A Global Vision with a Social Focus
