ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GUIDE TO REPORTING Our group-level Sustainability Report is published annually, with the previous report having been published in April 2013. This report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Integrated Report 2013 and our Online Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. The latter contains certain detailed sustainability information and data and may be found at www.aga-reports.com – as indicated in this document. For ease of use, a detailed guide to using our reports may be found on the inside back cover of this report, with a flap that may be opened while reading the report. For terminology used, please refer to the glossary of terms on page 75. FOR NOTING: The following key parameters should be noted in respect of our reports: •  Production is expressed on an attributable basis unless otherwise indicated. •  The average workforce, including employees and contractors, is reported for AngloGold Ashanti, its subsidiaries and its joint ventures (JVs). The JVs are reported on an attributable basis. •  Unless otherwise stated, $ or dollar refers to US dollars throughout this suite of reports. • Locations on maps are for indication purposes only. • Group and company are used interchangeably. • W  here historical data has been restated, this is noted where applicable. •  To improve the integration of our reporting, from 2014 there will no longer be a separately printed report for sustainability. All financial and nonfinancial information will be presented in our Annual Integrated Report. Our commitment to sustainability compliance with various external initiatives will continue to be reported online. Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this document, other than statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, those concerning the economic outlook for the gold mining industry, expectations regarding gold prices, production, cash costs, cost savings and other operating results, return on equity, productivity improvements, growth prospects and outlook of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, individually or in the aggregate, including the achievement of project milestones, commencement and completion of commercial operations of certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s exploration and production projects and the completion of acquisitions and dispositions, AngloGold Ashanti’s liquidity and capital resources and capital expenditures and the outcome and consequence of any potential or pending litigation or regulatory proceedings or environmental, health and safety issues, are forward-looking statements regarding AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, economic performance and financial condition. These forward-looking statements or forecasts involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause AngloGold Ashanti’s actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Although AngloGold Ashanti believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements and forecasts are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, social and political and market conditions, the success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, including environmental approvals and requirements, fluctuations in gold prices and exchange rates, the outcome of pending or future litigation proceedings, and business and operational risk management. For a discussion of such risk factors, refer to the prospectus supplement to AngloGold Ashanti’s prospectus dated 17 July 2012 that was filed with the United States SEC on 26 July 2013 and to our annual reports on Form 20-F and any prospectus supplement filed with the United States SEC subsequent to the date of this report. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause AngloGold Ashanti’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. Consequently, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Integrated Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except to the extent required by applicable law. All subsequent written or oral forwardlooking statements attributable to AngloGold Ashanti or any person acting on its behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements herein. This communication may contain certain “Non-GAAP” financial measures. AngloGold Ashanti utilises certain Non-GAAP performance measures and ratios in managing its business. NonGAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the reported operating results or cash flow from operations or any other measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. In addition, the presentation of these measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures other companies may use. AngloGold Ashanti posts information that is important to investors on the main page of its website at www.anglogoldashanti.com and under the “Investors & media” tab on the main page. This information is updated regularly. Investors should visit this website to obtain important information about AngloGold Ashanti. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES OUR VISION TO BE THE LEADING MINING COMPANY OUR MISSION RIN G TIN G LO IN G KE XP IN AR E M M To create value for our shareholders, our employees and our business and social partners through safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing our products. Our primary focus is gold, but we will pursue value creating opportunities in other minerals where we can leverage our existing assets, skills and experience to enhance the delivery of value. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR VALUES Safety is our first value. We place people first and correspondingly put the highest priority on safe and healthy practices and systems of work. We are responsible for seeking out new and innovative ways to ensure that our workplaces are free of occupational injury and illness. We live each day for each other and use our collective commitment, talents, resources and systems to deliver on our most important commitment ... to care. We treat each other with dignity and respect. We believe that individuals who are treated with respect and who are entrusted to take responsibility respond by giving their best. We seek to preserve people’s dignity, their sense of self-worth in all our interactions, respecting them for who they are and valuing the unique contribution that they can make to our business success. We are honest with ourselves and others, and we deal ethically with all of our business and social partners. We value diversity. We aim to be a global leader with the right people for the right jobs. We promote inclusion and team work, deriving benefit from the rich diversity of the cultures, ideas, experiences and skills that each employee brings to the business. We are accountable for our actions and undertake to deliver on our commitments. We are focused on delivering results and we do what we say we will do. We accept responsibility and hold ourselves accountable for our work, our behaviour, our ethics and our actions. We aim to deliver high performance outcomes and undertake to deliver on our commitments to our colleagues, business and social partners, and our investors. The communities and societies in which we operate will be better off for AngloGold Ashanti having been there. We uphold and promote fundamental human rights where we do business. We contribute to building productive, respectful and mutually beneficial partnerships in the communities in which we operate. We aim to leave host communities with a sustainable future. We respect the environment. We are committed to continually improving our processes in order to prevent pollution, minimise waste, increase our carbon efficiency and make efficient use of natural resources. We will develop innovative solutions to mitigate environmental and climate risks. OUR VISION, MISSION AND VALUES 1 ONE OF THE WORLD’S FOREMOST GOLD EXPLORATION, MINING AND MARKETING COMPANIES CONTENTS SECTION ONE SECTION TWO SECTION TWO CONT SECTION THREE P4-23 P24-55 P56-74 P75-77 WHO WE ARE AND REVIEWING OUR REVIEWING OUR OTHER INFORMATION WHAT WE DO PERFORMANCE AND PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES CONT 75 Abridged glossary 5  Our approach to reporting of terms and assurance 77 Guide to using our reports 26 Material issue 1: Ensuring 56 Material issue 4: Social, 6 Corporate profile IBC Administration and safety and security of environmental and health and structure contact details people (employees, legacy issues 8 Gold mining process contractors, and 66 Material issue 5: 10 Snapshot of performance communities) Responsible gold 12 Our stakeholders 30 Material issue 2: 71 Material issue 6: 15 Letter from our Managing and meeting Achieving business CEO, Srinivasan internal and external sustainability Venkatakrishnan stakeholder expectations 17 Aligning our business and 44 Material issue 3: sustainability strategies Competing for resources 20 Our sustainability and infrastructure review panel 22 Our approach to risk management and identifying our material issues 2 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SECTION ONE SECTION TWO MATERIAL ISSUE 1 MATERIAL ISSUE 3 MATERIAL ISSUE 5 Ensuring safety and security of Competing for resources and Responsible gold people (employees, contractors, infrastructure and communities) 66 Responsible gold initiatives 44 Access to and security of 69 Meeting our obligation to respect 26 Eliminating safety incidents at work affordable energy, and human rights 28 Doing no harm to people, while climate change protecting our people and facilities 47 Access to and security of affordable water 49 Land management, biodiversity MATERIAL ISSUE 6 and planning for mine closure Achieving business sustainability MATERIAL ISSUE 2 53 Activities related to artisanal and Managing and meeting internal and small-scale mining 71 Developing and implementing external stakeholder expectations technology and increasing mechanisation 30 For employees – wages, benefits, 73 Addressing global and local skills and jobs (ensuring industrial MATERIAL ISSUE 4 relations peace and stability) Social, environmental and 34 For communities – demonstrating health legacy issues shared value and delivering on commitments 56 Occupational lung disease, 39 For governments – utilisation especially in South Africa of assets, delivering benefits 59 Social and environmental SECTION THREE and understanding resource considerations nationalism at Obuasi, Ghana 41 For suppliers – understanding and 62 Deep-level groundwater ! Guide to using our reports monitoring the conduct and impact contamination and water pumping of our supply chain obligations in South Africa 62 Migrant labour, housing and accommodation in South Africa See the guide to using our reports 64 Resettlement issues in Tanzania on the inside back cover and flap. and Ghana CONTENTS 3 SECTION ONE WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO P4-23 This section provides insight into AngloGold Ashanti. We provide a snapshot of sustainability performance during 2013; share our processes for stakeholder engagement; and discuss some of the issues that have arisen during the year. This section also includes a review by our CEO, Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan. Finally, we describe our business model and how we align our sustainability strategy with our business strategy. 4 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING AND ASSURANCE SECTION ONE Our Sustainability Report addresses the most significant sustainability issues of our business and forms part of a comprehensive suite of annual reports to stakeholders for 2013. In particular, readers are referred to our Annual Integrated Report 2013 which can be found at www.aga-reports.com. COMPILATION OF THIS REPORT level, although some operational detail is provided where this is appropriate. For detailed operational performance, readers This report provides insight into our approach to sustainability, are referred to our 2013 Operational and Project Profiles, which and objectives, strategy and performance. This group-level will be made available on our website by the end of May 2014. report focuses on those material sustainability issues that we have determined to be most important to us and to our The online version of this report (available as a pdf and in html stakeholders. In determining these material issues we have at www.aga-reports.com) includes supplementary information. taken into consideration the guidance in respect of materiality Certain elements of this report that are deemed not critical to provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council, of its use have been omitted from this printed version, and direct which AngloGold Ashanti is a pilot member, and of the Global reference is made to this throughout the report. Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines, as well as the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard. APPROACH TO ASSURANCE This report has largely been prepared in accordance with the We believe in timely, accurate and transparent reporting, and GRI’s G4 guidelines. The GRI launched its G4 sustainability we support third party verification of our systems and data. reporting guidelines in May 2013. The International Council on In 2013, we continued our three-pronged approach to SECTION TWO Mining and Metals (ICMM), of which AngloGold Ashanti is a assurance, relying on three complementary review processes, member, has indicated its adoption of G4 and, specifically, a namely: internal audit, external audit and an independent ‘core’ level of reporting by its members by 2015. viewpoint from our sustainability review panel. G4 places greater emphasis on the importance of materiality and Internal audit and Board approval: AngloGold Ashanti’s Group improves the level of harmonisation with other reporting standards. Internal Audit has continued with an assurance approach that We recognise that certain reporting elements will need to be further takes into account both financial and non-financial aspects of developed in coming years. In certain instances, the business is our business, and has developed specific capacity in the area not yet in a position to report fully against the G4 indicators and of sustainability assurance. Group Internal Audit conducted an where this applies, an explanation has been provided in the GRI audit of our 2013 sustainability reporting in terms of the Group content index found at www.aga-reports.com/13/os. Internal Audit Charter as approved by the company’s Audit and Corporate Governance Committee. The audit was performed in As members of or signatories to the ICMM, the principles of the accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Standards for United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Extractive Industries the Professional Practice of Internal Audit. The review assessed Transparency Initiative (EITI) and the Voluntary Principles on the validity, accuracy and completeness of the relevant GRI Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), we have complied with indicators in our reports, together with various data transfer and the reporting principles advocated by those bodies. Further, integrity checks. This Sustainability Report was approved by our sustainability reporting has been undertaken in line with the board of directors on 18 March 2014. the recommendations of the South African King Code on Corporate Governance, 2009 (King III) and the World Gold External assurance: External assurance of our sustainability Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard. reporting was provided by Ernst & Young Inc. Data indicators were selected for assurance by the external audit team on We have also taken cognisance of those issues that we believe the basis of their assessment of the issues and indicators are most material to the group’s future sustainability, identified that are most significant to the sustainability performance of through our risk management process and the views expressed SECTION THREE the business, as well as the key risks identified by the group. by stakeholders. Our approach is discussed in greater detail on Data which has been externally assured is indicated in the GRI page 12, and has informed the scope and boundary of this content index with icons for limited or reasonable assurance report. . Ernst & Young Inc.’s sustainability assurance statement can be found at: www.aga-reports.com/13/assurance. ONLINE REPORT AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Independent review: The role of our independent sustainability As this is a group-level report, operational targets and panel is explained on page 20, and their review letter can be performance are largely discussed at a regional rather than site read on page 21. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 5 CORPORATE PROFILE AND STRUCTURE Headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti has 21 operations in 11 countries. Two new mines, Tropicana in Australia and Kibali in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), came on stream in late 2013. Location of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations CONTINENTAL AMERICAS AFRICA 3 5 4 6 AUSTRALASIA 7 8 2 9 10 11 11 Australia SOUTH Sunrise Dam AFRICA Tropicana (70%) 1 4 Guinea SOUTH 1 Argentina 5 Siguiri (85%) Mali Morila (40%) (1) AFRICA Sadiola (41%) Cerro Vanguardia (92.5%) Yatela (40%) 10 South Africa 2 Brazil 6 Ghana Vaal River Serra Grande Iduapriem AGA Mineração Great Noligwa Obuasi 3 United States Kopanang 7 DRC Cripple Creek & Victor (CC&V) Kibali (45%) (1) Moab Khotsong 8 Tanzania West Wits Geita Mponeng Exploration 9 Namibia TauTona (3) We have greenfields exploration programmes Navachab (2) Surface Operations (4) in Colombia, Guinea and Australia Percentages indicate the ownership interest of AngloGold Ashanti, whether held directly or indirectly. All operations and projects are 100%-owned unless otherwise indicated. (1) Both Morila and Kibali are managed and operated by Randgold Resources Limited. (2) On 10 February 2014, AngloGold Ashanti announced that it signed a binding agreement to sell Navachab mine, subject to certain conditions. (3) As from 1 January 2013, TauTona and Savuka were operated and managed as one operation and accordingly combined under TauTona. (4) Includes First Uranium SA which owns Mine Waste Solutions (MWS) for the purposes of this report. MWS is operated and managed as a separate cash generating unit. 6 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS SECTION ONE Following a strategic review during 2013 of our asset portfolio and of our project development and exploration programmes especially, AngloGold Ashanti embarked on significant restructuring to address the real challenges in the gold sector, including increasing costs of production and sustained low gold prices. Management of AngloGold Ashanti is organised into four business segments under two chief operating officers – South Africa and International (comprising Continental Africa, Australasia and Americas) as follows: •  South Africa comprises the operations and assets in the following areas in South Africa: • West Wits; • Vaal River; and •  Surface Operations, which includes First Uranium SA which owns Mine Waste Solutions (MWS), for the purposes of this report. For accounting purposes, MWS is operated and managed as a separate cash-generating unit. • International comprises the company’s operating assets Sandra Martinez, a geologist at Gramalote, Colombia, inspects a core sample. SECTION TWO outside of South Africa as follows: •  Continental Africa with operations in the DRC, Ghana, 2013 remained unchanged at 21. In South Africa, following Guinea, Mali, Namibia and Tanzania; the restructuring of the portfolio, Savuka is now reported •  Australasia which comprises two operations in Australia; together with TauTona and MWS is included in the reporting and of Surface Operations. • Americas with operations in Argentina, Brazil and the United States. OUR PEOPLE The group support functions include planning and technical, AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and joint ventures employed, strategy, sustainability, finance, human resources, legal and on average, 66,434 people (including contractors) in 2013, stakeholder relations. Planning and technical function focuses an increase of 1% on the number employed in 2012 (2012: on the management of opportunities and the maintenance of 65,822 people), due to two new mines coming on stream. long-term optionality in the business through a range of activities However, this does not give a true reflection of the reduction which includes brownfields and greenfields exploration, in employee numbers during 2013. By way of illustration, the innovative research, the development and technical assurance average number of employees employed by the group (excluding of technology and a continuing focus on mining excellence. Kibali and Tropicana) in December 2013, decreased by 6% to 61,504 employees and contractors from 65,342 employees and This structuring is dealt with in greater detail on page 18 of contractors in December 2012. the Annual Integrated Report 2013. While exploration and development at the La Colosa and Gramalote projects in OUR SHAREHOLDERS Colombia continues, the Mongbwalu project in the DRC was AngloGold Ashanti’s primary listing is on the Johannesburg halted for economic reasons due to the fall in gold price. Stock Exchange (JSE). The company is also listed on the New York, London, Australia and Ghana stock exchanges. The In addition to our mining operations, we have a 42.43% government of Ghana holds a 1.58% interest in the company. SECTION THREE interest in Rand Refinery Ltd, Africa’s premier gold smelting The national governments of Mali, Guinea and the DRC hold and refining complex in South Africa, and wholly own and direct interests in our subsidiaries operating in those countries operate the Queiroz refinery in Brazil. The company also has and in Argentina, the province of Santa Cruz has an interest in an interest in OroAfrica, one of South Africa’s leading gold our Cerro Vanguardia operation. jewellery manufacturing companies, through its 36% stake in Oro Group (Pty) Ltd. At the end of December 2013, AngloGold Ashanti had 403,340,412 ordinary shares in issue and a market capitalisation Despite the addition of two new mining operations, Kibali and of $4.73bn (2012: $12.02bn). This increased to $7.65bn as at Tropicana, the number of AngloGold Ashanti operations in 18 March 2013. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 7 GOLD MINING PROCESS To conduct our business and produce gold, certain inputs such as ore-bearing resources, people and INPUTS machinery are required. We invest in skills enhancement, technology development and application, and in prospecting for and developing our mineral resources and ore reserves, to ensure the economic viability and sustainability of our business. FINDING AND ASSESSING ACCESSING THE ORE BODY EXTRACTING THE ORE THE OREBODY • Underground: • Underground: Exploration Vertical shafts and decline ramps are sunk into Rock is drilled and blasted and Prospective gold deposit the ground to transport people and equipment to the broken ore and waste rock targets are identified and and from deep-level ore bodies (many are more brought to surface. exploration is undertaken. than 1,000m below surface) and to bring the ore • Open pit: Worthwhile discoveries undergo mined to surface. Drilling and blasting is done intensive evaluation. • Open pit: before ore is excavated. Near-surface orebodies are accessed by “stripping” overlying material. “ Overarching this business model is our WE PRODUCE sustainability strategy which has as its primary Our primary product is gold, aim zero harm – to people from which 96% of our revenue was generated in and the environment. We 2013. By-products include endeavour to ensure that silver, uranium and the communities with sulphuric acid, depending which we engage and REHABILITATION on geology. AND CLOSURE society are better off for our presence. ” This is integral to mine planning and development, Gold 4.11Moz from the start of exploration to the end of mining Silver 3.3Moz Uranium 1.38Mlb activity. Closure planning, which takes into account Sulphuric acid 191t community livelihoods and land rehabilitation, continues throughout the life of an operation. Safety – all injury frequency rate per million hours worked 7.33 IMPACTS In conducting its business, AngloGold Ashanti has an impact on the environment. Discounted cost of future rehabilitation $728.4m GHG emissions 4.5Mt CO2e 8 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SECTION ONE People 66,434 $255.1m Exploration and evaluation costs Water used 64.8ML Training and development $60.4m Capital expenditure $2.0bn Energy used 32.7PJ Cash operating costs $3.3bn (includes equity-accounted investments) TRANSPORTING THE ORE PROCESSING • Underground: Gold ore is processed and smelted Ore is brought to surface both by into doré (unrefined gold bars) at RETREATMENT horizontal and vertical transport our operations and dispatched to systems and then transported various metal refineries, including Surface Operations in SECTION TWO by rail, truck or conveyor to our Queiroz refinery in Brazil and South Africa retreat processing facilities. Rand Refinery in South Africa. tailings, a waste product • Open pit and surface of processing, for residual stockpiles: gold and uranium Ore is transported on haul trucks. END USE REFINING Gold is sold to international Gold is refined to a purity of at “ During 2013, bullion banks or to jewellery least 99.5%, in accordance AngloGold Ashanti treated fabrication industries. with the accepted standards 97.1Mt of atttibutable ore to of ‘good delivery’. obtain 4.11Moz of gold. ” SECTION THREE Revenue $5.71bn Paid in wages and salaries $1.59bn Loss attributable to equity shareholders $2.23bn OUTCOMES (1) Payments to government $840m Dividends paid $40m Community investment $23.0m Loss per share 568 US cents (1) Includes post-tax impairments of goodwill; tangible assets; intangible assets; investments; and inventory write-downs of $2.5bn. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 9 SNAPSHOT OF PERFORMANCE SAFETY: PEOPLE: 66,434 Average number of employees (including contractors) Our aim is to develop and retain a stable, motivated workforce. In the light of significant economic pressures on the company in 2013, restructuring was undertaken, largely at a corporate level. As far as possible we sought to minimise involuntary separation, Carlos Soares, a safety technician at Cuiba Mine, Brazil, analyses emissions. preferring to offer voluntary separation packages and early retirement where possible. “ Fatalities have decreased by 56% yearTotal workforce by region 2013 on-year. 2013 represents our best safety (%) performance yet. ” South Africa 48.8 Continental Africa 25.0 Australasia 1.4 Americas 12.6 Other* 12.2 * Includes 3,249 employees and contractors at Occupational fatalities All injury frequency rate Kibali who are working on projects. (fatalities) (per million hours worked) 15 12.88 09 09 15 11.50 Workforce division 10 10 (%) 15 9.76 11 11 18 7.72 12 12 Employees 72 8 7.33 Contractors 28 13 13 47% DECREASE 43% DECREASE 2009-2013 2009-2013 “ In 2013 – on average – 8.14 ounces of gold was produced per total employee costed While we would like to eliminate all injuries at work, our AIFR (2012: 8.07). ” has decreased by 43% over the past five years. In 2013, the business experienced more than 4,700 fewer lost workdays due to occupational injury than the prior year. For more information For more information PAGE 26-27 PAGE 30-33 10 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT: “ In 2013, community investment was maintained at $23m. ” SECTION ONE Our objective is to reduce environmental incidents at our operations by 30% over five years (2010 base). Pleasingly, our reportable environmental incidents have continued to decrease, with a reduction in incidents of 63% since 2010. This can be COMMUNITIES: attributed to the significant attention we have given to various infrastructure improvements and improved maintenance. While we aim to reduce energy and water consumption and Community investment Incidents under VPSHR emissions of greenhouse gases, this is challenging in our ($m) (Human rights incidents due to current production environment. security interventions) 11 1 09 09 16 2 “ In 2013, we used – on average – 0.32GJ 10 10 21 5 to treat a tonne of rock. ” 11 11 25 9 12 12 23 3 13 13 109% As gold grades have decreased it has become necessary to process greater volumes of ore to produce each ounce of gold. While we report our actual consumption of energy and water as INCREASE IN COMMUNITY INVESTMENT well as carbon emissions – we believe that measures of intensity 2009-2013 – that is, usage of emissions per tonne of rock treated are more useful measures. Since 2009, our energy consumption has SECTION TWO Our impacts on communities – positive and negative – are increased by 10%, and our energy intensity has decreased by not always clearly explained in numbers. In respect of two 19%. Our water usage has increased by 32%, while our water measurable key performance indicators (KPIs), we aim to intensity has decreased by 3% over the past five years. Similarly, eliminate all incidents under the VPSHR, and to maximise the over the past five years, our carbon emissions reduced by 6%, positive outcomes that arise from our investment in communities. while our carbon emissions intensity reduced by 33%. Despite the significant decrease in revenue (14%) and earnings Reportable environmental Energy consumption of $3.1bn in 2013, community investment was maintained incidents and intensity (PJ) (GJ/t) at $23m. 51 0.40 30 09 09 27 0.41 31 Adieyie Junction Junior High School near Tarkwa, Ghana, is a school supported by 10 10 AngloGold Ashanti. 27 0.41 31 11 11 16 0.38 32 12 12 10 0.32 33 13 13 Water consumption Greenhouse gas emissions and intensity and intensity (ML) (000/t) (Mt CO2e) (Mt CO2e/t) 0.66 49.2 0.06 4.8 09 09 0.66 49.4 0.06 4.8 10 10 0.67 49.8 0.06 4.3 11 11 0.64 53.5 0.05 4.4 SECTION THREE 12 12 0.64 64.8 0.04 4.5 13 13 For more information For more information PAGE 34-38 PAGE 44-52 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 11 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders are highly diverse, reflecting the variety of geographic regions in which we operate, the wide range of groups with which we interact and the extent of issues that face us collectively, and on which we engage. We recognise that stakeholders are those who have a direct or mutually beneficial relationships with stakeholders throughout indirect impact on our business, or who are directly or indirectly the life-of-mine cycle (including exploration projects, new and affected by our business. We understand that stakeholders established operations, during closure and post-closure); have the ability to influence our business outcomes, both • the appropriate tools and mechanisms are used to build social positively and negatively, and that we need to establish and partnerships to secure our social licence to operate; and build mutually beneficial relationships with our stakeholders to • we are positioned as the preferred operator wherever we achieve a common positive end. have a presence. While stakeholder engagement may be formal or informal, we Further, in 2013 AngloGold Ashanti formally adopted the AA1000 seek to at least establish a formal plan for engagement. We aim to be proactive in our engagement and responsive to issues Standard on Stakeholder Engagement. A corporate stakeholder and concerns as they arise. engagement strategy that is aligned with the principles of the AngloGold Ashanti engagement standard is currently being AngloGold Ashanti’s stakeholder engagement is undertaken at developed and is scheduled to be implemented in 2014. corporate, regional, country office and site levels, with a view Consideration is being given to the inclusion of our performance to ensuring that: in this respect into our assurance scope in the future, given that • our operations and projects engage in building successful and stakeholder engagement is deemed to be a corporate priority. STAKEHOLDER GROUPS with which we interact include: 1 2 3 ives 4 Inves tors Com ployee representat 5 mun dia ities Me 6 ts en rnm ve ies 7 Go od yb Employees and em lat s die or bo gu try 8 Re s In du rs to me Cus 9 lie rs Supp ers 10 entu re partn Joint v *NGOs and CBOs 11 * NGOs = Non-governmental organisations CBOs = Community-based organisations 12 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Our case studies can be found online at www.aga-reports.com/13/cs Summary of stakeholder engagement and key issues raised by stakeholders in 2013 SECTION ONE Stakeholder Our response Employees and employee • In South Africa, given the challenging industrial relations climate, the company has stepped representatives up its direct communication with employees (both unionised and non-unionised). This is to Channels of engagement allow for transparency and better communication. See pages 30-33. • Briefs, meetings, face-to-face • Progress has been made in addressing living conditions of workers on company property. communication For employees living offsite, the company is working with local municipalities and government • Negotiations to collaborate on a wider front on service provision in line with local regulations and with the Issues raised Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry entered into by representatives of • Wages and benefits Organised Labour, Organised Business and Government on 3 July 2013. See pages 62-63. • Accommodation and living • We provide guidance on financial awareness to employees in the South Africa region and conditions at Geita in Tanzania. Given the extent of the problem and its impact on employees, the • Employee indebtedness company is planning on providing preventative training and assistance to enable employees • Job security to understand the ramifications of excess indebtedness. • Employee health CASE STUDY: Share ownership plan for employees • While we cannot provide guarantees of job security, we invest in training our employees. Where possible employees are moved around to other operations that have a longer life and are sustainable. Besides skills development, we invest in developing new ore bodies, in projects to extend the life of mines and exploration. The future of some of the older operations rests with breakthroughs in technology, which is developed in collaboration with a number of partners across a number of industries. See pages 73-74. SECTION TWO CASE STUDY: Restructuring in line with global best practice Investors and media • Given the sharp drop in the gold price (which has affected the gold mining industry and Channels of engagement also operational and sustainable development challenges), we have reviewed our strategy • One-on-one meetings, to address our long-term sustainability. This strategy rests on five pillars that are focused on presentations, response maximising sustainable free cash flow and returns: to queries • safety, people and sustainability; • Interviews • optimising overhead costs and capital expenditure; • Statements • Site visits • improving the portfolio quality; Issues raised • ensuring financial flexibility; and • Operational performance and • maintaining long-term optionality. business sustainability See page 17. • Labour relations • Safety performance CASE STUDY: ONE works wonders at Tropicana • Regulatory issues • Returns to shareholders • Rehabilitation provision Communities • Sustainability is a key pillar of our business strategy and the implementation and delivery on Channels of engagement all areas of sustainable development are a priority. All areas that touch on communities are • Meetings, presentations, addressed at site level as well as through industry bodies, in collaboration with development grievance mechanisms partners and, in some areas, with local government development plans in order to achieve Issues raised more sustainable outcomes. See pages 34-38. • Community investment • Infrastructure development and CASE STUDY: Greenfields exploration: engaging with communities in Colombia SECTION THREE benefits sharing CASE STUDY: Solomon Islands: closure without complication • Impact of restructuring CASE STUDY: Indigenous employment programme in Australia and closures • Environmental and CASE STUDY: Creating a sustainable solution for malaria in Continental Africa region health impacts • Resettlement and compensation • Competition for land use WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 13 OUR STAKEHOLDERS continued Summary of stakeholder engagement and key issues raised by stakeholders in 2013 (continued) Stakeholder Our response Governments, regulatory and • There is ongoing active engagement with governments in the jurisdictions in which we industry bodies operate to address a wide range of issues. We are improving our approach to engaging with Channels of engagement governments at all levels. • Meetings, correspondence, • Almost all governments are focused on seeing the benefits of mining flow through to centralindustry body representation, level governments, as well as to local communities. Various channels of engagement are presentations being used to explain the benefits of mining to host communities. These include the World Issues raised Gold Council’s report, ‘Responsible gold mining and value distribution’, published in 2013. • Safety and environmental Communication is coordinated with industry partners and peers through local chambers to performance improve communication with governments and explain the economic value created by gold • Regulatory compliance mining companies. This economic value goes beyond taxes paid for local development. We • Taxes seek to go beyond regulatory compliance and actually attain best practice even in areas • Security of tenure where local regulations may fall short of what we consider best practice, and also share • Benefits of mining learning across our various jurisdictions. See pages 39-40. • Labour relations • Local development CASE STUDY: Human Rights Ambassador Programme at Geita • Housing and living conditions • Wage negotiations and industry’s economic position • Safety, security and stability in South Africa Customers and suppliers • Given the margin squeeze on revenues and wanting to achieve continuous improvement Channels of engagement and compliance, we are reviewing some of our major contractual arrangements in order to • Meetings, contractual achieve a sustainable business outcome. See pages 41-43. engagements, policy discussions CASE STUDY: Procurement programme in Brazil Issues raised • Impact of restructuring and closures JV partners • There is ongoing discussion with JV partners on opportunities and challenges facing our Channels of engagement business. We have, successfully negotiated a mutual withdrawal from the exploration • Meetings joint venture with Roxgold Inc. in the Solomon Islands. At Tropicana and Kibali (where we have JV partners), we have successfully navigated the construction and commissioning of Issues raised both mines. • Ongoing financial commitment Non-governmental organisations • There is ongoing work on a number of fronts in the different jurisdictions to address some (NGOs) and Community-based of the issues raised by NGOs and CBOs. In the implementation of our sustainability strategy organisations (CBOs) we aim to work with relevant NGOs and CBOs to achieve our sustainability goals. This cuts Channels of engagement across different areas including resettlement, and artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) • Meetings, correspondence, and illegal mining. See pages 53-55. policy discussions • Competition for water has increased and we continue to communicate about the programmes Issues raised we have in place to reduce our water consumption. See pages 47-48. • Social and environmental impacts CASE STUDY: The worth of water – priceless! • Resettlement CASE STUDY: Innovative use of technology to drive improvements in TB control • Silicosis CASE STUDY: Engaging with religious groups: a new world for mining • Water quality 14 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 LETTER FROM OUR CEO, SRINIVASAN VENKATAKRISHNAN SECTION ONE At AngloGold Ashanti we believe that the leading mining company of the future will be a values-driven company, with a spirit that always puts safety first and respects humanity and our planet. Srinivasan Furthermore, in South Africa, turbulence within the mining sector Venkatakrishnan has manifested across the industry following the unprotected Chief Executive Officer strikes of late 2012. Our added focus, therefore, has been on managing the restoration of healthy labour relations at our mines. In addressing our cost base, we underwent a process of unprecedented organisational redesign and internal restructuring, with a view to removing duplication, work that did not add value and redundant layers within the organisation. Whilst absolutely necessary, such processes are always difficult, and have led to us having to retrench some of our colleagues who have been with our company for long periods of time. Throughout the redesign and restructure of the business we sought to retain our commitments to community programmes SECTION TWO At AngloGold Ashanti we believe that the leading mining and social investments. We understand that sustainability must company of the future will be a values-driven company, with a spirit that always puts safety first, and respects humanity be at the core of our business, serving as a key driver of our and our planet. We recognise that our business sustainability long-term business effectiveness and competitiveness, and and prosperity are inextricably linked to achieving such an achieving and enhancing our social licence to operate. We will approach to doing business. We are a company which shows retain this focus despite an environment of short-term budget in meaningful ways, how we live our values for mutual benefit, constraints. Whilst this year may prove to be less turbulent than today and for the future, across the dimensions of safety, the last it will nonetheless require us to remain vigilant, prudent economic development, communities and broader society, and and focused. It is a challenge we believe we have so far met, the environment. This is what sustainability is about, and what and will continue to meet, optimising our sustainability impacts we aspire to achieve as a company. Through our contribution at an appropriate cost. founded on partnership and collaboration we strive to be welcomed into countries and communities alike to conduct our In meeting our sustainability challenges we know that we need business. We will attract the best talent, and investors will be to continue focusing on: confident of our business success and its sustainability. • protecting our people from harm, and operating safe workplaces; Given the 26% sharp drop in the gold price, 2013 has been an • nurturing and strengthening community and other stakeholder extremely challenging year in the gold sector and AngloGold relationships; Ashanti is no exception. We had to, early on in the year, refocus • managing our environmental impacts, particularly in respect our strategy to adapt to this rapidly changed environment. We of avoiding adverse impacts on communities’ water supply; did so using five building blocks: • demonstrating that we do not contribute to armed conflict, The foundation of the business is safety, people and 1.  and ensuring the application of sound human rights practices sustainability in all that we do; SECTION THREE 2. Pro-actively ensuring that we have financial flexibility during •  constructively addressing the encroachment of unlawful volatile times artisanal mining on our concessions, recognising the need 3. Aggressively tackling all aspects of our cost base to support economic opportunity in the regions around 4. Improving our portfolio quality by bringing on stream quality our operations; mines and removing marginal production from the mix • acceptably addressing a range of legacy issues, demonstrating 5. Keeping our long-term optionality intact at a reasonable cost our commitments to sustainable practices; WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 15 LETTER FROM OUR CEO, SRINIVASAN VENKATAKRISHNAN continued • the continued pursuit of the establishment of an organisational relations in Tanzania, in improving employee and community culture where sustainability is embedded to the extent that it relations in South Africa, and generally improving engagement is integral to our business strategy and practices, becoming and relationships with national governments, and mining a mark of how we do things; and organisations and civil society in relation to issues facing the • ensuring that we continue to improve our overall performance mining sector. These advances will continue to be a priority as we navigate difficult and unprecedented economic and during 2014. social conditions. As we seek to improve our sustainability performance, and We are profoundly saddened by the loss of eight of our position sustainability as a key driver of our business strategy colleagues at our operations. We will not rest until fatal accidents and success, we have enhanced the sustainability function are completely eliminated. That said, and recognising that one within the company. David Noko joined us as EVP: Sustainable fatality is one too many, we are encouraged at having reduced Development in mid-2012. As a member of our executive the number of fatal accidents by 49%, as measured against the committee, David has accountability for all sustainability average of the previous four years. We know that there is no matters at a group level. During the year under review the room for complacency when it comes to safety, as we are only sustainability function has been streamlined, with David having as good or as bad as our last incident. Yet it is heartening that considerably greater authority to intervene and to manage we have taken another step towards our goal of zero fatalities sustainability challenges at our operations. We have done so with 80% of our operations setting new improved safety records at those sites where we have needed to prioritise action. David in 2013, making it the best year in the company’s history from a and our two chief operating officers have a clear understanding safety perspective. From a personal perspective, I carry safety of their accountabilities in respect of sustainability issues, and very close to my heart and will work with the executive team to continue to have excellent working relationships. Furthermore, ensure that every one of our employees can look to completing the Social, Ethics and Transformation Committee Board their day’s work without suffering injury or accident. established during 2012 under the leadership of Mrs Nozipho January-Bardill, a Non-Executive Director, has also served its In South Africa, legacy issues related to silicosis remain first full financial year. During the year it has developed a more a challenge. While we continue to work through the legal intense oversight role. We have also continued our engagement cases brought against our company, and other companies with the independent Sustainability Review Panel this year – across the industry, we remain committed to cooperating with see pages 20 to 21. industry partners and government to find a holistic, sustainable approach to this matter. We continue to work hard to manage These developments give me confidence, that there is an the work environment at our South African mines, and are appropriate focus on the challenging sustainability issues pleased with our sustained reductions of dust levels within that we face and reassure stakeholders that sustainability these workplaces, where we have comfortably met the Mine considerations will continue to be a core value of our business Health and Safety Council milestones. and its operations. It would be remiss in this report not to pay tribute to Mr Nelson Our performance in our environmental programmes has also Rolihlahla Mandela, who died on 5 December 2013. Nelson been encouraging, with a continued reduction of environmental Mandela lived his life according to his values. He told us all that, incidents over the past five years. In 2013 we had a 37% “What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It reduction in reportable environmental incidents. is the difference we have made to the lives of others that will For the mining sector, relationships between mining companies, determine the significance of the life we lead.” labour, governments and communities have long been critical. We, at AngloGold Ashanti, will demonstrate a reaffirmation of In many jurisdictions these relationships were shaped by a our own values and our commitment to improve the quality of view that over past decades, countries and local communities life of the communities and societies in which we operate. have not benefited sufficiently from mining revenue streams. We are faced with increasing demands for greater control of, Our public policy and broader stakeholder engagement work is and benefit from resources in countries where we operate – the essential to maintain our social licence to operate. We actively complex phenomenon of resource nationalism. In this context, support the objectives of the International Council on Mining and we believe that a sustainable future will be based on mutually Metals (ICMM), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), respectful and rational interactions between our company, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and the host governments, and local communities, striking a balance Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), between providing adequate incentives for investment in among others, which help us improve our performance and find mining operations and ensuring a fair deal on mineral wealth areas of mutual interest and cooperation to co-design solutions. for all stakeholders. Recognising this, we have in the last year sought to bring about a significant change in our understanding Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan of and engagement with our stakeholders. Notable progress Chief Executive Officer has been made in resettlement and improved community 18 March 2014 16 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ALIGNING OUR BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIES SECTION ONE The past financial year presented challenges and opportunities to AngloGold Ashanti, and the company’s leadership has responded to these expeditiously and proactively. BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY We will achieve these objectives by maximising sustainable free cash flow from our portfolio, while maintaining the integrity of Our long-term objective is to create value for shareholders, the business and focusing on delivery. employees and business and social partners by safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing our products, Our five strategic focus areas – or building blocks – that support primarily gold. We aim to deliver sustainable improvement in the achievement of our delivery targets in the short, medium cash flow and returns to all our stakeholders. and long-term, are depicted below. We elaborate on our strategy in the Annual Integrated Report, and readers are encouraged to view this at www.aga-reports.com. Of significance is that the foundation pillar on which the entire OUR FIVE strategy rests is: people, safety and sustainability. SECTION TWO STRATEGIC BUILDING end itu re BLOCKS exp Im al pro a pit ve dc po an rtfo osts lio adc qu alit rhe y ove se timi Op re Sustainable cash flow improvements nality Ensu optio finan and returns term SECTION THREE cial f ongtain l ility lexib Main Focus on people, safety and sustainability WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 17 ALIGNING OUR BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIES continued Sustainability contributes to AngloGold Ashanti’s business competitiveness and ensures we maintain our social licence to operate Sharing the value of gold 1 Our sustainability-based actions enhance business performance 2 We deliver demonstrable long-term positive outcomes for our employees, our shareholders, our host communities and the environment 3 Governments and the broader society in host countries and regions see us as delivering long-term value Legacies addressed Current and future risks managed and anticipated Opportunities capitalised Feasibility Pre-exploration Exploration Design Operations Closure Post-closure Construction Sustainability discipline theory and frameworks integrated into our business For AngloGold Ashanti, people are our business – especially high production costs and political instability in some jurisdictions. employees and communities. We commit to: High consumption and competition for natural resources and • focusing on employing, deploying and developing the right growing environmental concerns were also a feature, as were people, and providing meaningful employment and career increasing employee, community and government expectations. development opportunities; OUR SUSTAINABILITY VALUE PROPOSITION • structuring the organisation appropriately, to support The group sustainability strategy was developed in the latter operational excellence; part of 2012. Despite the difficult external environment we • driving safety as our first priority, focusing on eliminating remain committed to the strategy and our sustainability value fatalities and injuries; proposition. This is reflected in our community investment, which • earning our social licence to operate, addressing and will be maintained. mitigating the social, economic and environmental impacts of our operations, and creating a positive sustainable legacy; and We seek to embed sustainability into all aspects of our business and value chain, from the initiation of exploration activities through • being mindful of the need to balance short-term financial to post closure activities. Through such an approach we will be objectives with long-term sustainability outcomes. better equipped to address our legacy issues, anticipate and manage current and future risks, and capitalise on opportunities. OUR EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT The complex and challenging external environment continued to Achievement of these goals and the realisation of our value evolve during the year and the gold industry faced extraordinary proposition contribute to AngloGold Ashanti’s business turbulence. The underlying drivers remain unchanged and we competitiveness and ensure that we maintain our social licence continued to observe a reduced market price for gold, relatively to operate. 18 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 During the year we have focused on executing our sustainability SECTION ONE strategy, and we will continually strive towards achieving our goals, particularly in the priority areas outlined and including these ten strategic focus areas: • building capability to deliver on commitments; •  managing the global sustainability talent pool within the organisation; •  strengthening the integration of sustainability into business processes and activities; •  strengthening the right systems and structures supporting execution, performance measurement and continuous improvement; • knowledge management and collaborative learning; • open innovation, involving external partners; • managing current and future sustainability risks and capitalising on opportunities; • addressing our legacy challenges; •  establishing partnerships and social models – managing expectations and co-designing solutions; and • advocating and influencing sustainable policy development. SECTION TWO Our systems to ensure compliance to all our standards and commitments still require improvement as do our processes to ensure we optimise local procurement at our mines. MATERIALITY, GOALS AND STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS EXECUTING THE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Implementation of the above strategy based on the ten focus The identification, prioritisation and review of material issues areas is expected to take five years and our progress to date continues to influence our sustainability strategy development. shows satisfactory results. This allows the identification of emerging issues and enables them to inform and be factored into strategic goals, as well as Progress has been made in implementing the foundational aspects guide our focus areas. Social, environmental and health legacy of the strategy – including the establishment of the required considerations, for example, feature as a specific strategic sustainability structure, with the majority of appointments having focus area in our strategy, while the need to manage and meet taken place. Significant progress has been made in streamlining internal and external expectations shapes our focal area work on the systems required to manage and report on sustainability partnerships and engagement. as a discipline and the identification of the key sustainability performance metrics, targets and milestones is well in hand. Aspirational goals are important. Achieving zero fatalities is an example. Meeting such goals requires significant effort, Other aspects of progress relating to our sustainability strategy innovation and creativity. and performance are highlighted in the section on material issues of this report – see page 22. These goals are intimately linked to our product – gold – as a timeless store of value – and our desire to create a better COMMITMENTS FOR 2014 world that is characterised by mutual benefit, now and for future generations. In 2014 we expect to complete the revision of the company SECTION THREE sustainability indicators, and report on an integrated set of We know further work needs to be done. The translation of sustainability performance metrics, targets and milestones these goals into meaningful and tangible performance targets using the strategy mapping and balanced scorecard approach, and milestones to demonstrate our progress will be completed as we continue to strive for improved performance monitoring in 2014. and evaluation. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 19 OUR SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW PANEL While we at AngloGold Ashanti are committed to continuously improving the group’s sustainability performance, we acknowledge that outside, independent advice is extremely valuable in the structured process of identifying and setting sustainability priorities. Sheila Khama Ruth Mompati Simon Zadek (Member: Ghana) (Former member: South Africa) (Panel facilitator) “ The panel’s role is to comment and provide guidance on the company’s approach to sustainability in terms of strategy and practice. ” Since its establishment in 2010, the panel has spent a significant amount of time with the business, engaging in a range of discussions with executives and senior management and visiting operations in Brazil, Ghana, South Africa and most recently Tanzania. The interactions between the panel and the Company are open and frank. The outcomes of this dialogue are shared with executive management for consideration and, where appropriate, implementation. Regional evaluations can take different forms. In Ghana and Brazil, panel members themselves selected and visited many communities and held discussions with a variety of stakeholders so as to see AngloGold Ashanti through the eyes of the community. In South Africa, the panel focused on understanding the challenges faced by a region with declining gold production Nisia Werneck Anita Roper (Member: Brazil) (Member: Australia) and an extensive labour force. In Tanzania, the panel considered many aspects of the Geita operations, especially The panel visits Cuiaba Mine in Brazil in 2012. issues associated with artisanal mining, procurement and community engagement. Since November 2010, we have benefited from diverse and The panel’s role is to comment and provide guidance on the multi-disciplinary inputs from a Sustainability Review Panel company’s approach to sustainability in terms of strategy – a group of advisers whose advice complements our own and practice. Decisions on what to do in response are understanding of our business and shareholder imperatives. exclusively management’s. The panel also reviews and makes recommendations on the content and quality of our reporting This panel draws together a group of independent experts, on sustainability and flags emerging issues that may require facilitated by an external advisor. Together they provide an closer attention. As in previous years, the panel has reviewed independent perspective on our sustainability performance. this group-level Sustainability Report and has provided its Many of the panel’s participants have extensive experience commentary in a review letter. It should be noted that the panel in mining, but that is not the principal criterion for selection. has not undertaken an audit of the report of the company’s The panel’s members reflect the geographical diversity of our activities, and so does not provide any indication of the business, and their experience of sustainability matters helps us accuracy of the report or the materiality or completeness of address the range of sustainability issues the company faces. specific elements. 20 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 INDEPENDENT PANEL REVIEW LETTER SECTION ONE AngloGold Ashanti’s Annual Sustainability Report 2013 is the “ The report signals the company’s continued company’s annual public communication about its sustainability commitment to sustainability in principle and impacts and outcomes, given its history, current context, values practice, tested to the full in difficult times. ” and aspirations, and its strategy and performance. Our role as an independent panel is a voluntary commitment made by AngloGold Ashanti to enhance the content and credibility of the report. This commitment, alongside the on-going, extensive and systematic approach over a number of years taken by AngloGold Ashanti towards sustainability reporting, is to be commended. 2013 has been an extremely difficult year for the company, This report is well organised and presented, and provides the with an extraordinary decline in gold prices adding to the reader across many impact areas, with information on the challenging economic conditions already apparent in 2012, company’s goals, performance and case examples. The report, and the tragic events in 2012 specific to South Africa and and the company, would benefit from a more comprehensive set their subsequent economic and social consequences. of quantitative, strategic goals, building on those in place such Despite such pressures, AngloGold Ashanti has maintained as ‘zero fatalities’, that clearly demonstrates its determination its overall commitment to sustainability, signaled by an to stretch ambition commensurate with its mission to be the emphatic statement in the report by the new Chief Executive world’s leading mining company, and shows progress towards Officer. Developments in Geita, Tanzania, for example, have realising this ambition. accelerated following the panel’s review visit in 2013, its fourth In conclusion, the panel, is appreciative of the challenges since being established, with some progress being made in facing AngloGold Ashanti, commends its efforts in preparing SECTION TWO difficult areas such as the management of on-site, artisanal the Annual Sustainability Report 2013. The report signals the mining. Internationally, the company’s community investment company’s continued commitment to sustainability in principle appears to have been maintained. and practice, tested to the full in difficult times. Furthermore, Less clear, however, is whether the changing economic context it highlights continued improvements in performance and might lead to more fundamental changes in the company’s reporting in a number of areas, whilst signaling in other areas business that in turn might have longer-term sustainability the need to clarify the company’s aims and progress. implications, such as the roll-out of new technologies, or a shift in the company’s international aspirations and approach. Furthermore, there are almost no stakeholder voices in the The panel visits Geita Gold Mine in Tanzania in 2013. report, with impacts on them being stated by the company on their behalf. This gap has been highlighted by the panel in previous years, and is particularly relevant when times are hard for more vulnerable stakeholders, including employees. AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability reporting is organised around six core, material themes. This approach is welcomed by the panel, which agrees with the centrality of the selected themes. Of particular note is the fuller treatment of employee health issues, particularly silicosis. Also appreciated is the more extensive coverage of the issue of migrant labour, largely specific to Southern Africa, and both a legacy issue and one concerning current practice. Future reports could benefit from more detailed coverage of how the company SECTION THREE deals with corruption endemic in some countries in which it operates and also how the company leverages its procurement in encouraging enterprise development in the communities in which it operates. This issue has been raised during panel Francis Petersen Muzong Kodi Anita Roper review visits and in previous review letters. (Member: South Africa) (Member: DRC) (Member: Australia) WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 21 OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT AND IDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL ISSUES The identification and pursuit of opportunities, and the identification and mitigation of risk are key components in developing and executing our business strategy, including our sustainability strategy. Our risk management process, and key risks and opportunities are addressed in our Annual Integrated Report 2013, and in a “ Our approach to risk management and detailed analysis available on our website(1). This process takes consideration of stakeholder concerns help into consideration the perceptions, reactions and behaviours of us identify our material issues. ” stakeholders and, combined with our stakeholder engagement process, feeds into the identification of material issues. www.anglogoldashanti.co.za/investors+and+media/financial+ (1)  reports/form+20-f.htm STEP 1: IDENTIFYING MATERIAL ISSUES, DELINEATING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY AND Relevance SELECTING ASPECTS Identify matters that have a past, present and potential Review future effect on our ability to STEP 1: create value over time • Risk register • Issues identified through benchmarking • Issues raised by stakeholders STEP 2: STEP 3: STEP 2: Importance Prioritisation • Identify extent of impact (qualitative and quantitative) as well Assess magnitude of effect Internal considerations as areas of impact and time frame Assess likelihood of External considerations • Identify issues with high likelihood occurrence STEP 3: • Identify thresholds and prioritise 22 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SECTION ONE OUR 2013 MATERIAL ISSUES 1 2 3 4 5 6 Ensuring safety Managing and Competing for Social, environmental Responsible gold Achieving business and security of meeting internal and resources and and health sustainability people (employees, external stakeholder infrastructure legacy issues contractors and expectations communities) For employees – Developing and wages, benefits Access to and security Occupational lung Eliminating safety Responsible gold implementing technology and jobs (ensuring of affordable energy, and disease, especially in incidents at work initiatives and increasing industrial relations climate change South Africa mechanisation peace and stability) SECTION TWO Doing no harm Social and For investors – returns Access to Meeting our to people, while environmental Addressing global at acceptable cost and security of obligation to respect protecting our people considerations and local skills and risk* affordable water human rights and facilities at Obuasi, Ghana For communities – Land management, Deep-level groundwater demonstrating shared biodiversity and and water pumping value and delivering on planning for obligations in South commitments mine closure Africa For governments – Migrant labour, utilisation of assets, Activities related and housing and delivering benefits and to artisanal and small accommodation in understanding resource scale mining South Africa nationalism For suppliers – understanding and Resettlement issues monitoring the conduct in Tanzania and and impact of our Ghana supply chain SECTION THREE * The following aspect can be found in our Online Sustainability Report: • For investors – returns at acceptable cost and risk WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 23 SECTION TWO REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES P24-74 In this section we review our sustainability performance during 2013 and commit to objectives for the year ahead. 24 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SECTION ONE We have identified six material issues. These are not ranked in order of priority, as each is SECTION TWO an area of priority in its own right. P26 – MATERIAL ISSUE 1 Ensuring safety and security of people (employees, contractors and communities) P30 – MATERIAL ISSUE 2 Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations P44 – MATERIAL ISSUE 3 Competing for resources and infrastructure P56 – MATERIAL ISSUE 4 Social, environmental and health legacy issues P66 – MATERIAL ISSUE 5 Responsible gold P71 – MATERIAL ISSUE 6 Achieving business sustainability SECTION THREE Clearly there is much overlap between the issues identified. To support this disclosure we present case studies in our Online Report. Supplementary information may also be found in our Online Report at www.aga-reports.com/13/os. The Nykabale village nursery is a project sponsored by AngloGold Ashanti to supply trees to the community and Geita Gold Mine, Tanzania. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 25 MATERIAL ISSUE 1: Ensuring safety and security of people (employees, contractors and communities) Safety is our first value. We place people first. The safety of people associated with our company, directly and indirectly, is a priority on which we will not compromise. While it is our responsibility to protect our people and our assets, we will seek to do no harm to people, by minimising conflict and confrontation. ENSURING SAFETY AND SECURITY OF PEOPLE Eliminating safety Doing no harm to (employees, contractors and communities) people, while protecting incidents at work our people and facilities STAKEHOLDERS: employees, communities, government, investors ELIMINATING SAFETY INCIDENTS AT WORK Progress Context GRI indicators on which we report: • G4-LA5: Percentage of total workforce represented in formal See our online report for our management approach in respect of joint management-worker health and safety committees that the following aspect: occupational health and safety. help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes • G4-LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Mining, especially ultra-deep underground conventional disease, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender mining, and processing of ore involves inherent hazards which • G4-SO8: Significant fines and total number of non-monetary must be understood, respected, and effectively managed sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations to eliminate or minimise risk of injury or harm to personnel. Traumatic injury and chronic exposure to occupational health hazards remain significant areas of focus across the Specific and comprehensive standards, guidelines, and industry. Common causes of fatal injury include rock falls, procedures addressing incident reporting, record keeping, vehicle accidents, incidents involving equipment and heavy and management at AngloGold Ashanti ensure incidents are machinery, inrushes and inundation, falls from height and reported and investigated in an open and transparent manner electrocution. Less common but recognised causes of fatal and actions are taken to prevent recurrence. Reporting, injury include underground fires, entrapment, handling of classifying, and recording of occupational injuries and hazardous materials including explosives, drowning and illness is performed in accordance with local jurisdictional shaft-related accidents. requirements and is consistent with provisions referenced in the International Labour Organization (ILO) “Recording and Common occupational health hazards include noise-induced Notification of Occupational Accidents and Disease” (1996) hearing loss, respiratory disease, heat stress, and ergonomiccode of practice. related musculoskeletal disorders. The systematic application of risk management techniques coupled with tactical focus With our deepest condolences to families and friends of those in specific areas has contributed to a substantial decline in lost, we regrettably report the loss of eight colleagues during occupational injury and illness frequency rates across the industry. the calendar year 2013 (2012: 18). Although this is a significant Further improvement, however, is necessary for workplaces to reduction from the previous year and represents our best be free of occupational injuries, incidents and illnesses and to performance yet, we understand the loss of a single life is one attain zero harm. too many and much more work is required. 26 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 1 Occupational Fatal injury frequency rate SECTION ONE fatalities (Incidents per million hours worked) In memoriam 15 0.09 09 09 •  2013/12/25: Mr Richard Aidoo, fatally injured in a 15 0.10 10 10 excavation incident at Obuasi, Ghana. 15 0.09 11 11 •  2013/12/11: Mr Edwin Khoele Makhari, fatally injured 0.10 18 12 44% in a winch scraper incident at Moab Khotsong, 12 reduction 8 0.05 over 5 years South Africa. 13 13 •  2013/08/14: Mr Kwame Mensah, fatally injured in a heavy mobile equipment accident at Iduapriem, Ghana. Injury severity rate All injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) (Injuries per million hours worked) •  2013/05/29: Mr Mabhedane Abedinigo Mahlalela, 09 363 09 12.88 fatally injured in a fall of ground incident at TauTona, 368 11.50 South Africa. 10 10 351 9.76 •  2013/04/23: Mr Mandisile Weduwedu, fatally injured 11 11 267 7.72 in a tramming incident at Mponeng, South Africa. 12 12 43% 247 7.33 reduction over 5 years •  2013/03/27: Mr Mashalane Abram Chaole, fatally 13 13 injured in a fall of ground incident at Mponeng, South Africa. Lost time injury frequency rate •  2013/02/22: Mr Palmer Nyathi, fatally injured in a fall from (per million hours worked) height incident in the West Wits region, South Africa. 6.57 09 •  2013/01/13: Mr Zithulele Makhayakuda, succumbed SECTION TWO 6.89 to underground environmental conditions while lost 10 6.28 at Mponeng, South Africa. 11 5.28 12 5.18 13 Although our lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) improved marginally year-on-year, the severity of injuries, as measured by the Using Professor James Reason’s Organisational Accident number of days lost per million hours worked, reduced 7.5% from Model, which is widely regarded as best practice and is the basis 267 days per million hours worked to 247 days per million hours of the AngloGold Ashanti Incident Investigation procedure, each worked. This positively contributes to productivity and translates fatal incident is thoroughly investigated by a team of capable and to over 4,700 fewer lost work days during the calendar year than competent experts with the aim of identifying failed or absent the previous year. Injury prevention initiatives and improved case controls and immediate and underlying individual, workplace, management largely account for the improvement. and organisational factors which may have contributed to the While we are encouraged by our performance, we understand incident. Subsequent to each investigation, corrective actions more is required and expected of us as we continue our journey are defined and instituted to prevent incident recurrence. to zero harm. While sustaining a significant (44%) improvement in our fatal Goals injury frequency rate (FIFR) for the previous five consecutive years, we are encouraged to report a 50% improvement over Our long-term goal remains to operate a business that is free the past 12 months. of occupational injury. In 2010, we committed the group to reducing our AIFR to less than nine per million hours worked Management’s active positioning of safety as our first by 2015. value coupled with a systematic approach to major hazard We will continue our strong focus on: SECTION THREE management, organisational capability building and institutional change is attributed to the improvement. • m  ajor hazard management, including systematic analysis of risk, identification of critical controls, and implementation of Using a two-prong approach focusing on personnel and routine monitoring; process, not only did our FIFR improve, but our all injury • building more resilient management systems; frequency rate (AIFR) improved as well to a record low of 7.33 incidents per million hours worked. For the second consecutive • adopting technology to remove people from harm; and year, our AIFR has remained substantially below our 2015 •  instilling safety leadership attributes and a culture of care for strategic target of <9.0 incidents per million hours worked. fellow workers. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 27 MATERIAL ISSUE 1: continued Ensuring safety and security of people (employees, contractors and communities) DOING NO HARM TO PEOPLE, WHILE Risks are also present where our operations are affected by PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE AND FACILITIES political strife and acrimonious labour relations structures, with the coups in Mali in 2011/2012 and inter-union rivalry in Context 2012/2013 in South Africa being cases in point. See our online report for our management approach in respect of We recognise that good community relationships – built on trust the following aspect: occupational health and safety. – will have the most profound and positive impact on security performance. Increase in illegal mining and, in particular, an Our mission for security within AngloGold Ashanti is to protect increase in the level of organisation and funding of criminal our people and our assets and to uphold the reputation of activity around our operations has the potential to increase the the company. We recognise that our work in vastly different number and severity of security incidents. Effective strategies environments presents different risk profiles, from high to for community engagement and local economic development extreme risk to very low-risk environments, and that it is to create alternative livelihoods are essential in addressing imperative that we anticipate, interpret and appropriately human rights and security issues and their causes, and this is mitigate security risk. discussed in more detail on page 53. Our most significant security challenges lie in the regions in The application of the Voluntary Principles on Security and which we operate where there is endemic poverty, with high Human Rights (VPSHR) forms an integral part of our global levels of unemployment and few opportunities for alternative security framework and is one of the key drivers for our livelihoods. The presence of artisanal and small-scale miners security management practices. The VPSHR comprise a set of (ASM) can lead to illegal and criminal third-party activity on principles to guide businesses, governments and civil society or around our operations and often presents increased and on meeting security needs while maintaining respect for human complex challenges to security – see the discussion on artisanal rights and fundamental freedoms. and small-scale mining on page 53. Progress GRI indicators on which we report: Cesar Colmenares, a risk controller, engages with a San Roque policeman at Gramalote, Colombia. • G4-HR7: Percentage of security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures • G4-HR9: Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments We continue to improve our security management practices across our operations, through the implementation of our global security framework and our revised security strategy, which encompasses five key thrusts, namely: • removing people from risk, thus reducing the potential for conflict; • defining the company’s role and partnering with communities in complementing security initiatives; • engaging more effectively with public security providers; • improving technology application and reducing manpower; and • using highly-trained, skilled and equipped rapid reaction teams to complement the applied technologies. Following the increase in VPSHR related security incidents in 2012, largely owing to increased and more complex ASM/illegal mining challenges in Tanzania and Ghana, much attention was focused on this in 2013. Our on-going focus is on the 28 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 1 Fatalities/injuries: Community/ Community allegations A review of our VPSHR training material was also conducted, SECTION ONE AngloGold Ashanti due to and incidents under VPSHR to align with our revised human rights policy and standards security intervention and is being piloted at Geita as a Human Rights Ambassador 09 1 4 09 programme. The programme focuses on the concept of human 2 3 11 10 10 2 6 rights, its place in AngloGold Ashanti, and its relationship to 5 44 11 5 3 the security discipline through the VPSHR. Our human rights 11 3 9 49 12 0 9 6 policy can be found on our website (1). It is aimed at developing 12 0 2 16 51 13 a better understanding of human rights, communicating how 3 2 13 security issues intersects human rights and to develop the 2 27 51 Allegations Incidents skills needed to integrate respect for human rights and security AGA injuries Community injuries AGA fatalities Community fatalities duties. Excellent progress has been made in this regard at Geita, whereby all security staff have received the related training and a large portion of employees and contractors were Fatalities/injuries: Third party trained during 2013. Roll-out to all other operations is planned not due to security intervention for early in 2014. 09 12 1 Engagement at Geita with NGO Search for Common Ground 10 (SFCG) continued in 2013, to complement our efforts in the 4 2 11 training of our people, private/public security and community in 4 0 0 conflict prevention/resolution, including with respect to sexual 12 19 17 harassment. The project will be accelerated in 2014 after a 13 16 56 slow start in 2013. However, following the engagement and SECTION TWO Fatalities Injuries discussions with SFCG and the work done with Stellenbosch University in 2012, we have addressed identified gaps and issues in our internal processes. The implementation of the Advanced Incident Investigation methodology in 2012 has contributed to the improved security and human rights performance in 2013, as root causes implementation of the security plan, specifically removing identified in significant investigations, has resulted in appropriate people from risk and reducing the potential for conflict. There mitigation measures being implemented. has been a measurable decrease in the number of intrusions reported at Geita and Obuasi, despite on-going challenges In South Africa, the labour unrest experienced at our operations associated with their prevention. This has also contributed to early in the year was well-managed by our security staff, with the a reduction in injuries and fatalities of community members as assistance from the South African Police Services (SAPS). No a result of security interventions. Unfortunately, attacks on our significant incidents were reported, although sporadic volatility security staff have increased, emphasising the challenges faced was experienced. Copper cable theft, which is a problem across and the requirement for continuous training in the appropriate the country and internationally, is becoming more prevalent at use of force and rules of engagement, when dealing with our South African operations and has necessitated a change crowds or groups of people. in tactics of our security staff, who are sometimes confronted By the end of 2013, 96% of AngloGold Ashanti security by heavily armed criminals when fulfilling their duties in trying to personnel and public and private security suppliers had prevent losses. received training in line with the VPSHR (2012: 99%). The decrease in the percentage trained is mainly due to security Goals staff turnover and additional deployment requirements. Most Our goals remains to eliminate all fatalities and injuries to third SECTION THREE of this training is undertaken in-house, although expert external parties and our own staff, and to protect our people, product service providers are engaged as necessary for specialised and facilities. The ongoing implementation of the security skills and training, for example, crowd control and emergency strategy and associated plans is key in maintaining the progress response, as required. that has been made in this regard. (1) www.anglogoldashanti.co.za/sustainability/gov+policies.htm REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 29 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations The expectations of our host communities are many and interconnected. Communities wish to see the creation of employment leading to improved and sustained livelihoods and better quality and access to infrastructure. Governments seek to realise benefits from their countries’ mineral resources through taxes, royalties and in some cases direct ownership stakes. Investors expect management to execute and deliver on business targets which may include production, cost management, earnings and cash flow. We work towards understanding, aligning, and managing expectations and balancing these with our capability and capacity to deliver. MANAGING AND MEETING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL For employees – For investors – returns STAKEHOLDER wages, benefits and jobs (and ensuring industrial at acceptable cost and risk (1) EXPECTATIONS relations peace and stability) STAKEHOLDERS: employees, investors, communities, governments, For governments For suppliers suppliers, customers For communities – – utilisation of assets, – understanding and demonstrating shared delivering benefits and monitoring the conduct value and delivering understanding resource and impact of our on commitments nationalism supply chain (1) This section can be found online at www.aga-reports.com/13/os FOR EMPLOYEES – WAGES, BENEFITS AND It is one of our core values to treat each other with dignity and JOBS (ENSURING INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS respect, believing that individuals who are treated in such a way respond by giving of their best, which in turn creates both PEACE AND STABILITY) personal and organisational advantages. To achieve this we Context seek to ensure that employees are placed in appropriate roles and are equipped with the right skills and means to deliver on goals. See page 73. See our online report for our management approach in respect of the following aspects: economic performance, market presence, employment, labour practices, grievance mechanisms, nonWe respect fundamental labour rights, including the right discrimination and labour-management relations. to organise and collective bargaining. With the exception of Australia and the United States, where collective bargaining is not common in the resources sector, collective bargaining Our employees are key stakeholders in our business. We structures are in place at all operations. In South Africa, in recognise that the sustainability of our business is reliant on our particular, collective bargaining is a significant feature of our providing wages, benefits, working conditions and development socio-economic landscape, and initiatives to sustain and opportunities that will attract and retain the right people with the strengthen our collective bargaining structures have been a right skills. priority during the year. 30 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 Average total workforce* SECTION ONE Group 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Employees 48,159 47,829 46,066 48,854 49,908 Contractors 18,275 17,993 15,176 13,192 13,456 Total 66,434 65,822 61,242 62,046 63,364 * See discussion on page 7 on average employee numbers. medium term, and with less emphasis on growth in this time frame, given that the two new mines Tropicana and Kibali will bring on stream over 500,000oz of gold production in 2014. This required some refocusing on core business and costs, and restructuring of functions operations. CASE STUDY: Share ownership plan for employees www.aga-reports.com/13/cs We embarked on cost improvements at every level of our business. In re-basing our company, we started at the top of the organisation – rationalising management structures, and cutting out intermediaries (such as some consultants) and unnecessary layers. The greatest impact has been at SECTION TWO corporate offices around the world and in the South Africa and Continental Africa regions. CASE STUDY: Restructuring in line with global best practice www.aga-reports.com/13/cs Our employees are key stakeholders in our business. Employee wages and benefits make up a significant component of our cost base* 39% in 2013 (38% in 2012). In 2013, Progress payments to employees of wages and benefits amounted to $1,593m (2012: $1,565m). GRI indicators on which we report: * The cost base is operating costs plus employee salaries, wages and • G4-EC3: Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations other benefits as per the value-added statement. •  G4-LA4: Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Managing employee grievances • G4-LA16: Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms We work towards effectively addressing the concerns •  G4-HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and raised by our employees – recognising that they have the corrective actions taken ability to influence the long-term success of our business. • MM4: Number of strikes and lock outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country A grievance policy is in place to give employees an avenue to lodge grievances or complaints against colleagues and managers. Line managers and HR practitioners are trained Sustaining employment in the administration of the policy and the formal processes to follow. During the year one report categorised as a SECTION THREE Providing leadership and supporting management processes grievance was filed through the whistle-blowing process. through implementing our System for People (SP) has helped We take any grievances about labour practices filed against us ensure these employees are placed in the right roles, with us seriously and corrective actions are taken immediately. clearly defined responsibilities, and doing the right work to A whistle-blower policy is in place which provides the means deliver against our goals. for employees to report, in good faith, violations of our values, The dramatic decline in the gold price has led to a change in Code of Good Business Principles and Ethics, policies, our business approach with our business strategy aimed at standards or procedures and laws, regulations and other legal ensuring the sustainability of our business in the short and obligations. This policy was implemented to give employees REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 31 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: continued Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations a platform to raise anonymous complaints against certain people and business practices. These are all investigated by “ We will continue to engage as Group Internal Audit, and a full report is provided to the CEO constructively as possible with our and the Board on a quarterly basis. Appropriate action has employees to ensure mutually respectful and been taken where negative findings have emerged, up to and including dismissal of guilty parties. trusting working relationships. ” Collective bargaining Following significant industrial relations unrest in 2012, particularly in South Africa, the industrial relations climate in 2013 had become relatively more stable, albeit unpredictable. remuneration for their work, optimal working conditions and There were no strikes or lock-outs exceeding one week’s creating a working environment whereby grievances are swiftly duration in 2013. and effectively addressed, we believe that we will meet our employees’ expectations. Goals We will continue to engage as constructively as possible with We seek to minimise industrial action. Where industrial action our employees to ensure mutually respectful and trusting does occur, we seek to minimise the duration and impact on working relationships. By providing our employees with fair our operations and employees. Industrial relations in South Africa Union and collective bargaining participation in South This settlement followed a 48-hour strike at our Vaal Africa, where the group has the most number of employees, River Operations in September 2013. While AMCU was is 93%. The majority of gold producers bargain centrally, not party to the final agreement, the benefits from this under the auspices of the Chamber of Mines, in a practice agreement were applied to all employees in the bargaining that has been established over 30 years. Centralised unit, irrespective of union affiliation. bargaining has many benefits, including the optimal use of skilled resources for both employers and unions, the As a company we work towards preventing, and when establishment of minimum standards and practices this is not possible, resolving strikes by mineworkers as across the group, and the ability to address opportunities swiftly as possible. In doing so we seek to minimise the and challenges in a collaborative and coordinated way. adverse impact on levels of trust between employees and employers. During the year we concluded a two-year wage settlement covering our employees within the unionised The wage negotiations, strike and settlement took place bargaining unions in South Africa. This followed within the context of a dynamic and changing labour the biennial wage negotiations conducted between relations climate in South Africa. Currently, AMCU is the the gold producers in South Africa, the Chamber majority union at our West Wits operations, while the NUM of Mines and NUM, AMCU, Solidarity and UASA. is the majority union at our Vaal River operations. While Under the agreement reached with NUM, UASA and this may cause certain challenges at a centralised level, Solidarity (collectively representing 63% of employees AngloGold Ashanti’s approach is an inclusive one. We withing the bargaining unit in the sector), pay levels seek to engage with unions who represent the interests have risen by between 7.5% and 8.0% (effective of employees, and do not generally insist on particular 1 July 2013) and employees will receive Consumer Price levels of representation prior to the granting of access or Index-linked increases in the second year (effective organisational rights. 1 July 2014). This outcome was, we believe, in the interests of our shareholders and employees. 32 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 Union representation and collective bargaining agreements SECTION ONE (% of employees covered) 2013 Argentina 99 Australia – Brazil 100 DRC 29 Ghana 97 Group turnover rate Guinea 100 (%) Mali 97 9.70 09 Namibia 64 11.15 10 South Africa 93 8.86 Tanzania 82 11 7.55 USA – 12 12.51 Group 94 13 South Africa: unionised employees (including contractors) 2013 (%) 2013 2012 No. % No. % National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) 14,154 50.55 18,542 60.09 SECTION TWO UASA 2,798 9.99 3,040 9.85 Solidarity 789 2.82 841 2.73 Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) 8,191 29.25 4,903 15.89 Southern African Equity Workers Association 19 0.07 31 0.10 No union 2,051 7.32 3,499 11.34 Total 28,002 100.00 30,856 100.00 SECTION THREE Dialogue session at Moab Khotsong Mine, South Africa. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 33 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: continued Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations FOR COMMUNITIES – DEMONSTRATING the expectations of delivery by mining companies with those SHARED VALUE AND DELIVERING ON of government. As a company, we support governments by COMMITMENTS encouraging sustainable development in the areas in which we operate and by ensuring continuity of services once a Context mine has closed. This highlights the importance of forming partnerships with governments, other companies and other See our online report for our management approach in respect stakeholders, such as NGOs and donor organisations. of the following aspects: indirect economic impacts, grievance mechanisms, local communities, grievance mechanisms for impacts on society and indigenous rights. By way of example, the Geita Water Supply Project, which will supply 200m³ per hour of piped water to Geita Town is a $10.3m partnership entered into between the Government of We aim to create and share value with the communities in which Tanzania and Geita. A memorandum of understanding signed in we operate. The concept of shared value goes beyond simply December 2012 set out the responsibilities of each party: Geita redistributing economic wealth; we view it as a way we can will provide treated bulk water to a reservoir in the town, while create value for society by addressing its needs and challenges, the government will finance the supply and distribution network thereby expanding, where possible, the pool of economic and to households and public water points. Although the bulk water social value. Business and society benefits go hand-in-hand, and treatment system compartment has been completed, the social harms can result in internal costs for AngloGold Ashanti. distribution network has yet to be constructed due to financial constraints faced by the Government. In order to progress We implement community development programmes at our the project until other sources of funding are secured by the operations in partnership with communities and external parties wherever possible. We have developed a set of community standards (based on international best practice) which have been rolled out across the group for implementation. This includes greenfields and brownfields exploration, where these standards have been adapted to meet the particular needs of this part of the business. Work to assess the level of compliance of each operation with these standards will commence in 2014 and is expected to be completed in 2015. In Continental Africa, to better understand the issues that matter to AngloGold Ashanti’s stakeholders and to tailor our stakeholder engagement strategies to better meet their needs, an initiative was launched to analyse and map the concerns, and the relationships between, our local, regional and national stakeholders. This process – known as the stakeholder mapping initiative – involved commissioning experts to produce a framework for engagement that is consistent across all operations. Engaging with communities throughout the life cycle of our operations is the first step in creating shared value and contributes to our ability to create a positive and enduring legacy. To truly provide long-term community benefits we work in partnership with communities, governments and local NGOs. The way in which we create shared value varies according to specific community needs. We invest in community development through direct (community investment and social infrastructure) and indirect (local procurement and employment) contributions. The creation of employment opportunities is another way we make a positive impact – see page 31. A challenge we are often faced with is the limited capacity of local and national governments to deliver services to communities. This results in governments not meeting the expectations of communities, and blurs the lines between AngloGold Ashanti supports social projects in Raposas City, Minas Gerais, Brazil. 34 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 SECTION ONE Government to complete the distribution network, a phased evaluation (including self-evaluation) of the gaps experienced approach to completing the project has been agreed. The first by sites in their implementation of these standards. On the phase will be the construction of a limited distribution network basis of these gaps, each site has developed and implemented which is expected to be complete in 2014 while government plans to close the gaps. seeks additional funding to successfully complete the rest of the project. Progress “ To truly provide long-term community benefits we work in partnership with the community itself – and GRI indicators on which we report: also government and local NGOs whenever possible. ” • G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed • G4-EC6: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation • E4-EC8: Significant indirect economic impacts, including extent of impacts • G4-LA8: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions •  G4-SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes Bridging gaps in Australia •  G4-SO2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Sunrise Dam hosted the first intake of process technicians’ • G4-SO3: Total number and percentage of operations assessed traineeships for Tropicana in time to meet the start-up of the for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified mine. Another new mine-ready training programme ‘Get on SECTION TWO •  G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption Track’ was completed with 10 individuals drawn from indigenous policies and procedures communities successfully completing the course. The course • G4-SO11: Number of grievances about impacts on society is presented by Carey Training, a local indigenous company filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms supported by AngloGold Ashanti. Nine of the 10 graduates have started working with McMahon Contractors at Tropicana. • G4-EN34: Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance These initiatives form an important part of our commitment to mechanisms providing education and skills to local community members, •  G4-HR8: Total number of incidents of violations involving which has been bolstered by our ‘Think Local’ approach rights of indigenous people and actions taken to community engagement. This approach has resulted in a • G4-HR12: Number of grievances about environmental impacts significant increase in local employment, with locals making filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms up 8% of new hires in 2013. Considering that the bulk of our •  G4-MM6: Number and description of significant disputes Australian workforce has operated on a fly-in, fly-out basis, this relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and has been a considerable achievement. indigenous peoples •  G4-MM7: The extent to which grievance mechanisms were Another positive step has been the appointment of six new used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights indigenous contractors in 2013. Our on-going support of of local communities and Indigenous People, and the outcomes Aboriginal contractors ensures that these contractors are able to maintain and grow their contracts, further supporting the Measuring our progress on our community commitments at a employment and up-skilling of indigenous people. See pages group level is complex. Global performance metrics to measure 73-74 for a discussion on how else we address local and global the impact of our site-specific community development skills shortages. programmes and investments have been developed and are In support of indigenous art and culture, The Punu Project being rolled out. While we report on community investment (a cross-generational education and exchange programme) (page 37), we recognise that this is one of the measures of SECTION THREE recommenced during the year at the Tjuntjuntjara community, inputs rather than outcomes. Outcomes often need to be local to Tropicana. An artist took up residency in the community identified at a country or operational level, and the inputs of to teach wood sculpture techniques, but also to facilitate stakeholders themselves need to be taken into account. bridging the divide between elders in the community and the Nonetheless, identifying more appropriate metrics is something youth. Due to its success, the project will be expanded to that the company is currently considering. another community in Sunrise Dam’s area of influence. One of the ways in which the combined assurance approach (see page 5) has been used for practical advantage is an REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 35 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: continued Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations Social and labour plans (SLPs) as a mechanism for social engagement and delivery In South Africa we have established structured community engagement forums that are led by the Chief Operating Officer to report back on progress and challenges in implementing our SLPs. We held three community briefings in 2013, in the Merafong, Matlosana and OR Tambo municipalities. In addition, we established and participated in structured SLP Implementation Committee Meetings, which include AngloGold Ashanti personnel, as well as officials from all three municipalities. The Mandating Committee meets on a quarterly basis to monitor and ensure progress against the implementation of SLP projects. Participants in each municipality include In 2013 we completed building a new school in the village of Libode in the Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. the executive mayors, as well as AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability senior management and managers that lead Dynamic Butchery has now been linked to our internal the portfolios of Enterprise Development, Local Economic procurement system to ensure that it grows and becomes Development, Community, Human Resources, Housing a sustainable business. Through our intervention the outlet and Health. has recently opened a second butchery. Through our community human resources programme, Development through education lies at the heart of our we have awarded bursaries to a number of community socio-economic development projects in South Africa. This members, trained youth in communities on portable year we handed over the Windows of Hope Primary School engineering skills, novice miners, learner miners and others to the Viljoenskloof community in the Vaal River area. in fields such as finance and nursing. We continued to We also contributed to the extension of the Klerksdorp expose interns to formal employment, with nine of the 30 Methodist Primary School in Klerksdorp. enrolled interns having obtained formal employment either outside the organisation or inside AngloGold Ashanti. As part of a teacher and school capacity building programme we delivered a science laboratory at the In addition, we are investing around $4.7m in Social and Vaal Reefs Technical School, a science and computer Institutional Development. $1.6m per annum is spread laboratory at Wedela Technical High School, we replaced across the Merafong, Matiosana and our labour-sending a dilapidated mud school with a new school, new ablution areas. The latter initiative forms part of our beyondfacilities and a new administration block in the remote compliance strategy. This is not as required by the law, we village of Libode at Sonata Junior Primary School in the are doing this in addition to fulfilling the stipulated statutory Eastern Cape Province. AngloGold Ashanti also built a new requirements. The latter fund responds to Millennium science laboratory, handing this over to the community Development Goals-aligned projects to alleviate poverty, of Goso Forest at Goso Forest Junior Secondary School. strengthen the health and education system, promote All of these projects were launched in partnership with gender empowerment and youth development, as well the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) and the as curbing the impact of HIV/AIDS in our host and labourDepartment of Basic Education. sending communities. A total of 174 projects benefited from this fund in 2013. In our quest to strengthen and support the health system we delivered to our host community of Merafong the Our local economic development fund supports income Carletonville Medical Step-Down Facility which is a palliative generating projects such as Uribrant Designz in Merafong. care unit. In addition to this we built a paediatric ward at the A young entrepreneur established the business specialising same hospital. in design, branding and printing and Uribrandt Designz now provides services to AngloGold Ashanti, the municipality, As part of our contribution to enabling healthy living and public works and local NGOs, among others. promote the use of recreational facilities we handed over the Khutsong Community Park to the community of Khutsong in We supported an ailing butchery, assisting it back into Merafong which boasts a fully equipped outdoor gymnasium, business through our Enterprise Development Fund. a soccer pitch and kids play equipment and area. 36 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 Community investment SECTION ONE ($000) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 South Africa * 8,391 7,700 3,670 3,242 2,962 Continental Africa 13,279 13,341 13,502 8,047 5,525 Australasia 463 464 276 456 133 Americas 5,761 5,148 4,939 5,480 2,804 Less: equity-accounted investments (5,358) (1,746) (1,775) (1,145) (543) Total 22,536 24,907 20,611 16,080 10,881 * Community investment spend increased in the South African region following an increase in project activity due to the approval of social and labour plans. In South Africa we honour the commitments amounting to by the DMR in October 2013. The delay in the approval of $43.4m made in our social and labour plans (SLPs). SLPs the SLP’s has led to backlogs in the implementation of certain are a key component of the new order mining right in South projects and the company has already lodged applications with Africa and we have developed SLPs to assist in addressing the the DMR for an extension of the implementation of such projects and change in certain projects that were found no longer feasible social and economic impacts that our mining activities have on as agreed with the above mentioned municipalities. surrounding communities. In the Continental Africa region, we have experienced delays AngloGold Ashanti developed SLPs for the period of 2010 to in the implementation of a number of community projects, a 2014 in consultation with the host community municipalities of result of the financial constraints experienced by the group Merafong and Matlosana, the OR Tambo District Municipality during the year. In Ghana, an initiative to transfer or sell SECTION TWO and recognised labour unions. The West Wits operations’ SLP businesses or initiatives to third parties are currently underway. was approved by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) in The aim is to promote socio-economic development and October 2012, and the Vaal River operations’ SLP was approved sustainable livelihoods. Economic value-added statement for the year ended 31 December ($m) % 2013 % (1) 2012 Economic value generated Gold sales and by-product income (2) 99 5,646 98 6,559 Interest received 1 39 1 43 Royalties received – 18 – 23 Profit from sale of assets (3) – 2 – 14 Income from investments – 7 1 34 Total economic value generated 100 5,712 100 6,673 Economic value distributed Operating costs 43 2,484 38 2,551 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits 28 1,593 23 1,566 Payments to providers of capital 6 336 7 446 – Finance costs and unwinding obligations 5 296 4 231 – Dividends 1 40 3 215 Corporate taxation – Current taxation 2 134 6 414 Community and social investments (4) 1 27 1 19 SECTION THREE Total economic value distributed 80 4,574 75 4,996 Economic value retained (5) 20 1,138 25 1,677 (1) The 2012 comparatives have been restated as a result of the adoption of IFRIC 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine. In addition, IAS19 Employee Benefits have been applied retrospectively from 1 January 2011. For more details refer to group note 39 of the Annual Financial Statements 2013. In addition, the comparatives have been adjusted to exclude impairments and impairment reversals. (2) Gold sales and by-product income were lower due to a 16% lower price received, partly offset by a 4% increase in ounces sold. (3) Partial disposal of the interest in Rand Refinery Limited resulted in a profit of $14m in 2012. (4) Community and social investments exclude expenditure by equity-accounted joint ventures. (5) Economic value retained excludes impairments and impairment reversals. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 37 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: continued Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations Stakeholder communication through regular, formal and grievance mechanism solely based on the internet would be planned engagement is one of the ways we give feedback to inappropriate. Instead, we make use of a range of procedures, our host communities, while also gauging the acceptance of including an open door policy, feedback boxes that facilitate our social projects. Being proactive in terms of our community anonymous communication, and kiosks where members of engagement is also particularly important at our Colombian the community can speak to an AngloGold Ashanti employee operations, where in certain cases, we have experienced or representative. The availability of grievance mechanisms opposition to our mining activities by the community. is widely and transparently communicated (or will be as new modifications are made at specific sites), as is the feedback A detailed discussion on our community development where appropriate. programmes and engagement by operation can be found at www.aga-reports.com-2013. We are sensitive to the importance of respecting the views of our communities – and acting on their concerns as a fundamental part of the way we do business. We believe that CASE STUDY: Greenfield exploration: we have made progress towards restoring the trust between engaging with communities in Colombia our company and the communities through on-going and www.aga-reports.com/13/cs proactive communication. We constantly seek opportunities to engage better, and more robustly, with our communities. Transparent procedures for resolving conflicts between our company and the communities in which we operate are Our objective is to ensure that members of the community feel essential for maintaining our relationships as even minor comfortable in raising their concerns with us and that we are issues can escalate into disputes if left unattended. We must, able to respond in an appropriate and timely manner. though, also take into account the unique circumstances at each of our projects and operations. This requires a very clear In 2013 there were 26 community incidents (2012: 58), of understanding of the local context. these two were reportable, meaning the incident could affect the company’s reputation or result in a cost to the company. All our operations in the Americas have long had such Community incidents are classified into five levels of severity procedures in place. These have been adapted, where ranging from minor to extreme and include: necessary, to be in line with AngloGold Ashanti’s group-wide • active community opposition; standard on grievance mechanisms. Our aim is to facilitate direct communication with members of the community, but in a • indigenous or traditional cultural heritage disturbance/rights way that is appropriate and locally-relevant. infringements; • human rights issues; By way of example, at CC&V in the United States, through • structural damage to public or private property; communications technology that is readily available, an online grievance mechanism is viable. In Colombia – where • noise and ground vibration; and access to the internet is limited in some communities – a • reputational issues. Community incidents* 2013 2012 2011 2010 South Africa – 3 – – Continental Africa 7 53 61 7 Australasia – 1 – – Americas (including Colombia) 19 1 – – Total 26 58 61 7 * Includes all levels of severity. Of the total in 2013, only 2 incidents were reportable. 38 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 FOR GOVERNMENTS – UTILISATION OF SECTION ONE • Historically this industry contributes one-fifth of the country’s ASSETS, DELIVERING BENEFITS AND corporate tax receipts. These taxes are essential to fund ADDRESSING RESOURCE NATIONALISM government services and expand social welfare. • Electricity prices (set by parastatal electricity utility, Eskom) Context have risen by 120.2% over the past five years, at the same time that supply has contracted and become less reliable. See our online report for our management approach for the following aspects: economic performance and public policy. •  The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA), which came into effect on 1 May 2004, provides for state sovereignty over all mineral and petroleum resources We make payments to government, including various forms in the country. A formula-driven royalty for the gold industry of direct and indirect taxation, licensing fees and royalties. came into effect on 1 March 2010. We understand and recognise the rights of local and national governments in this respect and act with integrity in paying • To promote economic growth and to foster socio-economic what is due in line with international norms, local legislation development and transformation, the Mining Charter was and tariffs. introduced in 2004, committing all mining companies to meet certain requirements as part of acquiring their new order mining We support the long-term, mutually beneficial generation of rights. These included black economic empowerment (BEE) value – for our company, for our employees, for communities ownership, employment equity, human resource development, and for the governments of the regions in which we operate. To housing and living conditions, local economic development and make this a reality, transparent and constructive engagement BEE procurement. with governments is needed to foster an understanding of We have had pressure from a number of other mining some of the wide reaching and sustainable benefits gold mining jurisdictions implementing or planning to implement super SECTION TWO can bring to a country, its people and to its government. profit taxes in a now changed gold price environment, which It is understandable that governments seek maximum benefit would have a direct impact on our cost of producing in those from the extraction of a country’s finite mineral resources. countries. Globally, taxes and royalties have increased, and we expect will continue to do so. It is our role to encourage Mining is a long-term and capital intensive business requiring and facilitate a better understanding of mining operations, stable policy environments and tolerable risk levels. Sudden the production costs involved and the long lead times before changes in policy can lead to the destruction of value for a realising investment returns and showing demonstrable benefits mining company (and ultimately the country itself) as projects to communities and to governments in all areas in which are delayed and investment withdrawn due to higher perceived we operate. risk and costs. Progress Resource nationalism is one of our key risks, and indeed a global risk currently facing the mining industry as a whole. GRI indicators on which we report: The risk has been exacerbated by a commodities supercycle • G4-EC4: Significant financial assistance received from government that yielded significant profits and precipitated increased • G4-SO5: Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken competition for access to scarce resources, including gold. • G4-SO6: Total value of political contribution by country and This, combined with socio-economic pressures such as recipient/beneficiary increasing unemployment and rising community expectations • G4-EC7: Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported linked to high poverty levels, has led to governments seeking more than the benefits received through taxation. New legislation in regions around the world includes increased Creating employment – both direct and indirect – is one such export levies and limits on foreign ownership, as well as way that we add value to our host communities and host mandated local beneficiation. countries. In 2013 we paid $1,593m in wages and benefits to our employees. We support local employment and stimulate SECTION THREE By way of example, the public burden placed on the South African local economic development through our supply chain mining industry is significant and has been rising progressively: management and procurement policies – see pages 41-43. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 39 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: continued Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations Payments to governments by country ($m) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Argentina 122.4 147.7 133.7 62.6 36.6 Australia 49.2 88.2 122.2 28.1 54.4 Brazil 140.9 143.8 138.2 122.5 78.4 Colombia 22.1 23.3 10.9 14.6 9.6 DRC 23.1 15.9 11.1 10.5 2.2 Ghana 68.5 *77.8 97.9 61.6 55.4 Guinea 93.3 101.4 98.5 96.3 63.6 Mali 57.6 132.3 164.1 170.3 153.3 Namibia 7.4 10.9 9.2 14.0 6.8 South Africa 157.0 250.8 313.3 199.5 117.7 Tanzania 69.8 213.8 101.1 45.0 59.7 USA 28.5 41.3 19.8 19.4 6.6 Total 839.8 1,247.2 1,220.0 844.4 644.3 * The payment to Ghana government for 2012 was restated due to an additional dividend payment made. We spent $9.9m on infrastructure development within our where possible work in partnership with other mining companies host countries – in many cases this investment is invaluable or industry partners to deliver more sustainable outcomes. to the region and we need to make sure access and benefits are shared with host communities. We continue to develop We believe that we have to have discipline around our stakeholder and implement our community development projects – see engagement. In engaging governments, there has to be rigour page 37. and transparency in dealing with pertinent issues that have a direct or indirect impact on host communities. Aligning with We believe that transparency leads to accountability and broader government development goals and plans, at national, disclose in full all payments made to governments (including provincial/regional and local level, has become the norm. This royalties and taxes) in line with the Extractive Industries goes beyond the payment of taxes to tackling some of the more Transparency Initiative (EITI) Standard. EITI is a global coalition complex issues of delivering services to currently and previously of governments, companies and civil society who work together isolated and underserved communities, and also developing a to improve openness and the accountable management of better understanding of local priorities and plans where our revenues derived from natural resources. mutual interests intersect. Goals We will continue to engage with governments to develop a better understanding of the value our operations can bring to the region “ We believe that transparency leads and the government. Through this engagement we aim to align to accountability. ” government’s long-term plans with those of our company’s and 40 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 FOR SUPPLIERS – UNDERSTANDING AND SECTION ONE aware of the implications and importance of ethical conduct MONITORING THE CONDUCT AND IMPACT in our supply chain. In line with our commitment to the OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles and our Code of Business Principles and Context Ethics, we have implemented these across our supply chain process. We have also taken an active role in a number of See our online report for our management approach for the Responsible Gold initiatives to strengthen our supply chain following aspects: supplier assessments for labour practices, – see pages 66-68. procurement practices, investment, freedom of association and collective bargaining, child labour, forced or compulsory labour, Many of our operations are located in developing countries, and supplier human rights assessment, supplier environmental assessment and supplier assessments for impact on society. responsible management of our supply chain has the potential to add value to these communities. The way in which we operate must be value-adding for the communities, local governments The supply chain for gold is complex, made even more so by and society as a whole. At some of our operations, particularly the challenges presented in trying to track gold from production in South Africa, in-country and local procurement is integral to its use in the final product such as jewellery, electronics to the industry’s transformation programme. This makes and other technological applications. Gold is fungible, so it is this aspect of supply chain management in South Africa easily melted and recycled, making it difficult to trace back especially important. to its source of origin. In 2011, we committed to developing an understanding of the ethical behaviour of suppliers and to reporting fully on the suppliers screened in respect of human Progress rights. During 2012, the Ethical Supply Chain Tool was GRI indicators on which we report: developed with a view to pilot it within the South Africa region SECTION TWO • G4-EC9: Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant before being implemented across the group. Due to the SAP locations of operation enterprise resource planning system being implemented during • G4-HR1: Total number and percentage of significant investment 2013, this work was put on hold and for revision and approval agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses in 2014. or that underwent human rights screening • G4-HR4: Operations and suppliers identified in which the right Supply chain management is more than just procuring the to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to right product, at the right time and in the right quantities. support these rights Effective supply chain management, undertaken with • G4-HR5: Operations and suppliers identified as having significant integrity and in line with the company’s values, can add value risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to to our business by improving efficiency, relationships and contribute to the effective abolition of child labour reputation and, ultimately, affect the long-term sustainability • G4-HR6: Operations and suppliers identified as having significant of AngloGold Ashanti. We are a global company operating risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or across most of the world’s continents and responsible compulsory labour management of our supply chain is an increasingly important • G4-SO10: Significant actual and potential negative impacts on ethics and human rights consideration for our business. society in the supply chain and actions taken External ratings agencies and our customers are ever more SECTION THREE REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 41 MATERIAL ISSUE 2: continued Managing and meeting internal and external stakeholder expectations We take a cross functional approach to supply chain Expenditure with qualifying Procurement – performance management and seek to achieve both compliance with BEE entities against SLP targets (%) (%) international human rights and labour standards and ensure 29 the economic participation of local stakeholders. AngloGold 09 46 36 30 Ashanti has approved a human rights policy framework in line 10 Capital with international protocols. 43 57 60 11 45 Services We aim to build and maintain trust among all parties in 12 56 55 40 our supply chain, through collaboration and establishing 13 Consumables partnerships. We insist that we operate responsibly and Actual Target that at least all our first tier suppliers in our value chain work to live up to the same values and responsibilities to which we have committed. All of our suppliers are expected to comply with our Code of Business Principles and Ethics. The Responsible Sourcing Initiative forms part of the greater “ We insist that we operate responsibly and project to address human rights, labour standards, health standards and environmental issues with our ‘first-tier’ that all our suppliers in our value chain live suppliers (those suppliers who have direct contractual up to the same values and responsibilities to relationships with AngloGold Ashanti). We are currently which we have committed. ” working on developing and rolling out simplified Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier Questionnaire and Annual Supplier Certification process, which will be implemented in 2014. In South Africa, our SLPs are one such way that we set our local procurement targets in South Africa. Mining companies (SMMEs). For example, in Mthatha in the Eastern Cape, in South Africa are required to submit and work in accordance South Africa, we are in the process of setting up an Enterprise with SLPs that have been developed as part of the Minerals Development Centre. The purpose of the centre is to provide and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) and entrepreneurs and existing businesses access to formal the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for sustainable markets by providing training and development in the South Africa region. A detailed report on our SLPs will be entrepreneurship and basic business management skills. This available at www.anglogoldashanti.com in May 2014. initiative was delayed pending an application was made to the Job Fund for joint funding, to increase the scale of the project. In 2013 South Africa region spent $488m with qualifying The application was approved in December 2013. BEE entities (2012: $359m). This represents 55% of our total procurement expenditure in the region, or $893m. We In 2012, we commissioned a localisation research project in achieved 78% of the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) our host and surrounding communities in South Africa to align compliance scorecard. our procurement approach with our enterprise development strategy. From this we were able to develop a database of Procurement – performance against SLP targets enterprises within local communities and, at the same time, Another way management of our supply chain has the potential understand and define socio-economic needs within these to add value to the communities in which we operate is through communities. To address these findings, we developed an supporting small-, mediumand micro-sized enterprises online local community enterprise registration portal, and 42 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 2 SECTION ONE SECTION TWO The management of our haulage logistics is key to our procurement practices. loaded the database of existing local enterprises that was CASE STUDY: Indigenous employment collected as part of the research project. programme in Australia In April 2013, the portal was launched to the local communities; www.aga-reports.com/13/cs and local suppliers can now directly register their details on this portal and the company can now easily access them when required. Goals Our global supply chain division takes a holistic view of The development of small businesses has been particularly our supply chain – recognising that proper supply chain successful in Australia where we have established a community management has a positive impact on our operating costs engagement team to build capacity among local suppliers and and assists in generating profit; recognising too that we have generate more employment initiatives. Progress has been made the potential to create wealth for the communities in which we in reviewing the supply chain process and SMMEs are given the operate. We plan to start monitoring the management of our mentorship needed to help them establish themselves. supply chain through internal and external audits in 2014, and to act immediately on any corrective actions to be taken. Our CASE STUDY: Procurement programme commitment to developing an understanding of the ethical in Brazil behaviour of our suppliers is on-going and we plan to fully www.aga-reports.com/13/cs report on this in 2016. SECTION THREE REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 43 MATERIAL ISSUE 3: Competing for resources and infrastructure Securing the resources and infrastructure needed for our current and future operations is of critical importance to the company. Failure to do so could curtail our operations in the long term and have fundamental impacts on our socio-economic environment, negatively impacting communities’ ability to sustain their livelihoods, health and wellbeing. COMPETING FOR RESOURCES AND INFRASTRUCTURE Access to and security of affordable Access to and security of STAKEHOLDERS: employees, communities, government energy, and affordable water climate change Land Activities related to management, artisanal and biodiversity, resource small-scale usage and planning for mining mine closure ACCESS TO AND SECURITY OF AFFORDABLE is an increasing likelihood of climate change regulation in a ENERGY, AND CLIMATE CHANGE number of countries in which we operate. The introduction of a carbon tax in South Africa has been delayed to 2016. This tax, Context when implemented, could result in higher operational costs, and negatively affect our ability to maintain production. We also face See our online report for our management approach in respect of the following aspects: energy and emissions. potential impacts from climate change, which are both physical and financial. They include operational risks such as business Mining is an energy-intensive sector and our energy continuity, and could have an impact on our communities by performance goes hand-in-hand with our business-planning threatening energy, water and food security. processes. We need a consistent and cost-effective supply of Reducing our energy consumption has a number of energy for our existing operations, as well as secure access to important benefits for the company, including curtailing energy for our future projects. costs and cutting our GHG emissions. The benefits extend Our energy usage is inextricably linked to our greenhouse gas beyond our company and reducing emissions is an industry(GHG) emissions and hence our climate change strategy. There wide challenge. 44 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 3 Progress SECTION ONE GRI indicators on which we report: • G4-EC2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change • G4-EN3: Direct energy consumption • G4-EN5: Energy intensity • G4-EN15: Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) • G4-EN16: Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) • G4:EN18: GHG emissions intensity • G4-EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances In 2011 we developed a global strategy to build energy security for our business in the long term. During 2013, we refined this strategy to align it with organisational changes and incorporate findings from an industry-wide benchmarking study. The Ice at Mponeng Mine, South Africa, is pumped down into the mine to ensure a result was the development of the AngloGold Ashanti Energy well cooled, ventilated and safe working place. Management System (EnMS), which uses the ISO 50001 Energy Management System Standard as a foundation and incorporates best practices from a number of industries. Our EnMS focuses on four key principles: “ Our integrated energy model won the 2013 •  establishing a systematic process to ensure continuous Eskom eta Award for Innovation. ” SECTION TWO improvement; •  proactively managing power generation costs and utility contracts; • achieving sustainable improvements in energy efficiency; and •  ensuring operations have energy security over their and cost management. This position is supported by Principal anticipated life of mine. Energy Advisors who focus on the needs of specific regional To drive this strategy across operations, we created and filled operations, as well as site-level Energy Champions who a new position of Global Vice President – Energy. This role implement projects, identify opportunities, and drive energy supports all sites by implementing and driving standard work performance against related KPIs. practices, identifying and implementing new technologies, Our total energy consumption for the year was 32.68PJ and addressing all facets of energy consumption, generation, (2012: 31.74PJ) and this accounted for 18.7% of our operating costs (2012: 20%). Our energy intensity was 0.32GJ per tonne of rock treated in 2013 (2012: 0.38GJ). Our total GHG emissions for the year were 4,505t CO2e (2012: 4,474t CO2e). More detail Energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions on our GHG emissions and climate change risks can be found in and intensity and intensity our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) reports (1). (PJ) (GJ/t) (Mt CO2e) (Mt CO2e/t) 0.40 30 0.06 4.8 09 09 Our GHG intensity amounted to 0.044t CO2e during the year 0.41 31 0.06 4.8 (2012: 0.053t CO2e). This translates to 1.11Mt CO2e per tonne 10 10 0.41 31 0.06 4.3 of rock treated. Due to our South African operations’ reliance 11 11 0.38 32 0.05 4.4 on electrical energy, which is supplied from coal-based power SECTION THREE 12 12 stations, the region contributed 64% of our total GHG emissions 0.32 33 0.04 4.5 13 13 (2012: 63%). www.anglogoldashanti.co.za/sustainability/global+initiatives/carbon+ (1)  disclosure+project.htm REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 45 MATERIAL ISSUE 3: continued Competing for resources and infrastructure Scope 1 GHG emissions by region Scope 2 GHG emissions by region (’000t CO2e) (’000t CO2e) Australasia 174 Americas 87 Americas 312 Continental Africa 225 Continental Africa 744 South Africa 2,916 South Africa 47 In South Africa much of our mining is conducted in deep In addition to the efforts noted above, our operations continue underground mines, making them particularly energy intensive, to address increasing energy costs and consumption through using electricity from mainly fossil fuel sources. Our South a number of capital investment and energy awareness actions. African operations accounted for 37% of our total energy These include upgrades to infrastructure (such as ventilation, usage and 90% of our Scope 2 CO2 emissions. Reducing our lighting, compressed air generation, and underground cooling energy consumption and intensity in this region is a key focus systems), mining systems (including winder upgrades, reducing area and adopting innovative technologies is an important compressed air and water consumption, and upgrading way to help reach our energy usage targets. This impetus is pumping systems), and processing plant systems (increased heightened by concerns related to mediumand long-term production utilisation, new hydro-metallurgical processes, and energy security, given the national energy utility’s (Eskom) onimproving comminution efficiency). Installation and upgrade to going constraints. In this regard we work very closely with supervisory control and data acquisition control systems and energy metering systems is enabling our team to accurately Eskom in reducing our energy off take, particularly during measure and analyse energy efficiency, control electrical periods of peak demand. AngloGold Ashanti established the demand, and automate processes. Technology Innovation Consortium (ATIC) to develop solutions to the technical challenges in deep underground mining, We continue to analyse opportunities to increase our use specifically in the South Africa region, and addressing energyof low-carbon generation, including hydroelectric power, related challenges is a key component. renewable energy, and energy recovery systems. New tax credits and sources of supplemental funding, such as that As part of this effort, an integrated simulation model was from the Australia Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) provide developed that captures all interactions between the processes us with opportunities to revisit the application of low-carbon which manage environmental conditioning underground i.e. any technologies at our sites. modification of the environment by any of our mining activities. During the building phase the model indicated operational Goals problems on a turbine dissipater that saved the mine 2.5 MW Ensuring energy security is critical to our long-term success. By instantly. Due to the fact that all the processes that currently implementing new ways to reduce our consumption and finding contribute 80% of a typical deep level mine’s energy are now new, less carbon-intensive sources of energy, we also reduce captured in a single model, users are able to optimise processes our GHG emissions, thereby lessening our contribution to and eliminate controller and process operating errors. This climate change. We continue to develop site-specific strategies integrated energy model won the prestigious 2013 Eskom eta to help us realise our targets, and commit to doing all we can to Award for Innovation, acknowledging exceptional effort in the progressing our global strategy to build energy security. We are efficient use of energy. currently developing group level targets. 46 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 3 SECTION ONE Geita Gold Mine in Tanzania pumps water from Lake Victoria to supply the mine as well as the community via water points along the pipeline. SECTION TWO ACCESS TO AND SECURITY OF of ground water and surface water, as well as climate and AFFORDABLE WATER demographic factors. On the other hand, there are areas which experience an over-supply of water, posing equal Context challenges to our operations through the risk of flooding and accidental releases of process water. See our online report for our management approach in respect of the following aspects: water and effluents and waste. In 2011 AngloGold Ashanti developed a global strategy for building water security. While our approach to water Responsible water management is a critical consideration in management varies by location and operation, the overriding all the areas in which we operate. Water is an essential input focus of the strategy is to: for our mining and processing activities and needs to be used • minimise fresh water consumption; as efficiently as possible, always taking into account the water needs of the communities around us. In addition, the water • adopt an integrated water management approach; that we release back into the environment is often also used by •  address discharge water quality – especially the legacy downstream communities. Failure to secure access to and the issues related to this – see page 60; and protection of this resource could curtail our future and current • increase the frequency and scope of monitoring and reporting. operations and negatively affect communities’ ability to sustain their livelihoods, health and wellbeing. Progress Where operations are located in water-scarce areas, they may GRI indicators on which we report: compete for this resource with local communities, agriculture • G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source and other industries. Water scarcity is heightened by low • G4-EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination rainfall, changing rainfall patterns, degradation and over-use SECTION THREE REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 47 MATERIAL ISSUE 3: continued Competing for resources and infrastructure Improving water efficiency means maximising the amount of water we recycle and reuse, eliminating water wastage and reducing demand where this is technically feasible, including through the adoption of new technologies. To succeed in reducing our fresh water consumption, we need to fully understand our water footprint, including the type of water we use, where it comes from and the water we release into the environment. Our primary sources of water are ground water (24%), surface water (40%) and utilities and/or external water suppliers (36%). We have made progress in implementing the global strategy on a local and site-specific level. In South Africa we continued with Water security is key at most operations, especially those where limited water options exist such as Sunrise Dam Gold Mine in Australia. implementing the various components of the integrated water management strategy, including: Water consumption • The maintenance of regional water balances at both West and intensity Wits and Vaal River to ensure optimised utilisation of water in (ML) (000/t) accordance with our water use hierarchy, for example priority 0.66 49.2 09 utilisation of recycled process water and underground water 0.66 49.4 10 originating from Margaret Shaft. The tailings reclamation 0.67 49.8 activities of Mine Waste Solutions (MWS) were fully integrated 11 0.64 53.5 into the Vaal River regional water balance during the year. 12 0.64 64.8 • Ongoing upgrades of process water containment 13 infrastructure to reduce potential environmental discharges – this is evident in the improvement in reportable incidents At Cerro Vanguardia, Argentina, a re-injection of excess mine in 2013. pit and underground water into the nearby aquifers is being • Expansion of seepage interception mechanisms around evaluated as a means of reducing evaporative losses from tailings storage facilities. We have commissioned additional the groundwater system, so as to limit the drawdown of the boreholes at the Vaal River well field, as well as new boreholes regional aquifers. at the MWS Kareerand Tailings Storage facility. • Rehabilitation of historically polluted areas such as Varkenslaagte Addressing legacies remaining from earlier mining practices remains an area of focus for the company. A discussion on at West Wits and ongoing reclamation of tailings storage water management at Obuasi, including the legacy issues facilities at both MWS and Vaal River Operations. surrounding water, can be found on pages 59-61. Where feasible we operate a closed loop system (recycling the water we use without discharging it to the environment). CASE STUDY: The worth of water – priceless! This has multiple benefits, including reducing our overall water www.aga-reports.com/13/cs consumption and pumping requirements and minimising the risk of potential contamination. In operations where this is not possible owing to high levels of rainfall, such as Ghana and Goals Brazil, we have installed water treatment systems to manage It is always our intention to minimise our impact on the effluents to meet applicable discharge standards. Making sure environment and, where possible, ensure positive outcomes. all the water we return to the natural environment is treated to This means that avoiding, or mitigating our impacts on the water the desired quality is crucial, using regulatory requirements as environment underpins our global strategy for building water a minimum. security and will continue to drive all our site-specific initiatives. 48 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 3 LAND MANAGEMENT, BIODIVERSITY AND Progress SECTION ONE PLANNING FOR MINE CLOSURE GRI indicators on which we report: Context •  MM1: Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated See our online report for our management approach in relation • MM3: Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludge to the following aspects: biodiversity, local communities, closure and their associated risks planning, materials, and effluents and waste. • MM10: Number and percentage of operations with closure plans • G4-EN1: Materials used by weight or volume We need to access land for exploration and, where this is • G4-EN11: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity successful, to secure access to the orebody for mining. This value outside protected areas generally involves rigorous permitting processes, as well as •  G4-EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, engaging with communities. As they were present before products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and we arrived and will remain after we leave, communities and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas regulators are very concerned about our stewardship of the • G4-EN23: Total waste by type and disposal method land, including its biodiversity. Of critical importance is access • G4-EN24: Total number and volume of significant spills to and sharing of water resources. •  G4-EN29: Significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Mining, when strategically planned and carefully implemented, need not have negative impacts on biodiversity. Biodiversity management is therefore a prominent part of our land management approach and we seek to site our infrastructure Land management and biodiversity to avoid sensitive areas. A new Biodiversity Management Standard was developed SECTION TWO during the year and is scheduled to be approved by the AngloGold Ashanti is committed to rehabilitating the land we Executive Committee in early 2014. It sets out the requirements use during the mine’s life and leaving a positive legacy after our that all sites must meet in terms of biodiversity assessments mining activities have ceased. Enhancing biodiversity is a key and management. It was prepared in recognition of the growing component of our rehabilitation programmes. impacts on biodiversity as a result of population and economic Planning for closure begins at the outset of every project. Closure growth and of climate change and in order to clarify the planning requires the active participation of all disciplines, from minimum performance requirements of operations. engineering to finance, to ensure that it is integrated with Our approach to responsible management of land and mine planning and operations. It is inevitable that all mines will biodiversity has been clearly illustrated at La Colosa. La Colosa eventually fully exploit their resources and operations will cease. lies in steep terrain in Colombia’s central Cordillera region in one Likewise, managing community expectations is critical to our of the world’s most biodiverse regions. A strict environmental closure strategy. plan has been developed to minimise the footprint of land disturbed by exploration and harmful biodiversity impacts. To ensure that our environmental plan achieves these goals, during 2013 we completed an ecosystem delimitation study of the local moor ecosystem (an ecosystem typical of high tropical paramo mountains). Legally, no mining or exploration is allowed “ Mining, when strategically planned and to be carried out in these areas and it has been poorly studied carefully implemented, need not have when compared to other tropical ecosystems. The purpose of negative impacts on biodiversity. ” the study was to delineate, characterise and zone the land for environmental protection and ecological structure. The results of this study will now be discussed with regional and national SECTION THREE authorities and will further shape our environmental plan. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 49 MATERIAL ISSUE 3: continued Competing for resources and infrastructure We also engage with local communities and NGOs in Colombia CASE STUDY: Biodiversity in Tropicana: on our approach to environmental management in the area and A little known plant species causes a stir have entered into partnerships with a number of NGOs to help www.aga-reports.com/13/cs guide our strategy. Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Country and operation Continental Africa Ghana Iduapriem Neung North Forest Reserve is located immediately adjacent to the southern boundary of the Iduapriem operational area. The total area under management at Iduapriem is 16,000ha. The revegetated areas of two mine waste rock dumps provide a corridor for the reserve. No farming or logging is allowed in the reserve. Obuasi 347ha of the 476,000ha Obuasi mine concession fall within the Dampia Forest Reserve. The 42ha Obuasi Catchment Area Forest Reserve lies within the concession. Tanzania Geita The operation’s special mining licence (SML) is 196km² of which 151km² lies within the Geita forest reserve. The mine’s prospecting licences outside the SML cover 101km² of the Geita forest reserve. The Geita forest reserve has undergone significant deforestation mostly from unauthorised activities such as timber and charcoal making and illegal mining activities, which are not related to AngloGold Ashanti operations. Americas Brazil AGA Mineração RPPN AngloGold Cuiaba, a private natural heritage reserve, is owned and managed by AngloGold Ashanti. The total area under management of Cuiaba Mine is 3,867ha, of which the RPPN comprises 742ha. The RPPN falls in the Atlantic Forest biome and is listed in national legislation. AGA Mineração RPPN Mata Samuel de Paula, a private natural heritage reserve, is owned and managed by AngloGold Ashanti. The total area under management at Nova Lima is 6,449ha, of which the RPPN comprises 147ha. The RPPN falls in the Atlantic Forest biome and is listed in national legislation. AGA Mineração The Córrego do Sítio mine has an area of 3,039ha and is 1km from the Caraça National Reserve. The reserve falls in the Atlantic Forest biome and is listed in national legislation. Serra Grande Within 5km of a declared national reserve of the Cerrado biome listed in national legislation. The total adjacent area under management at Serra Grande is 2,608ha. Colombia La Colosa Project The exploration area (6.4ha) falls within the Central Forest Reserve, a zone of 15km to the west and 15km to the east of the Central Andes Mountain Range. The exploration area was previously used for grazing and pasture. The law allows mining, with authorization from the Ministry of Environment, that prioritises the development of previously disturbed areas and which promote the recovery of habitats and maintenance of biodiversity. Australasia Australia Exploration The Tropicana exploration tenements cover an area of 10,560km2 and are situated in the vicinity of the Tropicana Gold Mine (TGM). The region has high biodiversity value for a number of flora and fauna species protected by state and federal legislation. Some of the exploration tenements of the Tropicana group are adjacent to the Queen Victoria Springs Nature Reserve, located 127km south-west of the Tropicana mine, and some of the tenements are adjacent to and within the Plumridge Lakes Nature Reserve located 17km south-east of the Tropicana mine, however no work is conducted inside these nature reserves. The Tropicana Group 2 and 3 tenements, located to the south of the Tropicana mine, are subject to approval under the federal Environment Protection Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. Exploration in this area is conducted in accordance with approval conditions and a Conservation Management Plan to ensure protection of threatened fauna. 50 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 3 SECTION ONE Tailings management The responsible management of cyanide is integral to our Like other mining companies, we generate waste rock and social licence to operate. Our ongoing compliance with the tailings* as a result of our mining and processing operations. International Cyanide Management Code (Cyanide Code), along During mining, soil and rock are generated to expose the with rigorous reporting, is central to this. The Cyanide Code orebody. Overburden and waste rock typically contain subis a voluntary initiative, and addresses production, transport, economic levels of gold and are deposited as large waste rock storage, and use of cyanide and the decommissioning of dumps. Some low-grade deposits are processed on heap cyanide facilities. leach pads. In this process, ore is crushed and heaped on an impervious or lined pad. Low strength cyanide solution is We remain committed to achieving and maintaining Cyanide irrigated over the heaped pad for periods of up to three months. Code certification at all our operations. By the end of 2013, 15 of our operations were fully certified including four that were re* Tailings are the fine process effluents that are deposited in the form of a slurry in tailings storage facilities (TSFs), that have been specifically certified during the year (Siguiri, Sadiola, Yatela and Navachab). designed for this purpose. Obuasi, in Ghana, has undergone a certification audit and is awaiting results. The construction of replacement cyanide Internal Tailings and Heap Leach Management Frameworks handling facilities at Obuasi was completed in late 2012, with set the standard as well as provide guidance to which tailings commissioning in 2013. The East Gold Plant at Vaal River and heap leach facilities will be constructed and operated. ceased production in June 2013 and was decommissioned. Internal geotechnical engineers are responsible for ensuring Geita in Tanzania and Iduapriem in Ghana are continuing the structural stability of tailings, heap leach facilities and waste with modifications in order to comply with Cyanide Code rock dumps. requirements and two operations, Tropicana and Mine Waste The impact of failure of a TSF can be significant. We monitor these Solutions (which is part of South African Surface Operations), facilities closely and ensure their management is in accordance are preparing for the certification process. SECTION TWO with our permits, national regulating requirements, company The group used 31,000t of cyanide in 2013 (2012: 27,000t). standards and agreements we may have with communities. Planning for mine closure Other waste management Waste streams arise from the commercial, industrial and Mine closure is inevitable, it often occurs when there is limited domestic activities of the company. Because our mines are revenue, limited resources and often, a concerned and fragile generally found in rural or peri-urban locations, where waste community and workforce. The AngloGold Ashanti Closure and sewage handling services are not available, the mines often Planning Team works closely with all levels of the business to operate landfill and sewage treatment facilities. A company improve the integration of closure planning and implementation waste management standard addresses the management of with daily business activities, starting at the planning stage risks arising from the use of hazardous materials, including of operations and projects. Integration includes aspects the waste mitigation hierarchy of avoiding, reducing, reusing, such as including feasible backfill of depleted open pits into recycling, treating and disposing of waste. mine plans, designing and constructing waste rock dumps to maximise the opportunity for progressive rehabilitation Cyanide and incorporating sustainable livelihood development into We seek to optimise the use of our resources, be they renewable operational community investment programmes. or non-renewable. Like other gold mining companies, one of the materials that we consume in large quantities, and which Through improved integration of closure considerations with has a great potential impact on the environment, is cyanide. daily operations, we can ensure effective and efficient closure in accordance with our company values, thereby delivering on our commitments to stakeholders and assisting communities to establish a sustainable future. Cyanide usage Total number of reportable environmental incidents To this end, our Closure Planning Management Standard SECTION THREE (000t) 27 51 (previously the Closure and Rehabilitation Management 09 09 23 27 Standard) was subjected to a thorough review in 2012/2013 10 10 based on experience gained through implementation of the 24 27 11 11 standard since its introduction in 2009. The revised standard, 27* 16 12 12 which retains the requirements for integrated closure planning 31 10 from exploration and project design, clarifies what is expected 13 13 of site management in terms of ensuring that sites are closed * Cyanide usage in 2012 was re-calculated after the Sustainability Report 2012 went to print. in accordance with the company’s values. The standard was REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 51 MATERIAL ISSUE 3: continued Competing for resources and infrastructure approved by the group’s Executive Committee in September We recognise that we have a long-term obligation to close our 2013. A guidance document to assist site personnel in sites responsibly, integrating closure and mine planning with applying the standard, a self-assessment tool to assist operations throughout the life of mine and considerate of the operations to identify where their closure planning efforts environment, workforce and communities. should be prioritised and an audit protocol to ensure consistent evaluation of implementation progress are expected to be Accounting restoration and finalised in early 2014. decommissioning liabilities ($m) During 2013 a decision was taken to cease mining at our 472.1 Yatela operation in Mali. The decision was made on the basis Restoration of increasing safety issues surrounding open pit mining and a 256.3 declining gold price. Yatela community development activities Decommissioning have not yet been negatively affected by halting mining 728.4 activities. A revised plan for social development, focusing on 2013 Total expanding and enhancing community development and current 841.1 socioeconomic projects, has been developed in consultation 2012 Total with affected stakeholders. Our exit strategy and rehabilitation in the Solomon Islands, where The Borokoni dam, built by AngloGold Ashanti, provides water to the Borokoni Village we were involved in greenfields exploration activities, is notable. near Yatela in Mali, an example of creating lasting and positive long-term benefits. CASE STUDY: Solomon Islands: closure without complication www.aga-reports.com/13/cs For a full list of provisions made for accounting restoration and decommissioning liabilities please see page 34 of the Annual Integrated Report 2013 . Goals Meeting our obligations for responsible land and biodiversity management is an ongoing commitment to which we allocate the necessary resources from planning through to mine closure. The recent biodiversity standard and revised closure standard set the business expectations and implementation of the standards will begin in earnest in 2014. Accounting restoration and decommissioning liabilities ($m) 2013 2013 2013 2012 Group Restoration Decommissioning Total Total South Africa 10.0 68.1 78.1 148.8 Continental Africa 273.3 137.7 411.0 427.5 Australasia 21.9 31.2 53.1 61.5 Americas 194.3 42.3 236.6 249.5 Less: equity-accounted investments (27.4) (23.0) (50.4) (46.2) Total 472.1 256.3 728.4 841.1 52 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 3 ACTIVITIES RELATED TO ARTISANAL AND SECTION ONE regulations is hampered by the informality. ASM can pollute SMALL-SCALE MINING waterways through mercury use, dam construction, siltation, poor sanitation, and indiscriminate effluent dumping. Context See our online report for our management approach in relation to Defining ASM around the world the following aspect: artisanal and small-scale mining. Artisanal miners are is referred to by many different names around the world. Some of these terms include: Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) is a feature of gold • Galamsey (Ghana) mining regions around the world. The practice often involves • Orpailleurs (DRC) child labour, which we neither accept nor condone. ASM is labour-intensive, using a semi-skilled or unskilled workforce • Garimpeiros (Brazil) with low levels of mechanisation, production, productivity, • Zama Zamas (South Africa) recovery and efficiency and is often characterised by unsafe • Barequeros (Colombia) practices and an inadequate understanding of safety requirements. Artisanal miners often rely on informal financiers, who often control the sale of this gold in an organised and Progress sophisticated way. It is an activity that has been done in many communities for centuries. However, given low levels of formal GRI indicators on which we report: employment where large-scale operations exist, it has taken • MM8: Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where ASM takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the on an increasing level of risk where communities encroach on associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate mining lease areas and illegally enter company mining areas. these risks It is estimated that more than 100 million people rely on this SECTION TWO sector for income (both directly and indirectly). We recognise ASM (both legal and illegal) is becoming increasingly that legal ASM is provided for in the legislative framework mechanised and this leads to increased loss of ounces, of most mining countries and has the potential to provide environmental degradation on areas of land for which we livelihoods to people who are often from marginalised and are responsible, serious community health impacts, and poor communities. increasingly violent clashes with local communities. Incidence We distinguish between legal and illegal ASM. The conditions of illegal artisanal miners entering active and inactive pits under which ASM can be legal or illegal depend on countryresults in potential disruptions in our mining activities and specific legislation. Legal ASM is done in compliance with the poses a significant safety threat to our employees, security laws of the country, and this means permits are granted in personnel and the artisanal miners themselves, with attendant areas designated by governments or in areas not covered by reputational risks. the exclusive rights of a third party. Illegal ASM occurs when In order to protect our assets, our employees, the environment artisanal or small scale miners operate outside the provisions and local communities, we act against illegal ASM activity on of the law, including when they operate on concessions where others have exclusive mineral rights, and therefore might involve our sites. We seek to address illegal ASM activity through theft of property. The gold mined in these areas bypasses the strategic and thorough security interventions to stop illegal payment of taxes and export regulations, possibly funding activity on our concession. We support taking action that conflict and other illegal financial activities. In some of the areas is appropriate in terms of the law and in accordance with in which we operate, particularly Ghana and Tanzania, tension international principles of human rights, including the with illegal miners has led to conflict with our employees and Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) our business has been negatively impacted by illegal mining including rules of engagement, and the UN Guiding Principles within our concession. on Business and Human Rights. Further discussion on human rights can be found on pages 69-70. The informal nature of and low levels of compliance in the SECTION THREE ASM sector also affects worker safety and in fact, ASM can At the same time, we support steps taken to develop be very dangerous. Communities may also be affected by standards for a legal, formal and responsible ASM sector environmental degradation as the enforcement of environmental and where relevant each of our operating sites includes ASM REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 53 MATERIAL ISSUE 3: continued Competing for resources and infrastructure considerations in their environment, health and social baseline had to be suspended owing to recent budgetary constraints. assessments. These assessments continue through the life of There are plans to resume these in the near future. the mine to help monitor and control illegal mining activities. In Ghana, the launch of Community Trust Funds at Obuasi and Engagement and collaboration with local governments, artisanal Iduapriem will have a positive impact on the socio-economic miners and local communities play an important part in all our development of the area around these mines, and is likely to have ASM strategies, as does security and legal considerations. a positive impact on the generation of alternative livelihoods. Multi-stakeholder partnerships led by governments help improve security interventions and mitigate environmental, In Antioquia, Colombia, ASM has been integral to the local health and social impacts. economy and culture since the 1800s. In 2012, we entered into discussions with the community regarding alternative During the year, a corporate-led ASM working group was livelihoods for the artisanal miners at our Gramalote Project. constituted to coordinate all ASM activities and interventions These discussions addressed more than just monetary value, internally. A number of key initiatives have been undertaken but rather focused on ways to create sustainable futures for the including: miners. In 2013, training was undertaken in collaboration with • development of a guidance framework on how ASM issues the National Vocational Training Institute and 69 of the former should be managed during the implementation of major artisanal miners are now employed by AngloGold Ashanti at capital projects; and Gramalote. The Colombian government works in partnership with us and, via the National Vocational Training Institute, are • identification of generic regional ASM risks and their control involved in preparing miners for future employment. measures across the region as input into the region and group’s risk register. We have also assisted those miners who wished to build their own businesses by offering training in rural entrepreneurship. To improve security across our operations, we: Although a number of business ideas were generated over • signed an Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the the course of 2013, the implementation of the programme Tanzanian regional police to guide assistance in dealing has been more challenging given the external gold market with illegal mining incursions, monitoring of arrests and conditions. The Gramalote Project itself has developed more prosecution follow-through, as well as the demarcation of slowly than initially envisioned, so it has struggled to generate the concession area; sufficient demand to support entrepreneurial activities. • co-operated with a national initiative to curb illegal mining in However, our support to former artisanal miners continues Ghana; and and in 2014 both groups will continue to look for viable • participated in an ASM Steering Committee that was employment alternatives. established by the provincial authorities in the Democratic Goals Republic of the Congo, to facilitate the creation and management of exclusion zones around the areas where we It is our view that the challenges of ASM and illegal mining can have operational activities. best be addressed by adopting a multi-stakeholder approach, working with governments in addressing the issue, along with One of the key challenges experienced during the year has artisanal miners, NGOs and development agencies. We seek been limited progress in the development of multi-stakeholder to improve the lives of those people affected by our mining partnerships elsewhere in Africa, such as in Ghana. These activities, as well as take care of the local environment. Building partnerships are important to co-create solutions to ASM on the successful establishment of the Tanzania ASM MSPI, challenges. Unfortunately, ASM baseline studies that might have a similar process is being pursued in Ghana, and comparable supported the process of creating partnerships in Ghana have models will be considered for Guinea and Mali. 54 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 3 SECTION ONE Julius Mlunga is a mine supervisor at Geita Gold Mine in Tanzania. Seeking co-existence in Tanzania •  reduce the negative social, health and environmental SECTION TWO In Tanzania, AngloGold Ashanti signed a Multi-stakeholder impacts often associated with ASM such as mercury Partnership Initiative (MSPI) Framework Agreement on exposure, land degradation, child labour, gender 28 June 2013. This initiative is led by the Government inequality, unsafe and exploitative working conditions. of Tanzania, is facilitated by the World Bank and also Geita will benefit from the project through improved includes African Barrick Gold and the Federation of Miners’ engagement with stakeholders, facilitating the mitigation Associations of Tanzania (FEMATA). The primary objective of the MSPI is to support the formalisation of and to of ASM-related risks supporting our social licence to promote the co-existence between ASM and large scale operate, reducing illegal ASM security incidents, reducing mining in Tanzania. the loss of gold-bearing material and reducing the negative environmental and safety impacts of ASM on our concession. As part of this process, a two-year ASM formalisation project is being piloted at Geita, Tanzania. This $1.6m Following an initial impact assessment undertaken as part of project is being funded largely by the World Bank and the the ASM census study in 2012, a number of environmental Government of Tanzania to: mitigation and remediation projects are planned. • increase the income of miners; AngloGold Ashanti has engaged with several stakeholders • train miners in safer and more efficient methods of mining in Ghana – including the World Bank, Ghana Chamber of and processing; Mines and mining company and other mining companies – • provide access to finance, equipment and markets; and in pursuit of a similar intervention. SECTION THREE REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 55 MATERIAL ISSUE 4: Social, environmental and health legacy issues Many issues facing us today relating to our social, environmental and health performance have been handed down to us from the past, are a function of broader societal, regulatory and systemic issues, or result from new knowledge and/or research that has influenced best practice. We recognise the need to address these issues – for our employees and our communities. SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH Social and Occupational environmental LEGACY ISSUES lung disease, especially in considerations at South Africa Obuasi, Ghana STAKEHOLDERS: employees, communities, government, Migrant labour, Deep-level investors housing and Resettlement groundwater accommodation issues in Tanzania contamination and water and Ghana pumping obligations in in South Africa South Africa OCCUPATIONAL LUNG DISEASE, virtually been eradicated, as a consequence of mechanisation ESPECIALLY IN SOUTH AFRICA of mining, improved ventilation, dust suppression, personal preventative measures and statutory limitations on the length of Context service of underground employees. See our online report for our management approach in respect of If inhaled, silica dust may cause inflammation and scarring the following aspect: occupational health and safety. in the lungs, resulting in impaired lung functioning. Silicosis typically has a long latency period and is sometimes only Occupational lung disease (OLD) is a risk inherent in many detected years after exposure. Silicosis in South Africa is a underground gold mines where silica dust is present. The legacy issue on which AngloGold Ashanti and the gold mining most significant forms of OLD seen within the company are industry as a whole, as well as government, unions and health silicosis and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). OLD in Brazil has care professionals place an enormous effort in addressing. 56 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 4 SECTION ONE Our occupational health strategy encompasses both minimising current risks, primarily by reducing occupational exposure “ Silicosis is an issue that not only challenges within the industry. In 2008, we committed to eliminating new the mining industry, but South Africa as a cases of silicosis among previously unexposed employees at whole. A co-operative approach is crucial – the our South African operations. more quickly we come together, the better. ” Pulmonary TB, particularly where it is associated with silica dust exposure, is a key area of concern. Our immediate commitment is to reduce occupational TB incidence to below 2.25% among our South African employees and to successfully cure 85% of new cases – a target set by World Health Organization (WHO). The challenge faced is that the combination of HIV infection and exposure to silica dust has a multiplicative effect on the likelihood of developing TB. AngloGold Ashanti’s response to occupational lung diseases litigation In 2013 an application brought by Messrs Abrahams and Spoor was served on AngloGold Ashanti for the Lung function testing at the occupational health clinic at Obuasi, Ghana. consolidation of the previous class actions brought. This was reported in our Sustainability Report 2012. As at the end of December 2013, AngloGold Ashanti had received 31 individual claims; the company has filed a notice of intention to oppose the claims. SECTION TWO The claims raise several complex legal and factual issues, and AngloGold Ashanti plans to use the appropriate court procedures to respond to and defend applications and cases on their merits. AngloGold Ashanti works to prevent future incidences of OLD through continual improvements in underground dust management and reducing the dust exposure of our mining employees. Silicosis is an issue that not only challenges the mining industry, but South Africa as a whole. While progress has been made, we recognise that the statutary compensation system for silicosis-related illnesses must be reviewed to address inadequacies as identified by the Constitutional Court. We are committed to working actively through the Chamber of Mines and with government and organised labour to quickly and sustainably improve the industry’s statutary compensation framework. This co-operative approach is crucial to the success of this intervention and the more quickly we come together, the better. For detailed information of legal proceedings, see the SECTION THREE 20F disclosure (1). www.anglogoldashanti.co.za/investors+and+media/financial+reports/ (1) form+20-f.htm REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 57 MATERIAL ISSUE 4: continued Social, environmental and health legacy issues Rate of new cases of New cases of occupational TB occupational TB “ Operating a business without causing any harm (%) (%) 2.91 951 to our employees or exposing them to potential 09 2.64 09 821 risks so that they remain free of occupational 10 10 diseases remains our overarching goal. ” 1.82 541 11 11 1.45 446 12 12 1.49 447 13 13 New cases of silicosis treatment, and the use of foggers and multi-stage filters. These initiatives continue to show progress in reducing dust levels. 395 09 We conduct dust sampling at all these operations, the results of 441 10 which showed that in 2013, only 1% of samples exceeded the 252 Occupational Exposure Limited of 0.1mg/m³ (2012: 0.94%). 11 168 12 In 2013, 293 cases of silicosis were identified (2012: 168) and 293 13 submitted to the Medical Board for Occupational Diseases of South Africa (MBOD). This short-term increase is being examined. Given the long latency periods involved with the Progress disease, it is too early to assess if we are on track in meeting our long-term goal of eliminating new cases of silicosis. GRI indicators on which we report: During the year under review, 447 new cases of occupational • G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation TB were identified and submitted for compensation (2012: 446). Our cure rate was 92% (2012: 94%), which exceeds the WHO target. We believe that the progressive decline in TB incidence The group’s global health strategy was approved for over the past seven years is testament to the success of our TB implementation in mid-2012. Key components of the strategy monitoring and early treatment programmes, which include the are to optimise organisational health systems and processes to introduction of new technologies as they emerge (such as the address health risks; to integrate health and non-health systems routine Gene Xpert for rapid diagnostic testing), on-going dust and activities to enhance value; and to focus on appropriate control measures, our HIV testing and counselling programmes, sustainability-based initiatives to drive mutual benefit. All and antiretroviral therapy. Given the ongoing success of the regions have developed aligned strategies, and implementation programmes, our targets will be reviewed in 2014. has begun to address particular localised challenges. CASE STUDY: Innovative use of technology to Through a combination of engineering and administrative drive improvements in TB control controls, our levels of occupational exposure to dust in South www.aga-reports.com/13/cs Africa have been consistently below the Mines Health and Safety Council (MHSC) milestone of less than 5% of samples above Goals the limit of 0.1mg/m3 from 2008. (The MHSC is a national public Operating a business without causing any harm to our entity tasked with advising the Minister of Mineral Resources employees or exposing them to potential risks so that they on occupational health and safety legislation and research remain free of occupational diseases remains an overarching outcomes focused on improving and promoting occupational goal. This means we are committed to eliminating new cases of health and safety in South African mines). Key interventions at silicosis among previously unexposed employees (post 2008) at both West Wits and Vaal River operations include increased our South African operations, and striving for an occupational sampling, centralised blasting, shaft washing and footwall TB incidence rate consistently below 1.5% by the end of 2029. 58 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 4 SECTION ONE The close proximity of the Obuasi operations to the town of Obuasi and its surrounding villages has resulted in an interdependent relationship. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL Progress CONSIDERATIONS AT OBUASI, GHANA GRI indicators on which we report: Context •  G4-SO2: Operations with significant actual and potential Obuasi is located in the Ashanti Region of Ghana, an area with negative impacts on local communities a more than 110-year history of large-scale mining. Previous • G4-SO11: Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance practices and approaches to mining and processing have mechanisms resulted in discharges of pollutants to water, the air and soil. SECTION TWO A lack of active demarcation and land use planning has Engaging with our communities also meant a large number of artisanal and small scale miners are operating on company-owned land, posing one In some countries, a complex and mutually dependent of the most significant and multi-faceted challenges facing relationship exists between AngloGold Ashanti and the AngloGold Ashanti – often involving security and human rights inhabitants of surrounding communities. At the Obuasi considerations – see pages 28-29. operations this is made more complicated by the fact that communities are located in and adjacent to the town of Obuasi The vast majority of these challenges is a result of historic and its surrounding villages. As in many mining communities practices and since the 2004 merger of AngloGold and Ashanti, in Africa, infrastructure is limited and inadequate planning and we have invested considerable capital to redesign Obuasi mine. funding have led to tension between the mine and communities. Correcting historic practices and operational design takes time and we are confident that our efforts are helping to understand We continue to build our relationship with multiple stakeholders and address these challenges; we continue to learn from prior including employees, communities, government and NGOs. mistakes and those of the past and are committed to mitigating We make significant contributions to the community by the impacts of these factors in an open, consultative, affordable providing direct and indirect employment. Other benefits include and sustainable manner. infrastructure development and supporting local economic Obuasi employs some 5,200 people. A large proportion of development, such as sanitation and education infrastructure the local population depends on AngloGold Ashanti for their projects and the Ghana Trust Funds. livelihood – either directly or indirectly. This interdependent CASE STUDY: Communities in Ghana benefit relationship has however, given rise to tensions in the past and from community trust funds we continue to engage with the community to develop ways to www.aga-reports.com/13/cs mitigate these concerns. Our community development plans, including community engagement and delivering services, are The presence of artisanal and small scale mining and illegal SECTION THREE site specific, tailored to implement our global strategy of fostering mining poses a significant and complex challenge for our sustainable development in host communities. company as we try to strike the balance between our obligation REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 59 MATERIAL ISSUE 4: continued Social, environmental and health legacy issues to protect our assets in ways which do not infringe human Addressing environmental concerns rights. To achieve this we have aligned our human rights policy with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In recognition of the scale and complexity of the environmental issues at Obuasi, the mine’s turnaround environmental management strategy focuses on two main areas: • doing no harm; and • managing legacies, including historical pollution and its impacts. This strategy is detailed in the mine’s Environmental Management Plan for 2014-2017. This has been submitted to the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for review and is expected to form the basis for the mine’s next environmental certificate for the period April 2014 to March 2017. The plan includes waste and chemicals management, water management, air quality management as well as rehabilitation and site closure. Water management In line with our philosophy of continuous improvement, a water management plan was submitted to the EPA in November 2013. The plan proposes a way to optimise water usage at Obuasi. Specifically, the development and maintenance of a predictive mine-wide water balance will assist us in managing water more efficiently. A draft water balance for the mine was submitted to EPA in September 2012, and updated in May and November 2013. The result of this work has been a far more holistic approach to water management, which will ensure compliance and decrease operating costs as each phase of the project is completed. The most recent developments are: • Water treatment facilities: There has been significant investment in water treatment facilities at Obuasi. Two water treatment facilities treat all process water before it is discharged into the environment. An additional facility is currently under construction with 500m³/h capacity and is expected to be commissioned by April 2014. Nuru Mahana is a water sampler at the Pompora water retreatment plant in Obuasi, Ghana. 60 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 4 Tailings management SECTION ONE “ We take a holistic approach to water The environmental certificate at Obuasi (2011) is conditional on management to ensure compliance and the decommissioning of the current tailings storage facility (TSF) decrease operating costs. ” and commissioning of a new facility by December 2014. A new tailings management strategy is being developed at Obuasi, which will see the introduction of two separate tailings streams. We requested an extension of the directive because it has • Underground water: At Obuasi underground dewatering has been determined that the existing tailings storage facility been re-routed to either the Pompora water treatment plant has deposition capacity until 2017. In October 2013, the for treatment and discharge or to the South Treatment Plant EPA granted the Obuasi mine a one-year extension to the for further use as process water. The underground water decommissioning deadline for the South TSF until December system has been integrated into the site-wide water balance. 2015. The geochemical risk assessment has begun, and the A process of optimising water collection, water usage and closure plan for the existing TSF will be based on the findings pumping requirements is under way. of this assessment. • Process water storage: There is need for an additional pond Rehabilitation for storage and reuse of treated water. Although a design for a new Process Water Dam has been completed and an There are several pits and waste rock dumps from previous environmental permit approved, the decommissioning of surface mining at Obuasi that should be rehabilitated to safe, some existing process water ponds presents an opportunity stable and sustainable conditions. An ongoing EPA-approved to use these for water storage. rehabilitation plan is being implemented. Two pits and the associated waste rock dumps were rehabilitated in 2011 SECTION TWO Waste management and 2012. Backfilling of T2 pit was completed in 2013 and revegetation will commence in early 2014. In addition, the very The domestic and general waste disposal site in Obuasi town large pits and waste rock dumps are being integrated into a has traditionally been managed by the municipality. However, new surface mining project at the mine. the municipal waste disposal facility was poorly managed and had a negative environmental impact. In compliance Pollution clean-up projects include developing a permanent with a directive from the EPA contained in the mine’s 2011 to disposal solution for stockpiled arsenic, re-mining old unlined 2014 environmental certificate, Obuasi mine stopped using tailings facilities (where economically viable) and de-silting the municipal refuse facility in 2012. The mine now uses an stream sediments. approved temporary landfill and is concurrently designing an engineered landfill facility. The temporary landfill, approved Goals by the EPA, is on one of the mined out pits at the mine. The Despite the contribution that AngloGold Ashanti makes to the design and environmental impact statement for the engineered Obuasi community, we recognise that there are still several landfill (permanent solution) were developed in 2013 and will be outstanding social and environmental issues to be resolved and submitted to EPA for permitting in early 2014. will continue to focus on these areas. SECTION THREE REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 61 MATERIAL ISSUE 4: continued Social, environmental and health legacy issues DEEP-LEVEL GROUNDWATER We have extensively mapped neighbouring underground CONTAMINATION AND WATER PUMPING workings within both the Vaal River and the West Wits areas. OBLIGATIONS IN SOUTH AFRICA Designs are under way to manage excess water and upgrade pumping infrastructure. Context The Witwatersrand Basin in South Africa is made up of porous The potential for inter-mine flooding at both the Vaal River dolomitic rock – much like a sponge – and naturally contains and West Wits operations remains a risk and major focus large quantities of water. The region has a 120-year history of area, compounded by the failure of neighbouring mines to mining and historically mines have had to pump large volumes contribute to pumping costs. Currently, AngloGold Ashanti is of water to the surface in order to operate safely. Processing pumping water from underground operations that it does not of ore requires water to transport finely crushed rock particles own and that have ceased working so as to prevent flooding and to facilitate the chemical reactions required to extract gold of our current mine workings. The annual cost of this pumping from the rock. Most of the water used to transport process is approximately $4.7m. slurries to tailings storage facilities (TSFs), (see page 51) drains to return water dams and is recycled into the water Goals circuit; however some water evades capture and seeps into Long-term and financially sustainable solutions are needed to underground aquifers. Rainwater falling on waste rock dumps deal with deep groundwater contamination. These solutions can also dissolve salts as it percolates through a dump and cannot be the responsibility of just one company, but must also end up underground. When this water and the water that be addressed in partnership with government, regulators, has naturally seeped underground from elsewhere comes into the mining industry and communities. AngloGold Ashanti is contact with sulphide-bearing minerals (pyrites), possibly as a committed to working with the relevant stakeholders and result of mining, the water can become acidic, and is known as developing these partnerships. acid rock drainage. Acidic water can leach metals from rocks to which it is exposed and dissolve the alkaline dolomites. MIGRANT LABOUR, HOUSING AND ACCOMMODATION IN SOUTH AFRICA Acid rock drainage is now evident on the surface of the Western Basin area, and remains a significant issue in parts of the former Context gold mining areas of the Witwatersrand. South Africa has a long-standing history of migrant labour. Prior to the 1980s, migrant mineworkers would sign on for In South Africa, the Vaal River and West Wits operations are annual contracts, to supplement incomes in what were largely exposed to the risk of flooding resulting from the failure to subsistence-based rural communities. As the workforce pump from adjacent operating or closed gold mines, which are became more skilled and stable, migrant employees have not part of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. These mines are tended to return on an annual basis. Indeed, generations of currently continuously dewatered by pumping. Installing and families have sought employment at the same mines. operating additional pumping systems into these operations would come at significant capital and operational cost to The consequence has been the rise of second families, the company. dependent labour-sending areas, and semi-permanent singlesex living conditions. AngloGold Ashanti has made significant Progress effort to train and recruit locally, literally ‘in the shadow of the Contamination of current mine workings is prevented by headgear’. But this too has not been without consequence, continually pumping water from underground operations including the lack of local skills and indeed a lack of desire to that have ceased working. However, the cost of pumping is work in the industry. Additionally, it is recognised that should significant, and is carried by a declining number of operating the mining industry simply turn to local employment only, this mines. If pumping is stopped and the mines are allowed to refill, would have a significant detrimental impact on employees the pH of the water will eventually decline (become acidic), but from, and families and communities in rural areas. this could take decades. In reality, the long-term management of acid mine water and its impact will have to continue for many Nonetheless, the legacy and social consequences of the years and will require the commitment of all stakeholders. migrant labour system remain a key challenge for mining 62 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 4 SECTION ONE companies and the government alike. As a way of remedying this, moving away from the system of single-sex hostels and “ At the end of 2013, 96% of our residences upgrading existing hostels has been AngloGold Ashanti’s priority for several years. We have put considerable effort were converted into single accommodation into converting residences, into modern single and family and 100% of our residences, previously accommodation that provides greater privacy and a better classified as redundant, have been converted quality of life to those that live there. into family units. ” We also encourage employees to seek their own accommodation by providing a living-out allowance – a monthly subsidy that can be used to pay rent for housing of their choice. While this has proved to be a popular choice for our employees, in many cases, this allowance is used to supplement income for uses other than housing, increasing rooms into single room accommodation. During the year 2,366 the financial strain on many of our employees. The allocation units were converted and the average number of individuals per of living-out allowances has also contributed to the rapid room has reduced from eight in 2005, when the process started, growth of informal settlements adjacent to our mining to two in 2013. This process is expected to be completed operations. The informal settlements are a cause for concern, by 2014 in the West Wits area, and in 2014 in the Vaal River and have severely stretched the social services provided by area, at a total cost to the company of $37.8m of which local authorities such as water, sanitation, roads and related $26.3m has been spent to date. infrastructure. The implementation plan to improve the level of privacy We recognise that remedying the legacy issues brought on for hostel residents is on track to provide one room per SECTION TWO by the migrant labour system requires more than just dealing person by 2014. Residence room capacities have proven with housing and accommodation, but requires addressing a challenge with all affected employees having to be the deeper underlying social issues and goes hand-in-hand accommodated during the single room upgrading process. with developing communities around our mining operations in During this process some employees were accommodated partnership with the government. by sharing rooms with their colleagues. The balance of employees were moved to alternative accommodation at Progress residences with available space. Since 2005, 9,462 single At the end of 2013, 96% of our residences were converted into rooms have been developed. single accommodation and 100% of our residences, previously For those employees who choose not to live in companyclassified as redundant, have been converted into family units. provided accommodation, a living-out allowance average of A total of 59% of employees working in South Africa were $187 per month is provided. This allowance is intended to housed in company-provided residences (2012: 58%). assist employees to find suitable alternative accommodation. During our induction programmes we inform our employees on The Mining Charter targets to improve the standards of housing the housing options available to them and what the living-out and living conditions for mineworkers are as follows: allowance is intended for. • convert or upgrade hostels into family units by 2014; • attain the occupancy rate of one person per room by 2014; Goals and We want to promote communities which are more sustainable • facilitate home ownership options for all mine employees in in the long term, by providing all we can to improve the consultation with organised labour by 2014. conditions in which our employees live and by dealing with the larger socio-economic problems. We acknowledge Our programme to upgrade residences continued during the that this requires a significant investment both of time and SECTION THREE year, with particular efforts being made to reduce the numbers of resources, of the government, the mining industry, trade of individuals in each room, including converting communal unions and communities. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 63 MATERIAL ISSUE 4: continued Social, environmental and health legacy issues RESETTLEMENT ISSUES IN TANZANIA and international compacts such as the International Council AND GHANA on Mining and Metals (ICMM) for resettlement, and work with the local communities to minimise or mitigate any adverse Context social and economic impacts. The key objective is to assist any displaced persons, to improve or at a minimum restore their See our online report for our management approach in respect of incomes and standards of living after resettlement. the following aspects: local communities and resettlement. Progress The establishment of large-scale, surface mining operations such as ours sometimes involves the unavoidable displacement GRI indicators on which we report: and resettlement of people. Potential impacts of resettlement • MM9: Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were may include loss of productive land and access to common affected in the process resources and public services, loss of employment, income and housing and social fragmentation. Involuntary resettlement refers to both physical displacement Before global mining companies arrived in countries such as (accessing land where people live) and to economic Tanzania and Ghana, mining was largely conducted by small displacement (accessing land where people do not live, but scale miners. It is our policy to acquire and use land in a way make a living from farming or other economic activities). In the which is mutually acceptable and beneficial for all affected past our land access and resettlement practice varied from site stakeholders. We aim to avoid involuntary resettlements but to site, and was influenced by historical practices, previously over time, and as our operations have expanded, involuntary negotiated settlements, and the norms and regulations of the resettlements have been unavoidable. region. It generally included paying cash compensation for crops on farmland we required access to, land and structures When this is the case, we endeavour to abide by our internal as well as building replacement houses for the villages to be standards, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) relocated. This has changed substantially over the last few Performance Standards 1 and 8, national and international law years and our 2009 standards and commitments were revised New houses were built to assist with the physical resettlement of the Dokyiwa community in Ghana. 64 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 4 SECTION ONE in 2011 to reflect a paradigm shift from simple compensation to one of comprehensive, properly documented economic “ During the entire resettlement process we and social resettlement which is applied consistently across engage with the affected community in a the group. These standards require that a Resettlement Policy transparent and inclusive way. ” Framework (RPF) be prepared for all relevant sites. The RPF was introduced during the year and, once approved by Excom, will be rolled out at applicable sites during 2014. On the ground, the RPF provides the tools to ensure that both physical and economic resettlement involves collecting quality baseline data and then making sure the livelihoods of those affected remains the same, or improves. For economic resettlement we: • pay compensation for crops; • pay for transition support; • provide land-for-land replacement; In the past, Geita in Tanzania was subject to a number of cash compensation exercises and a number of people refused to • ensure that livelihoods have been restored to at least the accept compensation. In line with our revised land access and same level as before the operation; and resettlement standards and commitments, as well as the RPF, • provide compensation and support for settlement (including we are engaging with affected members of the community, building new housing and supporting physical and social as well as the Tanzanian government, to successfully resolve movement). any issues. SECTION TWO For physical resettlement we: Goals •  engage with the affected communities to negotiate The resettlement of any community is a complex and highly agreements; and sensitive process that requires consideration of economic, • systematically document the conditions of the community social and cultural issues. For the resettlement process to over one to three years to ensure they are, at a minimum, the be successful and without conflict, it must be built around same before relocation. the needs and priorities of the communities themselves. We acknowledge the importance of engaging with affected During the entire resettlement process we engage with the communities throughout the process and will work towards affected community in a transparent and inclusive way, always improving on this. taking into account the unique circumstances of the community. Transitioning to undertaking documented economic and social By way of example, in Ghana we embarked on the resettlement resettlements presents challenges, but also delivers important of the Dokyiwa community in 2009. This involved the relocation of benefits such as improved relations with communities and 106 households into new housing (physical resettlement) as well reduced stakeholder pressure. To overcome some of the as a grant of replacement cropland and a plot for a community challenges, we remain committed to ensuring that land access farm (economic resettlement). The procedures we followed activities are carried out in a manner that is compliant with included the formation of a resettlement working group, a baseline the legal system of the host country and our Land Access survey of farmland tenure and housing metrics, negotiating the and Resettlement Standards and Procedures, and to provide terms of resettlement, allocating new cropland, constructing new the necessary support to those regions where involuntary houses and assisting with physical resettlement. resettlement cannot be avoided. SECTION THREE REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 65 MATERIAL ISSUE 5: Responsible gold We continue to mine and trade our gold responsibly, recognising that we can have a beneficial impact on the areas in which we operate. For a full discussion on our long-term view of the market, see our Annual Integrated Report 2013. RESPONSIBLE GOLD Responsible gold initiatives Meeting our obligation to respect human rights STAKEHOLDERS: employees, communities, government, investors, suppliers, customers, NGOs and CBOs RESPONSIBLE GOLD INITIATIVES “ We have taken a public stand in support of initiatives Context to prevent the involuntary financing of conflict and played Gold mining can have a beneficial impact on the areas where a leading role in developing the World Gold Council it is conducted. Mined and traded responsibly, gold can help Conflict-Free Gold Standard. ” alleviate poverty of individuals, contribute to the economic and social development of communities and improve the wealth of countries. We recognise though that gold also may be mined and traded in a manner which fuels conflict and contributes to human rights violations. At AngloGold Ashanti, we commit Progress to making sure all our business practices are conducted responsibly and have a positive impact on the communities in In 2013, we took an active role in three voluntary standards which we operate. We have taken a public stand in support that enable us to demonstrate that we operate responsibly. of initiatives to prevent the involuntary financing of conflict and AngloGold Ashanti is the only mining company to adopt all played a leading role in developing the World Gold Council three standards. These were: (WGC) Conflict-Free Gold Standard (CFGS). • T he WGC Conflict-Free Gold Standard. This is an industryFurther, we have put in place the appropriate practices, led approach to combat the potential misuse of gold to fund procedures and controls to ensure our operations do not illegal armed conflict and associated human rights abuses. contribute to conflict and to monitor and report on these The standard is aligned to the Organisation for Economic aspects. The legitimacy and transparency of our supply chain is Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence crucial to this and is discussed in detail on pages 34-43. So too Guidance and Supplement on Gold. Conformance is subject is the importance of upholding human rights within all aspects to external assurance, which is combined with our existing of our business – see pages 69-70. internal and external assurance processes. AngloGold 66 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 5 SECTION ONE Ashanti’s independently assured Conflict-Free Gold Report may be found at www.aga-reports.com/13/cfgr. •  The Responsible Jewellery Council Code of Practices. In 2013, AngloGold Ashanti Sunrise Dam in Australia and CC&V in the United States received certification following the certification in 2012 of Córrego do Sítio in Brazil. •  The London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) Responsible Gold Guidance. The association represents the interests of the participants in the wholesale gold market and its guidance includes refining standards, good trading practices and standard documentation. AngloGold Ashanti’s wholly owned and operated Queiroz refinery in Brazil was one of the first three refineries in the world to be certified to the new standard in June 2013. AngloGold Ashanti complies with conflict-free gold that is where most exposure is. Part A (see below) was standard: securing gold for its intended use assessed for all of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations by a Increasingly, customers and consumers want the assurance team in each region. that the gold they are purchasing has not contributed to Part A involves a conflict and sanctions assessment of all conflict or human rights abuses. This has resulted in a of AngloGold Ashanti’s mine locations and uses official SECTION TWO number of measures being introduced by industry-related sources on international sanctions and conflict recognition. organisations to prevent gold and other commodities being used to fund conflict and other violations of human rights. These include the European Union (EU), United Nations (UN) Security Council and UK government sanction and AngloGold Ashanti has taken a public stand and played embargo lists. As specified in the CFGS, external sources a leading role in developing the WGC CFGS; not only were also used to evaluate the presence of conflict or high because it is committed to responsible business practices risk in the countries where AngloGold Ashanti operates or and to making positive contributions to the societies in transports its product. The Heidelberg Institute’s Conflict which it operates, but also to deliver on obligations to Barometer was used to assess the location and intensity stakeholders to ensure that the gold in its supply chain of conflicts and this data, in turn, informed which countries does not fuel conflict, contribute to human rights abuses would be reported on. or breach international humanitarian law. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti is actively involved in the reduction of The Part A assessment indicated that AngloGold Ashanti illicit trafficking of precious metals initiatives at national and is not operating in any countries that are subject to international levels. international sanctions or embargoes relating to export and trade in gold. Mali and the DRC were identified as high-risk The CFGS comprises five parts (see as follows). A toolkit according to the Heidelberg Conflict Barometer. As a result, has been developed to assist companies in achieving joint venture operations at Sadiola and Yatela in Mali and compliance. This includes background information, advice Kibali in the DRC are currently the chief focus for further on compiling evidence packs, and checklists. A guidance assessment and reporting (Morila in Mali does not fall in an document for external assurers has also been prepared. area identified by the Barometer as conflict-affected). As AngloGold Ashanti appointed a project team with an overall AngloGold Ashanti is not the operating partner in the Kibali co-ordinator and individuals responsible for each of the five joint venture with Randgold Resources Ltd, we are only SECTION THREE parts. The focus of the team’s work was the operations accountable for informing and encouraging conformance in AngloGold Ashanti’s Continental Africa region because by our joint venture partner to the CFGS. UED TIN CON REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 67 MATERIAL ISSUE 5: continued Responsible gold The Part B assessment examines evidence in five areas to gold at the operation and transportation between mine and determine the company’s conformance to the CFGS: refinery. AngloGold Ashanti used a risk-based approach to • public commitment – whether there is a human rights implement this part of the standard – including mapping policy in place; the mine site supply chain from shaft or pit to the point of dispatch and handover to a security company for transport • activities – found or not found culpable of abuses, using to a refinery; risk points for potential gold leakage; and influence to prevent abuse by others; inefficiencies in the supply chain. Other common risk points • security – due diligence on security providers; include the loading of trucks and movement to the plant, • payments and benefits-in-kind – disclosure of payments the handling of the material in the various circuits within the to governments, whether funding has been provided to plant and the smelt house, and the dispatch of gold from private groups accused of human rights abuses; and that point. • stakeholder engagement – vulnerable groups, systems The findings showed that although robust processes to for dealing with grievances. control the supply chain were in place, there were some A ngloGold Ashanti has conducted extensive work to minor gaps at certain points. The problems identified are assess its conformance to the CFGS, including operations being addressed through Remedial Action Plans (RAPs). not identified as conflict affected or high risk in the Part The final two parts of the CFGS refer to a company statement A assessment. Although AngloGold Ashanti believes confirming that AngloGold Ashanti does not source gold that compliance is good, the following points have been externally and a management statement of conformance identified in some areas, which require more focused that depends on the work involved in the other four parts. attention to ensure maximum compliance: The AngloGold Ashanti corporate team carried out these • procedures to regulate payments or provision of benefits components. Assurance processes were undertaken as in-kind to governments and third parties; part of the internal and independent process to review • existence of human rights due diligence processes; AngloGold Ashanti’s compliance to the CFGS. The internal • supply chain management procedures; and assurance process was undertaken by Group Internal Audit • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) during the latter part of 2013 and this included tracking of training evidence and memorandums of understanding. the implementation process, identification and analysis of compliance readiness based on the CFGS Implementation The Part C assessment relates to the handling of gold Guidelines. The external assurance was done by Ernst & and gold-bearing material on site and once it leaves the Young Inc. as part of the annual audit process, and was mine. It focuses on the nature of production, control of completed in February 2014. Goals In addition to these standards, we continue to develop partnerships and engage in dialogue with stakeholders at a global level in order to demonstrate that mining is an agent for “ Our compliance to externally verified positive social and economic change. voluntary responsible gold standards enables us to demonstrate that we operate responsibly Our compliance to externally verified voluntary responsible and to create rigorous mechanisms for selfgold standards enables us to demonstrate that we operate governance and transparency. ” responsibly and to create rigorous mechanisms for selfgovernance and transparency. We commit to maintaining this high standard of governance so that our stakeholders may be confident that we perform responsibly and in particular that all our gold is extracted and produced without fueling conflict or contributing to human rights abuses. 68 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 5 MEETING OUR OBLIGATION TO RESPECT Progress SECTION ONE HUMAN RIGHTS GRI indicators on which we report: Context •  G4-HR1: Total number and percentage of significant AngloGold Ashanti has chosen implementation of the UN investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as its definitive •  G4-HR8: Total number of incidents of violations involving approach to meeting its obligations to respect human rights rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken throughout its own activities and in its business relationships. See page 41 for supply chain indicators. In line with that commitment, we undertook to implement the three key requirements set out in the Guiding Principles, namely, development of a strong human rights framework During 2013, the board approved a human rights policy for anchored around a human rights policy; establishment of a the company which obligates us to respect all internationally process of human rights due diligence which is embedded recognised human rights as expressed in the International Bill into business processes and risk management framework; and of Human Rights and the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental lastly, establishment of operational level grievance mechanisms Principles and Rights at Work. The policy reaffirms our to address and manage community complaints and grievances commitment to effective stakeholder engagement and to effectively. We made varying levels of progress on each of these identifying and addressing all human rights which are salient fronts in 2013. to our business, including those which relate to labour, access SECTION TWO SECTION THREE Empowering women through community projects reaffirms our commitment to human rights. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 69 MATERIAL ISSUE 5: continued Responsible gold to land, security, the environment, livelihoods, vulnerable persons, indigenous people and the values, traditions and “ We prioritised the development of cultures of local communities among others. The policy was grievance mechanisms which we co-created communicated extensively internally and externally (1). with the communities. ” We are currently developing or reviewing supporting policies, standards and guidance on these salient issues, in order to achieve our ambition of having an extensive and adequate human rights framework in place. Part of this process has involved, among others, the review of our Voluntary Principles In line with the obligation to provide effective access to curriculum and training to improve the human rights content remedies as prescribed by the Guiding Principles, during the course of the year we prioritised the development of grievance and performance in our security services; development of a mechanisms at our operations where none existed and, where Code of Conduct with significant human rights requirements they exist, to ensure that they align with international standards. for our suppliers, review of stakeholder engagement strategies At each site, there was significant community involvement in to integrate a human rights perspective which prioritises the process, resulting in mechanisms that were co-created vulnerable persons, inclusion of human rights considerations and specific to the context of each community. Grievance into efforts to address illegal mining on our concessions. mechanisms are now available at every one of our operations in Australia, Colombia, Brazil and Continental Africa region, except Capacity building is an integral part of the process of embedding for Siguiri, where the process of development is going on, and human rights into our business, and the roll of the human is expected to be completed in 2014. Similarly, operations in rights policy is supported by an awareness raising programme South Africa region are expected to develop and adopt formal in the corporate office and the roll out of the Human Rights grievance mechanisms in 2014. Ambassadors Programme on sites. Currently in its pilot phase in Geita, AngloGold Ashanti intends to roll out this programme One of our key priorities over the coming year is the development to other sites in 2014. of a human rights reporting system across the company and one of the key sources of information on our human rights performance will be our grievance mechanisms. CASE STUDY: Human Rights Ambassador Programme at Geita Indigenous peoples www.aga-reports.com/13/cs Our business activities have limited interface with indigenous peoples, and any such interface, where it exists, is guided by our commitment to respect the resources, values, In 2012, we committed to conducting human rights due traditions and cultures of indigenous communities as set out diligence reviews of our activities and business relationships in our human rights policy and our management standard on in order to avoid adverse impacts on our workforce and the indigenous peoples. communities in which we operate. However, severe budgetary During the course of the year, AngloGold Ashanti took part in constraints and the resultant rationalisations in the last year a ICMM-led consultation on Human Rights and Indigenous led to cancellation of planned human rights due diligence People, and is a member of the working group tasked with pilots in Iduapriem and Mongbwalu. The initial assessment reviewing the Good Practice Guide on Indigenous People review planned for Gramalote was however carried out, and and Mining. the integration of the findings of that review is on-going. Through gap assessments of our human right performance, Goals we identified as a challenge, inadequate representation of Our goal remains the availability of a strong human rights human rights issues within the company’s risk management framework within the company, which will ensure that all systems. We have therefore initiated efforts to address this our business activities and relationships are human rights gap, through the integration of human rights into AuRisk compliant, and enable us to live our values, do no harm and and the combined assurance process, and our principal risk deliver benefits which align with the needs of the communities management systems. in which we operate. (1) www.anglogoldashanti.co.za/about+our+business/gov+policies.htm 70 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MATERIAL ISSUE 6: MA TE RIAL ISSU E 6 Achieving business sustainability SECTION ONE While pressures on margins as a result of declining revenues and rising costs continue to present challenges to our sustainability, we can overcome these challenges and maximise our opportunities by developing and implementing new technologies and enhancing our skills base. ACHIEVING BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY Developing and implementing Addressing global technology and increasing and local skills STAKEHOLDERS: employees, communities, government, mechanisation investors, suppliers, customers This section should be read in conjunction with our Annual Integrated Report 2013. SECTION TWO DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING Viable orebodies have been detected as deep as 5,000m TECHNOLOGY AND INCREASING and beyond, but cannot be accessed safely or efficiently MECHANISATION using current mining methods. Further, some 40% of gold ore remains in unmined support pillars that are in left place to Context ensure safety. Additionally, the drill-and-blast method does not Deep South African gold mines face a number of technical and allow for a continuous, 24-hour operation, thus compromising financial sustainability challenges, which are amplified by the additional efficiencies. conventional, non-continuous drill-and-blast mining process. Crucially, the current mining method exposes people to risks The thin, gold-bearing reef is mined along with waste rock to that are becoming increasingly difficult to mitigate as the create an excavation large enough to accommodate equipment working areas become deeper and more difficult to work in. and people, as the work face is advanced and the rock extracted. Though necessary, this enlarged excavation causes significant Though there have been many improvements in the technologies dilution of grade. The thin gold-bearing reef mixed with the used, the basic methodologies used in deep South African gold waste rock is carted through the extensive mine infrastructure at mines have remained essentially unchanged for more than a depth, across large horizontal distances and then up to surface, century. In the drill-and-blast method used in gold hard-rock creating significant inefficiencies throughout the production mining, only drilling and cleaning is mechanical, while blasting chain, including increased energy consumption and intensity (see SECTION THREE makes use of explosives. This leads to significant delays, as pages 44-46 for a discussion on energy). These inefficiencies the mine has to be evacuated to clear blast fumes. Additionally, often result in gold losses as fine gold particles disappear into the blasting at depths of around 4,000m significantly increases micro fractures created by the blasting activities. Additional fine the risk of seismicity and therefore workplace safety incidents. gold is lost along the ore transportation process. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 71 MATERIAL ISSUE 6: continued Achieving business sustainability Reef-boring technology is being tested at TauTona Mine in South Africa. Progress A test site has been established at TauTona mine in South Africa In 2010, AngloGold Ashanti established the Technology where the development of the reef-boring application and the Innovation Consortium (ATIC) to seek new mining methods to inclusion of Ultra-High Strength Backfill (UHSB) are being tested to evolve the mechanical mining method into an engineered, address these issues. The ATIC aims to develop the technology end-to-end system. By the end of 2013, 18 reef-bored holes that would enable us to mine safely, all the time, and at greater have been drilled and filled with UHSB. Notable outcomes during depths than we currently operate, through the development this period have been the development of a backfill product and of safe and reliable technologies and approaching our mining delivery system that produces the desired strengths for smallprocess as an end-to-end solution. We aim to extract gold in scale applications; and confirmation that reef boring is technically our narrow reefs that extend to depths well beyond our current feasible with the development of a suitable drill head for the initial mining fronts and in ground previously left as pillars that cannot production sites. be safely extracted using traditional methods. By doing this, we will have the potential to dramatically improve asset utilisation The successful development of this UHSB, together with the and capital-infrastructure efficiency. Ultimately, the intention is reef-boring technology, creates the potential for changing the to improve the sustainability of the deep-level mining practice current conventional mining method to a mechanical reefgiven the technical and economic limitations of the current boring method for the extraction of our gold-bearing reefs. conventional mining practices. These initial developments will allow us to start deploying production units in limited capacities, starting with mining In particular, the ATIC considered reef boring as a possible opportunities that are not currently available for mining using solution. Reef-boring technology is being developed to extract conventional practices. gold-bearing reef using mechanical boring techniques, with the aim of creating an explosive-free, and, therefore, continuous Key focus areas at this stage of the work are to speed up mining operation. The added benefit being sought is to only drilling rates, to drill holes ever closer together, and to continue target the gold-bearing reef, thereby minimising dilution. developing the UHSB system for larger-scale applications. 72 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RIAL ISSU TE E MA 6 ADDRESSING GLOBAL AND experience a lack of skills. The remote location of operations SECTION ONE LOCAL SKILLS renders mining unattractive for younger graduates, many of whom find employment in urban communities more compelling. Context Progress See our online report for management approach relating to the following aspects: employment, training and education, diversity GRI indicators on which we report: and equal opportunity. • G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region AngloGold Ashanti’s System for People (SP) was designed to • G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown facilitate an effective organisation structure and an accountability of employees per employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other hierarchy that facilitates engagement and involvement at the right indicators of diversity levels of the organisation, as well as the efficient execution of work. The roll-out of SP across the organisation continued during We continue to seek to build internal capability, retain key skills, the year and continues to be implemented by all business units. develop diverse talent and have detailed succession plans, Globally, the mining industry has seen a downsizing of the sector. while embedding a culture of accountability within the business, Further, the global economic conditions, the beleaguered gold notwithstanding the global and local economic conditions, price and a rise in unemployment have had a direct impact particularly the fall in the gold price and on-going costs on the Human Resources functions, including a freeze on pressures. AngloGold Ashanti responded promptly to these recruitment, low or no increases and stricter measures from challenges by imposing a freeze on hiring new employees, governments on the employment of local nationals. But, unless the role was a mission-critical position. We also initiated despite this difficult employment environment, we continue to projects to optimise overheads and reduce costs and capital SECTION TWO expenditure. These initiatives led to an organisational redesign that resulted in organisational retrenchments. As a consequence of financial pressures, executive management initiated a review of the current composition and capabilities of the workforce at all operations. This included a close analysis of the skills and numbers required to perform core work functions. This process was underpinned by the principles of SP, in understanding the level of work and the resources required. The work for each discipline was broken down into transactional and knowledge-based, plotted against where the function was required, either at corporate, region or site level. The extensive work that went into this exercise allowed for an organisational restructure which resulted in a reduction in headcount. CASE STUDY: ONE works wonders at Tropicana www.aga-reports.com/13/cs This all happened in the context of increasing cost pressures on all our sites although some regions were more affected than others. This was compounded by unique operating circumstances such as localisation whereby we are committed SECTION THREE to the employment of local skills, leading to imposing limits on expatriate employment. We have detailed localisation plans for our mines to ensure we meet our localisation targets. We encourage women in mining as part of our strategy to develop diverse talent. REVIEWING OUR PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES 73 MATERIAL ISSUE 6: continued Achieving business sustainability In South Africa, we continue to work towards achieving employment equity targets and ensuring we have a “ In 2013, the South Africa region representative workforce, particularly at management levels. (including corporate office) employed 45.7% Another area of focus has been to address employee turnover historically disadvantaged South Africans at in key roles and the period of time taken to fill jobs at middle and a management level. ” senior management (those with eight to 10 years of experience). Due to skills shortages and the location of our operations, we find that many young mining graduates do not remain in the mining industry for longer than two to three years, opting instead for jobs in financial services, consulting services or the petrochemical industry. In our experience, these individuals rarely return to the mining industry and, consequently, we continue to experience shortages at middle management and in key technical skills. Specifically, the roles that are difficult to fill A global managerial and leadership programme, which we across our operations are mining specific roles, such as general have participated in for the last 10 years, is the Intermediate managers, mine managers and production managers. In the Management Development Programme and the Management engineering discipline, roles such as engineering manager, Development Programme in partnership with the University of section engineer and engineering process leaders remain Cape Town Graduate School of Business. The programme problematic; while in the geotechnical field, this applies to the is aimed at building systemic thinking skills and leadership roles of rock engineering managers and mine seismologists. qualities and has yielded excellent results for the over 900 Such roles are all specialist in nature and require many years of employees who have participated over the years. This year we experience to be proficient. again offered this initiative to employees, who attended from around the world. A major outcome is an organisationallyAddressing the skills shortage is a challenge that our relevant project with tangible recommendations. While this organisation tackles head on. For example, in South Africa project has been highly successful over the last 10 years, we have adopted a skills framework that extends beyond the the company is looking at alternative ways to re-model the boundaries of our organisation. We have initiatives that start programme to better fit its current requirements and resources. at school level where we contribute to literacy programmes. At high school level we contribute to interventions that Goals enhance maths, science and English in the local community, In 2014, we will continue with the restructuring and realignment supplementing the school curriculum as these subjects build of our people-related efforts. This is directed at ensuring that a strong core foundation for a career in mining. At university our operations continue to be supplied with capable people. level, we award bursaries for specific students and to a Our philosophy and strategies relating to people at all points general mining fund that supplements the salary levels of of the employment lifecycle will be reviewed and adapted lecturers in the mining and related disciplines through the early in 2014 to make our value proposition to employees Minerals Education Trust Fund. Once university students more attractive. We will be seeking further integration among qualify, we offer a graduate programme, internships and the various areas of SP system to ensure synergies. While learnerships among other programmes. Throughout the operational downscaling continues, the South Africa region will regions in which we operate we focus on such wide-reaching focus on its commitments to the business, government and initiatives and will continue to expand such globally in an the community in terms of employee and community skills aligned way to meet not only our global requirements but development and employment equity and will continue to seek also country specific requirements. innovative ways to upskill the pools of talent from which the company can draw. The changing social and economic environment in which mining finds itself demands a new type of management personnel, with In-depth operational reviews of our learning and development new additional skill sets: individuals with both good technical offerings will be finalised with the goals of maximising people operational skills and the social skills, and commitment to potential and delivering value for money. We will be working upholding sustainable development, including human rights, closely with our technology team to understand the skills that ethics and environmental responsibility. We continue to identify people will need in the mining industry in the future and begin such leaders who naturally exhibit these broader managerial aligning our recruitment, selection, training, development and qualities through our talent management process. remuneration strategies, processes and systems with this. 74 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABRIDGED GLOSSARY OF TERMS SECTION ONE All injury frequency rate: The total number of injuries and $ United States dollars fatalities that occurs per million hours worked. ASM Artisanal and small scale mining Average number of employees: The monthly average ATIC AngloGold Ashanti established the number of production and non-production employees and Technology Innovation Consortium contractors employed during the year, where contractors are defined as individuals who have entered into a fixed-term BEE Black Economic Empowerment contract of employment with a group company or subsidiary. Bn Billion Employee numbers of joint ventures represents the group’s CBOs Community-based organisations attributable share. CC&V Cripple Creek & Victor Grade: The quantity of gold contained within a unit weight of CFGS Conflict-free Gold Standard gold-bearing material generally expressed in ounces per short ton of ore (oz/t), or grams per metric tonne (g/t). DMR Department of Mineral Resources Precipitate: The solid product of chemical reaction by fluids DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo such as the zinc precipitation referred to below. EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Productivity: An expression of labour productivity based on EU European Union the ratio of ounces of gold produced per month to the total EnMS AngloGold Ashanti Energy Management number of employees in mining operations. Systems Reclamation: In the South African context, reclamation FIFR Fatal injury frequency rate describes the process of reclaiming slimes (tailings) dumps ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals using highpressure water cannons to form a slurry which is SECTION TWO pumped back to the metallurgical plants for processing. King III South African King Code on Corporate Governance, 2009 (King III) Reef: A gold-bearing sedimentary horizon, normally a LTIFR Lost-time injury frequency rate conglomerate band that may contain economic levels of gold. M or m Metre or million, depending on the context Region: Defines the operational management divisions within AngloGold Ashanti Limited, namely South Africa, Continental MWS Mine Waste Solutions Africa (Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Guinea, Moz Million ounces Mali, Namibia and Tanzania), Australasia, and the Americas Mt Million tonnes or tons (Argentina, Brazil and United States of America). NGO Non-governmental organisation Rehabilitation: The process of reclaiming land disturbed by Oz Ounces (troy) mining to allow an appropriate post-mining use. Rehabilitation standards are defined by country-specific laws, including but not PJ Petajoule limited to the South African Department of Mineral Resources, RAPs Remedial Action Plans the US Bureau of Land Management, the US Forest Service, and RPF Resettlement Policy Framework the relevant Australian mining authorities, and address among other issues, ground and surface water, topsoil, final slope SFCG Search for common ground gradient, waste handling and re-vegetation issues. SLPs Social and labour plans Shaft: A vertical or subvertical excavation used for accessing SP Systems for people an underground mine; for transporting personnel, equipment SMMEs Small medium and micro sized enterprises and supplies; for hoisting ore and waste; for ventilation and SML Special mining licence utilities; and/or as an auxiliary exit. T/t Tons (short) or tonnes (metric) SECTION THREE Smelting: A pyro-metallurgical operation in which gold is further separated from impurities. TSFs Tailings storage facilities (TSFs) UN United Nations Tailings: Finely ground rock of low residual value from which valuable minerals have been extracted. UNGC United Nations Global Compact Tonne: Used in metric statistics. Equal to 1,000 kilograms. VPSHR Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Waste: Material that contains insufficient mineralisation for WGC World Gold Council consideration for future treatment and, as such, is discarded. OTHER INFORMATION 75 NOTES 76 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GUIDE TO USING THE 2013 SUITE OF REPORTS AngloGold Ashanti’s entire suite of annual reports for 2013 is available at the corporate reporting website, www.aga-reports.com. THE 2013 Our primary platform for reporting is our online report at www.aga-reports.com SUITE OF REPORTS INCLUDES: ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2013 NOTICE OF MEETING AND SUMMARISED The primary reporting document in the suite, is a group-level FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2013 report aimed principally at the providers of capital and has been Is produced to present to shareholders the information required produced in line with King III and the JSE’s listing requirements. to enable them to make informed decisions regarding the Local and international recommendations on integrated reporting resolutions to be voted on at the company’s annual general were taken into account in the development of the content of meeting for shareholders. Details regarding the resolutions to this report. This report presents a holistic view of the company, be voted on and the shareholder meeting are also provided. including financial, operational and non-financial information. In compliance with the rules governing its listing on the NYSE, ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 AngloGold Ashanti prepares a report on Form 20-F which is filed annually with the SEC. The full suite of 2013 reports is also Focuses on those material issues which have been determined furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. to be the most material to AngloGold Ashanti and its stakeholders. It is aimed at the company’s broader group of In addition, the Annual Integrated Report 2013 and the stakeholders. This report provides insight into the company’s Annual Sustainability Report 2013 available as online reports at approach to sustainability and its related objectives, strategy www.aga-reports.com. All the remaining reports are available and performance. electronically as pdfs at the same address. Printed copies of these reports are available on request. MINERAL RESOURCE AND ORE RESERVE REPORT 2013 COUNTRY FACTSHEETS 2013 Documents and details the group’s Mineral Resource and Focuses on key operational and sustainability performance of Mineral Reserve in accordance with the SAMREC and JORC each country where AngloGold Ashanti operates. codes. This report is compiled by, or prepared under the supervision of, and reviewed and signed off by the Competent Persons as defined by these codes. ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Presents the statutory and regulatory information that must be published in terms of the company’s stock exchange listings. The financial statements are prepared in accordance with The inside pages of this report were printed on Triple Green Silk 135gsm. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); the South A local double coated, high-white, wood-free coated art paper produced by Sappi at the Stanger Mill in South Africa. ISO 9001 and 14001 certification. African Companies Act, 71 of 2008, as amended; and the PEFC, Sustainable Forest Initiative, FSC and CoC standards compliant. listings requirements of the JSE. This report is submitted to the Sappi Stanger Mill is one of the only mills in the world that uses bagasse as various exchanges on which AngloGold Ashanti is listed. its primary source of pulp. The pulp is a by-product of sugar production, being the fibrous material remaining after raw sugar has been extracted OPERATIONAL PROFILES 2013 from sugar cane. This paper is free of both acid and elemental chlorine and is recyclable. Provide detailed information on operational, financial and sustainability aspects of each of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. These will be available electronically as pdfs. 7086/13 OTHER INFORMATION 77 ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION Registered and corporate office 76 Jeppe Street, Newtown Johannesburg, Gauteng 2001 South Africa PO Box 62117, Marshalltown Gauteng 2107 South Africa Telephone: +27 11 637 6000 Fax: +27 11 637 6624 www.anglogoldashanti.com Contact person for this report: Robby Coccioni Telephone: +27 11 637 7133 Fax: +27 86 242 8528 E-mail: rcoccioni@anglogoldashanti.com Sustainability enquiries: E-mail: sustainabilityreport@anglogoldashanti.com ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT CEO’s review •  ANNUAL INTEGRATED Financial and operating •  REPORT 2013 2013 annual integrated report performance and outlook Leadership and governance •  Understanding and •  mitigating risks ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT YOU ARE HERE • Letter from CEO ANNUAL SUSTAINAbILITy • Material sustainability REPORT 2013 annual SuStainaBilitY report 2013 issues • Approach to risk • Sustainability performance • Panel feedback ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Corporate governance ANNUAL FINANCIAL • Directors’ report STATEMENTS 2013 2013 annual FinanCial StateMentS • Remuneration report Financial statements – •  group and company MINERAL RESOURCE AND ORE RESERVE REPORT MINERAL Measured, Indicated and •  RESOURCE AND ORE RESERVE 2013 Mineral reSourCe and ore reServe report Inferred Mineral Resource* REPORT 2013 Proved and Probable •  Ore Reserve* * By group, region, country and operation NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND SUMMARISED NOTICE OF ANNUAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION GENERAL MEETING AND SUMMARISED FINANCIAL notiCe oF Meeting and SuMMariSed FinanCialS 2013 Notice of annual •  INFORMATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 general meeting – timing and resolutions to be voted on Summarised financial •  information ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Download the full Annual Sustainability Report 2013 WWW.ANGLOGOLDASHANTI.COM
