F H Bertling Logistics GmbH 2014 COP 15th October 2014 To our stakeholders: Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that F H Bertling Logistics GmbH reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations and provide an update in the pages which follow. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dirk Juergensen Chief Executive Officer HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. The Bertling Group continues to made a clear statement of support and commitment to the protection of proclaimed human rights via a commitment in our Values and Code of Conduct as published on our website. Our employees and business partners are also required to commit to follow, support and promote our Values and Code of Conduct. Multi-language versions of both our Values and Code of Conduct and Ethical Business Statement can be found posted on www.bertling.com as our public commitment. Assessment, Policy and Goals In the past year the Bertling Group has enhance its risk assessment tools to ensure both it and its business partners are not complicit in human rights abuses. Bertling has also made both its employees and business partners aware that its confidential whistle-blowing arrangements can be used to report human rights abuses. Bertling’s Ethical Business Statement, that business partners are required to sign up to via a website confirmation process, will shortly be revised to include human rights abuse prevention. Bertling’s corporate Ethics and Compliance department is undertaking web based training programs with local teams which now includes human rights abuse prevention. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Bertling's Values and Code of Conduct remains our key public statement during the review period. It has been issued to all staff and to our business partners. It contains the following Values statement on Human Rights: 2. We promote human rights Bertling is committed to promoting human rights. As such, Bertling respects employees’ right to freedom of association, rejects the use of child, forced or bonded labor in any of our operations and expects the same standards from our partners and suppliers. 3. We promote diversity Bertling’s success over the last 150 years has been built on the promotion of shared common values that guide our daily activities. We respect our individual abilities and actively promote tolerance and diversity at every level of our business. We recognize and promote creativity and the benefits to be gained from drawing on the experience and knowledge of Bertling’s people from all parts of the world. As such, Bertling is committed to providing equal opportunities and to avoiding any form of unfair discrimination in employment. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Any reports of human rights abuse through any internal route would be a matter that would be reported to Bertling’s Compliance Review Committee that is managed independently of line management. The Compliance Review Committee has an investigation protocol to be used to investigate any matters as required. A nil return would also be reported as any human rights abuse is a standing item on the agenda of the Compliance Review Committee. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Bertling’s Values and Code of Conduct gives a clear commitment to the freedom of association: 2. We promote human rights Bertling is committed to promoting human rights. As such, Bertling respects employees’ right to freedom of association, rejects the use of child, forced or bonded labor in any of our operations and expects the same standards from our partners and suppliers. Bertling’s Values and Code of Conduct gives a clear commitment to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and commitment to equal opportunities. All Bertling employees receive a written statement setting out their terms and conditions of their employment and a set of human resources policies are deployed to guide the interaction between Bertling and its people across the globe. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Bertling’s Values and Code of Conduct gives a clear commitment to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour: 2. We promote human rights Bertling is committed to promoting human rights. As such, Bertling respects employees’ right to freedom of association, rejects the use of child, forced or bonded labor in any of our operations and expects the same standards from our partners and suppliers. The Company records gender diversity within the business across the globe. As the business operates in 50 countries globally it does not monitor cultural diversity. Bertling operates a confidential whistle blowing arrangements for both employees and business partners operated by a third party organisation. This will be promoted to ensure that all understand that this service can be used to report human rights abuses. Bertling's Values and Code of Conduct also gives a clear statement on the health and safety of our employees. 4. We promote a safe working environment and employee security Bertling is committed to providing all employees with a safe working environment and protecting their well-being. We will take all possible steps to reduce the risk of injuries or incidents at our places of work, based on our health and safety policies and procedures which, in turn, are informed by local risk evaluations. We conduct regular drills, awareness programs, and anomaly reporting exercises, and measure and report regularly on our health and safety performance. Violence and threatening behavior in the workplace will not be tolerated. Likewise, working under the influence of alcohol or other legal and illegal drugs and substances undermine our efforts to promote a safe working environment and will not be tolerated at any time. By the nature of our business, we need to be present in some of the more challenging and politically unstable parts of the world. Through monitoring, regular risk assessments and advice from external security experts, Bertling will ensure that appropriate measures are taken to protect the security of its employees. Bertling has a Group Human Resources Department that ensures group HR policies are applied consistently wherever we do business Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Any reports of labour related abuse would be a matter that would be reported to Bertling’s Compliance Review Committee that is managed independently of line management. A nil return would also be reported as this is a standing item on the agenda of the of the Compliance Review Committee. Bertling’s business partners are required to sign-up to both Bertling’s Ethical Business Statement and Values and Code of Conduct. A programme to assess business partners in higher risk locations is being developed with specialist external consultants. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. The environmental footprint of Bertling is largely the movement of Cargo by 3rd party subcontractors by road, sea and air and is covered by our corporate objectives including, “Reductions of Risks and Impacts to the Environment” and “Reductions in CO2 emissions through strategic route planning including reductions in air and road freight volumes”  Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks  Written Corporate Environmental Policy.  Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles  Written procedure requiring suppliers to adhere to requirements by returning a completed pre-supply questionnaire, as attached.  Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Targeted reductions in energy use by 5% in the year Bertling’s Environmental Policy Statement Bertling is one of the leading providers of Global Freight Management and Logistics Services, and will maintain its commitment towards achieving continuously improved performance in Environmental Management and in the Sustainability of Services provided globally to its Customers by measuring and monitoring input and output throughout all levels of our organisation and will measure the achievement of the aims and objectives of this policy. Bertling’s strategy is ‘To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by becoming the Logistics Partner of Choice.’ Bertling will achieve high performance standards for energy use and environmental impact throughout our organisation and will measure the achievement of the aims and objectives of this policy. In implementing this policy Bertling recognises that our operations have the potential to impact adversely on the environment. Bertling believes that every one of our personnel should have a personal and collective responsibility to protect the environment, to promote the use of sustainable resources and to improve process efficiency. Our central aims and objectives are: To manage corporately and at business level the effective use of resources to prevent the generation of wastes and pollution and to ensure sustainability. To comply with, and where practicable exceed, the requirements and targets set by existing environmental legislation and regulations and to plan ahead for future compliance. To use impact assessment to minimise any adverse effects of our operations on the environment and where possible to improve the environment. To, so far as reasonably practicable, use transport means that minimise pollution and the consumption of non-renewable resources. To embrace Client and internationally recognised objectives when setting internal targets and preparing procedures to monitor energy use in offices, waste recycling in offices and material disposal in warehouses. To provide and maintain so far as practicable a pollution free environment for our personnel and the wider community in which they interact. To take into account the environmental impacts of our raw material sourcing and operations on habitats, species diversity and natural beauty To provide a common framework, which adopts and supports best practice, for energy and environmental management at all levels within our company. To allocate appropriate resources to ensure the effective implementation of this policy. To encourage the development of similar policies within our supply sources. The aim of this policy will only be achieved through leadership, responsible management, commitment and ownership of these issues by Bertling personnel. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. By the continued implementation of Corporate Integrated 9001/14001/18001 system globally through all offices, which have already achieved certification in 2 regions of 8 regions across the globe.  Through e-learning programme  Implementation and reporting of Key Performance Indicators on waste reduction  Implementation of Corporate level objectives  Implementation of Corporate Management system globally  Appointment of HSE manager and HSE representatives Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Through implementation of the Environmental Plan covering incident reporting and corrective and preventive measures  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles No incidents to-date  Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period Under assessment  Periodic review of results by senior management 6 monthly management reviews covering environmental management results.  External audits of environmental performance  External audits conducted on 14001 management system resulting in certification in 2 Regions this year. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Bertling utilises a risk based approach in the countries where it operates. It utilises its membership of TRACE International to assist this risk assessment process.  Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion A zero tolerance is posted on Bertling’s website and through our Values and Code of Conduct and Ethical Business Statement all posted in multi-language options on Bertling’s website  Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery  Bertling trains its staff on what steps to take when confronted with extortion or bribery  Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles  Bertling requires its business partners to sign up to our Ethical Business Statement which sets down a clear commitment to anti-corruption principles.  Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year include the To promote Bertling’s support for UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments via our website and in tenders response to potential clients. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Whistle blowing arrangements previously run independently. Also the call for suggestions to improve Bertling's Ethics and Compliance program on its Intranet.  Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐ corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.)  Bertling utilises its own training programs and those provided by TRACE International to raise awareness by both employees and business partners. Bertling has also produced a training DVD that highlights the main components of its Values and Code of Conduct.  Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within the company  Bertling has a clearly defined Ethics and Compliance function that is tasked with promoting anti-corruption within the company  During the current review period Bertling has introduced web conferences to brief and train employees around our business on our Ethics and Compliance programme. In addition to Regional line management programmes specific functional programmes have been developed tailoring our Ethics and Compliance programme to those corporate activities. Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  Bertling has a defined methodology for dealing with incidents that ultimately is overseen independently of line management.  Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management  Bertling has in place a program of audits of its local operations with the assistance of its specialist consultants. These audits assess Bertling operations against the Bertling Assessment Framework on Bribery and Corruption  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery  Specific progress made in the area of anti‐corruption during the last reporting period  The implementation of the attached Values and Code of Conduct and Ethical Business Statement as Bertling commitment to anti-corruption measures wherever it operates.  External audits of anti‐corruption programmes  Bertling is utilising the services of it consultants the GoodCorporation to assist with the auditing of local offices against the Bertling Assessment Framework on Bribery and Corruption
