Cybercom in words COMPANY PRESENTATION AND ­SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Contents 1 2013 in brief Cybercom is an IT consulting company that assists 2 Cybercom in 3 minutes leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. 4 CEO comment The company’s areas of expertise span the entire 7 Where we are ecosystem of communications services. Cybercom’s 8 The market in brief home market is the Nordic region, and in addi10 Strategy tion the company offers global delivery capacity 12 Targets and outcomes for ­local and international business. Cybercom 14 Offering was founded in 1995 and has been listed on the 16 Clients ­NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange since 1999. 19 Employees and social www.cybercom.com ­responsibility 24 Environmental responsibility 26 Sustainability in brief 27 Stakeholder dialogue 28 Overview of sustainability efforts 30 Code of conduct in brief 31 UN Global Compact 32 GRI index 36 Definitions About the report This report is Cybercom’s combined annual report and sustainability report for 2013. It is presented in two parts, with the presentation of the company and the sustainability report to be found in “Cybercom in words”, and the directors’ report, financial statements and corporate governance report to be found in “Cybercom in numbers”. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the corporate governance report complies with Chapter 6, Section 6 of the Annual ­Accounts Act and Point 10 of the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Cybercom’s sustainability report is presented in accordance with GRI international guidelines for sustainability, Level C, Version G3.1. The reporting of key performance indicators for Cybercom, the GRI index, can be found on Pages 32–35 or at www.cybercom.com. In 2012, Cybercom signed the UN Global Compact and complies with its ten principles for responsible business. This report is Cybercom’s annual communication about how we live up to and work with these principles. 2013 in brief Key events • In 2013, Cybercom turned all parts of the operations to profit. • Cybercom made progress in efforts to strategically broaden the company’s client base and In 2013, Cybercom further integrate all parts of the organisation. turned all parts of the • Cybercom expanded its focus on business in IT security and launched Compliance Portal, which operations to profit. supports innovative processes within regulatory compliance through interactive requirement management and indicates the security status of operations in real time. SL (Stockholm Public Transport) is one major client. • The Finnish National Board of Education chose Cybercom for assignments relating to its web services for learning. The contract runs for four years. • Cybercom was awarded a contract by the EIdentification Board for federation services for ­Swedish e-identification to assure the security of Swedes’ digital identification. • Smart Axiata, Cambodia’s second-largest provider of mobile services, chose Cybercom for important mobile network optimisation. • Cybercom opened a project office in Kista, Sweden, for several scrum teams in agile ­development together with Ericsson. • Cybercom signed a new framework agreement with the Swedish Tax Agency located in Gothen­ burg, Solna and Östersund. The contract runs for one year with an option for a further year. • Defence and security company Saab and Cybercom signed a framework agreement for c­onsulting services in product development. 62% • Cybercom won business with Wireless Maingate for M2M and is developing a solution to ­enhance users’ ability to measure and optimise their energy consumption. • The 2013 AllBright Report named Cybercom the IT sector’s top company in terms of women in management. Cybercom’s share performance • Cybercom was awarded best IT workplace in 2013 in Poland. in 2013 Key figures MSEK Sales Operating profit, EBIT EBIT margin, % 2011 1,481.0 -125.4 -8.5 2012 1,339.2 -11.4 -0.9 2013 1,195.1 60.2 5.0 5% EBIT margin Profit/loss for the period -144.2 -53.1 41.5 Earnings per share, SEK -4.0 -0.67 0.23 No. of employees 1,564 1,335 1,267 Created and distributed direct economic value kSEK 2011 2012 2013 Distributed value 2013 Revenue 1,481,075 1,399,202 1,195,135 Employee benefits -950,222 -892,081 -793,840 Employee benefits, 66.42% Other external expenses -464,840 -476,539 -314,732 Other external expenses, 26.33% Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -190,817 -29,857 -26,199 Depreciation, amortisation and Capital losses -11,792 impairment, 2.19% Capital losses, 0.00% Net financial income/expense -19,058 -16,354 -6,904 Net financial income/expense, 0.58% Tax 224 -25,314 -11,811 Tax, 0.99% Charitable donations -575 -352 -142 Charitable donations, 0.01% Dividends to shareholders 0 0 0 Dividends to shareholders, 0.00% Total -144,213 -53,087 41,507 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 1 Cybercom in 3 minutes Our clients’ foremost business partner Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that was We provide Connectivity Our clients founded in Sweden in 1995. We see great potential in the development Cybercom works with a vision to be our cliof the communications of the future. ents’ most trusted business partner in the Today, we assist companies Where the interaction between people connected world. Our clients are ­mainly and organisations to benefit is increasing; where services and systems in the telecom sector, the industrial and from the opportunities of the are meeting new needs; and where automotive sectors, the public sector, retail connected world and enhance mobility is a given. We contribute to our and media. These are leading platform clients’ businesses with passion and we developers, content providers, operators, their competitiveness. seek to be an integral and reliable partner. application developers and manufacturers Technology, content and people are now who need systems, applications, products interdependent. This involves everything and services to communicate with each from cars, planes, smart homes, alarms other quickly, efficiently and securely – and and mobile payment systems to complex in the right way. Alma Media Group, Ertelecom networks. All this is ­Connectivity, icsson, MTV Oy, Millicom, Outotec, SAAB and is fundamentally about making AB, Sony Mobile, Telia­Sonera, the Swedish ­services in our everyday life simpler and Transport Administration and AB Volvo more effective. are our largest clients, accounting for 43 percent of our sales. 98% of Cybercom’s clients would recommend us Sales by sector Telecom, 36% Public sector, 25% Industry, 22% 43% Media, 5% Banking & finance, 2% Retail, 4% Other, 6% of our sales come from our 10 largest clients 2 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Offering Market Sustainability Cybercom offers services in: Cybercom’s most significant market is the Cybercom strives to be the sustainable • Connectivity Management Nordic region, where we have operations IT consulting company. Sustainability • Connected Engineering in Sweden, Finland and Denmark. With issues are important to our clients, our • Digital Solutions additional presence in Poland, Dubai and shareholders and our employees. We • Secure Connectivity Singapore, and a joint venture in India, we take responsibility in our assignments are present in a total of seven countries. as IT consultants towards our clients, Our assignments may be to develop society and the environment at large. ­services to meter and optimise ­energy We ­evaluate our business to ensure that Sales by segment consumption, to develop mobile we act ethically and in line with the UN ­applications or digital services that Global Compact and its guidelines for strengthen the links between businesses Sweden, 73% sustainability and social responsibility. Finland, 18% and their customers, to control lifts more Ethics and morals should characterise our International, 9% efficiently, to develop methodology and business. Business ethics are a standing process support for information and IT item on the executive team’s agenda. security, or simply to build a new mobile network. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 3 4 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 CEO comment Stronger on all levels Backed by a new strategy, Strategic priorities for generating beginning to see a better balance between ­Cybercom has developed in trusted business the public sector, industry and telecoms. This We are following our strategy from 2012 – a provides us with more stable development, the right direction in 2013. Our foundation for Cybercom’s long-term developand we are becoming less dependent on the focus has been on profitability, ment. Cybercom has an established position economy in any single sector. and we are financially stronger in Connectivity and uses IT to benefit from the than a year ago. With a five opportunities of the connected world. The Our world market for Connectivity has a fantastic outlook Our home market is the Nordic region, where percent operating margin, we and the sector is talking about more than 50 we generate over 90 percent of our sales. This are ­halfway towards our long­billion connected devices by 2020. is our locomotive, and we have an established term financial target. We have We operate in a global market with global brand and good opportunities to grow our more goals* than this, and competition. The key to our future lies in business. We also see good potential in the creating trusted business, in which we are Polish market, where during the year we investwe ­continue to transform the our clients’ business partner in Connectivity. ed in establishing a growing local business. ­company to generate greater We have therefore worked during the year to On top of this is our international Connectivity value for our clients, employees select a number of client accounts for which Management business, which is our experwe can offer strategic importance to the client tise with operator clients in the Middle East, and shareholders. going forward and where we can grow our Asia and Africa. This is an important spice in business to span our entire offering, all of our ­Connectivity, a small ingredient that provides four business domains. additional flavour, since our experience from We are focusing on deeper cooperation this area is valuable in the ecosystem surroundwith selected clients and we are working more ing the connected world. This is often new and closely with these clients. This creates better ground-breaking business, new markets, and business knowledge and closer relationships unexpected services in unexpected places. from which we can benefit, not least in a capricious economy. Our strategic priorities A sustainable and integrated business include increasing the proportion of turnkey During the year we improved our profitability assignments and the proportion of blended and returned to profit in all of the group’s delivery, where we benefit from the power business activities. We still have improvements of working together with our colleagues in to make, but we are now working in a more Poland and India for supply in the Nordic integrated manner, which has led to efficiency countries. There are great opportunities here gains. This is how we will continue. Examples for Cybercom. Opportunities that during the of this are improved HR procedures and clearer year we did not manage to realise at the pace career paths, which are becoming increasingly we wanted. important as our industry generally has higher We have intentionally repositioned ourstaff turnover than previously. Employee selves to better balance our client portfolio, ­mobility provides energy and new influences, mainly towards three areas, and we are now but can also be costly. * Read more about Cybercom’s goals and outcomes on Pages 12–13. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 5 CEO comment The key to our future Cybercom needs more young employees. We ents can scale up and down their ­virtual s­ erver are well aware of the challenge facing the capacity as needed. We develop systems to lies in creating a trusted industry in terms of future skills supply. It is assure integrity and identification, and we help business in which we are our worrying that interest in technical education organisations and government agencies to clients’ business partner in has declined among young people. We want increase their availability to users. ­Connectivity. to change this. Cybercom contributes in various contexts to increasing the interest of the The potential of innovation younger generation in technology, and one As we look forward, the future offers both example of this is our partnership with Sweopportunities and challenges. We are preden’s national science centre in ­Gothenburg, pared. We have a strong organisation and a Universeum. clear objective to increase our rate of change, Diversity is becoming increasingly to further improve our profitability, and to ­important for our clients and for us. Diversity generate growth. is positive since it creates dynamism. I am Market developments in the Nordic region pleased that our management team is in 2013 offered mixed signals in the short ­composed of 40 percent women and has term, but the long-term trends that we members from three countries, since I regard outlined when we presented our strategy the management as a role model in our and chose to focus on Connectivity are now ­efforts to increase diversity. a reality for both businesses and the commuDuring the year, our sustainability efforts nity, our clients. The Nordic market for the have been noted many times by our clients. “internet of things” is expected to grow much This is a crucial part of our way forward. We faster than the global market in general. This distinguish ourselves among our competiholds promising potential for Cybercom, both tors through our transparency and our GRI geographically and technologically. reporting, introduced in 2010. We have also Finally, I would like to acknowledge the signed the UN Global Compact. Its principles commitment we receive from our share­ are self-evident for us and I am confident holders, the trust we receive from our clients that it strengthens both our business and our and the passion I encounter among my employer brand. colleagues, who are driven and attracted by Connectivity in itself is an amazing ingrethe innovation at Cybercom. This holds good dient in sustainability. Connectivity allows potential for the future. us to improve efficiency, save energy, and to make services and support available to more people, regardless of where and when. It opens up democracy and makes everyday tasks easier and more content-rich for our clients and their clients. As an example, we develop services such as Cybercom Green ­Connectivity, which helps operators to save Niklas Flyborg energy, and Cybercom Cloud, where we President and CEO ­optimise the resource of server space and cliCybercom Group 6 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Where we are l Sweden l Finland l Denmark Offices: Sundsvall, Offices: Tampere, Office: Copenhagen Östersund, Turku, Helsinki Clients mainly in: Stockholm, Clients mainly ­telecoms, public Linköping, in: ­public sector, sector, banking and Huskvarna, ­industry, media finance Gothenburg, Malmö, Karlskrona Clients mainly in: l Poland l India ­telecoms, public Offices: Warsaw, Lodz Office: Mumbai ­sector, industry, retail Clients mainly in: Clients mainly in: telecoms, retail, telecoms, industry industry Nordic focus l Dubai l Singapore Clients mainly in: Clients mainly in: Cybercom’s operations extend across telecoms telecoms several geographical markets. Our home market is the Nordic region. Poland, India, Dubai and Singapore are international centres of expertise that partly support the Nordic business and partly represent their own specialised businesses. 1,267 Total number of employees in 2013 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 7 USD 1,900,000,000,000 In 2020, the market for the internet of things is expected to have expanded by USD 1.9 trillion. 5% Within two years the IT and telecom sector is expected to account for 5% of global GDP. The Nordic market for machinex2 to-machine is expected to grow twice as fast as in the rest of the world. 2020 50 billion connected devices 16.5% 2015 25 billion connected devices 2010 12.5 ­billion connected ­devices Emissions of greenhouse gases have the potential to decrease by 16.5% annually as a result of innovative solutions in the internet of things. Sources: The Internet of Everything, Cisco IoE Value Index Study, 2013. Radargroup. Arthur D Little: http://www.telecompaper.com/news/nordic-m2m-market-set-togrow-30-by-2017—998287. http://share.cisco.com/internet-of-things.html. GeSI SMARTer 2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future. 8 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 The market in brief Our strategy is shaped by the future We live in a more connected It is becoming increasingly clear that ­senior managers need to think in new ways about Market trends that create society. This is obvious to more business: their IT strategies and need to include most people these days. And ­connected machines and smart devices. • Internet of things – new places and things are changing rapidly. ­Simultaneously, corporate IT budgets are things are becoming connected, digitally The situation suggests that increasingly being migrated to operating manrepresented, and can be verified/controlled agers since IT is a natural and important part there will be over 50 billion regardless of location. of their operations, business and service. It is in connected devices by 2020. As these opportunities in the global Connectivity • Increased need for network capacity – more devices are connected, market that Cybercom’s strategy takes its root. mobile and data network operators need to This is a world that is changing rapidly, and maximise utility, and expand and upgrade there are growing numbers of those who want to succeed better than others their networks to meet increasing demand. sectors and companies that need need to understand how to take advantage • Corporate delivery models – ­companies reliable help to benefit from of the opportunities that are arising right are investing in online solutions and this connected ecosystem. This now, and simultaneously be at the forefront ­e-commerce services to reach their in ­understanding what the challenges of strengthens competitiveness, ­customers. ­tomorrow will look like. and saves money and resources. This is also a world that nourishes ideas. As • Security – in the wake of the NSA debate, more and more devices communicate with the focus has been on protecting ­customer each other, new and creative ways are born to data. Security and privacy are high on capitalise on the opportunities created. the agenda for operators and established As more devices become connected ­handset manufacturers. the need increases for secure and reliable • Productisation of IT – IT is increasingly ­communication between the connected world ­becoming an industrialised service, more and the physical world. It is on this crucial and more cloud based. cornerstone that Cybercom’s strategy rests. It is here that we are at our strongest and where • Increased proportion of offshore – the greatest potential exists. We summarise companies outsource IT to low cost this using one word – Connectivity. countries. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 9 Strategy We are changing the playing field Cybercom is in a process of Nordic region in focus Larger assignments and change and a new 3-year balanced client portfolio Cybercom’s operations extend across several strategy was set out in 2012. Our geographical markets. Our focus is on our Cybercom has historically had many assign­ vision is to be our clients’ most home market, the Nordic region. Poland, ments in the telecommunications sector. trusted business partner in India, Dubai and Singapore are international Today Cybercom acts as a catalyst in new centres of expertise that partly support the the connected world. Nordic business and partly represent their own contexts where clients want to take advantage of mobility and connectivity. In recent years specialised businesses. We also follow many there has been a deliberate broadening of the clients in global assignments from our home client base, and in 2013 Cybercom has created market. In 2013, we had assignments in more a balanced portfolio of clients, primarily in the than twenty countries. public sector, manufacturing industry, and telecoms. Integrated environment – In the past, Cybercom has often had a relatively small part of each client’s business, integrated organisation but the aim is now to increase this proportion A central part of Cybercom’s way of looking among strategic clients by selling Cybercom’s at the world is that it works best when all complete offering and by delivering more its components are interconnected and can turnkey solutions. communicate effectively with each other. The More focused work on key account same goes for Cybercom’s internal organi­management has been introduced during sation. Therefore, efforts are underway to the year, with positive results. Our vision is to further tie together all parts of Cybercom as become our clients’ most trusted partner, and an integrated organisation, with a common to succeed with this Cybercom is therefore sales organisation, common support functions focusing on fewer clients than before, but the and global delivery capabilities. This will best amount of business with each client should be enable Cybercom’s clients to benefit from our larger, more efficient and more profitable. This offering. will benefit both us and our clients. 10 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Strategy Strategic shift by 2015 More Organisation ­integrated More Offering ­focused Better Client portfolio balanced Larger contract Client relationship volume per client More Assignments turnkey assignments Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 11 Targets and outcomes On the right track Cybercom should be regarded as the most well-known and respected brand in Connectivity among clients and employees, on the labour market, and among our shareholders. Over the next two years we will become a leading provider of Connectivity services in the Nordic market, combined with a valuable global delivery capability. Financial targets In 2011, the board established long-term financial targets for Cybercom. The priorities in 2013 have been profitability and the debt policy. Target met Positive development Not applicable/no data Target not met and/or negative development Area Description of target Outcome 2013 Profitability Cybercom shall be one of the more profitable companies among its EBIT margin was 5.0% (-0.9). 5% closest comparable competitors and achieve an EBIT margin of 10 percent Growth Cybercom shall strive to achieve growth of 10 percent annually over Sales decreased by 11.0% (9.6). the business cycle. Acquisition policy Organic growth and profitability are the key objectives for There were no acquisitions during the year. ­Cybercom, but selective acquisitions that create value and ­contribute to growth will be assessed against this strategy. Debt policy Cybercom shall have net debt that does not exceed 30 percent of Net debt amounted to 10% (19). 10% equity over time. Dividend policy Cybercom shall pay a dividend to its shareholders of at least 30 0%. Considering the company’s ongoing work percent of net profit, provided that no special considerations exist towards change, the board proposes to the AGM with regard to the company’s financial position or plans. of May 7, 2014 that no dividend be paid for the financial year 2013. 12 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Targets and outcomes Operating targets Target met Positive development Not applicable/no data Target not met and/or negative development Area Description of target Outcome 2013 Client portfolio Within the next two years we will have a balanced client portfolio l Telecom 36% (40) with 30 percent of sales from telecom, 30 percent from the public l Public sector 25% (24) sector and 30 percent from manufacturing industry. l Industry 22% (18) l Other 17% (18) Client base Within the next two years we will broaden the client base so that our The ten largest clients accounted for 43% (48) and ten largest clients account for no more than 35 percent of sales and so the largest client accounted for 14% (10) of sales. that no single client accounts for more than 15 percent of sales. Assignment types We wish to achieve an even distribution of sales between consulTurnkey assignments and projects 38% (39) ting services and turnkey projects/solutions in our assignments. ­Consulting services 62% (61). Our role as an We wish to enhance the commitment of our employees by proviOur employee motivation index totalled 583. ­employer ding them with an attractive working environment, good terms and conditions, and opportunities for professional development. We are actively working to increase our diversity and to create a dynamic 583 and innovative working environment. We measure this through a group-wide employee survey, called Cybercom People Voice, in which our long-term goal is 700 out of a possible 1,000 on the employee motivation index. Sustainable We wish to increase the amount of sustainable business with our At Cybercom’s ten largest clients, approximately ­business clients. We measure this by looking at what business contributes to 20% of assignments have contributed to improved sustainable development and responsible use of resources through, sustainability through efficiency, cost savings or for example, cost savings, efficiency and reduced use of resources a reduced degree of exploitation of the earth’s that have a negative environmental impact. resources. Business ethics We want high ethics to be a part of our DNA and to permeate all No data is currently is available for 2013 but will be our activities and all our business. Business ethics is a standing collected during 2014. item on the executive team’s agenda. In 2014, we will offer all We want high ethics to be employees the opportunity to gain certification in anti-corruption and Cybercom’s code of conduct. We will measure and monitor a part of our DNA and to the number of certifications in the group. We monitor the number permeate all our activities and all of possible incidents in the group and the number of suppliers that our business. have signed Cybercom’s supplier code of conduct. Environmental We wish to reduce our CO2 emissions as a result of travel per Since 2011, CO2 emissions as a result of travel per impact r­ evenue krona by 5 percent between 2011 and 2015. revenue krona have decreased by approximately 13%. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 13 Offering Connectivity – our core expertise Cybercom provides businesses and organisations with assistance to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world, but precisely what these opportunities are and how this is achieved is ­always unique to each organisation and project. We provide consulting services, strategy and advice, testing and quality assurance, security s­olu­tions, system development, system integration, system management and hosting. Within these areas there are also a range of services specifically focused on helping clients to reduce their environmental footprint and to use their resources more efficiently and sustainably. Regardless of the offering, delivery can take place using both local resources and using global ­delivery capabilities. 14 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Offering Connected 45% Digital 42% Engineering Percentage of group sales ­Solutions Percentage of group sales Connected devices – new business More services – to more people – around the clock Cybercom assists its clients to develop new products and services, and Cybercom’s offering in digital solutions is quite simply about helping to build intelligence into products and systems. By getting to know the companies to benefit from digital opportunities in order to deepen relaclient’s business and operations, Cybercom develops communication tionships with their customers, enhance growth, reduce costs, improve solutions that have clear potential to streamline processes and improve productivity and become more profitable. Cybercom develops systems, user experiences by allowing different devices to communicate with online strategies, digital services and cloud-based solutions. each other. ASSIGNMENT CASE: SF Bio wanted to attract more people to go to the cinema ASSIGNMENT CASE: Outotec is a company that helps organisations to utilise the by creating a digital and mobile link between movie theatres and moviegoers. earth’s natural resources in a sustainable manner. Most of Outotec’s customers Cybercom developed a mobile application that customers can use to book and are in the heavy manufacturing and energy sectors, and when Outotec needed purchase tickets, and to select seating in the cinema. The application, with a help to find a solution to cool copper smelting furnaces more efficiently, it turned focus on good user experience, is also full of information about all the films being to Cybercom. Cybercom delivered a software solution that collects and analyses shown, and SF Bio can use the app to contact its customers with various offers. information about the cooling process and displays everything that happens in The app quickly became one of Sweden’s most popular, and three times as many real time in a 3D model. Thanks to this insight, the people controlling the furnace bookings are now made using the new app. can cool it with a more efficient use of resources and can also detect problems in the cooling process much more quickly. Connectivity 8% Percentage of group Secure 5% Percentage of group ­Management sales Connectivity sales Smoothing paths in the connected world Safe and secure accessibility As people and devices increasingly communicate via networks, and data Demands intensify for IT security as businesses, governmental traffic is increasing in the world, Cybercom offers consulting, industrial ­authorities and organisations become digital and mobile, with ever more analysis and security analysis in the context of utility maximisation, vital information in, for example, cloud services. Who should have access expansion and upgrading of networks or when developing new mobile to the data, and what about privacy and confidentiality? How should we networks. prioritise IT security versus availability? Cybercom helps its clients at an early stage to identify and minimise IT risk. Our experts ­analyse the risk ASSIGNMENT CASE: A central component of Cybercom’s services in of a cyber-attack, draw up security policies and compliance services, or ­Connectivity Management is about customer experience management, which give advice on how sensitive data can be protected. means helping operators to understand how their customers actually experience their services and how they can improve those services by using that insight. ASSIGNMENT CASE: One organisation that demands a high level of both IT Cybercom collects feedback from operators’ customers on how they feel about, ­security and physical security is SL (Stockholm Public Transport), which is responfor example, call quality and data traffic, and combines this with objective data sible for bus, light rail and subway traffic in Stockholm. Every day an enormous from operators’ networks about things such as local base stations and capacity in volume of data flows through its systems, and it is important that sensitive inforthe network. Cybercom can then conduct reliable analysis and provide operators mation is protected while information on departure times and delays needs to be with advice on how they can optimise their networks for the user. Cybercom is accessible and constantly updated. To keep IT security at the high level required, currently helping mobile operator Tigo in Rwanda with this. without affecting the availability of public information, Cybercom helped SL to implement a decentralised security process. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 15 Clients Clients first Our clients are important to us. This means that we conduct regular measurements of client satisfaction in relation to client orders. Every year we also conduct a group-wide client survey that forms the basis of our ongoing improvement. In 2013, 129 telephone interviews were conducted and 64 online questionnaires were answered. We are easy to The results show great loyalty, with 98 percent saying they would recommend Cybercom to others, and clients perceive Cybercom as a deal with safe and fast-moving company. Our employees are very highly rated, We keep our and most agreed with the following statements: promises à We are easy to deal with à We keep our promises We are passionate à We are passionate Clients include: Alma Media, Ericsson, the Finnish National Board of Education, Millicom, MTV Media, SAAB, Sony Mobile, Outotec, the Swedish Traffic Administration, TeliaSonera, AB Volvo and Volvo Cars. 16 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Clients Photo: Verisure The internet Verisure’s investment in the bringing in the services of our partners, who smart home has been a success. can start communicating via the platform. We already have a partnership with Assa Abloy, A Verisure system is installed of things somewhere in the world every whose digital locks are fully integrated with our alarms. And we have Anticimex, with thirty seconds. Verisure selected Verisure’s sensors reading temperature and requires a Cybercom as a strategic partner with both the right skills and humidity so that customers are contacted by Anticimex if there is a problem with the indoor completely climate,” explains Michael Peterson. adequate testing resources to More collaborations are on the way. The address its new market. ­Internet of things is not tomorrow’s technonew business Verisure (formerly Securitas Direct) has supplogy. The phenomenon is already here and it requires entirely new techniques. Cybercom proved to be the rock that Verisure could model lied security services and alarm products to Swedish households for over 25 years. When the smart home, or the ”internet of things” as rely on when it started to look around for someone who could ensure that everything worked as it should. Cybercom’s specialty field it’s also called, stepped into the picture, not of Connected Engineering offered both the only their entire product portfolio changed, expertise and the equipment needed for this but also their business model. initiative. “What makes us unique is that since 2005 “Product testing is cyclical and requires we have developed our own ecosystem that specialist knowledge. You have to know how makes it possible to fully integrate other to work systematically, and we cannot provide companies’ services and products with our this type of skill and capability in-house. We offering, and with all the functions controlled decided on Cybercom for several reasons. via our app. Our classic services of intruder Partly, it was that we were impressed by its alarms, fire alarms and SOS are there, but Testcenter, and partly it was that they had we have understood that we need to have a several cases where they could demonstrate comprehensive offering to be a strong player experience from areas such as the automoin the future,” says Michael Peterson, Head tive and mobile phone industries,” says Dan of Corporate Communications and Media Hovang, Chief Technology Officer at Verisure. Relations at Verisure Innovation. “The smart home” is usually something that Cost-effective testing sounds good in theory, but that seldom lives “Another good thing about outsourcing this up to the epithet. But Verisure has something type of testing is that an external provider big going on. takes approaches that we have not thought of. ”We are already present in hundreds of Cybercom is extremely thorough when it verithousands of European homes, and these fies designs. It makes sure that the logic of the are already connected. And now we are also product is 100 percent bulletproof,” says Dan. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 17 Clients Would you like to know more about Cybercom and how we help our clients? Go to www.cybercom.com and find out about some of our exciting assignments! Telenor – 400% better Oman – quality control of SL – Compliance Portal Connected Engineering telecom services Secure Connectivity Connectivity Management SF Bio – popular app Real – PCI DSS – Security audit KONE – monitoring system – Digital Solutions, Connected Engineering Secure Connectivity E-LinkTM Connected Engineering Outotec – virtual training Sveaskog – Inatur.se SAS – vulnerability scanning Connected Engineering Digital Solutions Secure Connectivity MTV MEDIA – TV campaign Mobile network in Rwanda Kommunal – social intranet calculator Connectivity Management Digital Solutions Digital Solutions 18 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Employees and social responsibility Each employee is our success Our ability to develop and retain Thanks to the expertise of its employees, managers and feel positive community spirit key employees and to attract Cybercom is well equipped to meet challenges with their colleagues. both today and in the future. Through our emCybercom conducts long-term and dedicanew qualified colleagues is an ployees’ great engagement, experience and ted HR activities at all levels of the company. essential and highly strategic desire to always do the best for the client, we Through collaboration, we create an issue for Cybercom. It’s about have created an innovative environment that is exchange of experiences and knowledge the company’s development and based on community and passionate curiosity between consultants, assignments and the about what the future has to offer. various parts of Cybercom. Training hours competitiveness. Based on our business goals and common vary over the years and largely depend on the values, we are creating an organisation in employee’s needs and priorities. Employee which continuous skills development, reward skills training is continually monitored and systems and feedback ensure a high level of summarised in annual performance and devemotivation and understanding of the work we lopment plans. have ahead of us. In 2013, 81 (84) percent of employees ­attended performance reviews. The 243 who A workplace in which to thrive started their employment in 2013 have their and develop first performance review in 2014. In our leadership and management of the business we focus on increasing motivation We do not stand still and engagement, on creating conditions Cybercom began a journey of change in 2012 conducive to work, and on ensuring that every as the company’s growth and profitability employee, manager and team will develop in were not satisfactory. In 2013 we have devethe right direction. Employees should thrive at loped according to the established plan, with Cybercom, have interesting assignments, be positive results thanks to the company’s emproud of their work, have confidence in their ployees, who all contributed to strengthening Cybercom’s three core values: Innovation Passion Trust 1 2 3 We are innovative in the way we We are driven by a genuine passion We generate trust and confidence work and embrace new technology. and are proud of what we achieve. among our colleagues and clients by We are results-oriented and always We are the gurus of our niches and using common sense, clear thinking add value to the business. We are always always willing to go the extra mile to and doing what we say – always with in the forefront, we question, challenge, improve performance and enhance our respect for each other. move boundaries and change industry clients’ businesses. We deliver assured standards. quality, on time and within budget. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 19 Employees and social responsibility Hours of training per employee, 2010–2013 the profitability. One of our most important offers services of the highest quality. Creating goals is to improve employees’ perception of such a workplace is a team effort. Number of hours Cybercom throughout the group. The regular 29 employee survey, called ­Cybercom People Diversity – a workplace for all 27 27 Voice, is an important tool for measuring how We wish to provide current and potential 19 employees view the change process, their employees with a stimulating and engaging work, their employer and their work situaworking environment, with equal career opption. The 2013 survey shows good progress in ortunities regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, 2010 2011 2012 2013 improved results. Employee pride in Cybersexual orientation or religion. Our ambition com has increased by 14 percent, willingness is that both genders are represented at every The average time spent on training has decreased by to recommend Cybercom has increased by level of the organisation, and we therefore nearly 7 percent between 2012 and 2013. 5 percent, and employee engagement has seek to achieve a gender balance in manageincreased by 5 percent compared with the prement ranks and more female consultants, as vious survey conducted in 2011. In comparable well as broader diversity in general. We want categories we can clearly note that our emto offer a modern, healthy workplace where ployees see clearer career paths than before. our employees feel pride and appreciation for This is important for us, but we can do even the work done, and where we have fun along better. Our employee motivation index totalled the way. 583 of a possible 1,000, which is some way At the end of the year the number of below our long-term target of 700. However, employees in the group was 1,267 (1,335), of we are confident that our ongoing work will whom 16 (17) percent were female. One of improve this performance further in 2014. the recruitment targets for 2014 is to increase the proportion of women at Cybercom. The Cybercom Poland – a successful concept percentage of female managers was 26 (27). In September, Cybercom was named best IT The company’s executive management has 4 workplace in Poland by IDG’s Computer World women and 7 men. AudIT Survey 2013. The study is based on Cybercom has a positive approach to parenemployees anonymously providing feedback ting and works actively to make it possible to through a survey. Computer World’s survey combine a career with parenthood, through showed that our employees in Poland are the measures such as both men and women being most satisfied with their working conditions, given the same opportunity to take parenatmosphere and development opportunities, tal leave and care for children. In Sweden, and that Cybercom is considered to be an employees are given the economic capacity innovative and dynamic organisation that to take parental leave through the parental Our employer branding is producing results In Sweden, Cybercom has been named a Career Company 2014 and we are considered one of Sweden’s most exciting companies in which to pursue a career for young professionals. 300 companies were nominated and surveyed, and 100 received an award. “With a broad spectrum and variety of challenges, the Cybercom Group is an excellent springboard for both Young Professionals early in their careers and for more experienced employees. With continuous monitoring of employees’ well-being and an extensive offering, Cybercom Group assures a long and exciting career which makes them a Career Company 2014.” Source: Dagens industri/Din karriär 20 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Employees and social responsibility supplement, which means that the employer code of conduct also states that all employees, We wish to provide current reimburses up to 80 percent of monthly salary. regardless of where they are located, should and potential employees During the year, 62 (89) employees were on have access to a healthy and safe working parental leave in Sweden, of whom 49 men environment. with a stimulating and engaging and 13 women, and of these, 45 men and 10 working environment, with equal women received the parental supplement. In Challenges outside the Nordic countries career opportunities regardless Finland there is a similar parental supplement, In addition to the Nordic countries, Cybercom of gender, ethnicity, age, sexual which 4 women and 16 men have received operates in Dubai, Singapore, Poland and India. orientation or religion. during 2013. The operations in Poland, Singapore and Dubai are conducted by wholly owned Healthy and fair subsidiaries, while activities in India are a joint Cybercom prioritises active efforts for equal venture, 50 percent owned by Cybercom, and rights for everyone in the community in where we are represented on the board. terms of jobs, opportunities for professional According to the Human Rights Watch development, employment and other working World Report 2013, which describes the risk of conditions. This applies to all employees, human rights violations in different countries, regardless of where in the world they work. there is a risk of human rights violations in Cybercom demands that the organisation be the United Arab Emirates (Dubai), notably imbued with high ethical standards. From restrictions on free expression and association. 2014 we are monitoring this by measuring the The risks in India and Singapore are related to number of employees who annually take part discrimination based on gender, cast (India) or in online courses on anti-corruption issues sexual orientation. and Cybercom’s code of conduct. The code, Anti-Corruption Portal – The Business Antibased on the UN Global Compact, is a tool Corruption Portal provides information about to clarify and drive the work forward. It also the risks in different countries of encountering includes anti-corruption and ethics issues. The bribery and corruption. According to the Gender distribution by age group < 30 30-50 > 50 years years years    Women Men Women Men Women Men 14% 86% 16% 84% 21% 79% Total: 300 Total: 813 Total: 154 Number of employees by country 2013 Country Sweden Denmark India Poland Finland Dubai Singapore Total Men 645 (690) 21(29) 39(51) 117 (79) 217 (229) 6 (2) 21(32) 1,060 (1,110) Women 149 (167) 3 (3) 9 (7) 17 (13) 27 (32) (-) 2(3) 207 (225) Total number of employees 794 (857) 24(32) 48 (58) 134 (92) 244 (261) 6 (2) 23(35) 1,267 (1,335) Number of male managers 36 (37) 1 (1) 2 (6) 3 (3) 29 (33) 2 (1) 3 75 (84) Number of female managers 18 (21) (-) (-) 3 (1) 3 (4) (-) (-) 24 (26) Total number of managers 54 (58) 1 (1) 2 (6) 6 (4) 32 (37) 2 (1) 3 (3) 99 (110) Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 21 Employees and social responsibility 37 years portal, bribery and corruption are widespread work. To achieve this we have appointed CSR in India, even though efforts are being made ambassadors since 2010. These ambassadors to reduce corruption. Poland is a country in are employees who, in addition to their regular the former Eastern Europe, where the most duties, are tasked with becoming involved in Average age of our employee progress is being made in the fight against Cybercom’s sustainability efforts, and with corruption. ­developing these together with management 5 years Cybercom’s code of conduct was adapted and sustainability manager, and communicating in 2012 to also apply to suppliers. The code about the work internally and externally. of conduct is based on the principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labour, Partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Average length of employment with Cybercom the environment and anti-corruption. In 2013, Cybercom is a knowledge-based company we have structured our work of ensuring that that conducts assignments in, for example, 11 years all partners and suppliers sign our code of Rwanda, where we assist an operator with its conduct, and the next step is ensuring complimobile networks. Mobility in the third world ance. This work will begin and be monitored in enables enterprise among poor people, and 2014. See the code in brief on Page 30. internet access helps to spread knowledge. By Average sector experience supporting SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda, of our employees Compensation and salary policy we can contribute to children’s education in a Cybercom acts in accordance with the country where we have ongoing projects. 89% conventions and recommendations of the The partnership has been ongoing since International Labour Organisation (ILO), and 2010, and Cybercom annually contributes our remuneration exceeds minimum wage. approximately SEK 250,000–500,000. The company’s remuneration must be comPayment of SEK 500,000 was made at the Percentage of employees with petitive and on market terms, as this is a very start of 2014. The money goes specifically to a a university degree important factor in attracting and retaining school in Gikongoro, and is mainly used for a skills. Cybercom supports the right to freedom computer lab. of organisation and association. 81 percent of the employees are covered by collective Partnership with the Swedish Childhood bargaining agreements. In Sweden, around Cancer Foundation half of the employees are union ­members. For Cybercom also works with the Swedish the entire number of employees it is a smaller Childhood Cancer Foundation. Through an proportion. agreement with Eurocard, Cybercom donates SEK 135 for each credit card that Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors employees use each year. In 2013, the total One of Cybercom’s goals is to increase the awadonation was SEK 85,000. reness of, and commitment to, our sustainability Employee key figures 2013 2012 2011 Number of employees at December 31 1,267 1,335 1,564 Average number of employees during the year 1,180 1,368 1,577 Gender distribution, male/female, % 84/16 83/17 82/18 Billable consultants, % 86 85 86 Average age, years 37 37 37 Average length of employment, years 5 5 4 Average sector experience of consultants, years 11 11 11 Sales per fulltime employee, SEKk 1,013 979 939 Staff turnover, % 19.2 20.4 19.9 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining, % 81 81 73 People voice index 583 – – Sick leave, % 2 2 2 Training hours per employee 27 29 27 Cost of external training 4,920 7,862 7,286 22 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Employees and social responsibility Our common future We wish to integrate sustainability issues even further into our offering to our clients – it is here that we can make the biggest difference. We already conduct a lot of work that may enhance the sustainability of our clients, and we can be better at making this visible, both externally and internally. Obviously employee issues are also important, not least when it comes to skills development, diversity and equality. Through further focus on these issues we can help increase diversity and equality in the IT industry for the benefit of ourselves, our clients and the community at large. High business ethics are important of course, and one activity during 2014 is to introduce web-based training on anti-corruption. As a CSR ambassador, I meet many ­colleagues across the organisation and it is clear that these issues generate a great deal of engagement and interest – it’s all about our common future. Within my CSR assignment, I provide information about Cybercom’s sustainability initiatives and the principles of the UN Global Compact at different levels in the company. Together with management and other CSR ambassadors, I drive the dialogue about what is important to Cybercom from a sustainability perspective, how we can use our power of innovation, and where Cybercom as a company can make a difference. Karin Oling, CSR ­ambassador, legal ­counsel and an ­employee for two years at Cybercom Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 23 Environmental responsibility Green light for more business Cybercom’s biggest contribuOur services in Green IT include everything ble business compared to 2012, which is an tion to a better environment is from helping mobile network owners to acknowledgment that we are well positioned reduce their energy consumption by optiin a world where clients are placing increasing about offering innovative and mising their networks to creating the right demands on sustainable solutions. climate-friendly solutions to conditions for telecommuting and paperless In 2013 we launched Cybercom Cloud in clients. document management in workplaces, thus Finland, and we have already won contracts reducing companies’ environmental impact by from several clients. Cybercom Cloud offers reducing paper use and reducing trips to and the “Platform as a Service”, which means that from the workplace. The whole of the public ordering of capacity is automated and thus sector digital venture, with the shift towards provides a level of flexibility that appeals to e-services and from paper to e-forms has a clients. Associated services such as support significant impact on the environment and and development generate additional business efficiency. ­Cybercom provides its expertise in to Cybercom. Another important benefit that this field. Another important aspect is that a clients see is that data and content are stored uniform national e-identity is being introduin the Nordic countries. ced for all citizens in Sweden, an assignment in which ­Cybercom is playing an important Cybercom’s internal role. Another key part of Cybercom’s offering environmental efforts in Green IT is to manage other companies’ Air travel accounts for the largest share of servers via cloud solutions. We can conduct Cybercom’s carbon dioxide emissions and this work more energy efficiently than if each we therefore wish to reduce emissions from company were to operate its own servers. In air travel per revenue krona by at least five 2013 we increased our quantity of sustainapercent between 2011 and 2015. In 2012 the We make a difference through our clients Tarmo Pajunen, consultant and As a consultant at Cybercom, I have A good example is our CSR ambassador the privilege of working with three partnership with Alma at Cybercom Finland things that interest me very much, Media in Finland, which namely IT, sustainability and great colleagues. publishes the magazine I love the feeling I get when we have resolved Kauppalehti. Cybercom a client’s problem and at the same time conprovides Kauppalehti tributed to better management of the Earth’s with a flexible cloud solution that enables it resources. As far as I can, I try to always build to both scale up and scale down its virtual more sustainability thinking into our offering server capacity as needed, saving both and to get clients to seek more sustainable money and resources because it never consolutions. sumes more capacity than actually needed. 24 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Environmental responsibility company introduced an IT-based communicaCarbon dioxide emissions from air travel in relation to the company’s sales tion tool. This investment provided immediate results in the first year, and although emissions 2013 2012 2011 Change over two years increased in 2013, they are lower than in 2011 Carbon dioxide* 0.53 kg 0.34 kg 0.61 kg -13% and therefore in line with our target. The reason that the number of flights increased * Data excludes Cybercom’s joint venture in India. in 2013 is that our international operations increased their sales and won more business over several continents. In addition to the IT-based communication tool, Cybercom conducts systematic efforts to reduce the group’s impact on the environCarbon dioxide emissions, 2013 Energy use by energy source, 2013 ment. Some examples of actions are: Total energy use 2,437 MWh Air travel, 92% • Handling of old IT equipment which, when Water, 66.8% Electric power, 8% Coal, 16.7% possible, is sold for reuse or otherwise goes Nuclear, 9.1% to partners for recycling. Wind, 6.8% • Lights switched off by timer after business Natural gas, 0.5% hours. Oil, 0.1% • Handling of discarded electronics products that are recycled where possible. • All printers are set by default to duplex printing, and employees are encouraged to avoid using hard copies as far as possible. 13% • Recycling of paper and other waste. 2013 at the certified offices has been to train • Procurement of products, consumables and personnel through a web-based course from services must, if possible, meet high environEco Educate. We conducted an environmental mental standards. survey during the first quarter to produce Reduction of Cybercom’s CO2 • Purchase of renewable electricity. environmental mapping that formed the basis e ­ missions from air travel per sales krona 2011–2013 • Cybercom places requirements on suppliers of the company’s environmental efforts during of office materials and computers. These the year. In conjunction with the survey we suppliers must meet the environmental conducted a test called the Climate Account. ­requirements of TCO 95 and TCO 99, and The Climate Account is intended to raise the materials must be recyclable. people’s awareness of their own individual climate impact in their daily lives, and how Environmental certification they can reduce it. Information about the Cybercom is working with environmental development of internal environmental efforts certification of the company’s activities in is available to employees on the company inaccordance with ISO14001. Cybercom is tranet. Cybercom’s ambition in the long-term striving for all our businesses to eventually be is to achieve environmental certification for all certified, and work has begun. The focus in operations. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 25 Sustainability in brief Cybercom – a sustainable IT company We wish to grow with good profitability and also to take responsibility for how people, the environment and society are affected by our activities. We use stakeholder dialogue to ensure that we act ­responsibly and in line with the expectations of stakeholders and the ­targets we have set ourselves. Learn more about our stakeholder ­dialogue on Page 27. Responsibility is defined in our commitment to the UN Global Compact, our code of conduct and in our sustainability goals. Efforts to achieve the goals are a part of our business plan and help to achieve our vision. We have selected priorities in order to be able to make efforts in areas where we need to improve. Our focus areas for sustainability work are committed employees, a greater share of sustainable contracts with our clients, and high ethical standards in all our activities and in all our ­businesses. Read more about our goals and outcomes for 2013 on Pages 12–13. Governance of initiatives Cybercom’s operations are led by management and governed by the company’s code of conduct. Learn more about the company’s governance in the corporate governance report, which can be found under ”Cybercom in numbers”. Sustainability initiatives are coordinated by the Head of Communications with the help of a team of annually selected CSR ambassadors, and are run ­operationally in the business areas. 26 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Stakeholder dialogue Focus Stakeholders and materiality analysis health and safety committees or their line for sustainability issues manager. See other forums and formats for We have already identified our employees, dialogue in the table below. clients, shareholders and trade unions as our moving key stakeholders, based on how much they Results of materiality analysis influence, or are influenced by, Cybercom. Based on the results of stakeholder dialogue, During 2013 and early 2014, we ­conducted Cybercom’s steering group on ­sustainability a number of interviews and surveys with issues, which includes individuals from the employees in Sweden and Finland, with clients ­executive management, has prioritised the forward from various industries, with representatives most ­important sustainability issues. of different shareholders, and with union Employees feel that training and clear career ­representatives. The aim was to identify paths are important. It is also important to the main issues for Cybercom based on the practice what you preach. The managers think sustainability issues that most affect, and are that the question of how Cybercom increases affected by, our business, and where we can engagement among employees is important, Dialogue and exchange with make the greatest difference. including how Cybercom’s goals, visions and In addition to interviews and surveys, there work in sustainability are integrated into the our stakeholders is valuable are other forums and formats for dialogue business offering. to us. We use stakeholder and with stakeholders. Shareholders have the Clients are setting clearer requirements materiality analysis to identify opportunity to present comments to managethrough their codes of conduct for suppliers, ment and the board at shareholder meetings. with requirements such as working conditions, key stakeholders and trust Cybercom’s employees can offer comments environmental issues and ethical issues. ­issues to focus on. and ask questions of management through From an investor perspective, it is important the employee survey and through contact with for Cybercom to be clear when it comes to the CSR ambassadors. Employees can also business ethics and client privacy, and that discuss and find out about health and safety the company focuses more on developing issues or business-related issues through the ­sustainable business for our clients. Stakeholder group Issues Dialogue Outcome Clients Offering, quality, ­delivery, Client surveys, interSales training, operational ­security management, views ­systems in the Swedish busiintegrity, business ethics, ness for quality, environmental working conditions, climate and data security to be inteperformance, procurement grated throughout the group. procedures System based on established standards ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) Expectations and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security) Employees Skills development, working Employee survey, Training, manager conferences, environment, corporate interviews employee events/meetings on ­culture, diversity and equality vision, values Investors/shareProfitability, corporate Annual general Code of business ethics and holders ­responsibility, business ethics meeting, board work, conduct, sustainability report, interviews, investor corporate governance report meetings Suppliers Suppliers’ environmental Supplier code of Compliance with code, efforts conduct, procurement, ­sustainability focus negotiation Trade unions Labour rights, employment Workplace meetings, Support in wage bargaining conditions, skills developboard meetings, and negotiations on layoffs ment, working environment, ­interviews/surveys co-determination, board issues Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 27 Overview of sustainability efforts Governance and management GOAL OUTCOME 2013 DEVELOPMENT Raising awareness of, and commitment to, our CSR ambassadors and CSR managers give lectures Cybercom has for the fourth consecutive year sustainability work: In order to increase internal and disseminate information internally across the ­appointed CSR ambassadors who work with CSR awareness and commitment for our sustainability organisation. Cybercom has been invited to give issues. The purpose of this is that the ambassadors work, Cybercom has since 2010 appointed CSR lectures externally such as in schools. This in turn has will help develop Cybercom’s sustainability efforts and ­ambassadors at the company. Our CSR ambassaraised awareness of Cybercom’s work externally, and help to increase awareness of the company’s sustainadors lead CSR issues both internally and externally, has ­improved commitment to sustainability issues bility efforts by writing blog posts and news items. together with the company management. internally. Establishing the code of conduct: Cybercom’s The code is continually used in induction meetings During the year the process to ensure that the code is values, norms and principles are set out in the code ­internally, and is appended to Cybercom’s subcontsigned has been verfied. The next step is to monitor of conduct introduced in 2004 and revised in 2010 ractor contracts. The company has established a that suppliers live up to the code through a weband 2013. In 2012, Cybercom also introduced a code procedure for new suppliers to sign the code. based survey. This was not completed in 2013, but we of conduct for its suppliers and partners, called the are now working to complete it in 2014. “Suppliers Code of Conduct”. Establishing frameworks for employees and The frameworks were established in the operations. In 2014, Cybercom will further clarify and communimanagers: To further establish Cybercom’s vision and cate its strategy work, its goals and the expectations values, Cybercom has developed employee standards the company has of its employees. and leadership profiles, frameworks that reflect Cybercom’s vision and values as the sustainable IT company. Using a business management system (BMS) as ISO audit conducted with improved results. In 2014, work will start to introduce BMS throughout an integrated management system for quality, the group and will eventually bring together the environment and information security: The system ­various national certifications into one single groupis based on the established standards ISO 9001 wide certification. ­(quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security). Environment GOAL OUTCOME 2013 DEVELOPMENT Reducing travel emissions in relation to turnover: CO2 emissions per revenue krona increased between Cybercom will remain at a stable and low level in In the long run, to reduce travel emissions through 2012 and 2013, but have still decreased by 13% comterms of CO2 emissions. the introduction of an IT-based conference and pared to 2011 when we set the target for a reduction ­communication system. of at least 5% by 2015. Increasing Cybercom’s positive environmental In 2013, Cybercom launched a cloud solution for Cybercom’s goal for 2013 was to increase the amount impact for clients: Identify services that can improve the operation and management of platforms for of sustainable business. But the company does not Cybercom’s positive environmental impact among companies and organisations, called Platform as a yet have a well-developed system for measuring the clients. Service. The service is scalable and resource-efficient. amount of sustainable business across the group. The Cybercom has more offerings with a particular ambition is to develop this in 2014. We estimate that sustainability perspective, such as Green Connectivity, 20% of total sales with the ten largest clients could be whereby Cybercom helps network owners to become defined as sustainable through efficiency gains, cost more energy efficient while reducing their energy savings and resource reduction. costs. Another service is business effectiveness which is all about saving time and money. 28 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Overview of sustainability efforts Employees and the workplace GOAL OUTCOME 2013 DEVELOPMENT Improving employee motivation throughout the In 2013, Cybercom conducted a group-wide employee Based on the survey, management has identified group: Conduct a group-wide employee ­satisfaction survey in which the outcomes in 7 of 8 comparable the key areas for improvement and will introduce survey to capture how employees feel, develop and questions have improved from 2011. clear measures and monitor and communicate the perceive Cybercom as a workplace in all countries outcomes. To improve the way we work, Cybercom’s where we operate. Stockholm operations will among other things move to activity-based offices. If this is successful, it will be used as a model for other offices. Clients and suppliers GOAL OUTCOME 2013 DEVELOPMENT Improving client satisfaction: Conduct a group-­ A comprehensive survey was conducted with a clear In 2014, Cybercom intends to conduct a new groupwide client satisfaction survey annually to find improvement in results for comparable questions wide client satisfaction survey with the aim of further out what clients think of Cybercom and what the ­compared to the client survey in 2011. 98% of improving the outcome compared with the 2013 ­company can improve in relation to them. Cybercom’s clients would be willing to work with survey. Cybercom again and/or would recommend Cybercom to their business contacts. Expanding Cybercom’s social responsibility in the Cybercom has urged new and existing suppliers and In 2014, Cybercom will establish a process to measure supply chain: To better secure good business ethics, partners to sign. In 2013, the company did not yet how many have signed and will monitor that suppliers integrity and data security throughout the chain, have a well-developed system to measure or track are complying with the code. Cybercom adopted a code of conduct in 2012 for how many have signed the code. suppliers and partners. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 29 Code of conduct in brief 5 Cybercom’s Code of Conduct is based on the UN Environment Our aim is to minimise the company’s negative environmental Global Compact and its principles on human rights, ­impact. Cybercom respects the precautionary principle and seeks labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The to actively contribute to reducing negative environmental impact code was introduced in 2004 and has over the years ­through responsible measures and technological advancement. ­Cybercom is therefore in the process of environmentally certifying its been adapted to the world we live in. Cybercom’s ­offices. Cybercom always acts in compliance with laws and internatioboard reviews the code annually. In 2012, a code nally recognised directives. 6 was also drawn up for Cybercom’s suppliers to sign. Prohibited business practices Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s 1 Comply with laws, rules and regulations Code of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits in Business, 1 SepAll Cybercom employees are responsible for acting in compliance tember 2012, and works actively to combat corruption and unethical with laws and regulations applicable to Cybercom’s operations and practices. Employees must not give or receive gifts, benefits or bribes deliveries. In the event of an individual issue demanding it, they will seek that constitute a breach of this code. Cybercom is politically indepenlegal advice. Cybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Goverdent and does not sponsor political organisations. Cybercom is opposed nance. Cybercom’s share is admitted to trading on the NASDAQ OMX to any form of money laundering and has taken the relevant measures Stockholm exchange, and Cybercom follows the Rule Book for Issuers, to prevent financial transactions that are of criminal intent. 7 NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. It is for Cybercom to ensure that all employPromote accurate disclosure in financial reports and other ees have the knowledge relevant for their work. Cybercom presents and public communications reports financial and corporate information in compliance with applicaCybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant information ble laws and regulations, including the International ­Financial Reporting when so required. This means that the company shall always provide fair Standards (IFRS). and correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to 2 Human rights contribute to a stronger brand. 8 Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. Properly use company assets and confidential information Everybody in the organisation must show respect for the integrity All business decisions shall be made with the good of the compaand dignity of all people. Cybercom will not in any way contribute to the ny in mind. All consultants will be professional in their relationship violation of human rights. with Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities. 3 Labour law and working conditions Client trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All employees will Cybercom supports freedom of association and the right to collectreat client information in complete confidentiality. Information about tive bargaining. Cybercom does not permit child labour. Cybercom Cybercom’s clients may only be used in the implementation of the applies the principle that a child is a person younger than 15 years of age project in question. This confidentiality remains in force even after the unless national legislation states an older age, in which case the older project has been completed. Cybercom has clear guidelines for the age applies. Cybercom applies the definition of child labour as laid down handling of confidential information. by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). 9 Cybercom does not tolerate any forms of discrimination. All employees Protect our clients’ and partners’ confidential and patented have equal rights and must never be subjected to unjust treatment due information to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or disability. All employCybercom requires all employees to sign a confidentiality ees must show respect for each other and for Cybercom’s business ­agreement in accordance with Cybercom’s security policy. There are partners and will take responsibility for combating discrimination. clear rules for the handling of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom works unabatedly to combat discrimination. This permeates Cybercom. 10 the company’s policies and processes during, for example, recruitment, Take a professional pride in the consultancy role ­setting of wage rates, and skills enhancement. Freedom with accountability and focus on the individual are Cybercom offers salaries that comply with the minimum wage, as important contributory factors in Cybercom being able to laid down in national legislation, with correctly prepared employment attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all employees the ­contracts. Cybercom also ensures that working hours are compliant with opportunity for personal and professional development. A workplace local legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for rest. that is open, creative and flexible sets the course for being able to offer Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will clients professional and attractive products and services. ­always e­ nsure that the working relationship between employee and ­organisation is at the employee’s own free will. To sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself ethically in its dealings 4 Health and safety with all its stakeholders. Cybercom shall be characterised by professioCybercom shall provide a healthy and safe workplace in compliannalism and integrity. Cybercom’s code of conduct is available in full at ce with internationally acknowledged standards. Cybercom works www.cybercom.com. proactively to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are offered health and safety training when and if required. 30 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 UN Global Compact At the World Economic Forum in Davos in 1999, the UN’s secretarygeneral, Kofi Annan, challenged the business community to take global responsibility. The secretary-general’s initiative led to the formation of the Global Compact, which includes principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental issues and corruption in business. The principles are based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO core conventions on human rights in the workplace, the Rio Declaration and the UN Convention against Corruption. Hampus ­Ericsson, Chairman of ­Cybercom Human rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; human rights; and Principle 8 Sustainability is about Principle 2 undertake initiatives to promote greater thinking for the long make sure that they are not complicit in ­environmental responsibility; and term ­human rights abuses. Principle 9 Cybercom has a unique encourage the development and diffusion of opportunity to contribute to a Labour environmentally friendly technologies. world in which sustainability, Principle 3 long-term thinking and responsible use Businesses should uphold the freedom of Anti-corruption of resources are at the heart of the coma­ssociation and the effective recognition of Principle 10 panies and organisations that operate the right to collective bargaining; Businesses should work against corruption in in it. Through Connectivity, we can help all its forms, including extortion and bribery. our clients and our world to save both Principle 4 money and resources and to reduce the elimination of all forms of forced and their environmental impact, and we can compulsory labour; ensure that working conditions at our suppliers meet the demands we make. Principle 5 Sustainability is about being aware of, the effective abolition of child labour; and and taking long-term responsibility for, Principle 6 how we affect our world. Our own business does not have a the elimination of discrimination in respect of particularly direct impact on the environemployment and occupation. ment, but we still try to implement innovations and improvements in the areas that we can actually influence. I also believe that by focusing on increasing awareness and actively taking a stance we can eventually make a difference ourselves, and in addition make a positive effect on our world. We also work with SOS Children’s Villages and support their activities to ensure that children have a safe and secure childhood. Contributing to knowledge development in a country where we have ongoing Connectivity Management projects feels important. Education is the foundation of a child’s intellectual and social development and, not least, provides opportunities to escape poverty. Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 31 GRI index This is Cybercom’s fourth Sustainability About Cybercom’s Sustainability Report 2013 ­Report and covers key events during the Cybercom has chosen to apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) voluntary guidelines for reporting sustainability information, G3.1, at 2013 financial year. application level C. In drawing up the report Cybercom has taken into consideration GRI’s ten reporting principles. The information contained in the Sustainability Report has not been audited by a third party, but Cybercom regards all the information in the 2013 Annual and Sustainability Reports, along with that on the company website, as being sufficient to meet GRI’s information requirements at application level C. Key to symbols of reporting scope The information provided refers to the entire group unless otherwise l Complete ◗ Partial l Not reported specified. Certain limitations of the performance indicators have been CIW = Cybercom in words CIN = Cybercom in numbers W = Website necessary based on relevance and access to reliable information. Relationship with Reporting UN Global Compact’s Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope Principles 1-10 Comments 1. Vision and strategy 1.1 CEO’s comments CIW 5-6, Interview with CEO Niklas Flyborg that starts on Account of continued 5 and statement from the chairman of the board, l support for Global CIW 31 Hampus Ericsson, on 31 in CIW. Compact. 2. Organisation profile 2.1 Name of the organisation CIN 1 Cybercom Group AB. l 2.2 Primary brands, products and CIW 2-3, Summary 2-3 in CIW. The company’s most services important products are detailed in CIW 14-15. l CIW 14-15 2.3 Operational structure CIN 1 Description can be found in CIN 1 and 29, Note 13. l CIN 29 2.4 Location of headquarters CIN 48 Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Lindhagensgatan 126, l 112 51 Stockholm, Sweden. 2.5 Countries in which the CIW 7 Cybercom operates in Sweden, Finland, India, ­organisation operates Denmark, Singapore, Dubai and Poland. l 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal CIN 1, Cybercom Group AB is a market-listed c­ ompany form traded on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm l CIN 7 ­exchange. 2.7 Markets CIW 10 Cybercom’s home market is the Nordic countries, but the company provides its services internal tionally. (More details in CIW 8-10.) Information about different sectors/clients 3, 7, 9-10 in CIW. 2.8 Scale of the organisation CIW 1 CIW 1 contains a description of the company’s scope (sales SEK 1,195 m and 1,267 employees). l 2.9 Significant changes during the CIW 1 CIW 1 summarises the company’s events during No significant reporting period the year. l changes during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards received in reporting CIW 20 “Best IT workplace” Cybercom Poland. period l 3. Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period Financial year 2013. l 3.2 Date of most recent report Reporting for 2012 published April 2013. l 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual. l 32 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 GRI index Relationship with Reporting UN Global Compact’s Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope Principles 1-10 Comments 3.4 Contact point for questions CIN 49 Kristina Cato, kristina.cato@cybercom.com. regarding the report or its contents l Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content CIW cover, Information found on inside cover in CIW and CIW 26-27 CIW 26-27. l 3.6 Boundary of the report CIW 32 l 3.7 Limitations on the scope or CIW cover Information found on inside cover in CIW. boundary of the report l 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint CIW 32 CIW 32 under ”About Cybercom’s Sustainaventures, subsidiaries, etc. CIN 18 bility Report 2013”. Note 1, CIN 18 describes l Note 1 reporting principles in detail. 3.10 Comparability with previous No significant chanreports l ges and therefore no corrections. 3.11 Significant changes from previous The 2012 and reporting periods in the scope, l 2013 report also boundary, or measurement methods includes air transport applied in the report for employees in Singapore. GRI table 3.12 Table identifying the location of CIW 32-35 the Standard Disclosures in the report l 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure CIN 39-47 The company’s board and management strucActivities and ture are detailed in the Corporate Governance l decisions taken for Report 39-47 in CIN. implementation of principles 1-10. 4.2 The chairman of the board’s role CIN 39-47 Chairman Hampus Ericsson is described on Activities and in the organisation 42. He is not included in Cybercom’s executive l decisions taken for team. implementation of principles 1-10. 4.3 Independent and/or nonCIN Information can be found on 39-46 in CIN. Activities and executive board members Corporate l decisions taken for Governance implementation of Report principles 1-10. 39-48 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and CIN 48 Contact information and information about Activities and employees to provide recommenthe AGM is presented in CIN, Corporate l decisions taken for dations or direction to the highest Governance Report 39-48. implementation of governance body principles 1-10. 4.12 Externally developed economic, CIW 26, Information in CIW 26 and CIW 30. Activities and UN Global Compact environmental, and social charters, l decisions taken for principles and CIW 30 principles, or other initiatives to implementation of guidelines. which the organisation subscribes or principles 1-10. endorses Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by CIW 27 the organisation l 4.15 Basis for identification and CIW 27 selection of stakeholders with whom l to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder CIW 27 engagement l 4.17 Key topics and concerns that CIW 27 have been raised through stakeholder l engagement Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 33 GRI index Relationship with Reporting UN Global Compact’s Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope Principles 1-10 Comments 5. Economic performance indicators Economic performance EC1. Direct economic value generated CIW 1 Table: Created and distributed direct economic and distributed, including revenues, value. l operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2. Financial implications and CIW 24 CIW 24 describes how Cybercom’s products and Principle 7 other risks and opportunities for the services create opportunities for companies that ◗ organisation’s activities due to climate need to reduce their emissions of greenhouse change gases. EC3. Coverage of the organisation’s CIN 25-26 Employee benefits are presented under Note 3, defined benefit plan obligations Note 3 CIN 25-26. l EC4. Significant financial assistance Cybercom has not rereceived from government l ceived any significant financial assistance from government in 2013. 6. Environmental performance indicators Energy EN4. Indirect energy consumption by CIW 24-25 Principle 8 primary source l EN6. Initiatives to provide energyCIW 24 CIW 24 describes how Cybercom assists its Principles 8 & 9 efficient or renewable energy based clients to reduce their environmental impact. ◗ products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect CIW 24-25 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for energy consumption and reductions reducing energy use and environmental impact ◗ achieved CIW 24-25. Emissions, effluents and waste EN17. Other relevant indirect CIW 24-25 Table and graph: Cybercom Group’s air travel, Principle 8 greenhouse emissions by weight Table: Cybercom Group’s total greenhouse gas l emissions and carbon dioxide equivalents by energy source. EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenCIW 24-25 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for Principles 7, 8 & 9 house gas emissions and reductions reducing energy use and environmental impact ◗ achieved CIW 24-25. 7. Social performance indicators Employment and working conditions Employment LA1. Total workforce by employment CIW 21 Total staff by region can be found in CIW 21 type, employment contract, and Table: Workforce by country. ◗ region LA2 CIW 22 Table: Employee key figures 2013. ◗ 34 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 GRI index Relationship with Reporting UN Global Compact’s Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope Principles 1-10 Comments Employee/management relations LA4. Percentage of employees CIW 22 Principles 1 & 3 covered by collective bargaining l agreements Work environment (Health and safety) LA7. Rates of injury, occupational CIW 22 Table: Employee key figures 2013. Principle 1 Cybercom measures diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, ◗ only absence due to and total number of work-related illness, since other fatalities by region parameters required for the indicator are not relevant to our activities. Training and education LA10. Average hours of training CIW 20 Heading: Training hours per employee, No data divided by sex is per year per employee by employee 2010-2013. ◗ available. All Cybercom’s category employees are given the same access to training. LA12. Percentage of employees CIW 19 No data divided by sex is receiving regular performance and ◗ available. All Cybercom’s career development reviews employees are given the same access to performance and career development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13. Composition of governance CIN 25-26, CIN contains tables showing board and Principles 1 & 6 Categorisation of bodies and breakdown of employees management on 25-26 and detailed l employees by minoCIN 42-45, per category according to gender, age information on 42-45. Employee information rity group and other group, minority group membership, CIW 21-22 is in CIW 21-22, table: Gender distribution by indicators of diversity and other indicators of diversity. age group. is not permitted under Swedish law. Human rights performance indicators Non-discrimination HR4. Total number of incidents of Principles 1, 2 & 6 No cases of discriminadiscrimination and actions taken l tion were reported in 2013. Society performance indicators Anti-corruption SO3. Percentage of employees trained CIW 22 Principle 10 in organisation’s anti-corruption ◗ policies and procedures SO4. Actions taken in response to Principle 10 No incidents of corrupincidents of corruption. l tion or anti-competitive actions have arisen in 2013. Product responsibility performance indicators PR5. Practices related to customer­ CIW 16 ­satisfaction, including results of surveys ◗ measuring customer satisfaction Customer integrity PR8. Total number of substantiated Principle 1 No such incidents in complaints regarding breaches l 2013. of customer privacy and losses of customer data Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 35 Definitions CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) ILO The concept of corporate social responsibility includes the responsibility International Labour Organisation (ILO) is the UN specialised agency for a company takes for its activities, products and services, environmental, employment and workplace issues. ILO seeks to promote social justice social and economic impact on society and stakeholders. and internationally recognised human and labour rights. Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation Stakeholders The Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation finances approximately 90 Stakeholders mean stakeholders who have mutual influence from percent of all research projects related to childhood cancer in Sweden and on activities of the company, its services and its processes, both – entirely without subsidy from government or local authorities. This directly and indirectly. For example, employees, shareholders, clients, can only be achieved thanks to generous contributions from private ­consumers, suppliers and partners. individuals, companies and organisations. ISO 14001 Blended delivery An internationally recognised standard for certifying environmental Delivery to clients is achieved through the collaboration of Cybercom’s management systems. ISO 14001 is the name of the standards dealing employees in several countries, for example from Sweden and India. with environmental management. These standards in turn create an environmental management system that can be easily integrated into UN Global Compact existing operations. The Global Compact is the UN’s strategic policy initiative to promote corporate social responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour Carbon offsetting rights, environment and anti-corruption. (www.unglobalcompact.org). A measure that provides a reduction of greenhouse gases equal to the emissions of greenhouse gases that the business would like to Sustainable development ­compensate for. The Brundtland Commission coined the term sustainable development in 1987 and it had an impact during the Rio Conference 1992. The Carbon dioxide (CO2) parameter is “development that meets the needs of the present without Carbon dioxide occurs naturally in the atmosphere and is involved in compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own photosynthesis and is also an effect of combustion. needs”. The three dimensions of sustainable development – economic, social and environmental should be coherent and mutually reinforce SOS Children’s Villages each other. SOS Children’s Villages Sweden is a member association and part of the international umbrella organisation SOS-Kinderdorf International, which Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has its headquarters in Innsbruck, Austria. SOS Children’s Villages is an GRI is an international organisation that has developed global guidelines independent, non-governmental organisation. The organisation takes for how companies should report on their sustainability efforts. The care of orphaned and abandoned children and provides them a home, framework includes indicators for the organisation, stakeholders and family and education. the economic, environmental and social aspects. 36 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 Design and production Narva Photography Jann Lipka, Håkan Flank (p.3) Translation Albion Konsult Limited Printing Elanders, 2014 Company presentation and sustainability report 2013 37 Boosting your performance Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel. +46 8 578 646 00 www.cybercom.com Cybercom in numbers ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Contents n Directors’ report Directors’ report 1 Operations and organisation 1 Sales and earnings 1 Cash flow and financial position 3 Employees 4 Risk and risk management 5 Share development and ownership structure 7 Outlook 8 Parent company 8 Proposed allocation of profit 8 n Financial statements Consolidated income statement 9 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 9 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 10 Consolidated balance sheet 11 Consolidated cash flow statement 12 Income statement – parent company 13 Statement of changes in equity – parent company 13 Balance sheet – parent company 14 Cash flow statement – parent company 15 Five-year overview 16 Notes 18 Assurance 37 Auditor’s report 38 About this report n Corporate governance report This report is presented in two parts. “Cybercom in numbers” Corporate governance report 39 contains the directors’ report, Board of directors 40 financial statements and the corporate governance report. Directors 42 The presentation of the compaExecutive team 44 ny and the sustainability report can be found in “Cybercom in Internal control of financial reporting 46 words”. Auditor’s report on the corporate governance report 47 Annual general meeting 48 Cybercom’s annual reports, year-end reports and interim reports are published in Swedish and English. In the event of differences between the English translation and the Swedish original, the Swedish text shall prevail. Directors’ report Directors’ report The board and CEO of Cybercom Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556544–6522, hereby submit their annual report and consolidated accounts for the period January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2013. All amounts are reported in SEK thousands, unless otherwise specified. Information in parentheses refers to the previous accounting year, that is to say 2012. Words such as “Cybercom”, “the company”, “the group”, and similar expressions refer in all cases to the parent company, Cybercom Group AB, and its subsidiaries. Operations and organisation Sales and earnings Cybercom is a Swedish IT consulting company that was founded in In 2013, the company turned all aspects of the business to profitability, 1995, and has been listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange built a stable financial platform, and, in the last quarter of the year, since 1999. turned in to positive net recruitment. The plan for change that was Cybercom assists leading companies and organisations to benefit established in 2012 is yielding results. from the opportunities of the connected world. The company’s areas of Work has continued to implement the strategy that the company expertise span the entire ecosystem of communications services, that established in the previous year, with a geographical focus, integration is Connectivity. Cybercom’s home market is the Nordic region, and in and uniformity, a broadening of our client base and a shared client ofaddition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and interfering. The company has adjusted its client portfolio, which means that national projects. The group had 1,267 employees in seven countries at the proportion of sales to the public sector has increased, while those to the end of 2013, and therefore has an excellent foundation from which the telecom sector have decreased, entirely in line with the company’s to be able to provide companies and organisations, operating both client strategy. nationally and internationally, with the tools to make their operations The structural changes that were implemented in the group during more efficient and to develop new products and services. Cybercom’s 2012 have provided the anticipated positive outcome. The Chinese largest client segments are telecoms, the public sector and manufacturoperations were sold during the second quarter of 2012, the office in ing industry (see also Pages 8-18 under “Cybercom in words” for a more Romania was closed in the third quarter, and a cost-cutting programme detailed description of Cybercom’s operations, clients and market). was initiated in the fourth quarter. Total non-recurring costs related Cybercom’s offering is organised into four areas: Digital Solutions, to these actions amounted to SEK 45.2 million in 2012, with SEK 11.8 Connected Engineering, Connectivity Management and Secure Conmillion recognised as capital losses. The annual savings amounted to nectivity. In these areas the company offers strategic advice, testing SEK 55 million, and most of these were realised in 2013. and quality assurance, security solutions, system development, system The market was marked during the year by uncertainty in the macintegration, system management and hosting. roeconomic environment in Europe. This affected the willingness of Cybercom’s operations are organised into three geographical segthe company’s clients in both telecoms and manufacturing to invest, ments: Sweden, Finland and International, with International including particularly in Sweden and Finland. Within the public sector, however, the operations in Poland, Denmark, the international Connectivity Mandemand has been relatively good but with intense competition and agement business and a joint venture including centres of excellence in some pressure on prices. The company has strengthened its position in India. this sector in all markets. Cybercom works actively and consciously with Corporate Social Group sales decreased by 11 percent compared to the previous year, Responsibility (CSR) and strives to behave responsibly and in an ethical while operating profit turned from a loss of SEK 11.4 million (including manner in all countries and in all contexts in which the group operates non-recurring costs of SEK 45.2 million) to a profit of SEK 60.2 million. (see also Pages 19-35 under “Cybercom in words” for a complete deProfitability adjusted for restructuring costs and capital losses increased scription of Cybercom’s CSR work). from 2.5% to 5.0%. Cybercom presents a separate corporate governance report that is The decrease in sales is primarily related to the Swedish operations, separate from the statutory annual report. The corporate governance where sales decreased by 14%. Changes among some of the compareport includes information on the group’s systems for internal control ny’s major clients in telecoms, and postponed investment decisions by and risk management (see also Pages 39-47 in this document). some of the clients in manufacturing industries, had a negative impact Cybercom Annual Report 2013 1 Directors’ report on sales. Demand from the public sector has been good, and in the Sales by segment Number of employees by segment last quarter of the year, the company’s sales to this segment increased by 12% compared to the final quarter of the previous year. Despite the positive effects of the restructuring programme in the previous year, Sweden, 73.4% Sweden, 61.2% Sverige, 73,4% Sverige, 61,2% profitability in Sweden decreased compared to the previous year, from Finland, 17.2% Finland, 19.3% Finland, 17,2% Finland, 19,3% 6.0% (adjusted for restructuring costs) to 5.2%, due to the lower sales. International, International, 9.4% 9,4% International, International, 18.1% 18,1% Operations in Finland stabilised after the previous year’s negative impact of cutbacks in the telecommunications industry, and demonstrated growth of 2.5% and a profit margin of 3.7%, compared with a loss in the previous year. Good performance in the public sector compensated for a decline in telecoms and uncertainty among some export-dependThe average number of full-time employees decreased to 1,180 for the ent clients in the manufacturing industry. full year (1,368), while the number of billable employees (converted In the International segment, the company increased its presence to full-time equivalents) decreased to 1,010 (1,163). Net sales per fullon the Polish market during the year, mainly by establishing services time employee were SEK 1,013 thousand (979). Net sales per full-time in Connectivity Management. The previous year’s loss has turned into employee were influenced by a reduction in the proportion of volume positive earnings, and profitability has increased from -4.9% (adjusted delivered from low-cost countries. for restructuring costs) to 7.5%. EBITDA amounted to SEK 86.4 million (63.6 excluding restructuring Negative currency effects primarily attributable to the depreciation of costs), giving an EBITDA margin of 7.2 percent (4.7). EBIT amounted to the EUR and USD against the SEK impacted sales by SEK -4.6 million and SEK 60.2 million (33.8 excluding restructuring costs and capital losses), EBIT by SEK -0.8 million. giving an EBIT margin of 5.0 percent (2.5). Net financial items amounted to SEK -6.9 million (-16.4). This includes Earnings interest costs for bank loans of SEK -5.0 million (-7.8). The change to SEKm 2013 2012 Cybercom’s financing implemented in 2012, when the company raised Sales 1,195.1 1,339.2 SEK 116 million through a rights issue and replaced a factoring solution Other external expenses -314.8 -383.2 in the form of invoice sales with an overdraft facility, has resulted in sigRestructuring costs – -33.4 nificantly lower interest costs in 2013. Profit before tax amounted to SEK Personnel expenses -793.9 -892.4 53.3 million (-27.8). This means a net margin of 4.5 percent (-2.1). Operating profit, EBITDA 86.4 30.2 For 2013, the group’s effective tax rate was 22.2 percent (-90.9). Tax Depreciation and amortisation -26.2 -29.8 Capital loss disposal subsidiary – -11.8 for the previous year was affected by non-recurring effects totalling SEK Operating profit/loss, EBIT 60.2 -11.4 -25.6 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabiliFinancial items -6.9 -16.4 ties due to changes in corporation tax rates in Sweden and correction of Profit/loss before tax 53.3 -27.8 deferred tax assets from previous years. Tax -11.8 -25.3 Tax expense is calculated using the current tax rate for the parent Profit/loss for the year 41.5 -53.1 company and each subsidiary. The number of employees in the group at year end amounted to 1,267 (1,335). Cybercom has 68 fewer employees than in the previous year. 2 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Directors’ report Cash flow and financial position Consolidated balance sheet (condensed) Consolidated cash flow (condensed) SEKm 2013 2012 SEKm 2013 2012 ASSETS Cash flow from operating activities before change Non-current assets 880.3 894.0 in working capital 33.6 16.8 Working capital balance (assets) 323.0 437.6 Change in working capital 49.6 -117.5 Other assets 1.7 2.2 Cash flow from operating activities 83.2 -100.7 Cash and cash equivalents 23.7 20.3 Cash flow from investing activities -14.9 -27.0 Total assets 1,228.7 1,354.2 Cash flow from financing activities -65.2 88.8 Year’s cash flow 3.1 -38.9 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 856.0 810.8 Interest-bearing liabilities 111.7 176.5 Cash flow from operating activities Working capital balance (liabilities) 250.8 347.3 During the year cash flow from operating activities was SEK 83.2 million Other liabilities 10.2 19.6 Total equity and liabilities 1,228.7 1,354.2 (-100.7). Cash flow before change in working capital was SEK 33.6 million (16.8). Payments of SEK 28.4 million related to the previous year’s Working capital balance (assets) = non-interest bearing current receivables adjusted for tax assets. restructuring programme are included. Working capital balance (liabilities) = non-interest bearing liabilities adjusted for tax Working capital changed during the year by SEK 49.6 million (-117.5). liabilities. Working capital in the previous year was negatively affected through a change in financing, when invoice sales were terminated and replaced Non-current assets with an overdraft facility. Property, plant and equipment accounted for 3.0 percent (3.2) and intangible assets for 94.8 percent (94.2) of total non-current assets at Cash flow from investing activities December 31, 2013. Of the intangible assets, SEK 788.8 million (785.2) Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK -14.9 million (-27.0) relates to goodwill (see also Note 10). in 2013. In addition to investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, this includes an additional purchase consideraWorking capital tion to Teleca of SEK -0.7 million (-4.5) for 50 percent of the tax effect Tied-up working capital was SEK 72.2 million (90.3) at December 31, 2013. Cybercom can utilise for tax depreciation on goodwill from transfer of assets, which was included in the acquisition of auSystems in 2007, and Liquidity for 2012 a negative effect from the disposal of operations in China of On December 31, 2013, group cash and cash equivalents amounted SEK -7.4 million. to SEK 23.7 million, compared with SEK 20.3 million at December 31, Net investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to 2012. Unused overdraft facilities amounted to SEK 75 million. SEK 12.2 million (10.4) in 2013 and include primarily computers and equipment for the group’s data centres. Net investments in intangible Debt profile non-current assets amounted to SEK 2.1 million (4.8), attributable to Interest-bearing liabilities at December 31, 2013 amounted to SEK 111.7 investments in administrative and production-related systems and, in million (176.5). Interest-bearing liabilities consist of the loan facility, 2013, also development of a cloud service solution at the group’s data which on December 31, 2013 amounted to SEK 105.0 million (125.0). centre. Together these investments correspond to 1.2 percent (1.1) of The loan is amortised over its term until August 20, 2015. Also included sales in 2013. are financial leasing of SEK 6.2 million (6.5), and for 2012 invoice factoring with a balance amounting to SEK 30.2 million. Cybercom has Cash flow from financing activities an overdraft facility of SEK 75 million which was unutilised at year-end Cash flow from financing activities was SEK -65.2 million (88.8) in 2013. (13.2). Cybercom’s joint venture in India has a loan liability of SEK 0.5 During the year, SEK 20 million of the company’s long-term loan facility million (1.6). Net debt amounted to SEK 88.0 million, a decrease from has been paid down, and utilisation of the overdraft facility was reduced SEK 156.2 in the previous year. to zero. During the fourth quarter of 2012, a rights issue was conducted Attaining certain key figures, covenants, is a prerequisite for loan fiwith preferential rights for the company’s shareholders of approximately nancing. The key figures are based on factors such as Cybercom’s profit/ SEK 126 million before transaction costs. The issue raised approximateloss, net financial items and the debt/equity ratio. Cybercom continually ly SEK 66 million after a one-time amortisation of SEK 50 million and analyses these key figures. The key figures were met at December 31, transaction costs of SEK 9.7 million. 2013. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 3 Directors’ report Equity Trust Equity on December 31, 2013 stood at SEK 856.0 million (810.8) which We generate trust and confidence among our colleagues and clients by corresponds to a 69.7 percent (59.9) equity/assets ratio. The rights issue using common sense, clear thinking and doing what we say – always in 2012 increased equity by SEK 118.4 million including the tax effect on with respect for each other. transaction costs. Equity per share was SEK 4.74 SEK (4.49). Founded on these values, Cybercom has developed a set of criteria that each employee is expected to live up to: Employees Strong client focus Employee data This means that the employee understands client needs, exceeds expec• Average number of employees: 1,180 (1,368) tations and always with the objective of high client satisfaction. This can • Total number of employees on December 31: 1,267 (1,335) include delivery quality, eliminating defects and errors in time, continu• Gender distribution: 16 percent women, 84 percent men (17/83) ous improvement of client service, as well as the ability to identify new • Education level: 89 percent have university education (89) business opportunities. • External training expense: SEK 4,920 thousand (7,862) • Average age: 37 years (37) Team players • Average sector experience of consultants: 11 years (11) This means respecting others in both word and deed. Respecting other people’s time and showing confidence in others’ expertise and experiCybercom’s values and employee philosophy ence. Sharing knowledge and supporting colleagues with less experiCybercom’s structural capital in the form of its employees’ experience ence. Encouraging their team and contributing to cooperation to help and expertise is the most critical factor in Cybercom’s competitiveness. our clients conduct even better business. Cybercom therefore has a clear model for career and skills development. Cybercom encourages its employees to take initiative and to contribute Taking responsibility to their own development, as well as the development of others and the At Cybercom, taking responsibility means understanding what is expectcompany. ed and at the same time keeping promises, delivering on commitments Retaining key employees and attracting new qualified employees is a and taking responsibility for our actions. Taking responsibility is to have strategic issue for Cybercom. To ensure Cybercom’s continued profitabilhigh integrity in all circumstances with respect for the rules and confiity and growth, it is important to work with brand building activities and dentiality requirements. Taking responsibility also means embracing new recruitment. The company works continuously with CSR issues, environtechnology, new solutions and innovations, and continually developing. mental and labour issues, leadership and professional development to Cybercom’s leadership philosophy is based on managers – regardless ensure that Cybercom is an attractive employer. of level and position – always ensuring that employees have the right The key to success is to maintain constant client focus and to share and conditions to do their work in a professional manner that contributes to to live up to our shared values of Innovation, Passion and Trust. client value. A manager at Cybercom leads and runs the business and ensures Innovation that the organisation always delivers at the right time and with the right We are innovative in the way we work and in the way we embrace new solutions. Cybercom will always honour promises made to the client and technology. We are results-oriented and always add value to the business. meet the agreed requirements. We are always in the forefront, we question, challenge, move boundaries and change industry standards. Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives The proposed guidelines for remuneration to senior executives are the Passion same as the latest adopted guidelines presented in Note 3. We are driven by a genuine passion and are proud of what we achieve. We are the gurus of our niches and always willing to go the extra mile to improve performance and enhance our clients’ business. We deliver assured quality, on time and within budget. 4 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Directors’ report Risk and risk management Cybercom is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the group’s results and financial position. Cybercom continually evaluates, identifies, and manages the company’s risks. The risks deemed most significant to the company are classified below as market, operational or financial risks. Market and operational risks Economic Recruitment of skills The Nordic market for IT and consulting services is influenced by the Cybercom’s operations are dependent both on being able to attract general economic climate. A general weakening of the business environand recruit skilled personnel, and on the staff maintaining their skills, ment can therefore rapidly affect demand for the company’s services. continuing to develop and feeling motivated. Qualified consultants are a prerequisite for successfully implementing client projects and Client concentration achieving client satisfaction. During certain periods there may be a Cybercom’s ten largest clients account for 43 percent (46) of the shortage of labour and the company may have difficulty in recruiting. A company’s sales. Cybercom often has many simultaneous but indehigh staff turnover or the loss of key people could therefore adversely pendent projects with its large clients. Cybercom strives to achieve long affect the company. Cybercom actively works with environmental and working relationships with its clients and several have been clients for labour conditions, leadership and skills development to ensure that the many years, and Cybercom has framework agreements with most of its company is an attractive employer. In addition the company works with major clients. The company strives to maintain a good balance between brand-building activities and recruitment, such as through participation clients from different sectors and geographical areas to avoid excessive in conferences, seminars and courses. The recruitment of skills to the dependence on any one client. The company’s ambition is that the ten Nordic markets is complemented with capacity from centres of excellargest clients should not account for more than 35 percent of sales, lence in Cybercom’s Polish and Indian businesses. while no individual client should account for more than 15 percent of the company’s revenues over time. Utilisation risk Cybercom’s revenues are largely dependent on the number of billable Price level and client contracts consultant hours. Reduced demand for consultant hours affects the An important component of business performance is the price level to utilisation rate and may have many causes, such as a softening economy the client. In cases where prices are negotiated regularly with the client, and/or incorrect consultant expertise. There is also a risk in certain cases results are affected immediately in the event of a fall in market prices. of a client terminating a project at short notice, which in turn means For the portion of sales coming from clients with whom the company that Cybercom may not be able to immediately utilise the affected has signed a framework agreement, a re-negotiation of the agreement consultants on other assignments. is necessary before Cybercom will be affected by changes in the price level. Another type of price risk is the fixed price contract or other conBank contracts and client contracts tracts with the client, where Cybercom undertakes to provide a solution The company’s loan agreements as well as some client contracts contain or service at a price agreed in advance. Cybercom therefore bears the clauses that give the counterparty the opportunity to terminate the conrisk of failure to correctly estimate the cost of delivering on the contract. tract if a shareholder becomes obligated to make a mandatory bid for Cybercom is constantly developing its procedures for assessing and the company, or if there is a buy-out from the stock exchange or similar controlling risks in client contracts. event. Some client contracts can also be terminated if the business is transferred to a competitor of the client. If contracts are terminated, this could adversely affect the company. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 5 Directors’ report Financial risks Cybercom has identified four financial risks that could affect its earnings: Currency risks Cybercom is exposed to various types of currency risk. In certain proLiquidity and financing risk jects, subsidiaries are exposed to currency risks. The primary method Cybercom is dependent on good liquidity and financing to be able for managing this is by striving to achieve a balance between revenue to meet its obligations. The goal is that, irrespective of the market and expenses and between assets and liabilities in each currency. situation, the group must be able to meet its financial commitments at a When it is deemed favourable, a foreign exchange exposure may be reasonable cost. The group’s policy is to minimise the need for borrowhedged through suitable financial instruments, such as forward foreign ing by utilising excess liquidity in the group wherever possible through a exchange contracts. Cybercom’s policy is to only hedge existing and well cash pool linked to an overdraft facility. The liquidity risks for the group known foreign currency flows, principally certain client contracts. Cyberare managed centrally in the parent company based on analysis of the com does not hedge any forecasted currency flows. liquidity position and operating forecasts. The largest currency exposure in 2013 was to the EUR. The accounts Loan financing is dependent on a number of key figures, covenants, only apply hedge accounting to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. being met, which involves a risk the company may be forced to renegoThe parent company is mainly exposed to currency risks when transtiate its financing. Cybercom monitors these covenants continually and lating assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries. takes the action deemed necessary to meet them. Cybercom meets the limits stated in the covenants. Client credit risks Cybercom is exposed to higher risks in accounts receivable in certain Interest rate risk markets and projects. These risks are managed through a combination Interest rate risk may lead to changes in fair values and cash flows. The of credit checks before the projects commence, and clear internal procefixed interest period is a key factor that affects the interest rate risk. The dures for handling accounts receivable. company’s debt financing has three-month periods of interest, but was The management of financial risks is described in more detail in Note 26. hedged to some extent using interest rate swaps in 2013. Their purpose is to ensure that the group’s interest expense is easily foreseeable. Individual hedge accounting is not applied to interest rate swaps. 6 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Directors’ report Share development and ownership structure Cybercom’s share Shareholders Cybercom’s share was listed on the Stockholm stock exchange, now the At year end Cybercom had 4,272 shareholders, of which 90 percent NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange, on December 1, 1999. Cybercom’s were registered Swedish shareholders. The ten largest shareholders ticker symbol is CYBE. together owned almost 69 percent of Cybercom. At year end the Cybercom share was traded at SEK 2.43, compared To the company’s knowledge, no agreements exist between sharewith SEK 1.50 a year earlier. Cybercom’s market capitalisation at year holders that restrict their right to transfer their shares. end was SEK 438 million. During 2013, the average trading volume of shares was approximately 421,000 per trading day. The average value of turnover has increased to SEK 814 thousand (642) per trading day. Largest shareholders by holding per December 31, 2013 The highest quoted value was SEK 2.70, which was listed on October Name No. of shares Holding % 17, 2013, and the lowest quoted value was SEK 1.37, on February 11, JCE Group AB 69,826,450 38.70 Swedbank Robur Fonder 14,790,880 8.20 2013. Cybercoms share price rose during the year by 62.0%, while the Didner & Gerge Aktiefond 8,223,895 4.56 NASDAQ OMX Small Cap Index rose by 39.0% during the same period. SEB Life International Assurance 7,000,000 3.88 Försäkringsbolaget, Avanza Pension 6,629,254 3.67 Share capital Tequity AB 5,037,914 2.79 Cybercom’s share capital amounted to SEK 45.1 million (45.1) on DeJCE Securities AB 4,726,160 2.62 cember 31, 2013, distributed over 180,439,495 shares (180,439,495). Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring AB 4,079,253 2.26 Granit Småbolag 2,100,000 1.16 All shareholders have equal right to a share in the company’s assets and Sundman, Dag Olofsson 2,080,000 1.15 profits. The share’s par value is 0.25 (0.25). The rights issue conducted Total 124,493,806 68.99 during the previous year increased the company’s number of shares by Other 55,945,689 31.01 144,351,596. Total number of shares 180,439,495 100.00 Dividends Share holdings grouped by size Cybercom’s dividend policy is to pay a dividend to its shareholders of at Size of holding No. of shareholders Holding % least 30 percent of net profit, provided that no special considerations 1–500 1,364 31.9 exist with regard to the company’s financial position or plans. Consid501–1 000 486 11.4 1 001–5 000 1,231 28.8 ering the company’s ongoing programme of change, the board will 5 001–10 000 490 11.5 propose to the annual general meeting of May 7, 2014 that no dividend 10 001–15 000 167 3.9 be paid for the financial year 2013 (SEK 0 for financial year 2012). 15 001–20 000 125 2.9 20 001 – 409 9.6 Total number of shareholders 4,272 100.0 Share price trend, 2013 Share price trend, 2009–2013 Price (SEK) No. of shares, thousands Price (SEK) No. of shares, thousands 3.0 1,500 25 2,500 2.5 1,250 20 2,000 2.0 1,000 15 1,500 1.5 750 10 1,000 1.0 500 5 500 0.5 250 0 0 0 0 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cybercom, 62.0% OMXS Small Cap, 39.0% Cybercom, -39.1% OMXS Small Cap, 136.3% OMXS Technology PI, 22.2% OMXS Technology PI, 39.3% Cybercom Annual Report 2013 7 Directors’ report Outlook Parent company Key IT trends driving Cybercom’s development are the connected sociThe operations of the parent company comprise mainly the manageety, increased need for network capacity, changed corporate delivery ment of group-wide functions for finance, investor relations, PR and models, productisation of IT and an increased proportion of offshore. marketing communications, legal, administration, internal systems and The changes that Cybercom has introduced based on the company’s group-wide coordination of sales and personnel issues. strategy, with a focus on the Nordic region as the company’s home marAt the end of the period the parent company had 10 (14) employees. ket, a uniform client offering based on fewer but clearer offerings, and The average number of employees during the period was 10 (11). the ongoing shift towards a more balanced client portfolio, combined with the company’s strengthened financial position mean that Cyber• Sales amounted to SEK 36.0 million (39.5). com is well equipped to benefit from these trends, and to continue to • Operating loss amounted to SEK -11.9 million (-12.9). develop the business in order to achieve its strategic objectives and • Profit/loss after net financial items amounted to SEK 6.9 million financial targets. (-11.7). Cybercom does not publish forecasts. • The parent company’s liquidity as of December 31, 2013 was SEK 38.1 million (2.1). • Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible non-current assets amounted to SEK 0.0 million (2.2). The major improvements in terms of Profit after net financial items and Liquidity are mainly due to dividends received from group companies. See the “Directors’ report” section for the group for more information about the parent company’s operations, financial position and performance. Proposed allocation of profit These amounts are at the AGM’s disposal: Share premium reserve 688,061,005 SEK Retained earnings -183,304,534 SEK Profit/loss for the year -13,500,596 SEK Total 491,255,875 SEK The board of directors proposes the profit be appropriated as follows: Carried forward 491,255,875 SEK Of which to share premium reserve 688,061,005 SEK 8 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Consolidated income statement Note 2013 2012 Net sales 2 1,172,760 1,318,176 Other operating income 2, 5 22,375 21,026 Employee benefits expense 3 -793,927 -892,433 Other external expenses 4, 27 -314,787 -416,539 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 10, 11, 12 -26,199 -29,857 Capital gain/loss from disposal of subsidiaries 33 – -11,792 Operating profit/loss 60,222 -11,419 Financial income 6 1,943 2,266 Financial costs 6 -8,847 -18,620 Profit/loss before tax 53,318 -27,773 Tax 8 -11,811 -25,314 Year's profit/loss 41,507 -53,087 Earnings per share SEK 2013 2012 Earnings per share basic/diluted 0.23 -0.67 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2013 2012 Year’s profit/loss 41,507 -53,087 Other comprehensive income Items that have been or could be reclassified as year’s profit/loss Translation differences in translating data in foreign operations 5,609 -8,145 Translation differences reclassified as year’s profit/loss -1,776 – Currency risk hedging in foreign operations – 2,353 Tax effect on currency risk hedging in foreign operations – -619 Year's other comprehensive income 3,833 -6,411 Year's comprehensive income 45,340 -59,498 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 9 Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share capital Other capital contributions Translation reserve Retained earnings Total equity Opening balance, January 1, 2012 36,088 855,476 522 -140,173 751,913 Year’s profit/loss – – – -53,087 -53,087 Other comprehensive income – – -6,411 – -6,411 New share issue 9,022 116,564 – – 125,586 Issue costs – -7,185 – – -7,185 Closing balance, December 31, 2012 45,110 964,855 -5,889 -193,260 810,816 Year’s profit/loss – – – 41,507 41,507 Other comprehensive income – – 3,833 – 3,833 Issue costs – -111 – – -111 Closing balance, December 31, 2013 45,110 964,744 -2,056 -151,753 856,045 10 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet Note Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 10 788,753 785,191 Other intangible non-current assets 11 45,301 56,669 Property, plant and equipment 12 26,612 26,356 Non-current financial assets 13, 14 81 1,025 Deferred tax assets 19 19,566 24,771 Total non-current assets 880,313 894,012 Current assets Accounts receivable 15, 25 289,236 364,786 Tax assets 1,678 2,225 Other receivables 16 17,658 52,184 Prepaid expenses 17 16,112 20,618 Cash and cash equivalents 31 23,665 20,339 Total current assets 348,349 460,152 Total assets 1,228,662 1,354,164 Equity and liabilities Equity 18 Share capital 45,110 45,110 Other capital contributions 964,744 964,855 Translation reserve -2,056 -5,889 Retained earnings including profit/loss for the year -151,753 -193,260 Total equity 856,045 810,816 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 19 7,480 13,985 Other non-current liabilities 20 70,657 112,813 Total non-current liabilities 78,137 126,798 Current liabilities Bank overdraft 21 – 13,161 Advances from clients 17,602 44,066 Restructuring provision 22 993 29,417 Accounts payable 65,403 89,959 Tax liabilities 2,689 5,656 Other current liabilities 23 84,556 103,409 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 123,237 130,882 Total current liabilities 294,480 416,550 Total equity and liabilities 1,228,662 1,354,164 Pledged assets 28 1,024,770 847,223 Contingent liabilities 28 – – Cybercom Annual Report 2013 11 Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement Note 2013 2012 Operating activities Profit/loss before tax 53,318 -27,773 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 31 -4,212 60,854 Income tax paid -15,497 -16,315 Cash flow from operating activities before change 33,609 16,766 in working capital Increase/decrease accounts receivable 76,780 -137,001 Increase/decrease other current receivables 38,933 -1,376 Increase/decrease accounts payable -24,736 -5,598 Increase/decrease other current liabilities -41,356 26,478 Cash flow from operating activities 83,230 -100,731 Investing activities Investments in intangible non-current assets -2,088 -4,803 Investments in property, plant and equipment -12,238 -10,430 Sales of financial non-current assets 93 204 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net effect on cash and cash equivalents 32 -661 -4,511 Disposal of subsidiaries, net effect on cash and cash equivalents 33 – -7,429 Cash flow from investing activities -14,894 -26,969 Financing activities New share issue -111 115,836 Borrowings – 47,081 Amortisation of debt -65,137 -74,087 Cash flow from financing activities -65,248 88,830 Year's cash flow 3,088 -38,870 Cash and cash equivalents at year's start 20,339 62,376 Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents 238 -3,167 Cash and cash equivalents at year's end 23,665 20,339 12 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Income statement – parent company Note 2013 2012 Net sales 35,914 39,366 Other operating income 5 292 96 Operating income 36,206 39,462 Other external expenses 4 -24,613 -20,324 Employee benefits expense 3 -12,946 -21,327 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 10, 11, 12 -10,298 -10,514 Other operating expenses 5 -225 -196 Operating expenses -48,082 -52,361 Operating profit/loss -11,876 -12,899 Profit/loss from interests in group companies and joint venture 6 19,024 4,759 Interest income and similar income items 6 342 1,572 Interest expense and similar expense items 6 -584 -5,138 Profit/loss from financial items 18,782 1,193 Profit/loss after financial items 6,906 -11,706 Appropriations 7 -27,384 -14,326 Tax on year's profit/loss 8 6,978 3,989 Year's profit/loss1) -13,500 -22,043 1) Year’s profit/loss corresponds with Year’s comprehensive income. Statement of changes in equity – parent company Share Statutory Share premium Retained capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, January 1, 2012 36,088 178,962 578,793 -161,261 632,582 Year’s profit/loss1) – – – -22,043 -22,043 New share issue 9,022 – 116,564 – 125,586 Issue costs – – -7,185 – -7,185 Closing balance, December 31, 2012 45,110 178,962 688,172 -183,304 728,940 Year’s profit/loss1) – – – -13,500 -13,500 Issue costs – – -111 – -111 Closing balance, December 31, 2013 45,110 178,962 688,061 -196,804 715,329 1) Year’s profit/loss corresponds with Year’s comprehensive income. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 13 Financial statements Balance sheet – parent company Note Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Assets Intangible non-current assets 10, 11 39,059 49,171 Property, plant and equipment 12 436 583 Non-current financial assets 13 878,293 679,502 Deferred tax assets 19 15,452 8,179 Total non-current assets 933,240 737,435 Tax assets 104 156 Receivables from group companies 6,324 74,841 Other receivables 16 169 28 Prepaid expenses 17 686 938 Cash and bank balances 31 38,051 2,058 Total current assets 45,334 78,021 Total assets 978,574 815,456 Equity and liabilities Equity 18 Share capital, 180,439,495 shares (180,439,495) 45,110 45,110 Statutory reserve 178,962 178,962 Total restricted equity 224,072 224,072 Share premium reserve 688,061 688,172 Retained earnings -183,304 -161,261 Year's profit/loss -13,500 -22,043 Total non-restricted equity 491,257 504,868 Total equity 715,329 728,940 Untaxed reserves 30 5,012 11,205 Non-current liabilities 20 686 1,535 Total non-current liabilities 686 1,535 Restructuring provision 22 – 634 Accounts payable 2,516 2,621 Liabilities to group companies 250,574 64,392 Other current liabilities 23 1,554 1,722 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 2,903 4,407 Total current liabilities 257,547 73,776 Total equity and liabilities 978,574 815,456 Pledged assets 28 650,000 450,120 Contingent liabilities 28 – – 14 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Cash flow statement – parent company Note 2013 2012 Operating activities Profit/loss before tax -20,478 -26,032 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 31 37,048 21,723 Income tax paid -244 3,898 Cash flow from operating activities before change 16,326 -411 in working capital Increase/decrease other current receivables 68,628 -14,200 Increase/decrease accounts payable -104 -3,946 Increase/decrease other current operating liabilities -48,707 -11,987 Cash flow from operating activities 36,143 -30,544 Investing activities Investments in intangible non-current assets -25 -2,210 Investments in property, plant and equipment -14 -13 Investments in subsidiaries – -6,357 Cash flow from investing activities -39 -8,580 Financing activities New share issue -111 115,836 Amortisation of debt – -56,383 Cash flow from financing activities -111 59,453 Increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents 35,993 20,329 Cash and cash equivalents at year's start 2,058 -18,271 Cash and cash equivalents at year's end 38,051 2,058 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 15 Financial statements Five-year overview Income statement, SEKm 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Operating income 1,195.1 1,339.2 1,481.0 1,528.9 1,751.6 Operating expenses -1,108.7 -1,309.0 -1,415.6 -1,416.7 -1,607.5 Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 86.4 30.2 65.4 112.2 144.1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses -26.2 -29.8 -190.8 -50.7 -321.8 Capital gain/loss disposal of subsidiaries – -11.8 – – – Operating profit/loss 60.2 -11.4 -125.4 61.5 -177.7 Financial income 1.9 2.2 6.3 9.0 7.0 Financial costs -8.8 -18.6 -25.3 -30.1 -34.3 Profit/loss before tax 53.3 -27.8 -144.4 40.4 -205.0 Tax -11.8 -25.3 0.2 2.3 -4.1 Year’s profit/loss from continuing operations 41.5 -53.1 -144.2 42.7 -209.1 Year’s profit/loss from discontinued operations – – – 0.9 -0.4 Year’s profit/loss 41.5 -53.1 -144.2 43.6 -209.5 Balance sheet, SEKm 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Intangible non-current assets 834.1 841.9 856.6 1,028.3 1,082.4 Property, plant and equipment 26.6 26.4 32.4 39.7 48.3 Non-current financial assets 0.1 1.0 0.2 1.1 1.0 Deferred tax assets 19.5 24.8 45.7 52.2 61.4 Current assets, excl. cash and cash equivalents 324.7 439.8 309.4 292.7 358.9 Cash and cash equivalents 23.7 20.3 62.4 98.6 183.5 Total assets 1,228.7 1,354.2 1,306.7 1,512.6 1,735.5 Equity 856.0 810.8 751.9 930.6 906.9 Non-current liabilities 78.2 126.8 135.4 107.1 327.8 Current liabilities 294.5 416.6 419.4 474.9 500.8 Total equity and liabilities 1,228.7 1,354.2 1,306.7 1,512.6 1,735.5 Cash flow statement, SEKm 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Cash flow from operating activities 83.2 -100.7 36.2 76.8 128.4 Cash flow from investing activities -14.9 -27.0 -30.6 -34.7 -26.5 Cash flow from financing activities -65.2 88.8 -39.1 -121.0 -85.6 Cash flow from continuing operations 3.1 -38.9 -33.5 -78.9 16.4 Cash flow from discontinued operations – – – 0.9 -0.5 Cash and cash equivalents at year’s start 20.3 62.4 98.6 183.5 169.7 Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents 0.3 -3.2 -2.7 -6.9 -2.1 Cash and cash equivalents at year’s end 23.7 20.3 62.4 98.6 183.5 16 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Five-year overview, continued Key data and ratios 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Return on total capital, % 4.8 -0.7 -8.4 4.3 -9.1 Return on capital employed, % 6.4 -0.9 -11.3 5.8 -12.0 Return on equity, % 5.0 -6.8 -17.1 4.7 -22.0 Operating margin, % 5.0 -0.9 -8.5 4.0 -10.1 Net margin, % 4.5 -2.1 -9.8 2.6 -11.7 Equity/assets ratio, % 69.7 59.9 57.5 61.5 52.3 Net debt, % 10 19 19 14 21 Debt/equity ratio 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4 Interest coverage ratio 7.0 -0.5 -4.7 2.3 -5.0 Employees 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of employees at year’s end 1,267 1,335 1,564 1,727 1,818 Number of FTE employees, average 1,180 1,368 1,577 1,642 1,760 Number of FTE consultants, average 1,010 1,163 1,360 1,415 1,544 Sales per FTE employee, SEK thousand 1,013 979 939 931 995 Sales per FTE consultant, SEK thousand 1,183 1,152 1,089 1,080 1,134 Value added per FTE employee, SEK thousand 699 619 501 619 492 Share data, basic and diluted 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of shares at year’s end 180,439,495 180,439,495 36,087,899 36,087,899 36,087,899 Equity per share, SEK 4.74 4.49 20.83 25.79 25.13 Average number of shares 1) 180,439,495 79,383,831 55,850,320 55,850,320 52,051,497 Earnings per share, SEK1) 0.23 -0.67 -2.58 0.78 -4.03 Cash flow per share, SEK 1) 0.46 -1.27 0.65 1.38 2.47 Dividend per share, SEK 0 0 0 0.50 0 1) Historical data relating to the average number of shares, earnings per share and cash flow per share have been recalculated in accordance with IAS 33. The recalculation effect arises since the subscription price was below the market price on the date the subscription rights were separated. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 17 Financial statements Notes Note 1 – Accounting policies IFRS 13 Fair value measurement A new uniform standard for measuring fair value and with enhanced disclosure requirements. The new disclosure requirements are described in Notes 25 and 26. Compliance with standards and laws The consolidated accounts were prepared in accordance with International FinanAmended IAS 36 Impairment of Assets cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by the International Accounting StandThe amendment relates to disclosures of recoverable amounts of non-finanards Board (IASB) and interpretive statements from the International Financial cial assets and means, inter alia, that the disclosure requirement for estimated Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) that were approved for application recoverable amounts per (group of) cash generating unit with significant goodwill within the EU. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 is eliminated. This amendment, which will be applied from 2014 at the latest, is Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups was also applied. applied early in this annual report. This means in practice that no additions are The parent company applies the same policies as the group, except where made to the disclosures of said recoverable value, in cases where impairment is otherwise stated below in the Parent company accounting policies section. not recognised, that arose in IAS 36 in conjunction with the initial application of IFRS 13 in 2013. Valuation methods used in preparing the financial statements Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, apart from financial assets New and amended IFRSs and interpretations not yet applied and liabilities that are derivatives; these are recognised at fair value. Some new or amended standards and interpretations will not be effective until coming financial years or later and were not applied early in preparing these Functional currency and presentation currency financial statements. Cybercom is not planning early application of new standards The parent company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is also or amendments effective for financial years after 2013. If new or amended standthe presentation currency for the parent company and the group. The financial ards and interpretations are not described below, Cybercom has assessed that statements are therefore presented in Swedish kronor rounded off to the nearest they do not impact the financial reporting. thousand, unless otherwise specified. IFRS 9 Financial instruments Judgements and estimates in the financial statements IFRS 9 Financial instruments is intended to replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Preparation of the financial statements using IFRS requires that company manageRecognition and measurement. IFRS 9 addresses classification and measurement make judgements, estimates, and assumptions that affect application of the ment of financial assets and financial liabilities and hedge accounting. The first accounting policies and the recognised amounts of assets, liabilities, income and part addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets. Only two expenses. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates and judgements. measurement categories will be available: one for fair value and another for Cybercom regularly reviews estimates and assumptions. Changes to estimates amortised cost. Amortised cost is used for instruments in a business model whose are recognised in the period when the change is made if the change only affected objective is to receive the contractual cash flows which will constitute payments that period. If the change affects current and future periods, it is recognised in the of principal and interest on the principal on specified dates. Other financial assets period when the change is made and in future periods. are recognised at fair value. IASB also published in October 2010 the parts of IFRS 9 relating to the classification and measurement of financial liabilities. Most of this Key sources of uncertainties in estimates is consistent with the previous rules in IAS 39. In November 2013, rules were pubSources of uncertainties in estimates stated below refer to those that involve a lished on hedge accounting. There is currently no fixed application date for IFRS 9. significant risk for material adjustment to the value of assets or liabilities in the IASB indicates that the earliest application date will be January 1, 2018. coming financial year. IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Goodwill impairment testing New standard for reporting joint ventures and joint operations. The new standard Several assumptions about future conditions and estimates of parameters were will mainly involve two changes compared to IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures. made when calculating the recoverable amount of cash generating units for One change is whether an investment is considered to be a joint operation or goodwill impairment testing. See Note 10 for a description. As stated in Note 10, a joint venture. There are different accounting rules depending on which of changes to conditions for these assumptions and estimates could have a material the investments that exists. The second change is that a joint venture should effect on the value of goodwill. be reported using the equity method, and the proportional method will not be permitted. Cybercom’s investment is currently reported using the proportional Loss carry-forwards method, and since it is deemed that the investment is a joint operation, IFRS 11 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets for loss carry-forwards was assessed does not require a change for Cybercom. The standard is effective for financial on the reporting date, and use of the loss carry-forwards against surpluses in years beginning from January 1, 2014 or later. future taxation was deemed probable. IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities Amended accounting policies New standard for disclosures for investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, Amended IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements associates and unconsolidated structured entities. The standard is effective for This amendment relates to how items within other comprehensive income should financial years beginning from January 1, 2014, or later with retroactive effect. be presented and means that items under “other comprehensive income” have been divided into two categories: items that have been, or may be, reclassified as Amended IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures profit and loss; and items that will never be reclassified as profit or loss. Items that The amended standard is broadly consistent with the previous IAS 28. The amendhave been, or may be, reclassified are translation differences and hedges for curments concern the reporting when changes in ownership occur and significant or rency risk in foreign operations. The group has no items in the second category. joint control ceases or not. The amendments apply for financial years beginning Comparative figures are shown using the new presentation. from January 1, 2014 or later. 18 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 1, continued degree that corresponds to the group’s holding in the company. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there are no impairment losses. Classifications Non-current assets and non-current liabilities essentially comprise amounts exForeign currency pected to be recovered or paid more than twelve months after the reporting date. Transactions in foreign currency Current assets and current liabilities essentially comprise amounts expected to be Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at recovered or paid within twelve months after the reporting date. the exchange rate that applied on the transaction date. The functional currency is the currency used in the primary economic environments in which the companies Operating segments conduct their operations. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign An operating segment is a part of the group that runs operations from which the currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate on the group may generate income and incur expenses and for which financial data are reporting date. Exchange differences arising in the translations are recognised in available. The company’s most senior decision making executive follows up the the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at historical results of an operating segment in order to evaluate it and allocate resources to cost are translated at the exchange rate that applied on the transaction date. the operating segment. See Note 2 for an additional description of the division Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at fair value are translated into into and presentation of operating segments. the functional currency at the exchange rate that applied on the date they were valued at fair value. Consolidation policies Subsidiaries Financial statements of foreign operations Subsidiaries are companies over which Cybercom Group AB has a controlling Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other group influence. Controlling influence means, directly or indirectly, the right to draw surpluses and deficits, are translated from the functional currency of the foreign up a company’s financial and operational strategies with the aim of receiving operation to the group’s presentation currency, Swedish kronor, at the exchange economic benefits. When judging whether the group has controlling influence, rate applicable on the reporting date. Income and expenses in foreign operations potential shares with voting rights are accounted for, i.e., shares that can be used are translated into Swedish kronor at an average rate that is an approximation of immediately or converted without delay. the exchange rates that applied on each transaction date. Translation differences Subsidiaries are recognised using the acquisition method. With this metharising in currency translation regarding foreign operations are recognised in other od, acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as a transaction whereby the group comprehensive income and are accumulated in the translation reserve in equity. In indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and contingent disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative translation differences attributable liabilities. The acquisition cost on consolidation is established through an acquito the operation from the translation reserve are realised in profit or loss for the sition analysis in conjunction with the acquisition. The analysis establishes the year. Since 1 January 2004, the transition date to IFRS, translation differences acquisition cost of the participating interests or business and the fair value, on the have been recognised in the translation reserve. acquisition date, of acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. The acquisition cost for the subsidiary’s shares and operations Revenue comprises the sum of fair values at the acquisition date for paid assets, incurred Rendering of service assignments or assumed liabilities and for issued equity instruments submitted as payment in Revenue from service assignments is recognised in profit or loss for the year exchange for the acquired net assets. Transaction expenditures for acquisitions based on degree of completion on the reporting date. Degree of completion is through 2009 are included in the cost, and transaction expenditures incurred established by assessing work done on the basis of inspections made. Revenue after 2009 are expensed directly in the year’s profit or loss. In business combinais not recognised if it is probable that the economic benefits will not flow to the tions in which the acquisition cost exceeds the fair value of acquired assets and group. If there are material uncertainties about payment, appurtenant expenses, assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised separately, the difference is or guarantees, and if the seller remains involved in the day-to-day management recognised as goodwill. Any negative difference is recognised directly in profit or normally associated with ownership, then no revenue recognition occurs. Conloss for the year. sulting revenue is the main source of group revenue and accounts for 98 percent Subsidiaries’ financial statements are included in the consolidated accounts of sales. Other revenue accounts for 2 percent of group sales. Revenue comprises from the acquisition date until the date on which the controlling influence ceases. the fair value of services sold, excluding value added tax and discounts and after elimination of intra group sales. Revenue is recognised as follows: Joint ventures In accounting terms, a joint venture is a company in which the group, through SERVICE ASSIGNMENTS ON RUNNING ACCOUNTS partnership agreements with one or more parties, has joint controlling influence Running account assignments are recognised as profit or loss as the services are on operational and financial governance. Holdings in joint ventures are consolrendered, i.e., revenues and expenses are recognised in the period in which they idated in the group accounts using the proportional method. The proportional were earned or incurred. Earned but not invoiced fees on the reporting date are method means that group ownership of a joint venture’s income, expenses, recognised as Time worked but not invoiced under the Other receivables heading. assets, and liabilities, is recognised in the consolidated income statements and balance sheets. This is performed by combining the joint owner’s proportion of FIXED PRICE SERVICES assets, liabilities, income, and expenses in a joint venture company item by item If a fixed price service assignment outcome can be reliably estimated, the assignwith equivalent items in the joint owner’s consolidated accounts. Only equity ment’s income and expenditure are recognised as revenue and expenses, respecearned after the acquisition is recognised in the group’s equity. The proportional tively, relative to the assignment’s degree of completion on the reporting date (the method is applied from the date when joint controlling influence is received and percentage of completion method). The number of utilised hours at the reporting until the date it ceases. date, in relation to the assignment’s estimated total hours, mainly determines the percentage of completion. Transactions eliminated in consolidation If estimation of a service assignment’s outcome is difficult (e.g., a project is in Internal (intra group) receivables and liabilities, income and expenses, and an early phase), but it is likely that the client will cover accrued expenses, then unrealised gains or losses that arise from internal transactions between group revenue is recognised at the reporting date at an amount corresponding to the companies are entirely eliminated in preparation of the consolidated accounts. assignment’s accrued expenses, so no profit is recognised. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated to the Cybercom Annual Report 2013 19 Financial statements Note 1, continued The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when their use is no longer deemed probable. Any additional income tax that arises in conjunction with dividends is No revenue is recognised and accrued expenditure is reported as expenses if it ­recognised when the dividend is recognised as a liability. likely that the client will not cover the expenses. An anticipated loss is recognised immediately as an expense, in as much as it can be estimated. Financial instruments Invoiced fees in fixed price assignments for services not yet rendered are Financial instruments recognised on the balance sheet include among assets cash ­recognised as Advances from clients. and cash equivalents, loan receivables, derivatives, and accounts receivable as well as time worked but not yet invoiced. Among liabilities are accounts payable, Leasing derivatives, and borrowings. See the section on leased assets under Property, plant, and equipment for classification of leases. Recognition on and derecognition from the balance sheet A financial asset or financial liability is recognised on the balance sheet when Operating leases the company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. A Costs pertaining to operating leases are recognised in the income statement on receivable is recognised when the company has performed a service or supplied a straight line basis over the lease term. Incentives received in conjunction with a product and the counterparty is contractually obliged to pay, even if an invoice signing a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement as a reduction has not yet been sent. Accounts receivable are entered on the balance sheet of the leasing payments on a straight line basis over the lease term. Variable when an invoice is sent. A liability is entered when the counterparty has rendered charges are expensed in the periods when they arise. a service or supplied a product and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts payable are recognised when an Financial leases invoice is received. Minimum lease payments are allocated between interest expense and amortisaA financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when the rights in the tion payment of the outstanding liability. Interest expense is allocated over the agreement are realised, expire, or the company loses control of them. The same lease term so that an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability is removed from the balance recognised during each period is charged to each period. Variable charges are sheet when the obligation in the agreement is fulfilled or otherwise expires. The expensed in the periods when they arise. same applies to a part of a financial liability. A financial asset and a financial liability are offset and reported at the net Financial income and financial costs amount on the balance sheet only when there is a legal offset right for the Financial income comprises interest income on cash and cash equivalents and amounts and the intention is to settle the items at a net amount or to realise the ­current investments, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and gains on asset and settle the liability simultaneously. changes in value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Interest income on financial instruments is recognised using the effective Classification and valuation interest rate method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the Financial instruments that are not derivatives are initially recognised at cost corredividend has been established. sponding to the fair value of the instrument, plus transaction costs for all financial Financial costs comprise interest expenses, foreign exchange losses, losses on instruments apart from those in the category of financial assets at fair value changes in value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and losses through profit or loss; these are recognised at fair value excluding transaction on hedging instruments recognised in profit or loss for the year. Borrowing costs costs. A financial instrument is classified on initial recognition based on, among are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method. other things, the purpose for which it was acquired. The classification determines The effective interest is the interest that discounts the estimated future payhow the financial instrument is valued subsequent to initial recognition. ments to be received and made during a financial instrument’s expected term to Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, so transaction costs have an maturity, to the reported net value of the financial asset or liability. The calculation impact on profit or loss for the period. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivaincludes all fees that are paid or received by the parties to the contract and that tives are recognised as follows. If derivatives are used for hedge accounting, and form part of the effective interest, transaction costs, and all surplus and deficit to the extent that this is effective, changes in value of derivatives are recognised values. on the same line in profit or loss for the year as the hedged item. Even if hedge accounting is not applied, increases and decreases in the value of derivatives are Taxes recognised as income and expenses, respectively, in operating profit, or among Income taxes comprise current and deferred tax. Income taxes are reported in financial items, based on the purpose of the derivative’s use and whether this use profit or loss for the year, except when the underlying transaction is recognised relates to an operating item or a financial item. In hedge accounting, the ineffecin other comprehensive income or in equity, in which case the related tax effect is tive portion is recognised in the same way as changes in the value of derivatives recognised in other comprehensive income or in equity. that are not used for hedge accounting. For interest rate swaps, the interest Current tax is payable or receivable for the current year, according to the tax coupon is recognised as interest and any other change in value of the interest rate rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also swap is recognised as other finance income or other finance costs. includes adjustment of current tax attributable to earlier periods. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call at banks Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method, based on temporary and comparable institutions, and short term liquid investments that have maturdifferences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. ities of less than three months from the acquisition date and that are subject to Temporary differences are not considered for differences that arose in initial insignificant risk of changes in value. recognition of goodwill or arose in initial recognition of assets and liabilities that are not business combinations and which, at the time of the transaction, affect Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Valuation of deferred tax is based on This category comprises financial assets and liabilities held for trading. Financial how underlying assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred instruments in this category are continually measured at fair value, with changes tax is calculated using the tax rates and rules enacted or substantially enacted at in value recognised in profit or loss for the year. The category includes derivatives the reporting date. with a positive or negative fair value, except for derivatives that are an identified Deferred tax assets regarding deductible timing differences and loss carry-forand effective hedging instrument. wards are only recognised where it is deemed probable that they can be used. 20 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 1, continued The carrying amount of an item of property, plant, or equipment is derecognised from the balance sheet upon retirement or disposal of the asset or when no future economic benefits are expected from the asset’s use, retirement, or disposal. Loan receivables and accounts receivable Gains or losses that arise from an asset’s disposal or retirement comprise the Loan receivables and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets that difference between the selling price and the carrying amount, less direct selling have fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted on an active market. expenses. These assets are valued at amortised cost, which is determined using the effective interest rate calculated on the acquisition date. Accounts receivable are recogLeased assets nised at the amounts expected to be received, that is, less bad debts. Leases are classified as finance leases or operating leases. Finance leases are when the economic risks and rewards of ownership have been substantially transferred Other liabilities to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. This category contains loans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts payaAssets leased under finance leases are recognised as non-current assets on the ble; the liabilities are valued at amortised cost. balance sheet and are initially measured at the lower of the leased item’s fair value The group’s financial assets and liabilities were allocated to the categories as and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease. described in Note 25 Financial assets and liabilities. Recognition of finance income The obligation to pay future lease charges is stated as non-current and current and costs is also described in the above accounting policy for recognition of liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated over their individual useful lives, while financial income and costs. lease payments are recognised as interest payments and liability repayments. Assets leased under operating leases are not recognised as an asset on the Derivatives and hedge accounting balance sheet. Operating leases do not give rise to a liability. The group’s derivatives were acquired as economic hedges for the risks of interest rate and foreign exchange exposure faced by the group. Derivatives are initially Additional charges recognised at fair value, so transaction costs have an impact on profit or loss for Additional charges are only added to the cost if it is probable that the company the period. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair will receive the future economic benefits associated with the asset and that the value, and changes in value are stated as follows. cost can be reliably calculated. All other additional charges are recognised as an An unequivocal connection to the hedged item is required to meet the criteria expense in the period in which they arise. for hedge accounting stated in IAS 39. The hedge must also effectively protect the hedged item, hedging documentation must be drawn up, and efficacy must Depreciation policies be measurable. Gains and losses on hedges of cash flows and net investments are Depreciation occurs on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the recognised in profit or loss for the year at the same time as gains and losses are asset. Leased assets are also depreciated over their estimated useful life or if recognised for the hedged items. shorter over the contractually agreed lease term. Estimated useful lives: Cybercom only applies hedge accounting to hedging of net investments in foreign subsidiaries, so hedge accounting is not applied to interest rate swaps. – Buildings 50 years – Computers 3–5 years Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency – Equipment 3–5 years Foreign exchange forward contracts are used for the economic hedging of receivables or liabilities against exchange rate risk. Hedge accounting is not applied The depreciation methods used, residual values, and useful lives are reassessed as protection against currency risk, because an economic hedge is reflected in at each year end. the accounts by the underlying receivable or liability and the hedging instrument being recognised at the exchange rate on the reporting date and the exchange Intangible assets rate changes being recognised over profit or loss for the year. Goodwill Exchange rate changes regarding operating receivables and liabilities are Goodwill is carried at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill recognised in operating profit, while exchange rate changes regarding financial is allocated to cash generating units and is tested at least once a year for impairreceivables and liabilities are recognised among financial items. ment (see Impairment). Hedging exchange rate risk in foreign net investments Research and development Investments in foreign subsidiaries (net assets including goodwill) were partially Expenditure for research aiming to obtain new scientific or technical knowledge hedged by raising currency loans that were translated at the closing day rate on is recognised as a cost when it arises. the reporting date. Translation differences on financial instruments used as hedgDevelopment expenditure, where research findings or other knowledge are ing instruments when hedging net investment in a group company are recognised applied to create new or improved products or processes, is recognised as an to the extent that the hedge is effective in other comprehensive income and are asset on the balance sheet, if the product or process is technically and commeraccumulated in the translation reserve in equity. This neutralises the translation cially usable and the company has sufficient resources to complete development differences that affect equity in consolidation of the group companies. and then use or sell the intangible asset. The carrying amount includes all directly In disposal of a subsidiary, the cumulative change in value regarding the attributable expenditure, such as material and services, employee benefits, regisoperation disposed of is transferred from the translation reserve in equity to profit tration of a legal right, amortisation of patents, and licences. Other development or loss for the year. expenditure is recognised in profit or loss for the year as a cost when it arises. Development expenditure recognised on the balance sheet is stated at cost, Property, plant and equipment less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Owned assets Property, plant, and equipment are recognised in the consolidated accounts at Other intangible assets cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the Other intangible assets comprise patents, licence rights, acquired client relationpurchase price and costs directly attributable to the asset to put it in place and in ships, and acquired trademarks. They are recognised at cost, less accumulated the right condition for the use for which it was acquired. Accounting policies for amortisation and impairment losses (see Impairment). impairment are stated below. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 21 Financial statements Note 1, continued Impairment losses on loan receivables and accounts receivable recognised at amortised cost are reversed if a later increase in the recoverable amount can Additional charges be objectively attributed to an event that occurred after impairment loss was Additional charges for capitalised intangible assets are only stated as an asset on recognised. the balance sheet if they increase the future economic benefits for the specific asset to which the charges refer. All other charges are expensed when incurred. Earnings per share Calculation of earnings per share is based on group profit for the year attributaAmortisation policies ble to the parent company’s shareholders and the weighted average number of Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over shares outstanding during the year. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, unless such useful lives cannot be profit and the average number of shares are adjusted to account for effects of the determined. The useful lives are reassessed at least once a year. Goodwill is tested diluting potential ordinary shares. for impairment annually and as soon as indications arise that the value of the asset has decreased. Intangible assets with determinable useful lives are amortised Employee benefits from the date on which they become available for use. Defined contribution pension plans All pension solutions in the group are classified as defined contribution plans. Estimated useful lives: Consequently, the company’s obligation is limited to the contributions that it has – Licence rights 4–5 years committed itself to pay. In such cases the size of the employee’s pension depends – Acquired client relationships 10 years on the contributions that the company pays to the plan or to an insurance com– Acquired trademarks 10 years pany and the contributions’ return on capital. The employee thus bears the actu– Patents 5 years arial risk (that the remuneration will be lower than expected) and the investment – Capitalised development costs 3 years risk (that the invested assets will not suffice to pay out the expected remuneration). The company’s commitments regarding payments to defined contribution The useful lives are reassessed annually. plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they are earned over time by the employee rendering services for the company. Impairment The group’s recognised assets are assessed on every reporting date to determine Termination benefits whether indications of impairment exist. An expense for remuneration paid on termination of employment is only recognised if the company is demonstrably committed without realistic option of Impairment of property, plant, equipment, intangible assets, withdrawal to a detailed formal plan to terminate an employment contract before and interests in joint ventures the normal end date. If benefits are offered to encourage voluntary redundancy, The recoverable amount of the asset is calculated (see below) if there is indication an expense is recognised if it is probable that the offer will be accepted and that of impairment. The recoverable amount for goodwill is also calculated annually. If the number of employees who will accept the offer can be reliably estimated. substantially independent cash flows to an individual asset cannot be established, and if the asset’s fair value less selling expenses cannot be used, then assets are Short-term employee benefits grouped in impairment testing to the lowest level at which substantially indeShort-term employee benefits are calculated without discounting and are recogpendent cash flows can be identified – this grouping is called a cash generating nised as a cost when the related services are rendered. unit (CGU). A provision is reported for the expected cost of bonus payments when the An impairment charge is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or group has an applicable legal or informal obligation to make such payments due CGU exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment loss is recognised in the into services being rendered by employees and the commitment can be reliably come statement as an expense. When impairment has been identified for a CGU, calculated. the impairment loss is first allocated to goodwill. Then, a pro rata impairment loss is recognised for the other assets included in the unit. Provisions The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling expenses and A provision differs from other liabilities because of prevailing uncertainty about value in use. When calculating value in use, future cash flows are discounted payment date or the amount required to settle the provision. A provision is reportusing a discount rate that accounts for risk free interest and the risk associated ed on the balance sheet when there is an existing legal or informal obligation due with the specific asset. to a past event, it is probable that economic resources outflow will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated. Impairment of financial assets The amount allocated to a provision is the best estimate of what is required to On each reporting date, the company tests whether there is objective evidence settle the existing obligation on the reporting date. When the payment date has that a financial asset is impaired. Objective evidence comprises observable past a material impact, provisions are calculated through discounting the expected fuevents that adversely affect the possibility of recovering the acquisition cost. ture cash flow at an interest rate before tax that reflects current market estimates One observable event is a past-due receivable. Cybercom has set rules for bad of the time value of money and, where applicable, the risks associated with the debt management; impairment losses regarding past-due accounts receivable are liability. recognised after individual assessment. Restructuring Reversal of impairment losses A provision for restructuring is reported when an established, detailed, and formal Impairment losses on assets included in the application area for IAS 36 are restructuring plan exists and the restructuring has either started or been publicly reversed if there is both an indication that impairment has ceased and there announced. No provision is made for future operating expenses. has been a change in the assumptions that formed the basis of calculating the recoverable amount. Impairment losses on goodwill are never reversed. A reversal Onerous contracts only occurs to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount after reversal does not A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the benefits that the group exceed the carrying amount that would have been stated, less depreciation or expects to receive from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of fulfillamortisation where applicable, had no impairment loss been recognised. ing the contractual obligations. 22 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 1, continued Financial instruments and hedge accounting Due to the connection between accounting and taxation, Cybercom does not Contingent liabilities apply the IAS 39 rules in the parent company as a legal entity. A contingent liability is recognised when a possible obligation due to past events In the parent company, non-current financial assets are measured at cost, less exists and only one or more uncertain future events confirm occurrence of the any impairment losses. obligation or when there is an obligation that is not recognised as a liability or The underlying receivables and liabilities in foreign currency that are protected provision because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required. from exchange rate fluctuations by forward contracts are measured at the spot rate on the date the forward contract is carried. The difference between the forParent company accounting policies ward rate and the spot rate when the contract is entered into (forward premium) The parent company prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish is distributed over the period of the forward contract. The distributed forward Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommenpremium is recognised as interest income and interest expense, respectively. dation RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. The board’s statements for listed Interest rate swaps, which effectively hedge cash flow risk in interest payments on enterprises were also applied. RFR 2 means that, in the annual report for the legal liabilities, are measured at the net of the accrued receivable on variable interest entity, the parent company must apply all EU approved IFRSs and interpretations and accrued liability regarding fixed interest and the difference is recognised as far as possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the as interest expense and interest income, respectively. The hedge is effective if law on safeguarding pension commitments, and with regard to the connection the economic significance of the hedge and the liability are the same, as if the between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states which exceptions liability had instead been stated at a fixed market interest rate when the hedging from and additions to IFRSs must be applied. relationship commenced. Any premium paid for the swap contract is distributed as interest over the period of the contract. Amended accounting policies Unless otherwise specified below, changes in the parent company’s accounting Anticipated dividends policies in 2013 are the same as stated above for the group. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised where the parent company has the exclusive right to determine the dividend amount and has decided on this Differences between the accounting policies of the group and parent company amount before publishing the financial statements for the parent company. Differences between the accounting policies of the group and parent company are stated below. The parent company’s policies described below were applied Intangible non-current assets consistently to all periods presented in the parent company’s financial statements. GOODWILL Goodwill that has an indeterminable useful life and is not subject to amortisation Classification and presentation in the group is amortised in the parent company over a period of 10 years. The The parent company’s income statement and balance sheet are presented in reason for the estimated useful life is that the acquisitions were important for accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The main difference to IAS 1 PresCybercom’s formation and geographical coverage of the market. entation of financial statements applied in preparation of the group’s financial statements is recognition of finance income, finance costs, and equity. Taxes In the parent company, untaxed reserves are reported on the balance sheet withSubsidiaries and joint ventures out separate allocations to equity and deferred tax liability, unlike in the group. Interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures are recognised in the parent company Similarly, the parent company’s income statement does not include allocation of a using the cost method and include transaction costs directly attributable to the proportion of appropriations to deferred tax expense. acquisition. Contingent considerations are recognised as before only when a likely and reliable amount can be calculated, and any reassessments of the value are recognised only on the balance sheet. In the consolidated accounts, contingent considerations are valued at fair value with any changes in value recognised in profit or loss. The policies for impairment of shares in subsidiaries comply with the Impairment of property, plant, equipment, intangible assets, and interests in joint ventures section for the group. Revenue In the parent company’s results, service assignments are recognised upon completion of the service. Revenues in the parent company are essentially intra-group services. Financial guarantees The parent company’s financial guarantee agreements comprise surety. Financial guarantees mean that the company is obliged to compensate a debt instrument holder for losses incurred to the holder due to non-payment by a given debtor on the contractually agreed due date. When recognising financial guarantee agreements, the parent company applies a Swedish Financial Reporting Board rule that allows certain exceptions from the requirements stated in IAS 39. This rule applies to financial guarantee agreements issued to benefit subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures. The parent company recognises financial guarantee agreements as provisions on the balance sheet when the company has an obligation that probably requires payment in order to be settled. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 23 Financial statements Note 2 – Operating segments Group-wide 2013 SEKm Sweden Finland International & eliminations Group Revenue from external clients 877.8 206.1 112.5 -1.3 1,195.1 Revenue from other segments 7.7 2.0 29.8 -39.5 – Segment EBITDA 55.7 18.3 12.1 0.4 86.4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses -9.9 -10.6 -1.4 -4.4 -26.2 Segment EBIT 45.8 7.7 10.7 -4.0 60.2 Financial items -6.9 Profit/loss before tax 53.3 Non-current assets1) 652.6 114.6 19.8 73.7 860.7 Number of employees 776 244 229 18 1,267 1) Of which Sweden SEK 687.5 million, Finland SEK 114.6 million and other countries SEK 58.6 million. Relates to intangible non-current assets and property, plant and equipment. Group-wide includes EBIT for the parent company of SEK -5.6 million, of which restructuring cost SEK 0 million. Group-wide 2012 SEKm Sweden Finland International & eliminations Group Revenue from external clients 1,022.8 200.4 117.9 -2.0 1,339.2 Revenue from other segments 11.3 2.7 31.7 -45.7 – Segment EBITDA 54.2 -2.6 -7.9 -13.4 30.2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses -10.8 -12.3 -2.2 -4.6 -29.8 Capital gain/loss disposal of subsidiary – – – -11.8 -11.8 Segment EBIT 43.4 -14.9 -10.1 -29.8 -11.4 Financial items -16.4 Profit/loss before tax -27.8 Non-current assets1) 597.8 115.1 15.9 139.4 868.2 Number of employees 833 261 217 24 1,335 1) Of which Sweden SEK 698.9 million, Finland SEK 115.1 million and other countries SEK 54.2 million. Relates to intangible non-current assets and property, plant and equipment. Group-wide includes EBIT for the parent company of SEK -14.9 million, of which restructuring cost SEK -0.6 million. The management approach is used to divide group operations into operating parts of Cybercom and are reported in the International segment. Comparison segments based on the parts of the operations that group management follows periods have been restated using the new segmentation. up. The group’s operations are organised in such a way that group management Segment revenues consist essentially of consulting assignments and are similar. follows up the operating profit/loss generated by the group’s segments. Each The segments’ operating profit/loss includes directly attributable items as operating segment has a manager who is in charge of day to day operations and well as items that can be allocated to the segments in a reasonable and reliable who regularly reports the outcome of the operating segment’s performance to way. Group management does not follow up assets and liabilities on operating group management. segment level. Non-current assets include intangible assets and property, plant Segment Sweden refers to the operations in Sweden, which in 2012 also and equipment. ­included the Indian operations. Segment Finland refers to the operations in Market prices determine group transfer pricing between the group’s operating Finland and the now discontinued operations in Romania. Segment International segments. refers to the operations in Denmark, India, Poland and Singapore/Dubai, and Revenue from external clients was allocated to the country from which the sales up to April 2012 also the sold operations in China. The operations in India were occurred. In 2013, revenue was generated from one major client totalling SEK 153.6 previously integrated with the Swedish operations, but now also supply to other million (145.3), which is recognised in the Sweden (Sweden) operating segment. 24 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 3 – Employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration to senior executives 2013 2012 Senior executives Senior executives (11 individuals plus Other (11 individuals plus Other Salaries and other remuneration, group the board) employees the board)1) employees Salaries and other remuneration 19,142 544,323 15,135 613,131 (of which variable) 1,603 – – – Pension costs 3,723 61,003 2,500 70,471 Other social security costs 5,208 131,068 4,199 155,629 Total 28,073 736,394 21,834 839,231 1) Of which 5 individuals part of year. Basic salary, Other social 2013 board fee Variable pay1) Pension costs security costs Total CEO Niklas Flyborg 3,600 1,188 1,260 1,437 7,485 Other senior executives 4,920 194 1,232 1,845 8,191 Board chairman Hampus Ericsson 200 – – 63 263 Board member Nicolas Hassbjer 250 – – 79 329 Board member Jan-Erik Karlsson 200 – – 62 262 Board member Thomas Landberg 275 – – 86 361 Board member Dag Sundman 200 – – 63 263 Total senior executives 9,645 1,382 2,492 3,635 17,154 Other employees 4,676 – 959 1,984 7,619 Total parent company 14,321 1,382 3,451 5,619 24,773 1) Of which SEK 900 thousand relates to variable pay for 2012. Basic salary, Other social 2012 board fee Variable pay Pension costs security costs Total CEO Niklas Flyborg, part of year 3,000 – 1,042 1,196 5,238 Former acting CEO Petteri Puhakka, part of year 641 – 131 177 949 Other senior executives (4 individuals, of which 2 part of year) 3,695 – 466 1,274 5,435 Board chairman Hampus Ericsson 433 – – 136 569 Former board chairman Jon Risfelt, part of year 250 – – 79 329 Board member Margareta Alestig Johnson 250 – – 79 329 Board member Jan-Erik Karlsson 200 – – 63 263 Board member Thomas Landberg 275 – – 86 361 Board member Dag Sundman 200 – 63 263 Total senior executives 8,944 – 1,639 3,152 13,735 Other employees 5,834 – 1,061 3,088 9,983 Total parent company 14,778 – 2,700 6,240 23,718 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 25 Financial statements Note 3, continued REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES AT GROUP LEVEL ny the CEO is entitled to 6 months’ severance pay. If termination takes place more Board than 24 months from the start of employment, the CEO is entitled to 12 months’ According to a decision at the 2013 AGM, an annual fee is paid to the board severance pay. Other benefits comprise healthcare insurance. members of SEK 200 thousand. In addition an annual fee is paid to members of the audit committee, of SEK 75 thousand to the chairman and SEK 50 thousand Other senior executives to other members. No special fee is paid to members of other board committees. During 2013, the group management included the CFO, the head of commuEmployee representatives do not receive any director’s fees. There are no commitnications, the head of sales and the parent company head of HR and the heads ments for retirement benefits for external board members. of the five largest regions, as well as the head of blended delivery. Other senior executives were entitled to basic salary, variable pay, and other benefits. Variable CEO pay is based on operational targets and is a maximum of 30 percent of basic salCEO Niklas Flyborg ary, in accordance with the adopted guidelines. A contract has been entered into In accordance with adopted guidelines for 2013, the CEO has been entitled to with the head of sales whereby the variable pay may amount to a maximum of 50 basic salary, variable pay, and other benefits. Variable pay has a set limit correpercent of basic salary. For 2013, variable payments totalling SEK 703 thousand sponding to 50 percent of basic salary. The CEO has a pension agreement with a (0) were made. Contractual pension provisions are solely premium based. Other premium calculated at 35 percent of basic salary. Upon termination by the compabenefits comprise healthcare insurance. 2013 Of whom 2012 Of whom Average No. of employees Number men1) Number men1) Sweden 743 82% 853 81% Denmark 24 88% 33 91% Dubai 6 100% 2 100% Finland 229 89% 248 88% India 45 81% 58 88% China – – 42 – Poland 115 87% 87 86% Romania – – 9 – Singapore 18 91% 35 91% Group 1,180 84% 1,368 83% of whom in parent company (Sweden) 10 40% 11 36% 1) Percentage of men at year end. 2013 Of whom 2012 Of whom Senior executives No. on reporting date men1) No. on reporting date men1) Group Board members 5 100% 5 80% Other senior executives 11 64% 11 64% Parent company Board members 5 100% 5 80% Other senior executives 5 40% 5 40% 1) Percentage of men at year end. Note 4 – Auditing fees Note 5 – Other operating income and operating expenses Group Parent company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group Parent company Auditing within the 2013 2012 2013 2012 audit assignment Re-invoiced costs and KPMG 934 1,077 619 900 rental income 21,851 20,709 – – Other auditing firms 145 96 – – Foreign exchange gains 524 317 292 96 Auditing besides the Foreign exchange losses – – -225 -196 audit assignment Total 22,375 21,026 67 -100 KPMG 7 615 3 545 Other auditing firms – – – – The exchange differences refer to operating receivables and operating liabilities, Tax consultation respectively. KPMG 14 3 – – Other auditing firms 8 7 – – Other services KPMG 180 634 111 607 Other auditing firms – – – – Total 1,288 2,432 733 2,052 Fees related to the rights issue amount to SEK 0.1 million (0.5). 26 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 6 – Financial items Tax regarding items Group Parent company recognised in other comprehensive income Group 2013 2012 or directly in equity 2013 2012 2013 2012 Interest income 1,056 1,898 Tax effect of hedging currency risk in foreign Fair value profit derivatives 887 368 operations in other Foreign exchange gains – – comprehensive income – -619 – – Financial income 1,943 2,266 Tax effect of issue expenses in equity – 2,564 – 2,564 Interest expense on liabilities recognised at accrued cost -7,335 -16,329 Total – 1,945 0 2,564 Interest expense on liabilities carried at fair value -778 -366 Fair value loss derivatives -77 -76 Foreign exchange losses -657 -1,849 Difference between Group Parent company Financial costs -8,847 -18,620 tax in income stateFinancial items -6,904 -16,354 ment and tax based on the parent company’s tax rate 2013 2012 2013 2012 Profit/loss before tax 53,318 -27,773 -20,478 -26,032 Parent company 2013 2012 Tax per applicable rate -11,730 7,304 4,505 6,846 Interest income 4 111 Tax attributable to prior years -263 -21,466 -5 – Interest income, group companies 156 1,289 Effect of changed tax rate 369 -4,070 – -1,599 Foreign exchange gains 182 172 Tax at source on foreign Interest income and similar profit items 342 1,572 dividends -290 -686 -290 -686 Tax effect of nonInterest expense -25 -3,067 deductible costs -815 -4,423 -1,401 -1,784 Interest expense, group companies – -905 Tax effect of tax-exempt Foreign exchange losses -543 -716 revenue 648 50 4,186 1,277 Other finance costs -16 -450 Tax on standard interest, tax allocation reserves -40 -123 -17 -65 Interest expense and similar loss items -584 -5,138 Non-incurred prepaid tax – -837 – – Effect of foreign tax rates 310 -1,063 – – Profit/loss from interests in group companies Tax on year's profit/loss and joint venture 2013 2012 as per income statement -11,811 -25,314 6,978 3,989 Dividends 19,024 4,815 Tax rates Impairment losses – -56 The parent company’s applicable tax rate is 22 percent (26.3). The group’s effecTotal 19,024 4,759 tive tax rate is 22.2 percent (-90.9). Tax for 2012 was affected by non-recurring effects totalling SEK -25.6 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to changes in corporation tax rates in Sweden and correction of Note 7 – Appropriations deferred tax assets from previous years. Parent company 2013 2012 Change in excess depreciation/amortisation 396 82 Change in tax allocation reserve 5,798 5,191 Note 9 – Earnings per share Group contribution received 1 228 Group contribution paid -33,579 -19,827 Total -27,384 -14,326 Parent company 2013 2012 Share data, basic/diluted Earnings per share, SEK 0.23 -0.67 Equity per share, SEK 4.74 4.49 Note 8 – Taxes Number of shares at year's start 180,439,495 36,087,899 New share issues – 144,351,596 Number of shares at year's end 180,439,495 180,439,495 Group Parent company Average number of shares 180,439,495 79,383,831 2013 2012 2013 2012 Current tax -12,937 -10,185 -290 -686 Historical data relating to the average number of shares and earnings per share Tax attributable to prior have been recalculated in accordance with IAS 33 following the rights issue. The years -263 – -5 – recalculation effect arises since the subscription price was below the market price Deferred tax attributable to prior years 1,895 -21,466 – – on the date the subscription rights were separated. Deferred tax regarding temporary differences 1,110 -2,604 193 73 Deferred tax regarding loss carry-forwards -1,616 8,941 7,080 4,602 Total -11,811 -25,314 6,978 3,989 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 27 Financial statements Note 10 – Goodwill Note 11 – Other intangible non-current assets Group Parent company Own Goodwill 2013 2012 2013 2012 developed Client Group 2013 software relationships Trademarks Patents Opening cost of acquisition 1,140,691 1,154,996 63,051 63,051 Opening cost 3,198 124,222 29,842 1,334 Liquidated company -6,785 – – – Year’s capitalised costs 1,730 – – – Translation differences 13,772 -14,305 – – Translation differences 180 2,565 979 – Closing accumulated Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 1,147,678 1 140,691 63,051 63,051 cost 5,108 126,787 30,821 1,334 Opening amortisation/ Opening amortisation and impairment loss -355,500 -366,182 -27,847 -21,542 impairment -3,198 -87,819 -28,909 -1,334 Year's amortisation – – -6,305 -6,305 Year's amortisation – -8,091 -400 – Liquidated company 6,785 – – – Translation differences -121 -2,195 -979 – Translation differences -10,210 10,682 – – Closing accumulated amortisation and Closing accumulated impairment -3,319 -98,105 -30,288 -1,334 amortisation/impairment loss -358,925 -355,500 -34,152 -27,847 Carrying amount 1,789 28,682 533 0 Carrying amount 788,753 785,191 28,899 35,204 Own Impairment testing developed Client Group goodwill is tested for impairment once a year or whenever there are signs Group 2012 software relationships Trademarks Patents of a decline in value. This occurs by calculating the recoverable amount of cash Opening cost of generating units (CGUs), to which goodwill is allocated, by calculating the value acquisition 4,538 126,800 30,826 1,334 in use. Future cash flows are discounted when calculating the value in use. The Sales and retirement next section describes the assumptions and judgements made in conjunction with of assets -1,218 – – – Translation differences -122 -2,578 -984 – impairment testing. Closing accumulated The cash flow forecast and impairment test are made using detailed assumptions cost of acquisition 3,198 124,222 29,842 1,334 for the next five years for each cash generating unit, based on budgets and longOpening amortisation and term targets adopted by the board. The number of forecast periods is assumed to impairment -3,449 -81,771 -29,493 -1,307 be infinite, and annual growth rates in cash flows that occur after five years were Year’s amortisation -676 -8,106 -400 -27 estimated at 2 percent (2). Sales and retirement of Future performance was calculated based on anticipated growth in sales and assets 812 – – – Translation differences 115 2,058 984 – earnings in the current units. This is based on Cybercom’s perception of volume Closing accumulated growth and the trend of both hourly rates and project revenues, as well as its own amortisation and competitiveness, which, in turn, is based in part on external analyses by independent impairment -3,198 -87,819 -28,909 -1,334 research institutes combined with Cybercom’s historical performance, market strateCarrying amount 0 36,403 933 0 gies, changes in client mix, and the like. Since the operation’s cash flows are forecasted without accounting for financial items, the interest rate applied to calculate the discounting of cash flows must reflect Group Parent company a weighted capital cost for equity and loan financing, i.e., the weighted average cost Licence rights 2013 2012 2013 2012 of capital (WACC). Opening cost The WACC totals to 10.5 percent (9.3) after tax, which was the discount rate of acquisition 44,019 40,451 23,143 20,933 used in the estimates. The discount rate before tax is 12.8 percent (11.5). The Purchases 357 4,803 25 2,210 same WACC has been used for all cash-generating units since there is deemed to Sales and retirement of assets -1,668 -394 – – be an immaterial difference though application of different percentage rates. Through disposal of The recoverable amount of all CGUs exceeds their carrying amount and subsidiaries – -191 – – ­Cybercom’s assessment is that realistic changes in underlying assumptions would Translation differences 665 -650 – – not lead to any need for impairment. Sensitivity analysis for Cybercom Sweden, Closing accumulated which represents the major part of the company’s surplus values, shows that the cost of acquisition 43,373 44,019 23,168 23,143 recoverable amount is in line with the carrying amount with a WACC after tax of less Opening amortisation -24,686 -20,188 -9,176 -5,150 than the used with 1,6%-pts, a negative deviation regarding growth assumptions Year’s amortisation -5,542 -5,402 -3,832 -4,026 with 2%-pts, that is zero growth, or a negative deviation from the group’s long-term Sales and retirement of assets 1,668 237 – – profitability target of 2.4 percentage points. Through disposal of No allowance is made in the sensitivity analysis for those measures that the comsubsidiaries – 188 – – pany could take in terms of results to balance out a negative deviation in any of the Translation differences -516 479 – – above parameters. This means that the analysis should be interpreted with caution. Closing accumulated amortisation -29,076 -24,686 -13,008 -9,176 Goodwill distribution by CGU 2013 2012 Carrying amount 14,297 19,333 10,160 13,967 Cybercom Sweden 652,807 652,807 Client relationships with a carrying amount of SEK 9.9 million (11.9) have a remaining Cybercom Singapore 38,283 38,283 amortisation period of 4 years (5) and client relationships with a carrying amount of Cybercom Denmark 11,410 10,997 SEK 18.8 million (24.5) have a remaining amortisation period of 3 years (4). Cybercom Finland 86,253 83,104 Total 788,753 785,191 28 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 12 – Property, plant and equipment Note 13 – Non-current financial assets Group Parent company Group 2013 2012 Equipment 2013 2012 2013 2012 Opening cost of acquisition 1,604 849 Opening cost Purchases – 872 of acquisition 115,484 115,806 2,719 2,707 Sales/amortisation -936 -107 Purchases 12,576 11,453 14 53 Translation differences -2 -10 Sales and retirement of assets -3,373 -3,756 – -41 Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 666 1,604 Through disposal Opening impairment loss -579 -666 of subsidiaries – -4,930 – – Year’s impairment losses -6 87 Re-classification – -37 – – Closing accumulated impairment losses -585 -579 Translation differences 2,703 -3,052 – – Carrying amount 81 1,025 Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 127,390 115,484 2,733 2,719 Opening depreciation -91,478 -86,096 -2,136 -1,955 Year's depreciation -11,809 -14,515 -161 -188 Parent company 2013 2012 Sales and retirement of Interests in group companies assets 2,726 2,590 – 7 Opening cost of acquisition 1,141,338 1,134,925 Through disposal of Acquired group companies 650,000 – subsidiaries – 4,229 – – Disposal of subsidiaries -450,360 – Translation differences -2,247 2,314 – – Shareholder contribution, net – 6,413 Closing accumulated cost of acquisition -102,808 -91,478 -2,297 -2,136 Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 1,340,978 1,141,338 Carrying amount 24,582 24,006 436 583 Opening impairment loss -463,352 -463,296 Year's impairment loss – -56 The table for equipment includes non-current assets of SEK 6.2 million (6.5) classiClosing accumulated impairment loss -463,352 -463,352 fied as finance leases. See also Note 27 Leasing. Book value interests in group companies 877,626 677,986 Book value interests in joint ventures 667 667 Group Financial investments – 849 Buildings 2013 2012 Carrying amount 878,293 679,502 Opening cost of acquisition 2,482 2,741 Translation differences -291 -259 In 2013, no impairment was necessary. Changes in interests in group companies Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 2,191 2,482 relate to the mergers undertaken in the group in 2013. In 2012, an impairment Opening depreciation -132 -92 loss of SEK 56 thousand was recognised related to a shareholder contribution to Year's depreciation -47 -53 a non-operating subsidiary. In calculating the value in use of assets, a discounting Translation differences 18 13 Closing accumulated depreciation -161 -132 rate of 10.5 (9.3) percent after tax (12.8 (11.5) percent before tax) was used. Carrying amount 2,030 2,350 Capital and votes, % No. of interests Carrying amount Corporate Registered Subsidiaries included in group identity No. office 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Cybercom Consulting AB2) 556497-0787 Stockholm – 100 – 1,001 – 450,120 Cybercom Sweden AB 556254-0673 Stockholm 100 100 20,000,000 – 650,000 – Cybercom do Brazil 15.191.686/0001-12 Brazil 0.1 0.1 – – – – Cybercom Romania Holding AB2) 556788-5909 Stockholm – 100 – – – – Cybercom Romania S.R.L1) 19217664 Romania – 100 – – – – Cybercom Group Stockholm AB 556551-4493 Stockholm 100 100 1,000 1,000 120 120 Cybercom IS/IT Services AB 556544-6225 Stockholm 100 100 – 1,000 – 120 Cybercom Poland Sp. Z o.o 0000036076 Poland 100 100 – – – – Cybercom Nord AB2) 556554-8673 Stockholm – 100 – 1,000 – 120 Cyber Com Consulting A/S 25795938 Denmark 100 100 5,549 5,549 14,806 14,806 Cybercom Netcom Consultants AB 556359-1097 Stockholm 100 100 5,000 5,000 42,787 42,787 Cybercom Singapore PTE Ltd 199707629N Singapore 100 100 – – – – Cybercom do Brazil 15.191.686/0001-12 Brazil 99.9 99.9 – – – – Cybercom Finland Oy 1516651-3 Finland 100 100 1,371,320 1,371,320 169,912 169,912 Carrying amount in parent company 877,626 677,986 1) Companies liquidated in 2013. 2) Companies merged in 2013. Cybercom Consulting AB with Cybercom Sweden AB, and Cybercom Romania Holding AB and Cybercom Nord AB with Cybercom Group Stockholm AB. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 29 Financial statements Note 14 – Interests in joint venture Note 16 – Other receivables The group has a 49.5 percent (49.5) holding in a joint venture in India called Group Parent company Cybercom Datamatics Information Solutions Ltd, corporate identity number Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 U72900MH2000PTC123469, with its registered office in Mumbai. The following Time worked but amounts are included in the consolidated income statement and balance sheet not invoiced 16,045 48,013 – – and constitute the group’s 49.5 percent (49.5) share in the assets, liabilities, Other items 1,613 4,171 169 28 income, and costs of this joint venture. Total 17,658 52,184 169 28 Interests in joint venture 2013 2012 Assets Non-current assets 2,277 3,166 Note 17 – Prepayments Current assets 11,178 12,563 13,455 15,729 Group Parent company Liabilities Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Non-current liabilities 1,095 2,707 Prepaid rents 598 645 – 10 1,095 2,707 Prepaid leasing fees 215 237 – – Net assets 12,360 13,022 Prepaid insurance premiums 3,494 6,699 355 69 Income 9,130 11,682 Prepaid services and fees 3,016 1,105 16 112 Expenses -6,014 -8,628 Prepaid interest expense 1,715 278 – – Year's profit 3,116 3,054 Prepaid licence fees 2,546 3,097 203 400 The current liabilities include a bank loan of SEK 481 thousand (1,695) for which Prepaid data communication 2,387 504 – – the joint venture company’s long-term investments and operating assets are Other items 2,141 8,053 112 347 pledged as collateral. No contingent liabilities arise from the group’s interest in this joint venture and Total 16,112 20,618 686 938 the joint venture has no contingent liabilities. Note 15 – Accounts receivable Note 18 – Equity Group Parent company On December 31, 2013 the registered share capital stood at 180,439,495 shares 2013 2012 2013 2012 (180,439,495). The shares’ par value is 0.25 (0.25). All shares are fully paid. Accounts receivable 289,999 367,020 – – The translation reserve contains all exchange differences that arise in translaBad debts tion of financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in a currency other than Swedish kronor, which is the currency Opening balance -2,234 -19,154 – – in which the group’s financial statements are presented. The translation reserve Reversal of previously recognised impairment also contains exchange differences arising in revaluation of liabilities recognised as losses 1,293 4,915 – – hedging instruments of a net investment in a foreign operation. Actual bad debt losses 928 8,378 – – Through disposal of Group subsidiaries – 4,803 – – Translation reserve in equity 2013 2012 Year's impairment losses -750 -1,372 – – Opening balance -5,889 522 Translation differences 0 196 – – Hedging currency risk in foreign operations – 2,353 Closing balance -763 -2,234 – – Tax effect of hedging currency risk in foreign operations – -619 Accounts receivable, net 289,236 364,786 – – Translation differences reclassified as profit or loss -1,776 – Year's change in translation reserve 5,609 -8,145 Closing balance -2,056 -5,889 30 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 19 – Deferred tax Note 20 – Other non-current liabilities Deferred Group Parent company Group Parent company tax assets Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Non-deductible Bank loans 65,000 105,000 – – depreciation of equipment 1,107 2,199 – – Financial leases 3,865 4,106 – – Endowment insurance and employer's contribution 1,214 989 1,214 989 Liability to former shareholders of auSystems 1,107 1,982 – – Provisions 1,111 3,704 – 23 Goodwill from net assets Other 685 1,725 686 1,535 acquisition 24 142 – – Total 70,657 112,813 686 1,535 Loss carry-forwards 15,206 16,912 14,238 7,167 Other 904 825 – – The bank loans mature up until 2015 and are subject to 3 months’ interest with Total deferred tax assets 19,566 24,771 15,452 8,179 interest based on STIBOR 3M. Deferred tax liabilities Accumulated excess amortisation -212 -487 – – Tax allocation reserves -1,064 -5,033 – – Note 21 – Overdraft facility Trademarks -118 -205 – – Client relationships -6,086 -8,260 – – Total deferred tax Cybercom has an agreed overdraft facility of SEK 75 million (100), of which none liabilities -7,480 -13,985 – – was utilised at December 31, 2013 (previous year SEK 13.2 million). Deferred tax, net 12,086 10,786 15,452 8,179 Temporary differences exist in those cases where the carrying amounts and tax bases differ for assets or liabilities. Temporary differences regarding the items Note 22 – Restructuring provision above resulted in deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets. Tax for 2012 is affected by non-recurring effects totalling SEK -25.6 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to changes in corporation tax rates Change in restructurGroup Parent company in Sweden and correction of deferred tax assets from previous years. The changes ing provision 2013 2012 2013 2012 have been recognised in the year’s comprehensive income, with the exception of Carrying amount at year’s tax on issue costs, which are recognised in equity, see Note 8. start 29,417 8,055 634 3,388 Provisions made during the year – 33,397 – 634 Amounts on the baGroup Parent company Amounts used during lance sheet include Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 the year -28,448 -10,261 -634 -3,054 Deferred tax assets used Unutilised amounts after 1 year 1,214 2,096 1,214 990 reversed during the year – -1,632 – -334 Deferred tax liabilities Translation differences 24 -142 – – payable after 1 year -5,250 -7,506 – – Total carrying amount at year end 993 29,417 – 634 Change in deferred Group Parent company A cost-cutting programme was implemented in 2012, leading to provisions of SEK tax assets, net Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 28.4 million and closure of the operations in Romania that resulted in a provision of Opening balance, net 10,786 25,356 8,179 940 SEK 5.0 million. Payments amounted to SEK 28.4 million (10.3) for the full-year. The Through disposal of anticipated payments for 2014 are SEK 1 million. subsidiaries – -1,235 – – Change in year’s comprehensive income 1,389 -15,748 7,273 4,675 Change directly against Note 23 – Other current liabilities equity – 2,564 – 2,564 Translation differences -89 -151 – – Closing balance, net 12,086 10,786 15,452 8,179 Group Parent company Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Bank loans 40,481 21,695 – – Loss carry-forwards Factoring – 30,190 – – Deferred tax assets for loss carry-forwards are recognised to the extent that it is likely these can be utilised against taxable revenues. The years in which these loss Derivatives 584 1,386 – – carry-forwards expire is shown below. Financial leases 2,338 2,392 – – VAT, tax at source 25,141 30,939 1,064 1,110 Group Parent company Other current liabilities 16,012 16,807 490 612 Expiration for Loss carryTax Loss carryTax Total 84,556 103,409 1,554 1,722 loss carry-forwards forward effect forward effect Unlimited useful life 70,381 15,206 64,830 14,263 The portion of the bank loan that matures within 12 months is subject to 3 months’ Total 70,381 15,206 64,830 14,263 interest with interest based on STIBOR 3M. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 31 Financial statements Note 24 – Accrued expenses Financial assets and and deferred income liabilities Loan receivmeasured Total carryables and at fair value ing amount Group Parent company Group accounts Other through and fair Dec 31, 2012 receivable liabilities profit or loss value Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Deposit rental contract, Accrued salaries 12,112 9,486 – – Note 13 49 – – 49 Accrued holiday pay 54,279 60,762 758 786 Financial investment, Accrued social security MCL 2, Note 13 – – 849 849 costs 26,103 29,913 850 820 Unlisted shares, MCL 3, Accrued interest expense 156 862 – – Note 13 – – 127 127 Accrued external services 22,666 18,948 439 1,814 Accounts receivable, Other items 7,921 10,911 856 987 Note 15 364,786 – – 364,786 Total 123,237 130,882 2,903 4,407 Time worked but not invoiced, Note 16 48,013 – – 48,013 Current investments, Note 31 8,109 – – 8,109 Note 25 – Financial assets and liabilities Cash and bank, Note 31 Total 12,230 433,187 – – 976 – 12,230 434,163 Non-current loans and Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. lease liabilities, Note 20 – 109,106 – 109,106 Current loans and lease Financial liabilities, Note 23 – 24,087 – 24,087 assets and liabilities Factoring, Note 23 – 30,190 – 30,190 Loan receivmeasured Total carryUtilised overdraft facility, ables and at fair value ing amount Note 21 – 13,161 – 13,161 Group accounts Other through and fair Accounts payable – 89,959 – 89,959 Dec 31, 2013 receivable liabilities profit or loss value Derivatives, MCL 2, Unlisted shares, MCL 3, Note 23 – – 1,386 1,386 Note 13 – – 81 81 Accrued interest expense, Accounts receivable, Note 24 – 862 – 862 Note 15 289,236 – – 289,236 Total – 267,365 1,386 268,751 Time worked but not invoiced, Note 16 16,045 – – 16,045 Measurement categories, levels (MCL) Current investments, The fair value of financial instruments is determined on the basis of three categories. Note 31 7,782 – – 7,782 Level 1: Prices quoted in an active market for the same instruments. Cash and bank, Note 31 15,883 – – 15,883 Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market data not included in level 1. Total 328,946 – 81 329,027 Level 3: Unobservable market data (inputs). Non-current loans and lease liabilities, Note 20 – 68,865 – 68,865 Establishing fair value Current loans and lease The next section summaries the main methods and assumptions used to establish liabilities, Note 23 – 42,819 – 42,819 the fair value of the financial instruments recognised. Accounts payable – 65,403 – 65,403 Derivatives, MCL 2, Non-current receivables, loans to employees and securities Note 23 – – 584 584 The fair value of unlisted financial assets is established by computing the future Accrued interest expense, cash flows. The measurement assessment takes account of the value in the event Note 24 – 156 – 156 of any completed transactions. Total – 177,243 584 177,827 Financial investments, derivatives The fair value of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps is based on the measurement made by the brokering credit institution. Accounts receivable and accounts payable For accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value. Interest bearing liabilities, loans The fair value of financial liabilities that are not derivatives is computed using future cash flows of capital amounts and interest discounted at the actual market interest rate on the reporting date. Interest bearing liabilities, leasing The fair value is based on the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market interest rate for similar leases. 32 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 26 – Risk exposure and risk management Cybercom is exposed to various kinds of financial risks through its operations. minimise the cost of financing the group. The aim is that the group will be able Financial risks mean fluctuations in the company’s profit or loss and cash flow to fulfil its financial commitments in economic high and low periods, without due to changes in exchange rates, interest rates, refinancing risks and credit risks. significant unforeseeable costs and without risking the group’s reputation. The board drew up the group’s finance policy for managing financial risks and the Group policy is to minimise the need for borrowing by using excess liquidity policy forms a framework of guidelines and rules. Responsibility for the group’s within the group through cash pools. The group previously made use of facfinancial transactions is managed centrally in the parent company. The overall toring in the form of invoice sales for certain large clients in Sweden. This was goal is to minimise adverse impact on the group’s results. phased out during 2012. Liquidity risks to the group are managed centrally in the parent company. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCING RISK Cybercom has an agreed overdraft facility of SEK 75 million, of which none Liquidity risk is the risk of the group having problems fulfilling its obligations that was utilised at December 31, 2013 (13.2). Cybercom’s had financial liabilities of are linked to financial liabilities. The group has rolling 26 week liquidity planning SEK 177.8 million (268.8) at year end and the table below shows the maturity that covers all group units in addition to the annual liquidity budget. This planning structure. Future amortisation and interest payments on the debt liability are is updated weekly. Liquidity planning is used to manage the liquidity risk and to calculated on the basis of exchange and interest rates on the reporting date. Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Original Group currency Total 0–1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years Total 0–1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years Bank loans SEK 108,673 42,558 66,115 – 134,127 23,818 110,309 – Bank loans INR 481 481 – – 1,695 1,695 – – Derivatives SEK 584 584 – – 958 634 324 – Bank overdraft SEK – – – – 13,161 13,161 – – Factoring SEK – – – – 30,190 30,190 – – Accounts payable See table below 65,403 65,403 – – 89,959 89,959 – – Financial lease liabilities EUR/PLN 6,572 2,555 4,017 – 7,165 2,617 4,548 – Total 181,713 111,581 70,132 – 277,255 162,074 115,181 – Achievement of certain key figures, called covenants, is a prerequisite for loan Currency risk financing. The key figures are based on Cybercom’s profit or loss, net financial The risk of fair values and cash flows of financial instruments fluctuating when items and debt/equity ratio. Cybercom continually analyses these key figures. the values of foreign currencies change is called currency risk. Cybercom is exThe company meets the requirements of the covenants. posed to various currency risks. The main exposure occurs in the group’s sales and purchases in foreign currencies. These currency risks comprise the risk of fluctuaMARKET RISK tions in the value of accounts receivable and accounts payable, and the currency Market risk is the risk that the fair value of, or future cash flows from, a financial risk of expected and contracted payment flows. However, currency hedging takes instrument will vary due to changes in the market price. IFRS defines three types place only to a very limited extent. These risks are called transaction exposure. of market risks: currency risk, interest rate risk, and other price risks. Interest rate Cybercom’s policy is to only hedge existing and well-known currency flows, prinand currency risks are the market risks that affect the group most. cipally certain client contracts. Cybercom does not hedge any forecasted currency flows. Cybercom always strives wherever possible to match revenue and expenses Interest rate risk in the same currency. Interest rate risk is the risk of the value of financial instruments varying due to Translation of assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries to the parent comchanged market interest rates. Interest rate risk can lead to changed cash flows. pany’s functional currency also involves currency risks, known as translation exThe fixed interest term is a significant factor that affects interest rate risk. Threeposure. Hedge accounting is used in the accounts when the prerequisites for this month interest applies to Cybercom’s debt financing. To hedge the uncertainty have been fulfilled. The group’s income statement includes exchange differences of highly probable predicted interest rate flows regarding borrowing at variable of SEK -0.1 million (0.3) in operating profit or loss and exchange differences of rates of interest, Cybercom uses interest rate swaps to some extent for which it SEK -0.7 million (-1.8) in financial items. receives interest at variable rates and pays fixed rate interest for the duration of the loan. On December 31, 2013, SEK 30 million (50) of the loan was hedged. Transaction exposure A 100 basis-point change in interest on the reporting date would, based on Cybercom’s transaction exposure was distributed among these currencies on the the above table and before taking into account interest-rate swaps, impact the reporting date, amounts in SEK thousand, revaluated to the exchange rate on the group’s future profit or loss and equity by SEK 1.0 million (1.7), and after taking reporting date. into account interest-rate swaps by SEK 0.8 million (1.3). The sensitivity analysis assumes that all other factors (such as exchange rates) remain unchanged. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 33 Financial statements Note 26, continued Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Accounts Other Accounts Other Accounts Other Accounts Other Currency receivable receivables payable liabilities Total receivable receivables payable liabilities Total SEK 233,096 13,109 -54,791 -135,294 56,120 311,498 42,438 -75,716 -227,441 50,779 CHF 92 – – – 92 547 811 – – 1,358 DKK 8,519 – -1,477 -727 6,314 6,787 0 -1,074 -286 5,427 EUR 31,940 2,295 -6,357 -1,679 26,199 28,249 1,505 -9,970 -863 18,921 GBP – – -25 -7 -31 – – – – – INR – – -9 -481 -490 – – -8 -1,695 -1,703 NOK 110 192 – -9 293 304 286 – – 590 PLN 3,298 24 -465 -32 2,824 1,329 72 -638 – 763 SGD – – -104 – -104 77 – -140 – -63 USD 12,181 450 -2,175 -614 9,842 15,995 1,630 -2,413 -40 15,172 Total 289,236 16,069 -65,403 -138,843 101,059 364,786 46,742 -89,959 -230,325 91,244 Sensitivity to transaction exposure Sensitivity to translation exposure Based on transaction exposure on December 31, 2013, and excluding any foreign Based on translation exposure on December 31, 2013, the group’s equity would exchange hedges, Cybercom’s profit or loss would have been affected by SEK 4.5 have been affected by SEK 21.8 million (21.7) if the Swedish krona had fluctuated million (4.0) if exchange rates against Swedish kronor had changed by 10 percent. by 10 percent against all those currencies to which Cybercom has translation exposure, including hedges but excluding any effects in equity as a result of transTranslation exposure lation of other items included in profit or loss for the year. Foreign net assets in the group are distributed among the following currencies. See also Note 1, Accounting policies, for information about hedge accounting. Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Original Net Hedged Net Net Hedged Net currency investment net investment exposure investment net investment exposure DKK 23,398 – 23,398 38,927 – 38,927 EUR 145,620 – 145,620 132,386 – 132,386 INR 12,359 – 12,359 13,021 – 13,021 PLN 10,155 – 10,155 9,606 – 9,606 RON – – – 1,154 – 1,154 USD 26,322 – 26,322 21,734 – 21,734 Total 217,854 – 217,854 216,828 – 216,828 CREDIT RISK The risk of Cybercom’s clients not fulfilling their obligations, i.e. Cybercom not Capital management receiving payment from clients, is a client credit risk. Historically, Cybercom has Cybercom defines its managed assets as the equity of the group. It is necessary had very low credit losses. The majority of the group’s clients are well reputed for Cybercom to have a robust financial position and strong liquidity. This provides companies and government agencies with high credit ratings. Cybercom’s policy the financial flexibility and independence required to operate and manage the is to check the creditworthiness of its clients by obtaining data on clients’ financial variations in the need for capital employed and benefit from business opportuniposition from a credit rating agency. But Cybercom does not produce credit ties. Cybercom’s capital structure and dividend policy are adopted by the board. classifications from this data. Cybercom has set rules for bad debt management, The management of capital structure aims to create a balance between equity, and impairment of past-due accounts receivable takes place after individual debt financing and liquidity so that Cybercom secures financing for the business assessment. at a reasonable capital cost. Cybercom aims to finance growth, normal investThe maximum credit risk exposure corresponds with the carrying amount. ments and distributions to shareholders by generating sufficient positive cash flow from operations. Ageing analysis, past due but not impaired receivables Dividend policy 2013 2012 Cybercom will pay a dividend to its shareholders of at least 30 percent of net Carrying Carrying profit, unless there are special considerations relating to the company’s financial amount amount situation or plans. The board proposes that the annual general meeting endorse Accounts receivable, not past due 248,793 312,225 no dividend for financial year 2013 (SEK 0 per share 2012). Past due 1–30 days 39,601 50,566 Past due 31–90 days 810 745 Debt policy Past due >90 days 32 1,250 Cybercom will have net debt over time, not exceeding 30 percent of equity. In Total 289,236 364,786 2013 net debt was 10 percent (19) of equity. Cybercom has no collateral at its disposal for past due accounts receivable. 34 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Note 27 – Leasing The nominal value of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases is distributed per this table. Group Parent company Group Parent company Operating leases 2013 2012 2013 2012 Operating leases 2013 2012 2013 2012 Payable within one year 34,306 35,537 14 41 Lease expenses 45,642 51,748 33 66 Payable after one year but Lease income from within five years 56,787 64,609 – 165 sub-leased items 1,266 3,080 – – Payable after five years 389 339 – 41 Total 91,482 100,485 14 247 Leasing contracts mainly comprise rental contracts for premises and a small number of office machines. Expiration of non-cancellable financial leases is shown in the table. 2013 2012 Minimum lease Carrying Financial leases, group payment Interest Principal amount Interest Principal Payable within one year 2,555 217 2,338 2,617 224 2,393 Payable after one year but within five years 4,017 154 3,865 4,548 436 4,105 Payable after five years – – – – – – Total 6,572 371 6,203 7,165 660 6,498 Group Financial leases 2013 2012 Variable charges included in the period’s profit or loss 238 517 Note 28 – Pledged assets and Note 29 – Related party transactions contingent liabilities Purchases and sales between group companies amounted to SEK 77.6 million Group Parent company (93.6) and mainly comprised services. Purchases and sales between group comPledged assets 2013 2012 2013 2012 panies and joint venture totalled SEK 8.8 million (11.4). JCE Group is Cybercom’s largest shareholder with a direct and indirect 42.1 percent (42.1) shareholding. In the form of pledged assets for own liabilities Sales totalling SEK 0.3 million (0.8) took place to Consafe Logistics, a company in and provisions the JCE group. Shares 824,770 617,033 650,000 450,120 Note 3 lists remuneration to senior executives. Floating charges 200,000 200,000 – – Account receivable – 30,190 – – Total pledged assets 1,024,770 847,223 650,000 450,120 Note 30 – Untaxed reserves The shares in Cybercom Sweden AB have been pledged as collateral for the obligations within existing loan agreements with Nordea. The group value of the Parent company pledge on December 31, 2013 was SEK 824.8 million. As contractually agreed, 2013 2012 the lenders are entitled to realise the pledge if grounds for cancellation arise Tax allocation reserve, taxation 2008 – 5,798 (event of default) and no agreement can be reached. The pledge can only be Tax allocation reserve, taxation 2010 4,048 4,048 realised if an event of default still exists when realisation takes place. In addition, Accumulated excess depreciation/amortisation 964 1,359 floating charges in Cybercom Sweden AB of SEK 200 million were pledged as Total 5,012 11,205 collateral for the loan agreement. At December 31, 2012, accounts receivable amounting to SEK 30.2 million were pledged as collateral for the obligations relating to invoice factoring in the Swedish operations. In 2013, this invoice factoring was terminated and there is no longer any pledge for this. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 35 Financial statements Note 31 – Cash flow statement Note 33 – Disposal of subsidiary Group Parent company In 2012, Cybercom divested the Chinese operations with 126 employees with Cash and a negative consideration of SEK 1.4 million, which resulted in a capital loss of cash equivalents Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 SEK 11.8 million. The transaction took place through a share transfer, whereby Current investments 7,782 8,109 – – the purchaser took over all assets, client contracts, employment agreements and Cash and bank 15,883 12,230 38,051 2,058 other obligations on June 6, 2012. The activities were included in Cybercom’s Cash and cash financial information until April 2012. equivalents 23,665 20,339 38,051 2,058 There were no disposals during 2013. Group Parent company Investing activities 2012 Interests Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Cash settled purchase price -1,367 Interest received 2,039 2,065 160 1,403 Sales expenses -2,866 Interest paid -8,896 -18,330 -41 -4,842 Settlement outstanding assets/liabilities -2,053 Interests, net -6,857 -16,265 119 -3,439 Total purchase price -6,286 Cash and cash equivalents in divested subsidiary -1,143 Effect on group’s cash and cash equivalents from disposal -7,429 Adjustments for Group Parent company items not included in cash flow Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Investing activities 2012 Depreciation, amortisation Intangible non-current assets 3 and impairment losses 26,199 29,857 10,298 10,514 Property, plant and equipment 701 Change in untaxed Deferred tax assets 1,235 reserves – – -6,194 -5,273 Total non-current assets 1,939 Unrealised exchange differences -739 -148 – – Current assets 3,793 Fair value derivatives -772 -390 – – Cash and cash equivalents 1,143 Group contribution – – 33,578 19,598 Total current assets 4,936 Impairment of shares – – – 56 Total assets 6,875 Capital gain 158 11,792 – – Non-current liabilities – Interest not paid/received -610 -1,761 – -418 Current liabilities -1,369 Provisions -28,448 21,504 -634 -2,754 Divested net assets 5,506 Total -4,212 60,854 37,048 21,723 Capital gain/loss 2012 Negative purchase price -1,367 Sales expenses -2,866 Note 32 – Acquisitions of subsidiaries Settlement outstanding assets/liabilities -2,053 Total purchase price -6,286 In 2007 Cybercom acquired auSystems in Sweden, Denmark and Poland from Divested net assets -5,506 Teleca with around 700 employees. In conjunction with the acquisition, an Capital gain/loss -11,792 additional purchase price of SEK 21,954 thousand was entered as a liability. The additional consideration refers to 50 percent of the tax effect for amortisation of goodwill arising from the purchase of net assets in one of the acquired companies. In 2013, Teleca’s portion of the tax effect was SEK 661 thousand (4,511), thus the corresponding part of the liability has been paid to Teleca. The remaining purchase price amounts to SEK 1.1 million. Investing activities 2013 2012 Purchase price settled in cash -661 -4,511 Effect of acquisition on group’s cash and cash equivalents -661 -4,511 36 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Assurance The Board of Directors and the CEO hereby certify that the annual acThe annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements provide counts were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting a fair presentation of the group and parent company’s financial position standards in Sweden, and that the consolidated financial statements and earnings. The directors’ report provides a fair presentation of the were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting group’s and parent company’s operations, financial position and earnStandards (IFRS) as defined in regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the Euings and describes significant risks and uncertainties facing the parent ropean Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application company and the companies included in the group. of international accounting standards. Stockholm, March 28, 2014 Hampus Ericsson Chairman of the Board Nicolas Hassbjer Jan-Erik Karlsson Board member Board member Thomas Landberg Dag Sundman Board member Board member Robin Hammarstedt Henrik Lundin Board member Board member employee representative employee representative Niklas Flyborg President and CEO Our audit report was issued on March 28, 2014 KPMG AB Helena Arvidsson Älgne Authorised Public Accountant Cybercom Annual Report 2013 37 Financial statements Independent auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Cybercom Group AB (publ), corporate identity Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of number 556544-6522 the group as of 31 December 2013 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Accounts Act. The director’s report is consistent with the other parts of Cybercom Group AB (publ) for the year 2013. The annual accounts the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. and consolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders version of this document on pages 1–37. adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Report on other legal and regulatory requirements The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the preparation In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with the accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordance company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors with International Financial Reporting Standards , as adopted by the and the CEO of Cybercom Group AB (publ) for the financial year 2013. EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the CEO determine is necessary to enable the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordwe comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to ance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed apconsolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. propriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined whether the An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and conAs a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addisolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s tion to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstateexamined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the ment of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Didue to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor rectors or the CEO is liable to the company. We also examined whether considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair any member of the Board of Directors or the CEO has, in any other way, presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, or the Articles of Association. but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the CEO, as Opinions well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit consolidated accounts. be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the directors’ We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO be appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. discharged from liability for the financial year. Opinions Stockholm, March 28, 2014 In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance KPMG AB with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2013 Helena Arvidsson Älgne and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then Authorised Public Accountant 38 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Cybercom was founded in 1995. The group’s parent company is Cybercom Group AB (publ) (“CyberGeneral meeting com”). Cybercom is a public company whose shares of shareholders were admitted to trading on the NASDAQ OMX Nomination committee External auditors Stockholm exchange in 1999. The board of directors of Cybercom hereby presents the corporate governBoard ance report for 2013 as required by Chapter 6, Section 6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Point Remuneration committee Audit committee 10 of the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. CEO and Group Management This corporate governance report was adopted by the board in March 2014 and is an account of how corporate governance has been conductGroup functions ed at Cybercom during the financial year 2013. The auditor’s opinion on Finance, Legal, Sales, HR, IS/IT, Subsidiaries IR & Communications the corporate governance report is included on page 47. The corporate governance report does not form part of the directors’ report. Principles of corporate governance October 1, 2012. The articles of association do not contain any specific In addition to the principles of corporate governance imposed by law or provisions on the appointment and dismissal of board members or on regulation, Cybercom has since 2008 applied the Swedish Code of Coramendments to the articles. porate Governance (the “Code”), (see Swedish Corporate Governance Board website www.bolagsstyrning.se). As an issuer of shares admitted General meeting of shareholders to trading on the stock exchange, Cybercom complies with NASDAQ The general meeting of shareholders is the company’s supreme governOMX’s Rule Book for Issuers (see NASDAQ OMX’s website www. ing body. It is at the meeting that shareholders have the opportunity to nasdaqomxnordic.com). The internal regulations for the company’s govexercise their influence. A number of matters are reserved, in accordernance consist of the articles of association, the board’s rules (including ance with the Swedish Companies Act, for the general meeting to deinstructions for the board committees), CEO instructions, instructions cide, such as adoption of the income statement and the balance sheet, for financial reporting and other policies and guidelines. distribution of profit, discharge of liability, election of board members Cybercom complies with the Code with the exception of point 7.3 and the appointment of auditors. since the company’s audit committee comprises two and not three During the year the board may convene extraordinary general meetboard members. An audit committee comprising two board members ings. This happens for example if decisions must be taken in matters has been deemed to be adequate with regard to the company’s size and that can only be decided by a general meeting and it is not appropriate the activities conducted. to wait until the next AGM. Shareholders wishing to attend a general meeting must be registered Shareholders as shareholders in the transcript or other copy of the entire share regisPer December 31, 2013 the company had 4,272 shareholders. ter, according to ownership status, five weekdays before the meeting, and notify the company of their intent to participate not later than on Major share holdings the date specified in the notice to the general meeting. This day may not One shareholder in Cybercom has direct or indirect share holdings reprebe a Sunday, public holiday, Saturday, Midsummer Eve, Christmas Eve or senting at least one tenth of the voting rights for all shares in the company, New Year’s Eve and must not be earlier than the fifth weekday before JCE Group, which at December 31, 2013 held 42.1 percent of the shares. the meeting. Voting rights Annual general meeting Cybercom’s articles of association do not contain any limitations regardCybercom held its 2013 AGM on May 7 at Lindhagensgatan 126, ing how many votes each shareholder may cast at a general meeting. Stockholm. Fifteen shareholders, representing almost 53 percent of votes and capital, attended the meeting. The chairman of the board, all Articles of association board members, the chief executive officer and the company’s auditors The current articles of association (see company’s website www. were present as required by the Code. The chairman of the nomination cybercom.com) were adopted at the extraordinary general meeting of committee represented the nominations committee. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 39 Corporate governance report The AGM resolved to adopt the income statement and balance sheet for Board of directors 2012, profit distribution, and discharged the CEO and the board from liability for the financial year. The annual general meeting resolved to Board composition amend the articles of association to modernise and update the compaUntil the 2013 AGM, the board consisted of Margareta Alestig Johnson, ny’s business to ensure that all activities of the company are included. Jan-Erik Karlsson, Thomas Landberg, Dag Sundman and Hampus The AGM elected board members and appointed the nomination Ericsson, chairman. The 2013 AGM re-elected all the board members, committee. with the exception of Margareta Alestig Johnson, who had declined The 2014 AGM will be held at the corporate headquarters, Lindhare-election. Nicolas Hassbjer was elected as a new board member. gensgatan 126, Stockholm, Sweden on May 7. Hampus Ericsson was re-elected as chairman of the board. Authorisation Schedule for ordinary board meetings There are currently no authorisations issued by the meeting of shareholders for the board to resolve that the company should issue new February Year-end report shares or acquire treasury shares. Corporate governance meeting – Agenda and notice of AGM, corporate governance report, annual report, review of insurance March and pensions Nomination committee May Interim report first quarter The AGM appoints the nomination committee and decides what tasks Constituent board meeting, decisions on the board’s work schedule, instructions to the CEO, and instructions for financial the committee will complete for the next AGM. reporting, board’s annual plan, and signatories Until the 2013 AGM, the nomination committee consisted of Ulf July Interim report second quarter Gillberg (JCE Group AB), Evert Carlsson (Swedbank Robur Fonder), September Strategy meeting, financial targets, instructions for budgeting Henrik Didner (Didner & Gerge Fonder) as representatives of Cybercom’s October Interim report third quarter three largest shareholders, and John Örtengren, as representative of December Budget meeting, business plan minority shareholders, and Hampus Ericsson as chairman of the board, but without voting rights on the nomination committee. The chairman of the nomination committee is Ulf Gillberg. Board independence In accordance with the decision of the AGM, the chairman of the The opinion of the nomination committee, which is shared by the board, nomination committee should be the board member who represents with regard to the independence of the board members in relation to the largest shareholder in terms of votes, unless the members of the the company, the company’s management and shareholders is shown nomination committee decide otherwise. in the table on page 41. Accordingly, Cybercom fulfils the applicable requirements regarding board members’ independence of the company, Auditors the management and the company’s major shareholders. The auditing firm appointed by the 2013 AGM for a period of one year is KPMG AB. KPMG appointed authorised public accountant Åsa Board work Wirén Linder as head auditor. On September 19, 2013 replaced KPMG The board’s work is conducted based on the requirements of the Swedauthorised public accountant Åsa Wirén Linder with authorised public ish Companies Act, the Code and other rules and regulations applicable accountant Helena Arvidsson Älgne. A new appointment of auditing to the company. The board works according to annually adopted rules firm will take place at the 2014 AGM. The auditors are responsible, on of procedure and an annual schedule. behalf of the shareholders, for auditing the company’s annual report The company’s CEO and CFO participate in board meetings. The and accounting records, as well as the administration of the company board secretary is the company’s general counsel. Other individuals by the board and CEO. The auditor reports regularly to the board and to from the executive team and group employees participate in board the AGM. Auditing fees are presented in Note 4. meetings to present specific issues as needed. In 2013 the board met on 14 occasions in addition to the constituent meeting following the AGM (including once per capsulam). During the year the board has focused primarily on the company’s strategy, business plan and budget, the company’s financing, challenges in the telecom sector, internal controls and project management, measures to improve the rate of invoicing and review of large client tenders. The board has met with the auditor without the presence of the CEO or other executive team members. External evaluation of the board’s and the CEO’s work in 2013 has been achieved through a systematic and structured process which aimed to obtain a sound basis for the board’s own development work. The board addressed the evaluation of CEO performance with no executive team members in attendance. The nomination committee has been informed of the results. 40 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report The board monitors management performance through monthly Audit committee reports which include reports of financial results, key performance indiThe audit committee comprises Nicolas Hassbjer and Thomas Landberg, cators, development of priority activities and so on. The board has also chairman. at several meetings received more detailed information on major change In 2013, the audit committee held five minuted meetings. Meetings initiatives and various business units within the group. bring together the company’s CFO, who also serves as the audit comThe CEO presents an activity report at ordinary board meetings. A mittee’s secretary, and the group accounting manager. The company’s representative of a business area, region or group function is invited to auditor attended all audit committee meetings. the meetings to present their operations. The board holds briefings with The committee has reviewed all interim reports and the annual report the auditor to address reports from the auditor. and all risk reports from the company’s auditor. The committee has also focused on impairment testing of goodwill, issues regarding banking Board work in committees agreements, the company’s payment terms and working capital, finanThe board has two committees: the audit committee and the remuneracial policies and financial governance. tion committee. The committees’ work is governed by the board’s rules of procedure. Remuneration committee The board committees deal with the issues that fall within their The remuneration committee comprises Hampus Ericsson and Jan-Erik respective area, and submit reports and recommendations that form Karlsson, chairman. The meetings are attended by the CEO and the the basis for the board’s decisions. The committees have some decigroup head of HR, who also acts as the remuneration committee’s secsion-making mandate within the framework of the board’s directives. retary. During the year the committee has dealt with issues concerning Minutes of meetings of the committees are sent to the board. remuneration to senior executives and “talent management”. In 2013, the remuneration committee held three minuted meetings. Attendance by board members and committee members during the year is shown in the table below. RemuAudit neration CommitBoard atcommittee committee Fees No. of shares Name Elected Independent Position tees tendance attendance attendance SEKk1) in Cybercom Margareta Alestig 2010 No2) Board member and audit Audit 100% 100% Johnson committee member until May 7, 2013 Hampus Ericsson 2009 No2) Board chairman Remuner100% 100% 200 76,048,105 ation (via legal entity) Nicolas Hassbjer 2013 Yes Board member and audit Audit 100% 100% 250 5,054,914 committee member since (via legal entity and May 7, 2013 includes related-party shares) Thomas Landberg 2007 Yes Board member and audit Audit 100% 100% 275 43,000 committee chairman Dag Sundman 2012 Yes Board member 93% 200 2,480,000 (of which 400,000 via legal entity) Jan-Erik Karlsson 2012 Yes Board member and Remuner86% 100% 200 500,000 remuneration committee ation chairman Robin Hammarstedt 2008 No Employee representative 86% 0 25,000 Henrik Lundin 2010 No Employee representative 100% 0 0 Joakim Börjesson 2013 No Deputy employee 100% 0 0 representative Cecilia Wedin 2012 No Deputy employee 100% 0 0 representative 1) Fee information is for the board year from the 2013 AGM until the 2014 AGM. 2) Non-independent in relation to major shareholders. Cybercom Annual Report 2013 41 Corporate governance report Directors Hampus Ericsson Nicolas Hassbjer Chairman since 2012 and board member since Board member since 2013 2009 Member audit committee, entrepreneur Member remuneration committee and participant Born: 1967 in nomination committee without voting rights Education: Honorary PhD Information Technology CEO and chairman JCE Group AB, the largest shareholder in Cybercom Other assignments: Chairman Tequity AB and Sydsvenska Handelskammaren, board member of Born: 1972 Sigicom AB, eGain International AB, MagComp Education: Master of Science, Gothenburg School AB, Halmstad University and Almi Företagspartner of Economics, BA International Business at Johnson group board & Wales University (USA) Previous assignments: Founder and CEO Other assignments: Chairman Consafe Logistics HMS Networks AB (publ), chairman iGenomatix AB, board member BRUKS Holding AB, Burntisland Software GmbH and Intellicom Innovation AB and Fabrications Ltd, Consafe Invest AB and Green deputy chairman HMS Networks AB (publ) Circle Bio Energy Inc. Expertise: Growth companies, internationalisation, Previous assignments: Consafe Offshore AB, JCE board work Group AB and Enskilda Securities Corporate Finance Cybercom holdings: 5,054,914 (via legal entity Expertise: Financing, M&As and business develand incl. related-party holdings) opment Cybercom holdings: 76,048,105 shares, issued call options corresponding to 460,000 shares (via legal entity) Jan-Erik Karlsson Thomas Landberg Board member since 2012 Board member since 2007 Chairman remuneration committee Chairman audit committee Senior advisor, professional board member Senior advisor Born: 1949 Born: 1950 Education: Bachelor’s degree Education: Computer and electrical engineer, Other assignments: Board member IC Quality AB, management training CEDEP/INSEAD and Duke Sevenco AB, Itera AS (Norway), Feelgood Svenska University AB, BiTA Service Management AB Other assignments: Chairman Ryssnäs AB Previous assignments: CEO Capgemini Sverige AB Previous assignments: CEO Unisys AB, CEO NCR and other senior positions in Capgemini group Sweden, CEO AT&T Nordic AB, CEO Pricer AB Expertise: Leadership of international consulting (publ), CEO Ericsson Business Consulting AB, VP organisations, sales and delivery of large and comEricsson Inc., VP Ericsson Ltd and Smarteq AB (publ) plex consulting contracts, mergers and restructurPrevious assignments: Unisys AB, Pricer AB ing of consulting operations (publ), AT&T Nordic AB, Intactix Inc., CTIA WIC, Cybercom holdings: 500,000 Edgecom Inc. and Ericsson Services Ltd Expertise: International strategy and business development for IT and telecom sectors Cybercom holdings: 43,000 42 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report Dag Sundman Robin Hammarstedt Board member since 2012 Employee representative appointed by unions 2008 Senior advisor, entrepreneur Member JUSEK Born: 1955 Consultant at Cybercom Sweden AB Education: MSc engineering physics, KTH Royal Born: 1970 Institute of Technology, 2 year graduate courses Education: PTK’s corporate board training and in computer science, KTH Royal Institute of Techeconomics at university level nology Previous assignments: Employee representative Other assignments: CEO Catsab Investment AS Teleca Networks AB and other companies in this group Cybercom holdings: 25,000 Tidigare uppdrag: CEO CATS AB, CEO OM/VPS, CEO HiQ Cats Previous assignments: Madeo Sourcing Group (chairman) Expertise: Management and development of profitable IT consulting companies, project management and calculation of fixed-price projects and contracts in IT consulting, detailed technical knowledge and computer science Cybercom holdings: 2,480,000 (400,000 via legal entity) Henrik Lundin Joakim Börjesson Employee representative appointed by unions 2010 Deputy for employee representatives appointed by Member Akademikerföreningen unions 2013 Consultant at Cybercom Sweden AB Member Akademikerföreningen Born: 1978 Business developer at Cybercom Sweden AB Education: PTK’s corporate board training, Born: 1969 computer engineer and MSc engineering in project Education: Henley Executive MBA, Grafiska management, both at Jönköping University Institutet, MSc Previous assignments: Employee representative Previous assignments: – Mandator AB Cybercom holdings: 0 Cybercom holdings: 0 Cecilia Wedin Deputy for employee representatives appointed by unions 2012 Member Akademikerföreningen Consultant at Cybercom Sweden AB Born: 1966 Education: PTK’s corporate board training, MSc, KTH Royal Institute of Technology Previous assignments: – Cybercom holdings: 0 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 43 Corporate governance report Executive team The board appoints the president. The president and CEO leads the The executive team lead the daily operations primarily through policy work of the executive team and makes decisions in consultation with instruments such as budgets, performance management and reward the rest of the executive team. On December 31, 2013 the executive systems, regular reporting and monitoring and executive meetings as team consisted of the president and CEO, the group’s CFO, the comwell as a delegated decision-making structure from the parent company pany’s communications director, head of sales, head of HR, head of to subsidiaries and regional management groups. Major corporate poliblended delivery and the heads of the five largest regions. cies are the Cybercom Group Authorisation Principles, Cybercom Group The executive team participates in regular management meetings and Financial Policy, Cybercom Group Financial Manual, Cybercom Group business reviews under leadership of the CEO. Accounting Principles, Cybercom’s Code of Business and Ethics and The executive team’s control and monitoring is based on the board’s Cybercom’s information policy. During the year the executive team has established working procedures, instructions for the CEO and reporting continued the implementation of the company’s strategy. The focus has instructions. been on the areas of sales, talent management and operating efficiency. Niklas Flyborg President and CEO, Cybercom Group Born: 1962 Education: MBA, Stockholm School of Economics With Cybercom since: 2012 Previously: Capgemini, Mandator, Cell Network, Observer/Cision Cybercom holdings: 200,000 shares, call options corresponding to 460,000 shares Henrik Benckert Kristina Cato Head of Region South Cybercom Sweden Head of Communications and Investor Relations Born: 1974 Cybercom Group Education: MSc computer technology, Lund Born: 1968 University Education: MA, Uppsala University With Cybercom since: 2005 With Cybercom since: 1999 Previously: WeSpot (C-Technologies), Sony Previously: Linköping University Hospital Ericsson Cybercom holdings: 28,490 shares Cybercom holdings: 15,000 shares Piotr Ciski Annika Eriksson MD Cybercom Poland and head of blended delivery Head of Region Northeast Cybercom Sweden Born: 1974 Born: 1964 Education: MSc, Lodz University and executive Education: Automatic data processing, university MBA, Warsaw University With Cybercom since: 1999 With Cybercom since: 2008 Previously: NetRelations AB, Handelsbanken Previously: Computaris Ltd., Gtech EE, Tieto Cybercom holdings: 3,600 shares Cybercom holdings: 0 shares 44 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report Conny Karlsson Petteri Puhakka MD Cybercom Singapore MD Cybercom Finland Born: 1969 Born: 1961 Education: MSc, Royal Institute of Technology and Education: Information technology EMBA, Stockholm School of Economics With Cybercom since: 2010 With Cybercom since: 2005 Previously: Tieto, Finland Post, Capgemini Previously: Netcom Consultants, Telia Research Cybercom holdings: 37,410 shares Cybercom holdings: 17,500 shares Bo Strömqvist Johan Wallin Head of Sales Cybercom Group Head of Region Mid Cybercom Sweden Born: 1964 Born: 1964 Education: Degree in systems technology, Education: MSC computer systems, Chalmers Linköping University, Washington State University With Cybercom since: 2007 With Cybercom since: 2012 Previously: Ericsson, Teleca Previously: Rational Software, IBM, TDC, Cision, Cybercom holdings: 15,000 shares Enea Cybercom holdings: 40,000 shares Cecilia Westerholm Beer Camilla Öberg Head of HR Cybercom Group CFO Cybercom Group Born: 1966 Born: 1964 Education: MSc Human Resource Management, Education: Degree in Economics and Business Uppsala University Administration, Stockholm School of Economics With Cybercom since: 2013 With Cybercom since: 2012 Previously: EuroMaint, Fortum, Tumba Bruk, Previously: Logica, WM-data, SEB, Lexicon and Manpower Swegro group Cybercom holdings: 0 shares Cybercom holdings: 38,722 shares Cybercom Annual Report 2013 45 Corporate governance report Internal control of financial reporting The board of directors is responsible for internal control as regulated Risk assessment in the Swedish Companies Act and the Code. Cybercom’s corporate As an integral aspect of their management assignment, the board governance report contains a description of the most material aspects and executive team work with risk assessment in a broad perspective, of the company’s internal control and risk management systems, as including but not limited to financial risks and key business risks. Risks stipulated by the Annual Accounts Act. Internal control of financial have been regularly reported to the board. The board and the audit reporting aims to provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of extercommittee have regularly discussed a variety of risks and the company’s nal financial reporting and to ensure that this is prepared in accordance risk management procedures during the year. with legislation, applicable accounting standards, and other requirements for listed companies. Control activity The group’s control activities such as authorisations and project Control environment ­approvals are based at the group level but are then handled primarily at The board bears overall responsibility for internal control of financial the regional level in Sweden and in the subsidiaries in each other counreporting. The control environment for financial reporting is based try. The application is also verified through spot checks in conjunction on a division of roles and responsibilities in the organisation, defined with internal audits. and communicated decision channels, instructions on powers and responsibilities as well as accounting and reporting policies. The board Information has appointed an audit committee which has the primary obligation Information about internal policy documents for financial reporting is of ensuring completion of the requirements set out by the Swedish accessible to all relevant employees on Cybercom’s intranet. Informa­Companies Act for this committee. tion and training regarding internal policy documents is also provided through activities addressed directly to those with financial responsibiliThe internal control is integrated within the company’s controller ty and controllers, sales people and leaders within the group. function. The board has evaluated the need to establish a special audit function. In its evaluation the board found that given the company’s size Monitoring internal controls can be performed in a required and satisfactory manThe board, the audit committee, the CEO, the executive team and ner within the controller function and that there is no need for a special the group companies monitor the company’s financial reporting to audit function in the company. safeguard the effectiveness of its internal controls. Monitoring includes the follow-up of each company’s monthly financial reports in relation The board has adopted the board’s instructions, the CEO’s instructions to budgets and targets, reviews of large tenders and deliveries, and and the financial reporting instructions, authorisation rules, Cybercom follow-up and evaluation of internal audits conducted during the year. Group Financial Policy, Cybercom’s code of business ethics and conduct and the information policy. In addition there are policies and guidelines Stockholm, March 28, 2014 in several areas of operational activity. The Board of Cybercom 46 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report Auditor’s report on the corporate governance report To the annual general meeting of the shareholders in Cybercom Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556544-6522 The Board of Directors is responsible for the corporate governance and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance report for the year 2013 on pages 39–46 and that it has been prepared with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditin accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. ing standards in Sweden. We have read the corporate governance report and based on that In our opinion, the corporate governance report has been prepared reading and our knowledge of the company and the group we believe and its statutory content is consistent with the annual accounts and the that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our consolidated accounts. statutory examination of the corporate governance report is different Stockholm, March 28, 2014 KPMG AB Cybercom Annual Report 2013 47 Annual general meeting Shareholders of Cybercom Group AB (publ), number, address, daytime phone number, number of shares and any shareholder assistants (maximum two) in your registration. 556544-6522, are given notice to attend the annual general meeting on Wednesday, May 7, 2014 at 4.00 Proxies pm at the company’s head office at Lindhagens­ Shareholders wishing to be represented by proxy should, in plenty of gatan 126, Stockholm, Sweden. time before the annual general meeting, submit a written and dated power of attorney (in the original) and, for a legal entity, registration certificate (or corresponding proof of authorised signatory) to Cybercom Group AB, Legal, Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden. Power of attorRegistration ney forms are available on the company website www.cybercom.com or Shareholders wishing to participate in the AGM must be registered in can be ordered by phone on +46 8 578 646 00. the Euroclear Sweden AB register of shareholders by Wednesday, April 30, 2014, and must indicate their intention to participate in the AGM by Nominee-registered shares Wednesday, April 30, 2014. Shareholders with nominee-registered shares must temporarily re-regNotification of attendance can be made on the company’s website ister the shares in their own name to be entitled to attend the meeting. www.cybercom.com, by phoning +46 8 578 646 00 between the hours This registration must be completed by Wednesday, April 30, 2014. of 10.00 am and 4.00 pm on working days, or in writing to Cybercom Contact your nominee in plenty of time before this date. Group AB, Legal, Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden. Please state you name, civil registration number or corporate identity Welcome! Upcoming dates and investor relations Financial reporting events Interim report January – March 2014 May 5, 2014 Interim report January – June 2014 July 15, 2014 Interim report January – September 2014 October 24, 2014 Year-end report, January – December 2014 February 13, 2015 Analysts who cover Cybercom and the sector Analyst Company Location Phone Anders Hillerborg ABG Sundal Collier Stockholm +46 8 566 28 600 Mikael Laséen Carnegie Investment Bank Stockholm +46 8 676 88 00 Viktor Lindeberg Carnegie Investment Bank Stockholm +46 8 676 88 00 Daniel Djurberg Nordea Bank Stockholm +46 8 614 70 00 Erik Kramming Redeye Stockholm +46 8 545 01 347 Christian Lee Remium Nordic Stockholm +46 8 454 32 00 Victor Höglund SEB Stockholm +46 8 522 29 500 Andreas Joelsson SEB Stockholm +46 8 522 29 500 Stefan Olsson Ålandsbanken Stockholm +46 8 791 48 00 48 Cybercom Annual Report 2013 Kontakt Kristina Cato Communications director and IR manager Phone: +46 708 64 47 02 E-mail: kristina.cato@cybercom.com Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Lindhagensgatan 126, 112 51 Stockholm, Sweden Phone: +46 8 578 646 00 Fax: +46 8 578 646 10 E-mail: info@cybercom.com www.cybercom.com Boosting your performance Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel. +46 8 578 646 00 www.cybercom.com
