sustainability@app.co.id Sustain ability REPORT 2 0 1 3 Contact uS We welcome your thoughts on our report: please send your feedback to sustainability@app.co.id https://twitter.com/AsiaPulpPaper http://www.youtube.com/user/asiapulpandpaper http://www.scribd.com/asiapulppaper http://www.flickr.com/photos/asiapulppaper/ http://vimeo.com/user4811621 External frameworks The content and quality of this report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainable Development Reporting Guidelines (version 3.1). The report had been externally assured to the internationally recognised AA1000(AS) and meets the requirements of GRI Application Level A+. Our intention is to continue to seek external assurance for future sustainability reports and respond as appropriate to any areas of improvement identified in the assurance statements. The assurance statement covering this report content is presented on page 98. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CONTENT 01 INTRODUCTION 8 02 Company Profile 10 03 CHAIRMAN’s statement 18 04 Our Products 22 05 Our Sustainability Strategy 26 06 sustainable fibre sourcing 46 07 OUR People 70 08 Our Mills 84 09 Data tables and assurance statement 92 10 GRI index 102 11 Glossary 110 6 7 CH 01 Chapter 1 Introduction Welcome to our sixth sustainability report, communicating the continuing story of Asia Pulp & Paper (APP) Indonesia’s sustainability journey during 2013. CHAPTER 01 8 CH 01 The report provides coverage of data Report scope and boundary and activities in the 2013 calendar year, continuing our annual reporting cycle. Asia Pulp & Paper (APP) is a brand name under which our products are sold. This report focuses on two key themes Purinusa Ekapersada is the brand holder of APP. The scope of this report from 2013; our progress against our covers APP pulp and paper operations in Indonesia, specifically the following Vision 2020 Roadmap and, within the pulp operational facilities. roadmap, our Forest Conservation Policy (FCP) commitment. Legal entity Mill The content and quality of this report PT Indah Kiat Pulp & Paper TBK Indah Kiat Perawang is guided by the Global Reporting Indah Kiat Serang Initiative (GRI) Sustainable Development Indah Kiat Tangerang Reporting Guidelines (version 3.1). We PT Pabrik Kertas Tjiwi Kimia TBK Tjiwi Kimia apply the guidelines and associated PT Pindo Deli Pulp and Paper Mills Pindo Deli Karawang indicators to ensure we report against (mill 1 &2 ) our relevant economic, social and Pindo Deli Perawang environmental impacts and mitigation PT Lontar Papyrus Pulp and Paper Industry Lontar Papyrus activities. PT Ekamas Fortuna Ekamas Fortuna This report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP), One of the highest priority issues for our stakeholders is the activities of as part of our commitment to the UN APP pulpwood suppliers. Sinarmas Forestry is the management team that Global Compact, its ten principles and represents APP pulpwood suppliers, currently covering 33 pulpwood suppliers additionally the CEO Water Mandate. who between them manage 38 concessions (forest management units based on government forest concession licenses). Despite not being under APP’s The report has been externally assured direct ownership (although we have shared ownership in six of our suppliers), to the internationally recognised we have a responsibility to manage and monitor their activities. Therefore, we AA1000(AS) 2008 standard and meets include details of our approach within the scope of this report. the requirements of GRI Application Level A+, demonstrating the highest level of disclosure. We continue to use independent external assurance of our Defining Report Content report to ensure its credibility and the accuracy of our data and claims. APP has applied both formal and informal mechanisms to define the content of this report, guided by the GRI Reporting Principles of Defining Content. The assurance statement covering this In 2011 we carried out a survey of 260 stakeholders, both internal and report is presented on page 98. external, to determine and prioritise the issues most material to them. In 2012 we introduced a more formal method of gathering feedback from our We welcomed the comments from Sustainability and Stakeholder Engagement team, in order to understand the our assurance provider in our 2012 topics of greatest interest to our stakeholders across the regions where we Sustainability Report, and have operate. In 2013 we consulted with our global Sustainability and Stakeholder taken steps to respond to their Engagement team who are directly responsible for day to day engagement recommendations during 2013. During with our stakeholders, seeking to understand issue prioritisation from the 2013 we have developed a scorecard perspectives of local communities, NGOs, local government and local media. system to enhance implementation We used the outputs from this exercise to inform our materiality assessment of our commitments on the ground, for 2013, which has informed the development of this report. including sustainability reporting. We have completed the development of We monitor global trends in sustainable development, both within and outside APP Sustainability Database System, a of the forest products sector, to ensure global issues and those more relevant web-based data collection system that to local stakeholders are reported adequately. For further details on how aims to improve consistency across we determine which issues to report on, see Stakeholder Engagement and our mills with respect to sustainability Materiality in the Our Sustainability Strategy section. related data. These will be rolled out across all of our mills during 2014. We If you have any questions or feedback on our Sustainability Report we would be have also deployed our internal audit pleased to hear from you. function to all mills, to improve the accuracy of our data and information, sustainability@app.co.id and we ran GRI training in Jakarta in February 2013, to help raise awareness about the type of information required for our sustainability reporting. 9 CH 02 Chapter 2 COMPANY PROFILE APP at a glance Asia Pulp & Paper Group (APP) is one of the world’s largest pulp and paper producers, delivering tissue, packaging and paper to customers in over 120 countries, spanning six continents. CHAPTER 02 10 CH 02 Headquartered in Jakarta, we A glimpse at 2013 have nine pulp and paper mills on both Java and Sumatra. Another of our mills, Univenus Perawang, is outside of the scope of this report. Our unique combination of Eastern 2013 2012 2011 traditions and the modern values of innovation and efficiency ensure that we meet the expectations of our customers whilst also embracing the challenges associated with our journey to become a truly sustainable 40,072 42,943 40,572 company. 2013 2012 2011 1 9,847,650 9,455,646 8,574,050 2013 2012 2011 $5,499m $5,597m $5,768m 2013 in numbers ($000) operating community Payments costs investments to 3,444,065 4,114 providers of capital 215 EMPLOYEE Retained PAYMENTS COMPENSATION Earnings TO 311,803 542,129 GOVERNMENT 26,985 1 The production capacity in 2011 was re-calculated using the same methodology we used in 2012 and 2013. 11 CH 02 OUR PRODUCTS In 2013 our mills generated a total of $5,499m in sales revenue, producing 8,858,000 tonnes of pulp and paper products, a decrease of 2% and increase of 6% respectively from 2012. Coated paper Premium magazines and packaging UNCoated paper Books, catalogues Industrial Packaging Carton packaging Office products Copier paper Tissue Hygiene products Speciality Receipts, stickers Stationary Notepads, envelops Publishing Encyclopaedia, dictionaries Service Shopping bags, food boxes 12 CH 02 We serve markets in over 120 countries, including North America, Japan, Australia and countries in Europe. We sell our products through both our own sales offices and sales agents across the globe, to customers including multinational companies through to paper merchants and smaller, bespoke converters, printers and publishers. 13 CH 02 Our mills 2 3 4 Mill: Mill: Mill: Lontar Papyrus Pindo Deli Perawang Indah Kiat Tangerang Employees: 2,704 Employees: 2,147 Employees: 1,195 Production capacity: 1,081,000 tonnes Production capacity: 407,000 Production capacity: 105,000 tonnes Production lines: 2 pulp lines, 6 tissue machines tonnes Production lines: 3 paper machines Key products: LBKP and tissue Production lines: 15 tissue Key products: coloured printing, machines writing and copier, computer and Lontar Papyrus is an integrated pulp and paper mill, Key products: tissue duplicator paper which mainly produces pulp for use by other APP mills. It also has a tissue machine that produces Located in the remote region Indah Kiat Tangerang is the smallest jumbo rolls, which other APP mills then convert into of Riau Province, Pindo Deli of APP’s mills. Located 30km west saleable products. In 2013 Lontar Papyrus began a $7m Perawang focuses on the of Jakarta, the mill specialises in investment programme to optimise the wood chipping production of jumbo roll to the production of coloured paper to process. Power consumption reduced by 55% while the paper converting market. the extent that it has become one of at the same time increasing capacity and chip quality. Improvements in 2013 centred the largest producers in the world. For the second year running, Lontar Papyrus won the on efficiency improvements Its raw material sourcing includes Green Industry Award in recognition for its sustainability and cost reductions; one both pre-consumer waste and programmes. In 2013, Lontar Papyrus renewed their tissue machine project purchased pulp and it exports 85% of Halal Certificate for pulp and tissue product and achieved reduced water consumption its products to a global client base. Halal Assurance System with the category “Excellent”. intensity by 17%. In 2013 the mill achieved certification against the energy management standard ISO 50001 and carried out a number of improvement projects centred on steam and condensate systems. For the third time, Indah Kiat Tangerang won the Green Industry Award. Outside of the mill a community project was established SUMATRA to plant bamboo on river banks, reducing soil erosion and preventing floods during periods of high rainfall. 3 1 2 1 Mill: Indah Kiat Perawang Employees: 9,735 Indah Kiat Perawang is an integrated mill, producing both pulp and paper. Located Production capacity: 3,710,650 tonnes in a rural region of Riau Province, Sumatra, the mill produces 2,541,000 tonnes of Production lines: 4 pulp lines, pulp annually. Highlights in 2013 include installation of a new wash press across 4 9 paper machines paper machines, reducing chemical use and improving the quality of waste water. In Key products: LBKP pulp, wood free an effort to reuse more heat energy and in turn reduce steam use, the mill installed printing, writing, copier and coated a flue gas heat recovery system in three boilers, achieving a 9% reduction in steam papers requirements. 14 CH 02 5 6 7 Mill: Mill: Mill: Tjiwi Kimia Indah Kiat Serang Pindo Deli Karawang Mills Employees: 11,670 Employees: 5,524 Employees: 6,438 Production capacity: 1,677,000 tonnes Production capacity: 1,570, 000 tonnes Production capacity: 1,117,000 tonnes Production lines: 13 paper machines Production lines: 6 paper machines Production lines: 10 paper machines, 2 Key products: printing, writing, copier, Key products: coated boxboards, test tissue machines carbon-less, exercise books, writing linerboards, corrugating medium, Key Products: writing, printing, copier, pads, envelopes, computer forms, gift corrugated cartons pre-print and other premium wood-free wrapping paper and shopping bags papers, cast-coated paper, paperboards, Indah Kiat Serang is located 60km west carbon-less, thermal and art paper and Tjiwi Kimia is located near Surabaya in of Jakarta. It is unique amongst APP’s tissue. East Java. The mill is equipped with 13 mills, sourcing the majority of its raw paper machines and over 100 converting material from post-consumer waste, Comprised of two mills, Pindo Deli units, and it produces a diverse range of which is supplemented by virgin fibre Karawang produces paper from purchased value added products including books, to improve the strength of the paper pulp and pre-consumer waste. Products calendars, stationary and recycled products. The mill serves a global client produced include paper, tissue and products, all of which are sold globally. base, but sells its products primarily to packaging products largely for export. In 2013 a rotary drier was installed in the Asian and Pacific market. Many of the product lines include specific order to enable the mill to utilise sludge certifications, such as ISO 22000 for as an alternative fuel. Located next to the Indah Kiat Serang received Halal food safety and ISO 9706 for permanent belt press, the rotary drier reduces the certification in 2013 and is currently acid free papers suitable for archiving water content in the sludge, which is working towards achieving PEFC purposes. then mixed with coal as a fuel for the recycling certification in April 2014. boiler. During 2013 the mill achieved certification against the energy management standard ISO 50001 for its power generation and distribution, and won an award for Green 8 Industry for the third time. Mill: Ekamas Fortuna Employees: 731 Production capacity: 180,000 tonnes Production lines: 2 paper machines Key products: corrugated medium, wrapping papers, chipboard, Kraft liner, paper core, paper tube and heavy board Ekamas Fortuna is situated in East Java. Supplied mostly by post-consumer waste, the mill produces corrugated and Kraft liner board grades, most of which is used as layers in container board and carton boxes. Products are largely sold to the Indonesian domestic market, with 10% exported to more than 10 countries worldwide. In 2013 the mill was awarded with the Indonesia Green Awards for pioneering waste-utilisation of coal ash waste into bricks, utilising ash waste from the mills power station that otherwise would have gone to waste. HEADQUARTER, JAKARTA 6 4 7 5 8 JAVA 15 CH 02 COMPANY structure PT Purinusa Ekapersada OTHER PT Indah Kiat Pulp & Pulpwood Paper TBK Suppliers IKPP IKPP PT Arara Perawang Serang Mill Abadi Mill IKPP Tangerang Mill PT Pabrik Kertas PT Pindo Deli Pulp PT Ekamas Fortuna Tjiwi Kimia TBK and Paper Mills PT Wirakarya PT Lontar Papyrus Pulp and Paper Industry Sakti Indah Kiat and Tjiwi Kimia are publically listed and trade on the Jakarta and Surabaya Stock Exchanges. 16 CH 02 17 CH 03 Chapter 3 Chairman’s Statement Dear Stakeholder, 2013 was one of the most significant years in APP’s history as it strengthens our commitment to address climate change by improving the way we operate as a business. CHAPTER 03 18 CH 03 On February 5th, I announced the introduction of One area where we fell short in 2013 was the speed our Forest Conservation Policy (FCP), which saw the at which we carried out the HCV assessments. HCV immediate introduction of a moratorium on all natural assessments of this scale and complexity have never forest clearance across our wood supply chain, two been carried out before, so it is not surprising that years ahead of schedule. there have been some bumps in the road. In response, we have increased our resources and aim to have the This announcement was welcomed by stakeholders final reports for all assessments by the third quarter of globally, from customers to governments. 2014. The FCP was, in effect, an update to our Vision A central part of transparency at APP is our new 2020: Sustainability Roadmap, and at its heart lies monitoring dashboard, which is unique in the pulp and a company-wide commitment to zero deforestation paper sector and I’m pleased that it has been received throughout our supply chain. Such a commitment was well by stakeholders. I believe the dashboard approach truly ground-breaking in Indonesia, and requires that can be used by any company committed to addressing we find a new business model to ensure we are able to supply chain traceability and sustainability and I continue to trade for many years to come. encourage other industries to use it as template. With the moratorium in place, APP and our partners Looking forward, we must continue on the path we have have carried out High Conservation Value and High set as we work towards a more integrated approach Carbon Stock assessments to determine which parts to forest management. We seek to bring together all of our concessions and those of our suppliers contain of the elements we have been focussing on through high conservation values and high carbon stock forest. our FCP to create Integrated Sustainable Forest All areas identified will be permanently protected. Management Plans for each of the major landscapes in which our pulpwood supplier concessions sit. The FCP also included a commitment to protect forested peatland and to manage peat-based The success of these plans will be dependent on plantations according to best-practice peatland global support from all stakeholders with an interest management. in tropical forests. We need others to follow our commitments, cutting across all industry sectors and We have also committed to respect the rights of local geographies. No single company can protect these and indigenous communities who live around the vital ecosystems alone, which is why we are calling production forest area by enhancing our engagement upon others to help us. We hope that the FCP becomes with them and ensuring that any new developments a driver for change, not just within APP but for other are undertaken in line with Free, Prior and Informed organisations. Consent (FPIC). Outside of our FCP, APP’s Vision 2020 Roadmap You will read in this report the detail behind how we incorporates a range of sustainability issues which intend to deliver against our Vision 2020 Roadmap and must be addressed. While it would be fair to say our the FCP, and what it means to Indonesia’s forests. focus in 2013 has been on the FCP, we are actively However, no report can truly express the challenges addressing other key issues too. associated with implementing a zero deforestation business model. To succeed we must work closely We have developed a mill sustainability scorecard to with our own employees, the communities where we help us understand the relative performance of each operate, our stakeholders and crucially, our suppliers. of our mills. It incorporates an assessment of the Achieving such a transition requires a transformation management approach for all environmental and social in the way that we manage and engage with these issues, drawing upon various international standards important stakeholder groups. such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, UN Water Mandate I’m very encouraged by the collaborative relationships principles, and internationally recognised management we have developed through 2013, particularly certification systems The scorecards will help us gain with those who were once our harshest critics. a clear understanding of where we need to focus our Greenpeace’s Progress Review, published in October efforts and will also support us in monitoring progress 2013 was a milestone for APP. I support the review’s against our Roadmap goals. findings and we are responding to each and every recommendation made in the report. In 2013 we finalised our pulp and paper mills baseline carbon footprint assessment and continue to work on Despite the positive change of position from our water footprint assessments. Our ultimate goal is Greenpeace, some critics still remain and I reiterate to arrive at a clear baseline which will allow us to set a our pledge to openly engage with these organisations challenging group-wide target for 2020. as their input can often help improve the way we operate. 19 CH 03 Community engagement continues to form a central part of our business; it is an essential part of the long term sustainability of APP and is a key component of our FCP. We are constantly working with our suppliers to ensure they respect the communities in which they operate and enhance the standard of living for local people. Our mills oversee a range of CSR programmes, designed to address the needs of local communities. Common themes you will read about in this report centre around empowerment, education and infrastructure development. Reflecting a steadily improving global economic outlook, APP saw sales increase 6% in 2013 from 2012 levels. Sales value remained constant, reflecting the pressure on pricing within the pulp and paper market. Our share of export sales grew in 2013, representing 59% of our net sales, with growth concentrated in emerging markets surrounding Indonesia. 20 CH 03 Companies today widely acknowledge that sustainability underpins business performance and this is an idea that we fully embrace and we believe the market is beginning to respond to our efforts. This is very encouraging as it is only by demonstrating the economic benefits of sustainability, that other industry players will be prompted to follow similar paths. Our message to them is that joining the zero deforestation movement is good for business as well as the worlds’ forests. Chairman Teguh Ganda Wijaya 21 CH 04 Chapter 4 Our Products Providing a diverse range responsibly and sustainably produced products is the core driver that underpins our business model. CHAPTER 04 22 CH 04 Fibre-based products have a strong APP supplies a diverse range of customers to a global client base. Some sustainability advantage. They are are business-to-business (B2B) relationships where our customer further wood based, therefore renewable, converts the product into a final saleable end product, for example tissue or produced in facilities where packaging. Others include the sale of finished products direct to brand owners, renewable energy can be utilised, either through our mills or through our sales representatives located around and they can be recycled where the the world. In total our products are sold in over 120 countries across the globe. infrastructure allows. Stakeholder communications are led by our Sustainability and Stakeholder Engagement team in Jakarta who are supported by regional representatives across our key overseas markets; Europe, US and Australasia. This dedicated regional stakeholder engagement team work to support the sales function, handling customer enquiries and working with local stakeholders in the market, such as NGOs and trade associations. Product Spotlight Our customers are predominantly interested in information regarding the fibre source of the products they buy. We communicate to these stakeholders in direct meetings, through our sustainability reports, newsletter and other At Pindo Deli Karawang we publications, our corporate website, and our FCP monitoring dashboard. As introduced a new line of paper the profile of Vision 2020 and our FCP gathers pace, we are seeing a rise called Golden Plus Extra during in interest from global paper buyers keen to engage with us and see for 2013. This high quality brand of themselves the progress we are making in our commitments. paper was developed to fulfil the requirements of the European Eco Label certification. Kokoru, produced at Indah Kiat Tangerang is designed to inspire creativity in children. It also has a strong sustainability story behind the brand. The product is made from excess material from paper production, such as paper trimming, diverting material that would previously have been wasted. It is also certified to European Standard EN-71, the Safety Standard for Toys. 23 CH 04 APP Mills Certification Status CERTIFICATION MillS Indah Kiat Indah Kiat Indah Kiat Pindo Deli Pindo Deli Lontar Ekamas Perawang Serang Tangerang Karawang Perawang Papyrus Tjiwi Kimia Fortuna Quality Management ISO 9001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 ISO 9001 Product Quality ISO 9706 Halal Halal SNI Halal Halal ISO 9706 Ecolabel Ecolabel Ecolabel Indonesian Indonesian Indonesian Standard Standard Standard SNI 7174 : Ecolabel 2008 EU Standard Green Mark Taiwan Eco label Standard Environment ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 PROPER PROPER PROPER PROPER PROPER (blue) (blue) (PD I: blue, (blue) (blue) PD II: green) ISO50001 ISO50001 Health & Safety SMK3 SMK3 SMK3 SMK3 SMK3 SMK3 SMK3 OHSAS OHSAS 18001 18001 Chain of Custody PEFC PEFC PEFC PEFC PEFC PEFC PEFC LEI LEI LEI LEI LEI SVLK SVLK SVLK SVLK SVLK SVLK SVLK SVLK Product specific RoHS RoHS RoHS RoHS REACH/ REACH SVHC SVHC screening screening Food PackFood Grade aging Direct Paper/Board Contact-FDA FDA USA & USA Germany Recommendation XXXVI ASTM and ASTM and EN71 Green Seal EN71 Part EN71 Part part 3 3&9 1239 ISO22000 Green Label Singapore ISPM ISPM ISPM (Phytosanitary) (Phytosanitary) (Phytosanitary) 24 CH 04 Across our product range we use third party A new set of questions asked in the 2013 survey sought certification labels and other globally recognised to assess the visibility of APP’s sustainability activity standards such as ISO14001 and eco-labels specific and whether we are meeting the expectations of our to the region in which a product is sold. Specialist customers. The familiarity of our customers with the packaging products typically receive more specific Forest Conservation Policy was ‘average’, largely information requests, including food health and safety because of the technical nature of many of the issues certification that focusses predominantly on the safe involved. We aim to see improvements throughout use and end use (disposal or reuse) of our products. 2014, as communications around the initiative gather There were no incidents of non-compliance concerning pace and through additional training and awareness either health and safety impacts or labelling of our raising amongst our sales teams. products in 2013. Customer satisfaction is monitored closely, both through our sales offices daily activity and through our annual survey. Now in its 13th year, the annual Customer Satisfaction Survey is a vital tool to gather global opinion of APP, our service and products. We are pleased to see our efforts in improving lead times in export markets has been recognised by our customers and scores improved from 2012. “Accuracy, speed and delivery”, our metric that refers to our service quality from the time a sales order is placed, to the point at which the customer receives their product, was our top performing area of performance in 2013. The main area for improvement for both local and export markets is the quality of our sales offices. We will seek to understand and address this feedback during 2014. 25 CH 05 Chapter 5 Our Sustainability Strategy Our vision is to become a leading and respected global pulp and paper company that provides superior value to customers, community, employees and shareholders, responsibly and sustainably. 05 CHAPTER 26 CH 05 Sustainability MANAGEMENT It is through our strategy that we address and mitigate against our key impacts and risks. The most significant for APP’s operations are the environmental impacts of our pulp and paper mills through emissions to air and water, and the associated fuel used to generate the energy required for our operations. We are also responsible for managing the impacts of our suppliers, the most significant of which are the activities associated with our pulpwood supply chain, specifically the environmental impacts of plantations, land use change and forest management practices. In terms of social impacts, we employ a large number of people, and with this comes the responsibility to provide a safe and healthy working environment. Sustainability at APP is not only about risk. We seek to use our influence positively to identify economic, environmental and social opportunities that we can create or stimulate though our strategy. We manage our own climate change impacts through our sustainability strategy, seeking to minimise the carbon emissions related to our own operations, predominantly through efficient production processes and the increased use of less carbon intensive fuel sources. Our products, particularly packaging products based on renewable and recyclable materials, offer a less carbon intensive solution when compared to other materials. We also recognise the responsibility we have in protecting and enhancing forestry in Indonesia, which plays a crucial role in tackling global climate change. Through sustainable forest management our suppliers encourage carbon sequestration through tree growth and protect against the negative impacts of deforestation. Climate change presents a financial and environmental risk to APP. We monitor the impact that changes in climate patterns could potentially have on the availability and cost of our main raw material, wood fibre, and the subsequent impact on our wider supply chain. Potential negative impacts include incidents of forest fires, flood and drought, changes in disease and pest resistance of tree species and decreasing growth yields. Our property in low-lying regions also presents a risk in the event of sea level rises as a result of climate change. Regulatory risk was considered in the development of our sustainability strategy, The President of Indonesia committed to a 26% reduction of national GHG by 2020, resulting in government regulation on carbon reduction targets and a mandatory national energy management and reporting scheme. Our sustainability strategy is tightly aligned to our Sustainability Roadmap 2020. Our goals and focus areas are clear, and our response to each and every aspect of the Roadmap has been developed and communicated. Our strategy reflects both the global sustainability issues faced by the wider business community and society, and those specific to a company producing paper products in Indonesia. No one standard or overarching guidance is available that adequately provides for our needs. Therefore, our approach is to select the components of recognised national and international standards and guidance, and apply them in the most appropriate way to manage our social and environmental impacts. As a minimum requirement we comply with national legislation, but our goal is to strive for global best practice in all aspects of our strategy. We play an active role in supporting organisations such as the United Nations Global Compact, Indonesian Business Cooperation for Sustainable Development (IBCSD), Indonesia Pulp and Paper Association (APKI) and The Sustainability Consortium. 27 CH 05 Stakeholder engagement Materiality survey assessment Stakeholder report review Stakeholder Engagement team feedback COMMUNITY GRI reporting guidelines Employee welfare Community development Carbon WRI / WBCSD Green House footprinting Gas Protocol ICFPA / NCASI carbon footprinting tool IPCC standards ISO 14064 Social UN Millennium footprinting Development Goals and human rights United Nations Human assessments Rights Council endorsed guiding principles for business on human rights VISION 2020 ROADMAP Mill’s environmental Free and Prior Informed performance ENVIRONMENT Consent (FPIC) princip les Fibre sourcing ISO 9001 Management Quality Management Climate change systems ISO 14001 Environment Water management Management System Biodiversity & conservation ISO 26000 guidelines for CSR Management National Occupational Health and Health and Safety standard (SMK3) safety guidelines OHSAS 18001 Environmental National compliance emissions and waste IFC / World Bank management Environmental, Health and Board oversight GOVERNANCE Safety guideline for pulp and paper industry Corporate policy and management systems National mandatory legality Stakeholder engagement and sustainable Forest and disclosure Management (SFM) requirements High Conservation Value Forest (HCV) Principles Chain of custody standards (PEFC, FSC, LEI) 28 CH 05 monitoring and reporting tools Externally verified Sustainability Reports Sustainability Website MONItoring dashboard mill sustainability scorecard supplier sustainability scorecard hcv & hcs assessments chain of custody certification sustainable forest management certification independent observer programme 29 CH 05 APP Sustainability Roadmap – Vision 2020 The Roadmap is central to our sustainability strategy. It provides our mills and our suppliers with a clear picture of our goals, and delivers the context they require to support us in realising our vision. Phase 1: Phase 2: by 2015 increase efficiencies and by 2020 become the global accelerate implementation of sustainable leader in our industry key sustainability initiatives and a key creator of sustainable value where we operate The Roadmap will develop over time; as we learn more about the challenges we must overcome we will update our goals as required. We will communicate our progress through quarterly progress reports on our website and via our annual sustainability reports. VISION To become a leading and respected global pulp and paper company that provides superior value to customers, community, employees and shareholders, responsibly and sustainably. Governance Environment Social • Board Oversight • Mills Environmental • Employee Welfare • Corporate Policy & Performance Community Management System • Fibre Sourcing • Development & • Stakeholder • Water Management Welfare Engagement & • Climate Change Disclosure • Biodiversity & Conservation 30 CH 05 Summary of commitment FIBRE SOURCING. VISION 2020 COMMITMENTS status Achievements in 2013 100% independent 3rd party verification (minimum Achieved Accelerated progress and achieved by end requirement is verification against at least one scheme) 2012 for pulpwood legality. Zero High Conservation Value Fibre On track APP pulp wood suppliers in January 2013 stopped all conversion of natural forest to allow for HCV and HCS assessments 100% sustainable plantation wood for pulp by 2015, Ahead of APP pulp wood suppliers ended delivery of subject to maximum tolerance of 5% for waste and target natural forest wood to APP pulp mills by residue (2012 target 12%) end of August 2013. 100% Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) certified On track 46% pulpwood. Maintain a sustainable proportion of recovered fibre in On track In 2013, 36% of our raw material was from addition to renewable virgin Fibre. recycled sources (37 % in 2012) INDIGENOUS PEOPLE status Achievements in 2013 Adopt international guidelines for the protection of On track Commitment to Free Prior Informed indigenous people’s customary rights in the forest. Consent through the implementation of four pilot projects. Social conflict mapping training provided for 400 supplier employees & APP senior management 100% land claim conflict mapping completed CONSERVATION AND BIODIVERSITY status Achievements in 2013 Support the national target to preserve designated On track Highlights in 2013 include HCV and HCS protected and conservation areas. assessments, inauguration of Ramin nursery and ongoing development programmes within the GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve Support the national target to increase by 3% the On track Highlights in 2013 include Javan Rhino population of 14 specified endangered species. monitoring, Sumatran tiger population studies and elephant conservation programme collaboration with our supplier TMA. EMISSIONS status Achievements in 2013 Reduce the impact of mill’s greenhouse gas emissions. On track Carbon emissions intensity decreased 2% in 2013 from 2012 levels WATER MANAGEMENT status Achievements in 2013 Improve management of water use in line with the UN On track Pilot water footprint assessment underway Global Compact CEO Water Mandate program. 31 CH 05 Achievements and challenges in 2013 • Announcing in February 2013 our Forest Conservation Policy (FCP), and simultaneously halting all natural forest conversion operations in our suppliers’ concessions whilst HCV & HCS assessments are carried out • Establishing sustainability scorecards for our suppliers and our mills, thus setting a baseline for understanding the gaps we must focus on to deliver on our Roadmap commitments • Updated APP pulp and paper mills’ carbon footprint baseline calculation in line with the latest IPCC and GHG Protocol • Completed water footprint field assessments at Indah Kiat Perawang, the outputs of which will inform developing group wide water management strategy Looking forward to 2020 we envisage the following milestones: • By 2015 APP will be wholly reliant on raw materials from pulpwood plantations By 2016 we will complete water footprint assessments and commit • to a group wide reduction target By 2017 all APP mills will achieve the standard for energy management, ISO 50001 • By 2020 all of APP’s suppliers will have credible Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) certification • As part of our Sustainable Forest Management commitments, APP will introduce carbon measurement and evaluation above and below ground for our suppliers’ concessions The Roadmap is followed by everyone working for APP, from senior management and contractors operating on the mill floor, to those responsible for enforcing the activities of our suppliers. This level of buy-in will ensure that we operate according to the highest international standards to support our goal of becoming a leading and respected global pulp and paper company. 32 CH 05 Forest Conservation Policy (FCP) In February 2013, we announced our Forest Conservation Policy. The FCP brought forward by two years fibre sourcing commitments set out in 2012 as part of our Sustainability Roadmap 2020. The most significant element of the FCP was a moratorium on natural forest clearance in the supply chain and a commitment to zero-deforestation. The next step in our FCP implementation is the development of Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Plans (ISFMP). These plans will bring together all the aspects of our assessment work HCV, HCS, peatland management best practice, social baseline study, social conflict mapping and plantation fibre availability into long-term sustainable action plans for our suppliers. ISFMPs will be tailored to take into account their unique environmental and social situation and include an action plan for ongoing forest management. We will take a ‘landscape approach’, not only looking at the immediate area under management, but also taking into account the current condition and issues of the surrounding landscape. To implement the FCP we engaged with global experts to help us develop and constructively improve our policy. Because the commitments are so challenging, we require partners to support us. These include The Forest Trust (TFT), Ekologika and Asia Pacific Consulting Services (APCS). We also invited an independent third party, the Rainforest Alliance, to independently verify our progress in implementing the FCP, which will begin in January 2014. 33 CH 05 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is embedded within our day to day activities. Our challenge is to harness all of this feedback and ensure we have a clear understanding of our stakeholders’ expectations. We must also maintain awareness of changing global opinions, and prepare ahead of time for any effect these may have on our business. Through the development of our Roadmap and more specifically the FCP, we have introduced multiple stakeholder engagement platforms through 2013. We consider our stakeholders to be the following: Employees Governments Customers NGOs Educational Host Contractors Suppliers establishments communities Unions MEDIA 34 CH 05 Examples of engagement in 2013 • Community forums • Industry forums • Sustainability Report • Trade and Industry events • Education institutions events • Media and customer tours • Workshops • Sustainability websites and monitoring dashboard • Focus Discussion Groups • Solutions Working Group 35 CH 05 Through activities related to our FCP, the scope of our stakeholder engagement activities has increased considerably, particularly with local and international NGOs. This has resulted in an increased level of community engagement, in particular through the stakeholder consultation undertaken as part of the HCV assessments. Following the announcement of FCP, APP initiated a series of Focus Group Discussions (FGD) where we update Indonesian civil society on implementation of the FCP and gain feedback to strengthen its implementation. Through this platform, we also invite active participation of civil society through FCP implementation monitoring process. The Solutions Working Group (SWG) meets quarterly, bringing together APP and external experts with an interest in conservation of Indonesia’s forests in an informal setting. The group provides a platform to discuss and address concerns in relation to APP’s Sustainability Roadmap, Forest Conservation Policy and the performance targets and milestones developed by the Environmental Paper Network (EPN). The first meeting took place in December 2013. Agenda items included updates on key aspects of the FCP, independent evaluation update, a development request received by a community within our suppliers’ concession and the status of quarantined natural forest wood material. The APP Independent Observer programme (IO) was established in 2013 to facilitate independent monitoring of our FCP implementation. The programme allows stakeholders to participate in on-the-ground monitoring, either through flyovers or field trips to witness the FCP in action for themselves. The results are reported via TFT progress reports and APP’s Sustainability Roadmap updates. 36 CH 05 Materiality In 2013 we carried out a formal internal materiality process, using APP’s Sustainability & Stakeholder Engagement team to provide feedback on each group of APP’s stakeholders and the level of importance they place on each issue. The results align with previous materiality exercises, including the extensive assessments undertaken to develop the areas of focus for the Roadmap. HIGH MATERIALITY • Reforestation • Conservation & Biodiversity • Fibre Sourcing • Community Empowerment and Welfare MEDIUM MATERIALITY • Indigenous Peoples • Human Rights • Climate Change • Emissions • Employee Welfare • Water Management LOW MATERIALITY • Business Ethics • Product Safety • Solid Waste • Corporate Governance • Research and Development 37 CH 05 Monitoring Progress against our Roadmap goals are communicated through dedicated updates and our annual Sustainability Reports. A separate monitoring dashboard was launched in June 2013 to provide a more up to date overview of progress against the Forest Conservation Policy. The dashboard is a first in the pulp and paper sector and is open to any stakeholder to access. 38 CH 05 Corporate Governance APP applies a number of governance arrangements to The supervisory Board of Commissioners holds ultimate oversee our business. At a corporate level we centrally responsibility for the delivery and management of our manage semi-autonomous mill units, each with their financial, economic and social programmes. Their own board, governance arrangements and independent role incorporates formulating and implementing the financial reports. company’s policies and strategy, risk management, Good Corporate Governance (GCG), and continuously monitoring the performance of the Board of Directors. mill governance structure The composition of the board, including specific roles and remuneration, is described in the respective mills’ General meeting annual reports, which are available to view at our of shareholders website2. Diversity at board level is addressed with the same approach that we use across the organisation; we appoint the most appropriate people for each role, irrespective of gender or other measure of diversity. Board of commissioners Audit committee Board of directors Corporate internal secretary audit Finance & Accounting Procurement Sales & Logistics Marketing HRD & GA LEGAL Production IT (mills) Special projects 2 http://www.asiapulppaper.com/investors 39 CH 05 Sustainability governance Mechanism of sustainability monitoring, reporting & communication Top management (BOD, CEO) External stakeholder (Customers & External stakeholder (government international stakeholders) & national stakeholders) report through press report report through press releases, sustainability releases and other reporting and other public report and one report updates, one on one approach on one approach, sustainability seminars, and other means of communication Sustainability & Stakeholder Corporate affairs & engagement (SSE) communication (CAC) report report SINARMAS Other Mills FORESTRY relevant & OTHERS department socialization of socialization sustainability of relevant related policies regulations, and initiatives CSR strategy and national level initiatives internal stakeholder (shareholders) 40 CH 05 APP’s Top Management team, comprising the CEO, APP Given the importance of the FCP in 2013, a Joint Board of Directors, and share owner representatives Steering Committee meet monthly to assess the are the drivers for APP’s sustainability performance and implementation progress of the FCP. APP, Sinarmas management. Forestry and TFT form the core team of this committee which takes a practical focus on how the FCP is being Two key teams form part of the sustainability implemented, raises any challenges for discussion and governance structure of APP. The Sustainability develops action plans in response to any issues raised. and Stakeholder Engagement (SSE) team are Highlights of each meeting are fed back to APP top responsible for the development of APP’s sustainability management. strategy and the implementation and monitoring of sustainability initiatives. They are also responsible Due to the decentralised nature of APP, a dedicated for communications to all international stakeholders. Strategic Human Assets Re-assessment Key Squad Based in Jakarta, the team have a network of (SHARKS) plays a vital role in maintaining alignment representatives across the world that supports local of the mill business units from top management. The stakeholder engagement in their respective regions. function is responsible for setting targets and KPIs at The team is responsible for stimulating and facilitating the mills, monitoring their performance and reporting these conversations, being both responsive and the mills’ progress to APP management. The data not proactive in their approach. only provides management with a view on progress, it also supports investment decisions that will be vital in The Corporate Affairs and Communications (CAC) realising our Roadmap commitments. Making targets team are responsible for corporate communications, relevant to each mill is a complex task. Given the unique governance and CSR. They engage in the regulatory nature of each production unit or function it would be landscape, monitoring trends and engaging government inappropriate to set group wide targets for each mill via industry associations on various policy issues related to adhere to. Careful consideration is given to the type to pulp and paper manufacturing and product export. of product produced, technological maturity of assets, Issues of a more regional nature, such as minimum and economic and market climate before targets are wages and labour unions are handled by each mill set. The process also facilitates knowledge sharing respectively. National media relations are handled by sessions, bringing the similar functions at each mill the CAC team, whereas local media is the responsibility together to share best practice and discuss process of each mill individually. In terms of CSR, the CAC team improvements. have the oversight of all the mills’ individual initiatives and support them through elevated exposure of their programmes, particularly with local and national government. 41 CH 05 Membership associations Through a diverse range of membership associations, APP engages in the latest sustainability debate, both in the pulp and paper sector and the wider global community. APP has been a member of UNGC since 2008. Starting 2011, major APP mills have committed to the UN CEO Water Mandate, in which APP were elected as chair of the Indonesia working group. We are also supporting the Business for Peace initiative, a new platform to assists companies in implementing responsible business practices Ms Aida Greenbury, APP Managing Director for Sustainability & Stakeholder Engagement is an elected board member of the Lembaga Ekolabel Indonesia (LEI) Indonesian Forestry Certification APP is involved in the multi-stakeholder process to support the IFCC in obtaining full PEFC Cooperation (IFCC) endorsement for Indonesia’s sustainable forest management schemes. Mills in the APP group that are members include Indah Kiat, Tjiwi Kimia and Pindo Deli Mills. Indah Kiat and Tjiwi Kimia have been members since 2012 Sets voluntary industry standards that members, representing over 100 of the world’s largest organisations, agree to adhere to. APP is a member of the Paper, Pulp and Forestry Working Group. Asosiasi Emiten Indonesia A non-profit organisation whose members are public companies or companies listed on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, the Surabaya Stock Exchange and / or other securities exchange 42 CH 05 Water – everybody’s business In 2011 APP was elected as Chair of the Indonesia Water Mandate Working Group. Our role; facilitate learning and encourage the group to share best practice amongst its members. A highlight of 2013 was celebrating World Water Day in March, collaborating with the Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN), UNESCO and Clean Ciliwung Movement (Gerakan Ciliwung Bersih/GCB) to support a series of events aimed at raising public awareness of water issues. One of the outcomes was the formation of a group ‘Together let’s save our water’, inspired by the UN theme of ‘International Water Cooperation’. The group will focus on river preservation in Jakarta, whose main water source, the Ciliwung River, is heavily polluted. The Working Group, led by APP, worked with World Vision Indonesia on a sanitation project in a slum area in Jakarta, seeking to put in place preventative measures for the annual flooding the area experiences. 43 CH 05 Managing risk The Internal Control and Audit Division (ICAD) plays In 2013 we reviewed 121 new cases through the Ethics a critical role in monitoring compliance and business Call Centre, up from 71 the previous year. As awareness ethics across APP. They are responsible for checking of ICAD and the work carried out by the team increases, compliance across all our mills against the full range in conjunction with growing recognition of the Ethics of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that must Call Centre, we have seen a rise in the number of be adhered to. These SOPs cover the full spectrum of reported incidents. We believe this reflects increased a mill’s operations, from finance, through to human awareness of anti-corruption and how to report it. We resources and environmental management. The terminated the employment contracts of 38 employees findings of ICAD are disclosed in a monthly feedback and issued 119 warning letters in response to issues report unique to each mill, and made available to raised. In 2013, 19 cases were passed to the relevant management and shareholders. authorities to be further processed. ICAD is responsible for undertaking group wide risk In 2013 we assessed all of APP’s mills for risks relating analysis. As part of this role ICAD ensures and assesses to corruption, in an effort to further enhance our that control procedures are aligned with SOPs. APP’s monitoring of the Whistle-blower Programme, and to Code of Business Ethics sets out how all employees improve the way that we conduct business across the and directors should behave, covering Standards of entirety of our operations. Based on the result of the Conduct, Compliance with Laws, Conflicts of Interest assessment, we improved several Standard Operating and Business Integrity. Procedures to further enhance anti-corruption practices. Following the launch of our Roadmap, ICAD identified a clear need to improve the procedures used at the All employees receive anti-corruption training as part of mills, in order to achieve these new, stringent goals. their induction when they join APP. For example, ICAD started to audit health and safety in 2013, whilst simultaneously reviewing and improving Financial risk analysis related to corruption and SOPs across all mills. fraud practices across all business units are the responsibility of ICAD. Each unit is assessed against Our Whistle-blower Programme, which we established the control procedure to monitor the risk, before being in 2008, is key to enhancing, controlling and monitoring categorised into high, medium and low risk to focus our operational procedures around fraud and business prioritisation. In collaboration with the finance anticorruption. It is underpinned by our core policies, department, factors that are monitored include pricing, including Standards of Conduct, Compliance with Laws, competition, foreign exchange fluctuations and other and Conflict of Interest and Business Integrity. related economic risks, as well as the availability of raw material and environmental factors including Alongside the programme we established the Ethics climate change. Risks and control procedures are Call Centre as a channel to provide feedback to the monitored monthly and managed through appropriate Head of ICAD. Our Ethics Call Centre provides an management systems. anonymous channel for stakeholders, both internal and external, to report any concerns they have regarding the To further ensure independence , the audit team activities of our company, our suppliers, our partners will be split into two separate divisions in 2014. One or our employees. In addition to issues raised through team will serve as controller, assisting APP mills to the Ethics Call Centre, ICAD also carries our regular comply to relevant standards and regulations –while internal audits. the other will serve as the independent internal audit team responsible for ensuring the consistency of the implementation of those standards including the Whistle Blowing Programme. There will also be further improvement in the categorisation of case handling to enhance the way each case is investigated. 44 CH 05 45 CH 06 Chapter 6 Sustainable Fibre Sourcing CHAPTER 06 46 CH 06 Sourcing sustainable raw material is at the core of APP’s approach to operating responsibly. We do this through progressive management, intensive monitoring and support of our suppliers, engaging independent experts to support us, and reassuring stakeholders through verification and certification. In producing paper based products our paper mills use virgin pulp from two sources. The majority is supplied through our own pulp mills, Lontar Papyrus and Indah Kiat Perawang. The remainder is purchased from external suppliers, and in the case of two of our mills, Ekamas Fortuna and Indah Kiat Serang, supplemented with recycled fibre. Fibre sources for paper production recycled 36% local pulp 49% imported pulp 15% Lontar Papyrus and Indah Kiat Perawang supply the majority of virgin pulp to our paper mills. It is here where we concentrate significant efforts to ensure the raw material, plantation fibre from Indonesian forests, and ‘local virgin pulp’ entering these sites is responsibly sourced. APP itself does not directly manage any forest area; we procure wood fibre entering our pulp mills via Sinarmas Forestry (SMF), who is responsible for the direct relationships with the forest concession holders. 47 CH 06 MAP of APP concessions Arara abadi Satria perkasa agung Riau andalan lestari sumalindo hutani jaya east kalimantan WEST kalimantan RIAU PROVINCE JAMBI PROVINCE Wirakarya sakti Finnantara intiga Sustainable Forest Management Our Vision 2020 Roadmap includes four commitments related to our fibre sourcing. We are on track or ahead of target for all four of these commitments. FIBRE SOURCING. VISION 2020 COMMITMENTS 100% independent 3rd party Achieved Accelerated progress and verification (minimum requireachieved by end 2012 ment is verification against at least one scheme) for pulpwood legality. Zero High Conservation Value On track APP pulp wood suppliers Fibre stopped all conversion of natural forest in January 2013 to allow for HCV and HCS assessments 100% sustainable plantation Ahead of APP pulp wood suppliers wood for pulp by 2015, subject target ended delivery of natural to maximum tolerance of 5% for forest wood to APP pulp waste and residue (2012 target mills by end of August 12%) 2013. 100% Sustainable Forest ManOn track 46% agement (SFM) certified pulpwood. Maintain a sustainable proporOn track In 2013, 36% of our tion of recovered fibre in addiraw material was from tion to renewable virgin Fibre. recycled sources (37 % in 2012) 48 CH 06 Forest Conservation Policy Commitments and Progress Incorporated into Vision 2020 and central to our commitments to demonstrate a sustainable source of raw material is our Forest Conservation Policy (FCP). Announced in February 2013, bringing forward our fibre sourcing commitments by two years, it applies to APP and all our suppliers. 2013 was a year of practical implementation, taking our commitments and implementing them on the ground within our suppliers’ concessions. It is a huge challenge that involves a change in mind-set right from top management down to the forestry workers. This chapter includes information on our progress against these commitments, and the approach we intend to take in the future to ensure that we reach our ambitious goals. Specific and up to date details about our progress are always available on our Sustainability Monitoring Dashboard3. Developed with our partners The Forest Trust (TFT) the dashboard allows stakeholders to monitor our progress for themselves, providing the in-depth data, reports, coverage of the challenges we face and remedial action we take. TFT – a crucial partner APP has been working with The Forest Trust (TFT), a global non-profit organisation, since February 2012. Their role is to provide technical and strategic advice on and monitor the implementation of our FCP commitment, including issues around High Conservation Value Forests, community conflicts and wider social and environmental issues. They supported us through the development of some of the key aspects of our Sustainability Roadmap Vision 2020: APP Responsible Fibre Procurement and Purchasing Policy, scorecard development, and HCV and Forest Moratorium. The aim of our partnership is to increase transparency with our stakeholders. TFT has full access to our data and operations, and to our suppliers, to allow them to advise and critically assess our progress. Their involvement is vital to the success of APP’s FCP. 3 Refer to APP Sustainability Dashboard at http://www.tft.chainfood.com/ 49 CH 06 Our Forest Conservation Policy commitments APP and its suppliers will only develop areas that are not forested, as identified through independent HCV and HCS assessments. APP will support the Government of Indonesia’s low emission development goal and its target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In order to avoid and resolve social conflicts across its supply chain APP will actively seek and incorporate input and feedback from a wide range of stakeholders, including civil society. APP sources fibre from all around the world and is developing measures to ensure that this sourcing supports responsible forest management. 50 CH 06 High Conservation Value (HCV) and High Carbon Stock (HCS) Assessment APP made the commitment to end deforestation across its supply chain on February 1st 2013. The first step APP needed to take was to identify areas of high conservation value, including natural forest areas inside its suppliers’ production forest concession area. To do that APP adopted High Conservation Value and High Carbon Stock assessments. A moratorium on natural clearance forest clearance was imposed to allow for these assessments. • HCV High Conservation Value areas are those that contain biological, ecological, social or cultural values which are considered critically important or outstandingly significant. The concept was originally developed by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). HCV describes an area categorised by one or more of the following indicators4: Indicator Definition Present in assessment area HCV 1 High biodiversity value Species diversity HCV 2 Significant ecosystem Landscape-level with high ecological ecosystems and value mosaics HCV 3 Rare or endangered Ecosystems and ecosystem habitats HCV 4 Provides high value Ecosystem services environmental services HCV 5 Critical for meeting Community needs basic needs of local people HCV 6 Critical for maintaining Cultural values cultural identity of local communities 4 http://www.hcvnetwork.org/resources/folder.2006-09-29.6584228415/2013_commonguidancev5 51 CH 06 Identification of these sensitive areas underpins the ongoing management of the forest area. Asia-Pacific Consulting Solutions (APCS) and Ekologika have undertaken independent assessments, using on-the-ground data collection to categorise the forest area, the outputs of which determine the location of these high conservation values within the production forest area and what management plans need to be in place to maintain and/or enhance those values. The assessments are not limited to technical evaluation. They involve a critical stakeholder consultation stage with the community and other stakeholders with an interest in the assessment area to provide input on areas considered of high conservation values, and to discuss and resolve any issues identified. Assessments always apply the precautionary principle; if there is any doubt as to the status of a particular area of land; activities are halted until this is clear and agreed between all parties. 38 concessions, totalling 2.6 million Ha are undergoing evaluation. By July 2014, full HCV assessments for all 38 concessions will be completed. At the end of 2013, seven of these concessions were undergoing full assessment, while the remaining 20 were in the pre-assessment stage. The target completion date for the first 11 concessions was pushed back from October 2013 to June 2014 due to the complexities of managing multiple HCV assessment teams across four provinces simultaneously over one million Ha of land. The multi-stakeholder consultation and peer review process also took more time than originally forecast. We took the view that the priority was to carry out the assessment in the detail required and move back the original deadline. Our FCP Dashboard includes more information on our HCV assessments. The overall results will go through a period of consultation with key stakeholders, before being fed into our Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Plans (ISFMP). Read more about our ISFMPs on page 56. 52 CH 06 • HCS Moratorium breaches High Carbon Stock areas are those where the land has Two forest moratorium breaches took place in a high concentration of organic matter above ground. 2013, resulting in a total forest clearance of 140 As organic matter stores carbon, the protection of Ha. APP self-reported these breaches through these areas is critical in mitigating against climate our Roadmap Progress Update reports and change. our Dashboard. As a result of these breaches we have introduced new procedures to prevent Conducting HCS assessments across all our pulpwood the same issues from re-occurring, and we suppliers’ concessions assists us in identifying natural have used the findings to improve the FCP. forest areas, which we have committed to protecting. More information can be found in our Roadmap The HCS approach, which was initially developed Progress Update reports. by Greenpeace, Golden Agri Resources (a sister company of APP) and TFT, involves a combination of satellite analysis, observations on the ground and Ending the use of Natural aerial surveys, to categorise the land owned by our Forest Wood concessions into six classes. These classes are used to distinguish natural forest which has a high carbon A key aspect of the moratorium is the stock, from degraded land and former forest, where monitoring of the natural forest wood (NFW), only small trees, scrub or grassland remain. The six also known as mixed tropical hardwood classes of vegetation are: (MTH), that was cut before the February 2013 moratorium. APP, with the support of TFT, developed a robust inventory system called • High Density Forest Stock Opname, which allowed us to track the • Medium Density Forest movement of NFW cut before the moratorium • Low Density / older on its journey along the supply chain to the regenerating Forest mills. At the launch of the FCP in February 2013, it was agreed that all NFW that had THRESHOLD already been felled prior to the moratorium • Old Scrub / re-generating forest would be consumed by our mills. However, • Young Scrub further consultation with our stakeholders • Cleared/Open Land identified the need for a clear cut-off date for the receipt of the NFW by our mills. In June 2013, APP set 31st August 2013 as the HCS assessments began in January 2013 and were deadline after which no NFW felled prior to the completed for 20 priority concessions by the end of moratorium could enter APP’s pulp mills. 2013. However, they required additional refinement to improve the correlation between desktop and the In 2013, 56% of the NFW was delivered to the field level data. HCS is a new concept in forestry, mills before the cut-off. The remaining timber and the methodology used has been developed for has been sold to third parties (2%), allocated palm oil plantations. We revise the methodologies to internal use such as infrastructure (4%), we use to better align to plantation forests to ensure and lost in handling (4%). We are working with that we achieve the highest quality results. We have NGOs and stakeholders to find an alternative communicated these delays to our stakeholders via use for the remaining 34%, stockpiled at our Roadmap Progress Update reports, and through APP’s suppliers’ concessions. The results our Dashboard. of our monthly inventory of remaining NFW are published on our Dashboard. Under no Assessments in the remaining 18 concessions are circumstances will this material be used for expected in the third quarter of 2014 and we have pulp production. commissioned Ata Marie Group to provide additional resource to our assessment work. Once we have completed the HCS assessments we intend to develop a methodology and the necessary tools to account for above and below ground carbon balance of our suppliers’ forests in Indonesia. By 2015 we plan to identify and share best practice and by 2020 we plan to incorporate our findings into our ISFMPs. 53 CH 06 Responsible Water Management A vital part of sustainable forest management is Sustainable peatland management managing water responsibly. This is particularly Peatlands store a significant amount of important for the forest concessions that are carbon, both above and below ground. situated in peatland areas and we expect our Responsible management of these areas suppliers to manage and mitigate impacts on maintains this vital global carbon stores and the quality and quantity of ground and surface minimises emissions from decaying biomass. waters. We have pledged to protect areas where our In peatland forests the water table level is forest concessions are found on peatland managed through a system of canals with across APP’s supply chain, a commitment flow gates, allowing control of both the water which aligns to the Government of Indonesia’s level and quality in distinct zones. Water level low emission development goal. Our management also helps to protect the delicate efforts include the adoption of best practice ecosystem and limit the amount of carbon management to reduce and avoid greenhouse dioxide released from the peat deposits. gas emissions within the peatland landscape. It also improves the fertilisation process; ground water is required for the ion exchange In September 2013 we identified a team of process between fertiliser and plants. Flow independent peat experts to help us identify management is also considered on a wider and establish best practice with respect to landscape scale, helping to control flow outside the management of plantations and natural of the concession boundaries during periods forests on peatland. Many of these experts of rainfall. Water quality is continuously are hydrology professionals with extensive monitored, the results of which must meet experience working in the area of peat soil government standards. science. The independent peat expert team is being led by the Wageningen University In non-peatland forest concession areas our and Research (WUR) centre and will begin suppliers monitor ground water levels and working with APP in January 2014. During a minimise fertiliser and water use during the three month Inception Phase, the team will initial planting phase. analyse current peat management issues and opportunities in APP supplier concessions. The result of the Inception Phase will be used by the peat expert team to propose an outline plan for a follow-up second phase of the work, which will involve developing an approach for moving towards responsible peat management. Along with the results of the HCV and HCS assessments, recommendations from the peat expert team will be used to develop APP’s Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Plans (ISFMPs). 2013 saw us working with all our suppliers to halt any further canal or infrastructure activities within undeveloped concessions on non-forested peatland until independent HCV assessments, including input from peat experts, have taken place. 54 CH 06 Forest Fires Forest fires are a major concern to APP. They threaten the source of our raw material and put our suppliers’ employees at risk. APP’s position is clear. We operate a No Burn policy (introduced in 1996) across all our suppliers’ concessions and invest heavily in prevention, detection and suppression of fires. We install and maintain fire lookouts, aerial patrols, ground patrols and engage with local communities, spending $4m on such activities in 2013. The majority of fires are caused by individuals who want to clear land using the cheapest method available to them, the driver being to prepare land for subsistence farming or agriculture. To reduce fire incidents we must target these cultural and economic root causes. We work with the Community Fire Awareness (MPA) programme, set up across over 120 communities surrounding concession areas, tasked with conducting fire patrols and fire suppression. By engaging with the community our goal is to change the mind-set and show by example that fire is not an acceptable land clearance method. Satellite data is provided daily by the ASEAN Specialised Meteorological Centre, identifying hotspots and providing early warning of a fire developing. This is backed up by on the ground patrols that verify the satellite data and prompt the necessary response. If a fire is confirmed and is small enough to be dealt with locally, crews work with land based equipment to extinguish it. Larger fires or those which threaten critical areas require additional support from helicopters equipped with specialised buckets for dropping water. For communities affected by poor air quality caused by fires, we distribute face masks and support local hospitals in providing necessary treatments. We also distribute water pumps to affected communities which are used to extinguish small fires. 55 CH 06 Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Plan (ISFMP) 2013 has been a year of monumental change within APP, and as you have read in this report, we have undertaken extensive assessment work that will allows us to operate our business more profitably and sustainably. The next stage is to combine the results of all this assessment work into a robust and cohesive approach towards achieving sustainably and responsibly managed plantations. This will be done through the development of Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Plans (ISFMPs). ISFMPs will combine the results of all assessment work – HCV, HCS peatland, social conflict mapping and growth • and yield – into long-term action plans for our suppliers. In developing these ISFMPs, we will look at priority landscapes rather than simply looking at management within the concession boundaries. Concessions will be grouped according to their role in these priority landscapes thus ensuring a more holistic approach to conservation and land management. We call this the ‘landscape approach’. We will introduce two pilot schemes in Jambi Province in 2014, after which we will roll out to other concessions. HCV Study HCS Study Peatland Social growth & yield Areas with Areas that Management management Assessing current outstandingly contain abovePeat experts FPIC for new & potential significant ground biomass. assessment and development, plantation or critically vegetation cover, recommendations social mapping yield across all important meaning it stores for best practice for responsible suppliers area ecological, social, a large amount of management conflict resolution or cultural value. carbon integrated sustainable forest management plan (ISFMP) Supplier monitoring The development of our pulpwood supplier scorecards during 2013 will help us implement the ISFMPs during 2014. Incorporating seven elements – social, environment, health and safety, planning, human rights, chain of custody and administration – the scorecards include over 800 criteria that every supplier is expected to meet, aligned to the necessary certification schemes. Each of the criteria will be assigned a weighting according to its relative importance. Our suppliers will be monitored every three months to assess compliance against the scorecard. Where suppliers do not score well, our response will not be to immediately withdraw from the relationships. Rather, an action plan will be drawn up for each concession to assist them in meeting the requirements over an agreed timeframe. If they continue to fail to meet the agreed action plan it may result in the termination of our supply contract. In 2013 we piloted the scorecards across all 38 concessions using 100 checkpoints to reflect priority issues. Within this period we were forced to take action on one occasion and the supplier in question has been delisted for not complying with our FCP commitments. During 2014 the full scorecards will be fully rolled-out across our concessions. 56 CH 06 Certification and verification Sustainable Forest Management certification and verification Third party certification is a vital tool for our suppliers to demonstrate to APP, and in • SVLK (Timber Legality Verification System) is turn APP’s stakeholders, the sustainability a government mandatory certification scheme credentials of the raw materials supplied to our that ensures that wood products are produced, pulp and paper mills. Third party certification distributed and marketed legally, based covers two related aspects of our supply chain: on Indonesian laws and regulations. It is a sustainable forest management, covering all stepping stone to achieving the full mandatory aspects of a well-managed forest; and chain of sustainable forest management certification. custody, covering the traceability of pulpwood The system has been approved by the European from the forest through to our customers as an Union as Indonesia’s Voluntary Partnership end product. Agreement (VPA) to meet the due diligence requirement of EU’s Forest Law Enforcement, Today, one certification standard does not exist Governance & Trade (FLEGT) regulation. that adequately addresses the unique nature of plantation forestry in Indonesia. We therefore • PHPL (Sustainable Production Forest embrace a number of relevant credible schemes Management) certification is a mandatory to certify and verify our sustainable forest Sustainable Forest Management scheme management, as well as the sustainability that is independently verified by a nationally of the wood entering our mills, recognising accredited certification body. that certification is a key aspect of our Forest Conservation Policy. • LEI SPFM (Indonesian Eco label Institute Sustainable Plantation Forest Management) Our customers and other stakeholders are is a voluntary scheme that includes indicators increasingly requesting more detail fibre that examine the sustainability of production traceability information from APP. To speed and its environmental, social and economic up our response to their enquiries we are impact. Currently it is the only voluntary working with TFT to refine our chain of custody national standard that is applicable and procedures. credible for forest plantation management in Indonesia. Environmental Credentials of APP fibre source, 2013 • In October 2007 the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) dissociated with APP due to concerns regarding our forest practices. Following the implementation of our FCP we approached FSC 18% with a request to enter constructive dialogue with the organisation. APP was pleased to learn that the FSC publically welcomed APP’s FCP 36% and is willing to engage with us to understand more about its implementation. APP’s goal is to be formally re-associated with FSC and will work with the organisation to achieve this. 17% 29% Legal origin verified Recycled Certified Third Party verified 57 CH 06 Chain of Custody To demonstrate traceability of fibre from the forest through to end product a robust chain of custody must be in place. Essentially these systems establish procedures to document and physically manage material through the supply chain. The various Sustainable Forest Management schemes used by APP have chain of custody standards which each APP mill and suppliers must be independently certified to. Such schemes also stipulate all fibre must be legally sourced, or from ‘non-controversial’ sources. sustainable forest management certification/verification nursery Planting Plantation conservation boundary control Harvesting transport Chain of custody Customers paper manufacture storage 58 CH 06 Social conflict management INDIGENOUS PEOPLE Adopt international guidelines On track • Commitment to for the protection of indigenous Free Prior Informed people’s customary rights in the Consent through the forest. implementation of four pilot projects • Social conflict mapping training provided for 400 supplier employees & APP senior management • 100% land claim conflict mapping completed Social conflict across our supply chain is an ongoing With the new procedure in place, we provided social challenge for us at APP, and one that we actively seek conflict mapping training for more than 400 of APP’s to address. In order to do so, we have developed a suppliers’ staff, as well as providing social conflict number of protocols, which are living documents, resolution training materials for our own senior designed to be continuously updated. We have managers and teams at APP headquarters. A total sought external stakeholder feedback on these of 389 employees have received this training to date. protocols through focus group discussions, and have This training has been put to the test across all 38 of incorporated many of the resultant recommendations our suppliers’ concessions; all those trained were within the documents. asked to carry out conflict mapping using our new methodology, and we now expect each concession to Land tenure is where the majority of the conflicts arise update their map as and when new conflicts arise. between our suppliers and communities in and around Our partner, TFT, has analysed the results of the the concession areas. The main issue is lack of clarity initial mapping exercise and we are in the process around land allocation and precise boundaries. This of developing action plans for all APP suppliers to makes the process of clearly identifying community address any identified conflict with the community. boundaries within a concession area during license application difficult. The original boundary agreements Consistent with our approach to training and continual and approvals by the Ministry of Forestry are also development, we will use each case of social conflict challenged in some cases, making dialogue to resolve as a learning and capacity building opportunity, to the conflict necessary. assist us in better dealing with situations as and when they arise in the future. More detail can be accessed In order to help avoid and resolve social conflict, we through our Dashboard. consulted with NGOs in 2013 to develop a procedure for conflict resolution, which includes Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC), before trialling it at four pilot sites where social conflict has been a significant issue. Through on-going engagement with local and national NGOs, the government and local communities, we are pleased to have resolved a long-standing land tenure issue between Senyerang village and one of APP’s pulpwood suppliers, PT Wira Karya Sakti (WKS). TFT facilitated the discussions, helping the two parties to arrive at a Memorandum of Understanding. Conflict resolution at our other pilot sites in Jambi, Riau and South Sumatra is still underway using the new social protocols and procedures. Our progress can be tracked through our Dashboard. 59 CH 06 Conservation & Biodiversity CONSERVATION AND BIODIVERSITY Support the national On track Highlights in 2013 target to preserve include HCV and designated protected HCS assessments, and conservation areas. inauguration of Ramin nursery and ongoing development programmes within the GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve Support the national On track Highlights in 2013 target to increase by include Javan Rhino 3% the population of 14 monitoring, Sumatran specified endangered tiger population species. studies and elephant conservation programme collaboration with our supplier TMA. With such a high proportion of our raw material being sourced from plantations in Indonesia, home to some of the world’s most diverse and valuable natural forests, our responsibility to protect and enhance biodiversity is considerable. Based on the Environmental Impact Assessment conducted prior to plantation development, one potential impact of our suppliers’ operations, both in terms of plantation development and ongoing management, is the loss of diversity. To manage these impacts we enforce sustainable forest management, built into the licensing of our concessions, which includes provision for preserving natural forest adjacent to plantations. The way this is enforced varies by concession, depending on the landscape characteristics of the area. The HCV assessments also include biodiversity aspects and form part of the biodiversity management tool post-assessment. For our mills located in Sumatra, biodiversity protection is linked to the activities of our pulpwood suppliers. The animals inhabiting Indonesia’s forests are not confined to the boundaries of human land ownership. As such, we will evaluate the wide range of species present and collaborate with all our stakeholders to protect these species across their entire habitat. 60 CH 06 Coupled with this, we are in the process of establishing a foundation to fund these extensive conservation initiatives, to encourage involvement from third parties. The four key objectives of the foundation will be to: • Maintain viable populations of the four key species (orangutans, rhinos, elephants and tigers); • Identify, protect and where necessary restore critical habitats; • Stabilise and then increase key species populations over time; • Secure the funding and capacity required to meet these objectives. Additional information on the foundation will be available on our Dashboard, once it is established. 61 CH 06 Protecting endangered species In 2009 APP carried out an in-depth assessment to Protecting Javan Rhino identify IUCN Red List species within our supplier’s concession areas5. We intend to repeat this study The Javan rhino is another critically endangered during 2014 to refresh our inventory. Throughout species; it is the most threatened of the five 2013 we used our results from 2009 to inform our remaining rhino species. Today they are only investment in a number of initiatives to protect Javan found in the western-most tip of Java Island in and Sumatran rhinos, Sumatran tigers, orangutans, Ujung Kulon National Park with the population Sumatran elephants, and ramin. These species are at estimated to be between 38 and 65. During the heart of our conservation efforts. 2013 our collaboration programme with Office of Ujung Kulon National Park (BTNUK) and Javan Rhino Conservation Working Group (Pokja AKBJ) included conducting a three month Tiger Conservation in Forest survey to establish an inventory of Javan rhinos Plantation Landscape using 60 camera traps throughout the Ujung The Sumatran tiger is one of five remaining tiger Kulon National Park. The survey identified 18 species. With an estimated population around individuals of rhinos. We also conducted a Javan 400, it is categorised as a critically endangered rhino behaviour study, as well as support in species on the IUCN Red list. During the first half controlling the growth of the langkap trees in a of 2013 we conducted an exercise to mitigate 10ha area of Ujung Kulon National Park, so that the conflict between human and tigers in our the area can be re-utilised by the rhino in their wood supplier concessions and surrounding exploration, and can also be used as corridor landscape in Jambi and South Sumatra, together to facilitate movement between the northwith our partner Sumatran Tiger Foundation western and eastern area of the park. During (YPHS) and Natural Resources Conservation the programme we receive support from the Agency (BKSDA) Jambi. Later in the year we communities living within the national park. In continued the programme, educating all workers return we provided clean water facilities in two and contractors in two concessions in South villages, Desa Cibadak and Desa Rancapinang. Sumatra, teaching them the importance of tiger conservation, and how to avoid and minimise conflict with tiger while they are working in the field. In the later part of 2013 we conducted a study on tiger and prey population using a Bornean Orangutan Conservation camera traps method. This 16 week study using The Kutai National Park in East Kalimantan 30 camera traps stations helped us to identify is one of the last remaining habitats of the at least four tigers roaming within one of our morio sub species of orang-utan. As one of our suppliers concession. wood suppliers concession, SRH, is adjecent to the park, we have established an orangutan conservation programme focusing on education and awareness as well as human-orangutan conflict mitigation. In collaboration with OFI we Ramin Conservation provided education and awareness raising on Building on the success of our ramin orangutan conservation to 100 students of junior conservation project, established in October and senior high schools in Sebulu village, Kutai 2012 in collaboration with Center for Kartanegara district. We also provided training Biotechnology and Forest Tree Improvement to 135 employees and 90 contractors on our zero (BBPBPTH) and the Ministry of Forestry, we tolerance policy on harming endangerd animals. collected 13,875 wild seedlings of ramin from We also supported a collaborative orangutan West Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan and Riau. conflict mitigation team between SRH, Kutai NP We conducted research on ramin’s macroand BKSDA Kaltim. In central Kalimantan, we propagation and tissue culture techniques both assisted OFI in releaseing 32 captive orangutans in the laboratory of our pulpwood supplier, back to the wild in Seruyan forest. Arara Abadi and in BBPBPTH, Jogjakarta. We established a new 500m² nursery with a capacity of 65,000 seedlings that was inaugurated by the Director of Biodiversity Conservation and by the Head of Research & Development Center for Forest Productivity Improvement, Ministry of Forestry, in December 2013. 5 available in Sustainability Report 2010/11 62 CH 06 In developing countries such as Indonesia, social awareness and community empowerment is crucial in ensuring that conservation efforts are sustainable. This is why in addition to biodiversity protection initiatives we also implement community development programs. Some of our social initiatives link directly to our flagship conservation programmes, such as those in the Giam Siak Kecil-Bukit Batu (GSKBB) biosphere reserve in Sumatra. Others relate to our conservation efforts and those of our suppliers, but are not specifically aligned to our flagship conservation programmes. We provide many community initiatives that do not link directly to our conservation work, for which more information can be found in our People and Community section of this report. 63 CH 06 Flagship conservation programme goes from strength to strength The Giam Siak Kecil-Bukit Batu (GSK-BB) Biosphere Reserve in Sumatra is one of our flagship conservation programmes. Located in central Sumatra the reserve represents a UNESCO concept for a landscape level approach to conservation. It is characterised by distinct zones which are central to effective conservation management. In our two previous sustainability reports we reported on management and ownership structure of the reserve, and a number of conservation and wider initiatives that have been executed. The ambition of the programme is for it to become a global model biosphere reserve, demonstrating how a successful co-management approach led by the private sector can transform communities from dependency on natural resources to sustainable self-sufficiency. The programme also supports research, training and education. Buffer Zone 222,436 Hectares Core area 178,722 Hectares Transition Area 304,123 Hectares In August 2013 Sinarmas Forestry, in collaboration with UNESCO MAB, LIPI, Ministry of Forestry and the local government of Riau, launched the GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve Vision 2020 Roadmap to Sustainable Co-Management. The plan sets out key milestones in the continuing development of the reserve. Components of the GSK BR Vision 2020 Roadmap to Sustainable Co-Management Project Development Eco-Biodiversity Forest and Management Conservation Protection Sustainable Management of Reforestation Ecosystem Value Forests and Services Community Engagement Governance, Linkages and Empowerment and Communications 64 CH 06 The GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve is a solid demonstration of sustainable development in action. I APPlaud the efforts of the private sector in taking the initiative, and linking up with other relevant stakeholders to implement the GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve Master Plan.” Ir Ahmad Saerozi, Head, Natural Resources Conservation Agency of Riau (BBKSDA Riau) Specific activities in 2013 included preparations for developing a central field station within the reserve. It will serve as a research centre, training facility and offer accommodation for visitors. It will also act as a hub for many of our community programmes based within the reserve, we intend for it to be operational by the end of 2014. GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve facts • Covers a total are of 705,000 hectares, almost the same as Jakarta • Most of the land is covered by tropical peat forests, with the water table close to the surface • The world’s first co-managed biosphere reserve • Home to 195 plants, 173 trees and 46 mammal species • Preliminary assessments show the forest biomass to contain between 28 and 58 million tonnes of CO2, with the peat soil containing between 1.3 and 2.1 billion tonnes CO2. 65 CH 06 Research & Development Through dedicated forest research and development centres at two of our main suppliers’ sites we support tree production and improvement programmes. These centres provide most of the cultivated trees that are planted in their concessions, which are grown from cuttings or tissue cultures. Incorporated into this process is the ongoing development of species with enhanced properties to protect against disease and reduce chemical and water requirement. APP has a clear position on Genetically Modified Organism (GMO), incorporated into our Responsible Fibre Procurement and Purchasing Policy, which our suppliers must adhere to. Growth and Yield APP is a growing business, and we rely on a continuous and reliable supply of fibre to maintain sustainable business operations over the long term. In 2013 we asked TFT to conduct an independent assessment of the long-term availability of sustainably sourced raw materials for our pulp mills, to determine whether we have sufficient access to plantation fibre to meet our demand in the future. We also engaged independent experts from Ata Marie Group, who specialise in forest inventory, growth and yield monitoring and wood supply forecasting. 66 CH 06 Support to reach our Vision 2020 Roadmap goals After the initial implementation of a new policy, roadmap or strategy, it is vital that we monitor our progress against it, both within our own operations and across our supplier base. We recognise that for many of our suppliers, our commitments and targets can be a daunting task, and we are fully committed to assisting them in reaching these goals. After all, we are reliant on the support of our suppliers if we are to achieve the ambitious nature of our Roadmap. We have implemented a series of protocols to help guide our suppliers on the moratorium of natural forest clearance within their concession areas. These documents are living documents, subject to continual improvement, and include: moratorium and implementation; grievance; independent observer; social and community engagement; and new area development. Transparent platform to engage In developing both our Vision 2020 targets and the The launch of our risk assessment team came as a FCP, we drew upon the opinions and feedback from result of the findings from our grievance process. The our stakeholders. This approach did not stop once team’s remit includes identifying potential obstacles the commitments were published; we want to bring to the successful implementation of the FCP, and it stakeholders with us on our journey, using their will be expected to share the findings within the focus insight to strengthen our approach. group discussions, seeking stakeholder input and APP’s Independent Observer Programme, recommendations on solutions to the challenges.In introduced in 2013, provides NGOs who wish to October 2013 Greenpeace published its own review of observe our operations first hand to visit our our progress against the FCP. The report acknowledged concessions and see our FCP in action, offering the challenges ahead, and made constructive them the opportunity to assess the implementation recommendations for tackling them. We are pleased for themselves. with our progress to date being recognised by external stakeholders and remain committed to continue this In March 2013 we received a report from an NGO trend through clear and transparent communications on Consortium of a breach of the FCP in Kalimantan. our progress and challenges we face on our journey. Following an investigation by TFT we discovered that the clearing was carried out by a neighbouring oil palm company where the forest boundaries were not clearly defined, so consequently the FCP had The longer-term success of not been breached. Our response was to begin a the FCP will stand or fall by programme to map out boundary overlaps, calling how APP’s implementation of upon government ministries and local authorities conservation and management for their support. Further information is available practices contributes to the on our Dashboard, which plays a key role in not only protection and rehabilitation of disclosing grievances but also showing the nature the broader forest and peatland of the complaint, stakeholders involved, how each landscapes in indonesia within issue is resolved, and if required, a full verification which its suppliers operate. report from TFT. Source: APP’s FCP progress review October 2013, Greenpeace 67 CH 06 Interview with Mr. Zulfahmi, Greenpeace Indonesia How do you interact with APP? Greenpeace meets with APP’s technical team regularly to ensure the commitments within APP’s FCP are being implemented on the ground. We also do independent monitoring in the field and discuss potential social issues with the communities, before providing suggestions to APP for future improvement. What do you see as the major challenges in the implementation of APP’s FCP commitments? After the FCP was announced in February 2013, the biggest challenge was for APP to ensure its employees and all of its suppliers understand what the FCP means in reality and how to implement the commitments on the ground. The second challenge for APP is to start to build stakeholder confidence in the FCP by demonstrating that it is genuinely implementing these commitments. We believe that if properly implemented, the FCP will have a positive impact on protecting Indonesia’s rainforests and also assist the Indonesian government in meeting its targets for reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. As of 31st August 2013, APP’s mills no longer accept wood from areas of natural forest across Indonesia. How significant is this commitment in the context of Indonesia’s forestry? For APP to stop using rainforest fibre is a significant commitment to build public trust in the FCP. This commitment is measurable and easy to monitor by checking all of the incoming timber at each of APP’s pulp mills. APP should increase its transparency about the cut-off date of using Mixed Tropical Hardwood (MTH) in its products. This may influence others to follow their example. What’s your impression of APP’s work to resolve land rights issues and what more should the company be doing? Land rights and conflicts are a significant issue throughout Indonesia, across multiple sectors and industries. Regulation of land tenure is inconsistent in Indonesia and therefore, a huge number of ongoing conflicts over land rights between the state, indigenous people, and companies have yet to be resolved. Given APP suppliers’ concessions covers 2.6 million hectares of land, it is not surprising that a number of conflicts still exist. APP’s land conflict assessment and resolution process to respect the international principle of Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) should, if implemented comprehensively, help to address such conflicts. Already, a case where a social conflict existed in Jambi province was a good example on how APP’s conflict resolution process can work in practice. APP should learn from their experience in the Jambi case and continue to work in this way. However, they should build their internal capacity to identify and negotiate with communities on the ground, on their own. APP’s resources are currently coming from partners, such as The Forest Trust (TFT), and suppliers’ concessions. Land tenure is a really important issue for Greenpeace and mainly other NGOs. Greenpeace is pushing the government to develop its land rights policy and will continue to do so. What’s your perception of the Dashboard? The Dashboard is a valuable tool for APP to promote transparency in its delivery of its FCP. However, it is not yet clear how many stakeholders are currently using the Dashboard. We would like APP to improve its disclosure and communication on forest and peatland fires, especially because there is so much speculation and public attention to this issue at the moment. How big are the areas being burned? Why are there fires in its suppliers’ concessions, what are the causes and what is it doing to prevent further forest and peatland fires? APP should take a leadership role with respect to this issue and help provide a solution. 68 CH 06 Can you see the positive impacts that the FCP is having with paper buyers? Yes, the FCP has had a positive impact with a number of APP’s customers and former customers. Companies are increasingly thinking for the future and we hope to see more companies in Indonesia follow the approach APP is taking. What is your message to companies who buy paper from APP? One of APP’s greatest challenges is how the company transparently engage with its stakeholders in order to independently demonstrate its performance against the FCP. We advise companies to seek evidence that APP continues to implement its FCP commitments, and to make this part of their ongoing commercial agreements. Rainforest Alliance – Evaluating FCP In September 2013 we began discussions with Rainforest Alliance that resulted in an agreement for the organisation to carry out independent evaluation of FCP implementation progress in Indonesia in 2014, culminating in an independent report to be published in Q4 2014. We agreed on a set of indicators for the evaluation to be made against, covering the key aspects of the FCP and a number of other public commitments APP have made. This evaluation will involve document and map reviews, interviews, and correlating this with direct field observations within a sample set of concessions. 69 CH 07 Chapter 7 our People CHAPTER 07 70 CH 07 PEOPLE AT A GLANCE Employee composition at management level APP is one of Indonesia’s largest employers. The 2013 2012 2011 employment opportunities at our mills are especially important in some of the remote regions where we < 30 M 7 13 39 operate. We recognise that our relationship with our F 1 2 employees and with the communities surrounding our mills is intrinsic to the success of our business. 30 50 M 1,183 1,287 1,559 F 98 95 APP’s employees drive our business and their welfare 50 + M 355 354 is critical, yet this is just part of a much bigger picture. 241 F 13 14 The majority of our employees live in local host communities where our mills are located, and it is therefore in our interests to create a hygienic, safe and prosperous environment around our mills, to Employee Welfare maintain our social licence to operate and to enable both our employees and local residents to thrive. We achieve this through actively engaging with our Our employees are guided by the APP Employee internal and external stakeholders, and building Welfare Policy, which was updated as part of our capacity within local host communities through Roadmap commitments in 2012. various initiatives, the most recent of which and are described on page 78. We strive to remain competitive in the marketplace with respect to the remuneration and benefits offered The effects of our operations don’t stop there. We to our employees. The base pay for our employees indirectly support a much wider community through across all of our mills is equal to local minimum wage. the opportunities created by our suppliers, and other APP also provides annual holiday entitlement and services required to sustain a growing population medical benefits, in addition to pension provision for around each of the mills. Our approach is to select all employees, which follows Indonesian government suppliers primarily on price, quality and availability, regulation. Our incentive plans for outstanding however the majority of our suppliers are local to our achievement link to our continual efforts to retain mills, with 77% procured within the same islands. talented employees. In 2013 we employed 40,072 staff directly and As part of our long-term commitment to our employees, 8,391 indirectly6. All of our employees work on a we offer end-of-career support aimed at helping their full time contract either at our mills or at our head transition to retirement, or re-training to develop office in Jakarta. Fixed term contracts apply to 8% additional skills required to embrace a career change. of our workforce; typically they are on a two year The nature of this support varies at each of our mills employment contract as a probationary period before and includes both internal and external training moving to a full time contract, in line with Indonesian courses, and retirement pay that accounts for age and employment law. length of service. In the event of operational changes, APP allows a minimum of seven days’ notice, as per Employee composition by type of employment Government of Indonesia regulation. 2013 2012 2011 Historically APP has always attracted a high proportion Direct M 34,774 36,813 34,427 of male employees due to the manual nature of much 40,072 of the work available, which is typical of the global F 5,298 6,130 6,145 pulp and paper industry. We are working to encourage Indirect M 4,819 a greater number of female employees to join the 8,391 15,588 company, and we offer equal opportunities to all F 2,624 employees, including identical basic salaries for male and female employees, as stated in our Employee Employee composition by level Welfare Policy. We do not currently have a specific policy for recruiting women into senior management 2013 2012 2011 roles, other than the general Equal Opportunities Policy Management M 1,545 2,015 1,524 that applies across the organisation. The male to female ratio across our group is 87:13, which is consistent with F 112 335 315 2012. Women represent 7% of management roles; an Non-management M 33,250 34,798 32,903 increase from 6% in in 20127. F 5,110 5,795 5,830 6 Direct employees are employees hired under APP (permanent employee and contract-based employee). Indirect employees are outsourced employees. APP does not have part-time employees. 7 Normalised 2012 data to exclude HQ. 71 CH 07 Health and Safety Hiring local employees is very important at APP. 2013 2012 2011 It is our policy to hire based on suitability for the role available, and to favour local applicants where Injury rate8 M 4.6 5.7 candidates are of equal skill. Not only does this cement F 2.4 1.8 our support to the local communities where we operate, Lost day rate M 146 54 but it also ensures that our employees have first-hand knowledge of the local culture. In 2013, 8% of our senior F 24 260 management team were hired locally, ensuring the Fatalities M 9 5 8 senior team are representative of the local community. F 0 1 0 APP believes that all employees have the right to Absentee rate 118 437 establish and join organisations of their own choice. Frequency rate 22 21 Our employees are free to join labour unions, and our Severity rate management teams work closely alongside union 19 315 representatives. During 2013, issues raised by labour unions included welfare costs and housing loans, At APP we are committed to providing the safest suboptimal health benefits, and wage raises in line working conditions possible, which is reinforced by our with government regulations. We responded to the new goal of zero accidents. The use of chemicals and heavy, wage regulations issued by the government, and some potentially dangerous machinery is inherent to many of our mills have adjusted their health care policies. of the jobs within our mills, and it is our duty to ensure All our employees are covered by collective bargaining that our employees receive the correct equipment and agreements. training to carry out their jobs safely and effectively. Our management approach at group level includes the adherence of every one of our mills to SMK3, which is a mandatory management system in Indonesia for companies that employ over 100 workers to enforce health and safety standards. We also aim to achieve OHSAS18001 certification in all of our mills by 2020. During this reporting period, Indah Kiat Tangerang and Pindo Deli 1 and 2 held OHSAS18001 certification. Indah Kiat Serang aims to become OHSAS 18001 certified during 2014. Meanwhile, Tjiwi Kimia is in the process of revising its health and safety documentation, and has conducted health and safety awareness training and auditor training within each department during January 2013. The mill’s target is to achieve ISO 18001 in 2015. In addition to this group level approach, each mill has a specific team responsible for managing health and safety in their own way. This decentralised management system allows each mill to focus on the high priority issues unique to their operations. Through the APP Health and Safety Improvement Program every mill shares their best practice approaches to health and safety with other mills to facilitate cross learning and overall improvements across the company. We also have a project in place whereby each mill safety team is reviewed at HQ level, and points of improvement are identified. These improvement areas are then monitored by HQ. Labour unions also play a role, facilitating agreements between APP and our employees on issues such as Personal Protective Equipment, training and complaint mechanisms. 8 In 2013, no occupational diseases were detected. Injury rate and lost day rate in 2011 not recorded. 72 CH 07 During 2013 nine of our employees tragically lost their lives in work related incidents. Two fatalities at Indah Kiat Perawang were as the result of chemical contact, and one as a result of an electrical fault. Traffic accidents off-site Indah Kiat Serang, Tjiwi Kimia and Pindo Deli Karawang resulted in four fatalities, and an accident during construction work, and operating the pulping machine resulted in two fatalities at Lontar Papyrus and Tjiwi Kimia. We continue to provide safety training to mitigate against such incidences from occurring, and we strive to achieve our goal of zero accidents. We are making progress: in 2013 Indah Kiat Tangerang and Lontar Papyrus received a Zero Accident award from the Government of Indonesia in recognition of our success. Traffic congestion and road safety is an ongoing challenge at many of our mills, particularly during rush hour, and it’s an issue that unfortunately lead to fatalities in 2013. Indah Kiat Serang continues to raise awareness about road safety through identification systems for all employees’ vehicles, and monitoring of accident prone areas to identify dangerous behaviour, ready to brief the employees in question the following day. Indah Kiat Tangerang adopts a similar approach, conducting vehicle inspections every two months for both employees and contractors, and implementing 25km/hour speed limitat within the mill. Our mill operations rely on a large number of contractors, in addition to our own employees. Our approach to contractor safety varies across each of our mills, and is dependent on the nature of the operations. We are responsible for contractors, unless major investment projects mean that the most effective way to manage it is to have third party assistance for managing health and safety. 73 CH 07 Health and safety training is a key way to improve the vigilance and competencies of our employees. The extent and nature of training varies across each of the mills depending on their predominant challenges, but it commonly includes general health and safety, fire safety, first aid, emergency response and road safety. Other important communications channels include screen savers, posters and meetings, used to act as constant reminders to all employees that safety is a priority. All of our mills have a joint safety committee, representing our entire workforce. The committees’ role is to ensure safety concerns and suggested improvements at an operational level are communicated from employees to senior management, and vice versa. They are also responsible for regular updates of incidents, and responding to and communicating improvement measures. Health and safety is also a particularly pertinent topic during the regular engagement between mill management and relevant unions. Typically the issues discussed include training, education and provision of personal protective equipment. Focus on safety behaviour At Indah Kiat Tangerang a low awareness of safety in the working culture was identified as an area for improvement across the mill. A project was set up to address this, ‘total improvement for safety behaviour’. We received the Best Health & Safety Committee award from Banten province government in 2013. What was achieved? • 30% reduction in accidents from 2012 • 30% reduction in lost days from 2012 • 37% reduction in frequency rate from 2012 • 20% reduction in severity rate from 2012 Awards achieved • Zero Accident award in national level in 2012 and 2013, awarded by the Government of Indonesia through Ministry of Labour and Transmigration • Best Health & Safety Committee award from Banten province government in 2013 74 CH 07 It is our responsibility to ensure that Attracting and retaining talent we provide sufficient healthcare facilities to help maintain and improve the health and wellbeing of Our employees are crucial to the current and future success of our business, our employees and their families. In and we work hard to position APP as an attractive place to work. By turn, this benefits APP by reducing offering competitive salaries, career development opportunities, paid leave, the number of lost days through performance management, health insurance, pensions and scholarship absence.There is at least one medical programmes, we strive to attract and retain talent both from the immediate clinic on site at each of our mills, areas surrounding our mills, and from further afield. We also offer life available to both employees and insurance, bonus schemes and sabbatical leave. A number of these benefits their immediate families. Annual are available only to permanent employees, and some vary by mill. health check-ups, which include screening for occupational diseases, We encourage employee feedback through our portal, i-suggest, which we are compulsory for all employees monitor regularly and address feedback as appropriate. It’s an important working at our mills. We also offer platform through which we can better understand areas for improvement, our health programmes to members while at the same time enhancing employee satisfaction and safety. of the communities surrounding our Submissions range from small suggestions around particular fittings on mills via access to our clinics and a machinery, to queries relating to employment issues and recommendations to range of health related campaigns. improve performance at the mills. Pindo Deli for example receives on average 1,000 accepted suggestions each month. APP raises awareness of HIV/ AIDS, and endemic diseases such The attraction and retention of young people continues to be a challenge as Dengue Fever and Malaria for us, largely because of the remote location of many of our mills, and the through clinics for employees, increasing number of opportunities available to talented young people in their families and the surrounding Indonesia. Since 2012 we have adjusted our approach to help relieve this issue, community. These clinics are usually by offering increased daily allowances to employees working at mills outside run in collaboration with relevant of their local vicinity, and by raising our incentives and rewards for higher government institutions within the performing employees. We will continue with our efforts until we are able to region. demonstrate an improvement in retention rates for our younger employees. turnover rates by age group and gender 2013 2012 2011 Overall M 6% 6% 5% F 5% 1% 2% < 30 M 11% 3% 4% F 19% 1% 30 50 M 3% 3% 2% F 3% 1% 50 + M 19% 1% 0.4% F 22% 0% Rate of new employee hires 2013 2012 2011 Overall M 5% 7% 6% F 3% 1% 1% < 30 M 19% 5% 6% F 25% 1% 0% 30 50 M 1% 2% 1% F 0.3% 0% 0% 50 + M 2% 0% 0% F 0% 0% 0% 75 CH 07 Return to work rates after parental leave in 2013 were 74% and 51% for male and female employees respectively. 86% of our male employees who took parental leave in 2012 were still employed in 2013, this compares to 95% for female employees. APP does not tolerate any form of discrimination. The APP Employee Welfare Policy includes commitments covering harassment or discrimination, and each mill emphasises this commitment in their Collective Labour Agreements, which also include mechanisms to report any grievances or harassment of any description. There were no reported incidents of discrimination in 2013. Training Informed, engaged, motivated and skilled employees are imperative to the continued success of our business. It is therefore very important that we offer continuous learning and development opportunities through various training programmes to instil the right ethos and to nurture the correct expertise in our employees at each of our mills. In 2013 we conducted an average of 50 hours of training per employee, compared to 26 hours in 2012. All of our employees received annual performance reviews. Training included general training on topics such as safety, as well as technical training specific to our employees’ different roles, and specialist training such as negotiation and sales training for area and regional managers. Two APP Skill Development Centres have been established at Indah Kiat Serang and Indah Kiat Perawang. These will become training hubs, attracting employees from other mills across Indonesia, and further afield from our Chinese operations. Not only do the attendees benefit from the high quality of the centres, this form of collaborative training also promotes cross-learning and networking. Students from local communities who are attending on the job training will also have access to the centres, providing technical training and the opportunity for employment at the mill. Demand is increasing each year, and as such, we intend to roll out more of these training programs in the future. In December construction began on a third training centre, located at Lontar Papyrus. Employee empowerment is also an important attribute for continued success both within and outside of the workplace. Our personal development training courses, which include Positive Mental Attitude, Family Goal Setting, Pre-retirement Planning, and Financial Management, assist employees in developing the right tools to feel empowered and to prosper. 76 CH 07 Human rights APP is committed to respecting human rights within all of our operations throughout our business, and also across our wider sphere of influence, including business partners, suppliers and host communities. We adopt the United Nation’s “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework, acting responsibly and with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others. This forms an essential part of our Roadmap commitments. Our aim with respect to our human rights performance is to align to international best practice, in context with Indonesia’s challenges. In our Sustainability Report 2012 we disclosed the results of our companywide human rights assessment, which assessed the current conditions across our operations and those of our most significant suppliers, and identified areas for improvement. The findings indicated that although we have adequate systems and procedures in place for most aspects of human rights, we need to better integrate these systems to improve our monitoring and our responsiveness to issues when they arise. The first step to addressing this shortfall was to ensure that our mills understand human rights and the implications to our business. During 2013 we delivered customised human rights training to the Human Resources teams across our mills. APP’s human rights commitment is included in the APP Employee Welfare Policy. This forms the umbrella of APP’s commitment to human rights. The policy is explained further in APP’s Framework on Human Rights Compliance, which was independently audited in 2013. The framework details APP’s commitments on human rights and serves as a guideline in implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, throughout our day-to-day operations. 77 CH 07 In addition to this capacity building, our newly Community Engagement developed Ethical Business Code of Conduct is based on many standards. Among them are the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Each of We have been engaging with local people in the our mills has tailored the Employee Welfare Policy to communities surrounding our mills for years, their own operations, to express their commitment to establishing projects that will support the local human rights. Our Code of Conduct will be distributed economy and enable residents to prosper socially and in 2014, and employee tested on its content to check to become more financially stable. This is vital to secure their understanding. our licence to operate. Our mills must be responsible neighbours in order to maintain community support Ensuring our operations and those of our suppliers and make our mills attractive places to work. A number are free from child labor is part of our human rights of our projects have been ongoing for many years and commitments. The minimum age for employment are growing from strength to strength. Some of these at our mills is 18, and our Employee Welfare Policy are written about in detail in our previous sustainability includes specific child labor clauses. The most reports. significant risk to APP in being complicit with child, forced or compulsory labor is within our supply chain; We also engage in CSR activities through our pulpwood specifically our pulpwood suppliers. suppliers, working in partnership to support their community engagement programmes, either through Our template of service agreements has been revised financial support or sharing knowledge and resource in to include human rights compliance. Once the template formal joint projects. is approved, all potential vendors undergoing selection will be evaluated on their human rights performance. Many of these social initiatives go hand-in-hand with We are also looking to improve our human rights our commitment to sustainable fibre sourcing. It’s aspects for our outsourced agencies, across all our critical that our conservation programs and biodiversity mills. While some of our mills already monitor their protection initiatives include community development contractors’ human rights, others have not begun to do programs, not only to educate and empower people so, and so we recognise the need for a consistent, best about the importance of conservation and sustainable practice approach. forest management, but also to support communities with alternative incomes and livelihoods, so that they 2013 saw us enhance our mill grievance system to are better able to earn a living without resorting to improve the way that grievances are recorded, and to illegal logging and other environmentally destructive ensure that resolutions are documented. Building on practices. this, our new sustainability scorecard will be used as a human rights monitoring system, which will improve In addition, we have a number of flagship CSR projects, consistency in our approach to human rights and wider such as our collaboration with Habitat for Humanity in sustainability issues across all of our mills, and across Soran village and community development projects built our concessions, too. into our conservation work within the GSK biosphere reserve, which you can read about on page 83. 78 CH 07 Mills and their community The more we grow as a company, the greater our Women empowerment is also an important aspect in positive impact on our surrounding communities, both Indah Kiat Perawang community development strategy. in terms of our CSR contributions and also our ability Through the Women Farmers Empowerment Program, to provide greater economic opportunities, directly and the mill aim to increase skills of local women to be indirectly. We use the Millennium Development Goals able to not only manage their land but also increase the as a reference point in determining how to best invest productivity. In collaboration with local government and in the community, as well as specifically assessing micro-finance institutions, the mill provides training, local needs. Each mill manages its local community coaching and loans with zero interest. engagement, overseen by the sustainability team at our headquarters in Jakarta. Over the years Indah Kiat Serang have instigated projects to support the livelihoods of farmers around the mill, particularly in the dry season when water “Indah Kiat Tangerang is a good neighbour, is scarce. A water pumping programme assists as head of the local community I can see farmers in irrigating their land all year round, and we the positive impact that mill has. They operate a recycled paper programme, Mitra Kreasi understand the community needs well and Handicraft, to inject alternative sources of income into listen to the communities thoughts. The the community. Education is also a particular priority, negative impacts include air pollution and which we address by donating funds to the National noise, but we believe the mill manages Foster Parent Movement scholarship scheme, since these well and we have no concerns. The 1997. With respect to healthcare, we focus a lot of our community here needs support in developing efforts on reducing child mortality through our mother infrastructure, public facilities such as and childcare programme, which in 2013 introduced mosques and community health centres are individual child development plans to monitor growth supported through payments from APP. In and development over time. 2013 APP helped the community to renovate the waste water canal that runs through the Our hand tractor initiative, new to 2013, is destined to area, improving drainage and sanitation for help farmers with low productivity. It’s our way of giving the community. back to the local farmers, having expanded our mill by purchasing agricultural land in the past. By distributing I work closely with the public relations a hand tractor to a group of 25 farmers, they can officer, based at the mill. We are in constant maximise the productivity of their land for a small fee dialogue. We also have an annual community to borrow the equipment. The sum of their profits is forum which incorporates five surrounding pooled, and they spend 50% of the money to purchase a communities, it is at this forum that we new tractor for another group of farmers, growing the evaluate all the community programmes initiative with each purchase. It’s a way of empowering and help APP plan the investment for the farmers to collaborate, and to commit to other groups upcoming year” of farmers in need of assistance. The group of farmers who require a hand tractor contributes the remaining Mr Haerudin, 50%. In December 2013 we kick-started the initiative Local Head of Community, Tangerang with the purchase of four hand tractors for four groups of farmers, reaching 100 farmers in total. We plan to donate additional tractors through 2014. Indah Kiat Perawang is located in Riau Province, Sumatra. The mill is surrounded by nine villages with a An issue for families in the local community cumulative population of 105,000, the majority of whom surrounding Indah Kiat Serang is the lack of financial depend on the mills either directly or indirectly, to resources to support their children at school. Although sustain their livelihoods. the government provides each household with a small contribution it does not cover the full cost. APP supports Our focus on education is a particular priority, through families by providing writing books and scholarships, on-the-job training for students within the mill to gain helping the students to fulfil their potential. The technical insight of pulp and paper manufacturing school recently came fourth in regional Mathematics process. Recognising increasing number of youth that Olympics. In other projects to support local children do not have the opportunity to finish school, the mill APP provides donations to a local orphanage, having put in place a Community Technical Skill Improvement co-ordinated collecting employee donations for over 10 programme. The mill facilitates practical development years, providing for daily needs such as food and more through coaching and training on subjects such as significant investments, which in 2013 included building automotive and welding. The programme also offers renovations and new furniture. The facility currently development loans without interest through micro houses 104 children and relies heavily on the donations financing. from companies in the local area. 79 CH 07 Tjiwi Kimia has been working with the local community amongst three villages to maintain water supply to productive paddy fields throughout the year, constructing waterways and clearing mud sediment to improve flow. The difference is felt most during dry season, when the communities are able to continue to irrigate the land. Harvests can now take place three times a year, before the project began the area provided one harvest annually. Ekamas Fortuna is situated within Gampingan Village, 35km south of Malang in East Java. APP’s efforts in the community focus on improving access to basic resources and infrastructure. In the past few years we have established a number of projects to improve access to clean water through the construction of water storage tanks and pipeline installation, and the development of a reservoir. One of our core focus areas since 2012 has been the development of a small scale biogas programme, converting cattle waste into energy to power domestic cooking stoves in the villages of Gampingan and Sumberejo. Before the project was implemented the villagers used firewood to cook; a traditional cooking method, but one that creates smoke that is hazardous to health, particularly in confined spaces where cooking tends to take place. In 2012 we installed three reactors, each of which produces enough gas fuel for two people to cook all year round. In 2013 we extended the project by installing a new type of ‘dome’ reactor in two locations, each of which provide enough fuel for five people. Any remaining waste that cannot be utilised for gas production is used as a fertiliser. In addition to the clear environmental benefits, the project has empowered the surrounding community to become energy independent, and it has boosted the local economy. Engaging communities through our pulpwood suppliers One of our greatest achievements this year was the completion of the installation of our communitybased water purification project in Tanjung Leban village, supported by APP and our suppliers Sinarmas Forestry. The water purification system provides the local community with 60 litres of clean, safe, potable water per minute; enough to provide 100 families with an ongoing supply. We have trained local community members in how to operate and maintain the device, as part of our efforts to ensure the system is sustainable over the long-term, and improves the self-sufficiency of the villagers who have benefited from the project. 80 CH 07 For a long time, communities in the transition and buffer areas of GSK-BB have had to use peat water for their daily consumption. This is not healthy as peat water is very acidic and contains hazardous minerals. Using scientific study and technology, the system that we built, IPAG60, will provide clean, healthy water for communities around the GSK-BB Biosphere Reserve. Prof.Dr. Ir. Y. Purwanto of MAB Indonesia LIPI Riau is one of the richest provinces in Indonesia, particularly in natural resources and biodiversity. However, in the race to achieve economic development, it is very easy to take these resources for granted and sometimes we are prone to over-utilise them. It is very important that resources are conserved and managed in a responsible way, while not sacrificing the great economic development that Riau has seen in recent years. The bio-village concept allows us to do this. Even better, it enhances the quality of life of the communities living in and around the forest area. To achieve this long-term objective, contribution of research centres, academics, NGOs, communities as well as private sectors such as APP and Sinarmas Forestry, are always needed. Prof. DR. Teuku Dahril, Head of Local Research and Development Office, Riau Province 81 CH 07 In addition to the water purification project, other projects are already operating in the area including development of conservation villages initiated by Center for Natural Resources Conservation (BBKSDA) of the Ministry of Forestry. We are also supporting farming training and aquaculture development programs initiated by Universitas Islam Riau and Sinarmas Forestry, and Ecosystem Restoration, which is a collaboration between APP, Sinarmas Forestry and one of APP’s Japanese customers. APP supplier Arara Abadi achieved three CSR awards from Association of Marketing and Communications Professionals (AMCP), an organization based in Texas, US. The award recognises the effectiveness of the company’s CSR program and the programs contribution in enhancing community standard of living. Awards received • Community Training and Development Centre and its ‘Fruitful Riau’ program, which activity includes community training on fruit cultivation, distribution of fruit plant seedlings and assistance in fruit farming in the villages near the training centre. • Providing higher education scholarships for students from the Sakai Tribe, the indigenous people in Riau Province. This plays a key part of our support of indigenous community development. • Development of key infrastructures in Pulau Muda, Riau. Projects in 2013 included improving transportation access, education facilities, and electricity installations. 82 CH 07 Flagship CSR initiatives Our partnership with Habitat for Humanity has extended further during 2013. We completed our three-year long development of the Soran Ecotourism village, Yogyakarta9, at a total investment of $600,000 . Prior to the initiation of the project, 60% of the community were living below the poverty line. Our objective was to create a sustainable, self-sufficient ecotourism destination that protects and promotes local historic cultural traditions. We supported the community in developing the village infrastructure to make it attractive to tourists and provided hospitality training to improve the services that the village could offer. In line with our role as chair of the Indonesia Water Mandate Working Group, we have to date rehabilitated six water sources in the village and surrounding area as well as educating the community on how to preserve and maintain and clean water supply. Partnering with Habitat for Humanity Indonesia, we have developed a sanitation centre in Serang. Before the centre was built the community used the local river for water and sanitation purposes, posing a major threat to the health and wellbeing of the community. Following completion of the sanitation facility we promoted good hygiene standards through awareness raising campaigns, aimed particularly at children. Today, over 200 families use the sanitation centre. 9 20% of the $600,000 investment has been set aside for disaster relief during our three-year collaboration with Habitat for Humanity. The remainder has been invested into the Soran Ecotourism Village. 83 CH 08 Chapter 8 Our Mills CHAPTER 08 84 CH 08 Introduction Operating our mills in the most efficient way ensures In 2013 we developed a scorecard system to monitor we maximise value to our customers while minimising specifically the implementation of Roadmap goals. our environmental impacts. All our mills employ an Covering all the environmental issues areas relevant environmental management system, certified to the for mill operations we developed around 380 specific globally recognised ISO 9001 & 14001 standards. This metrics which are scored based on the level of sets out our approach to managing our most significant management approach the mill can demonstrate, impacts: air and water emissions, and waste. These are quality of data it can provide and performance to all areas included within our Roadmap goals. date. The scorecard will support us in focussing our efforts on the areas that require the most support and enable us to better monitor our progress towards our 2013 in a glance Roadmap goals. Our strategy is to nurture a culture of knowledge 2013 2012 2011 change 2013/12 sharing between APP mills; ensuring gains at one mill Energy MWh/t 0.98 0.92 0.87 6.4% can be replicated in others. Competition between mills consumption is actively encouraged, as it helps to continually raise standards and drive performance improvements. Our Fossil carbon tCO2e/t 1.17 1.15 0.95 1.2% mill management teams meet on a monthly basis to emissions share best practice, and discuss improvement areas. Water m3/t 20.5 20.4 19.3 0.4% consumption Waste to t/t 0.042 0.036 0.053 14.9% landfill Best Practice All APP’s mills, (with the exception of Tjiwi Kimia due to major installation work in 2012 and Indah Kiat Beyond Serang, which went through a separate audit with Compliance regional government) are assessed using PROPER, a voluntary environmental initiative launched by Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment in 1996. Its aim is to use public disclosure, environmental awards Minimum Legal Requirements and reputational incentives to compel organisations to improve their environmental performance. Indah Kiat Tangerang downgraded from green status in Mill Sustainability Scorecard 2012 to blue during 2013. We also comply with the Indonesian environmental impact assessment, AMDAL. We received no significant fines or sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Through 2013 we began work on developing an during 2013. integrated Sustainability Database Programme. This will support us in linking each mill to the goals and targets of the APP Sustainability Roadmap, and PROPER status will enable us to continuously monitor and plan our progress towards achieving these goals. We plan to roll Mill Rating this out in 2014. Ekamas Fortuna Blue Indah Kiat Perawang Blue Indah Kiat Tangerang Blue Lontar Papyrus Blue Pindo Deli Mills Blue (PD1), Green (PD2) 85 CH 08 ENERGY AND Carbon EMISSIONS EMISSIONS Reduce the On Emissions from impact of mill’s track fossil fuel emissions greenhouse gas decreased 2% in 2013 emissions. from 2012 levels A reliable energy source is vital to the smooth running of our mills’ operations, yet for several of our mills, the national grid is insufficient for production and able to be used only as back-up. The most significant environmental impact from our pulp and paper mills’ activities is therefore attributed to the power generation required to run our operations, which in turn is influenced by the type of fuel available at each mill’s location and the operations of that site. High proportions of biofuel in the energy mix is currently exclusive to our integrated pulp and paper mills, Indah Kiat Perawang and Lontar Papyrus, both of which utilise the waste products from pulp production. Power production by fuel type. 2013 45% 0.5% 7% 0.2% 11% 36% RENEWABLE Fossil FUEL bark coal black liquor OTHER: OTHER : waste bark, sawdust, empty diesel oil, IDO, MFO fruit bunches (tankos), wwt sludge GAS (compost), palmshell or crushed palm shell, sawdust Black liquor and bark (a by-product from the pulping process) provides an excellent renewable fuel source for our pulp mills. The more of this fuel we can use, the less non-renewable fuel we require to run our operations. In 2013, 48% of our total energy demand across all mills was met from renewable sources. We continue to invest and innovate to drive up the proportion of renewable fuel we use, with positive environmental benefits from avoided emissions and long-term cost security. While our integrated pulp mills are able to benefit from bark and black liquor as a renewable fuel source, this is not the case for all mills. As such, some of our paper mills rely on fossil fuels for most of their energy needs. Wherever possible, we use fuels with the lowest environmental impact, by switching to low sulphur, high calorie coal or using fuels with lower carbon intensity, such as natural gas or diesel oil. 86 CH 08 Greenhouse Gas emissions from power generation10 We use Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (CEMS) on some of our more modern emission stacks, 2013 2012 2011 and rely on manual measurements from the stacks without this equipment, using an independent third scope 1 tCO2e 10,346,405 9,621,444 8,673,193 party to collect and analyse emissions. Our goal is to constantly stay below 10% of the limit set by the Ministry of Industry in Indonesia. scope 2 tCO2e 865,276 574,742 501,425 In 2013 we were proud when Indah Kiat Tangerang intensity tCO2e/t 1.27 1.28 1.10 became the first paper mill in South East Asia to receive certification against the energy management system standard ISO 50001. We expect the next mill Scope 1 emissions refer to emissions from power within our group to gain certification in early 2014. generation on site at our mills. Scope 2 emissions are Looking forward we plan to create an Energy Manager related to purchased electricity from the national grid position at each of our mills, together with additional network. In line with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas training and updated energy monitoring software, Protocol we calculate our emissions from renewable and we will continue to invest heavily in improving the fuels separately. These predominantly comprise bio energy profile of each and every mill. Dedicated energy based materials such as black liquor and bark. audits, utilising a separate independent team will also be rolled out in 2014, further supporting our focus on We do not calculate employee commuting and business energy efficiency. travel (scope 3 emissions) in our greenhouse gas calculation, since it is estimated that the number will Whilst we place a sustained effort on reducing GHG be insignificant compared to the emissions from our emissions at source, we also look at capturing waste manufacturing activity. Instead, we focus our efforts gasses and diverting them for alternative uses. In on reducing greenhouse gas emissions within APP’s 2012 we reported on two projects that were awaiting manufacturing process, where the bulk of our emissions approval from the Clean Development Mechanism, are generated. a trading scheme designed by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. Our methane capture In 2013 we completed our baseline carbon footprint project at Indah Kiat Serang uses an anaerobic assessment, updating our calculations to align with digestion system in one of the mill’s three waste water the latest IPCC guidelines. With baseline data for treatment plants to recover the methane, a by-product 2006-2011 we now have a clear historic profile of our of the waste water treatment system. This harmful gas products emissions and will use this to set a group wide is then redirected to the boiler where it is used as a emissions reduction target and enhance the level of fuel source to power the paper machine. During 2013, detail we provide to our customers. 322,500m3 of biogas was captured, between 70-80% of which was methane. Fuel combustion creates air emissions, namely CO2, NO2, SO2 and other particulates that we must monitor and reduce to the minimum. Driving up the use of renewables Lontar Papyrus employs three multifuel boilers to provide energy and steam to the pulp mill, utilising a mix of coal and bark as fuel. A design flaw in the conveyor system delivering bark to the boiler created a bottleneck, limiting the amount of bark that could be used in the boiler. By installing a new conveyor line we reduced the lead time from the storage area to the bark silo and reduced waste from bark material falling from the conveyor. In one year we reduced coal use by 6% and carbon emissions from the site by 82,000 tonnes CO2e. 10 GHG data 2011 and 2012 were revised based on APP Carbon Footprint Assessment using updated guidelines. GHG data 2013 is currently being calculated, the data might slightly change after the calculation is done. 87 CH 08 Water WATER MANAGEMENT Improve On Water management track footprint of water assessment use in line underway with the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate program. The UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate programme, of which APP is a member, requires us to set an example on a responsible approach to water management. It is one of our strategic goals highlighted in our Roadmap and a key metric measured by our mills. With increasing global pressure on water resources, we recognise our responsibility to minimise its use and ensure any waste water we return to source is clean and safe. Water is a vital ingredient for our processes; not only does it provide the medium in which to transport fibre from pulp to paper, it is also used in the form of steam in the drying and heating process, and in driving power turbines in the power plant. Due to the volume that our mills require we extract water from local water sources, rather than relying on municipal supplies. 88 CH 08 In 2013 we returned 80% of the water we extracted to its source, making every effort to use processes that reuse and recycle water many times through our process before it passes to the waste stream. Waste water is treated in a waste water treatment plant, before being returned to source. We constantly measure our water emissions for BOD and COD levels (Biochemical Oxygen Demand and Chemical Oxygen Demand, a measure of organic pollutant levels) and Total Suspended Solids (TSS). The data is reported to the relevant authorities and providing samples for lab testing by independent third parties. In 2013 all water discharges were within acceptable limits. 2013 2012 2011 Water withdrawn m3 247,313,902 238,078,861 233,995,272 from source Reuse/ % 28% 29% 25% recycled Intensity 11 m3/ADT 20 20 19 Ekamas Fortuna has been improving the mills anaerobic waste water treatment plant since 2012. The results are starting to show, with significant improvement in waste water quality. In 2013 the mill saw a 9% reduction in TSS, 45% reduction in BOD and a 32% reduction in COD, compared to 2012 levels. We continue to develop our own methodology for calculating our water footprint across all of our mills. We have chosen to develop the pilot phase with Indah Kiat Perawang, one of the most complex operations within the group. By the end of 2014 we will have undertaken detailed water balance assessments, the next step will be to use this data to develop a group wide reduction target and build it into our Roadmap commitments. We will then be able to communicate the water footprint of our products to our customers. 11 Intensity calculated as water consumption per tonne production 89 CH 08 Waste Our approach to waste management is ‘reduce, re-use, recycle’. It’s an outlook that makes both environmental and financial sense. We aim to reduce waste production through efficient processes and the latest technology. The waste we do create we seek to divert from landfill where an alternative destination can be found. In 2013 total waste generated increased 7%, largely as a result of stored waste from 2012 being processed in 2013. For our integrated pulp and paper mills, the solution often lies with the re-use of waste generated from the process of producing pulp. This black liquor, bark, and other residue can be used as a fuel source instead of fossil fuels. During 2013 our integrated mills produced 64% of their power from such sources. Boiler ash, a waste product from burning fossil fuels in our power plants, is one of the most significant waste streams from our mills. We are constantly looking at ways to divert this waste from landfill, taking advantage of alternative uses where infrastructure and external partnerships allow. A pilot scheme at Indah Kiat Serang during 2013 has proven successful and will be fully implemented during 2014, using fly ash to replace ground calcium carbonate on the paper machine. 90 CH 08 Our waste water treatment processes generate sludge, a form of solid waste, as a by-product. The treatment of this sludge must comply with government regulation, and we continually seek ways to recycle the sludge within our own operations. At Indah Kiat Serang we did a pilot project to recycle our sludge to use it as a substitute for recycled paper. The remainder is sent to third parties, where it is treated before being used in cement production. Total waste, landfill and waste intensity tonnes tonnes/ tonnes production 1,200,000 0,14 1,000,000 0,12 0,10 800,000 0,08 600,000 0,06 400,000 0,04 200,000 0,02 0 0,00 2013 2012 2011 Total waste Landfilled waste Waste intensity (t/t) 91 CH 09 Chapter 9 DATA TABLES aNd assurance statement CHAPTER 9 92 CH 09 GROUP Environmental data table 2013 2012 2011 Production Pulp 3,377,832 3,226,186 3,020,396 Paper 5,151,996 3,028,000 4,207,050 Stationery 226,000 205,186 Tissue tonnes 329,000 253,537 96,475 Packaging 227,835 1,579,136 Total (excl chemicals) 8,858,828 8,336,057 9,108,243 Chemicals produced 2,027,761 2,873,087 2,108,834 Total 10,886,590 11,209,144 11,217,077 Materials Total raw material for pulp 11,015,816 13,701,737 13,330,420 Total raw material for chemicals12 3,224,391 1,359,561 1,205,159 Total raw material for paper tonnes 4,442,432 4,649,329 5,200,864 Total raw material packaging 66,679 109,914 Energy Coal 97,733,021 91,189,837 79,987,001 Diesel Oil 366,501 518,323 2,108,525 Industrial Diesel Oil 9,508 24,241 Marine Fuel Oil 93,222 1,909,130 4,270,442 Marine Diesel Fuel 13,759 4,889 Gas 15,525,564 11,147,875 10,377,233 Total non renewable (direct) GJ 113,741,575 104,794,296 96,743,200 Bark 23,144,494 23,614,398 29,479,804 Black Liquor 79,001,567 72,669,613 71,444,390 Sawdust 163,194 137,758 161,457 Palmshell or Crushed Palm Shell 268,021 2,156,241 2,299,428 WWT sludge (compost) 703,794 415,583 179,001 Biogas 1,339,814 Empty fruit bunches (tankos) 38,177 258,131 535,903 Total renewable (direct) 103,368,821 99,251,724 104,099,983 Purchased electricity 4,267,117 4,623,112 2,834,343 Carbon13 scope 1 tCO2e 10,346,405 9,621,444 8,673,193 scope 2 865,276 574,742 501,425 biomass 10,305,326 9,927,121 9,088,706 intensity tCO2e/t 1.3 1.3 1.1 Water Total water withdrawn by source m³ 247,313,902 238,078,861 233,995,272 Percentage water recycled %m3 28 29 25 Effluent discharge to river m³ 198,094,416 190,485,061 180,718,749 Waste Landfill 335,850 283,635 471,626 Composting 40,889 70,844 Utilised by licensed third party 186,701 214,072 173,895 Recycled 20 3,341 Incinerated tonnes 30,639 37,009 55 Recovered 944 157 Reused 365,577 246,734 131,578 Others 498 682 214 Total Hazardous Waste 961,117 856,475 774,340 12 Chemical consumption for paper production. 13 Data collected in line with WRI / WBCSD Green House Gas Protocol. 93 CH 09 GROUP Environmental data table 2013 2012 2011 Waste Landfill 35,117 20,094 11,809 Composting 24,465 Utilised by licensed third party 28,892 53,856 46,979 Recycled tonnes 48,271 43,688 Incinerated 2 39 Recovered Reused 94,791 53,200 8,417 Others 29,279 1,199 761 Total non hazardous waste 236,353 196,541 52,728 ODS Emissions kg 32,416 32,874 32,326 Environmental Waste disposal, emissions US $ 33,504,735 36,537,641 33,364,813 expenditure treatment, and remediation costs Prevention and environmental US $ 44,572,504 4,912,060 management costs Training Attendee management (M) 3,388 10,993 Attendee management (F) 246 2,695 # Attendee non-management (M) 116,367 94,381 Attendee non-management (F) 24,521 7,904 94 CH 09 95 CH 09 MILL Environmental data table Ekamas Fortuna Indah Kiat Perawang Indah Kiat SeranG Indah Kiat Tangerang UNIT 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Water emissions pH 7.8 7.7 7.3 7.36 7.4 7.4 7.7 7.6 7.1-7.3 7.8 7.6 7.2 TSS mg/L 17.7 19.4 39.7 75.8 81.2 73.4 18.0 11.3 39-69 8.0 3.8 17.9 BOD 16.4 29.9 42.4 48.6 83.4 50.8 49.0 35.5 25-56 18.8 12.6 11.1 COD 49.0 72.0 106.1 193.7 303.0 282.5 119.7 110.5 25-162 42.8 38.6 60.6 AOX 0.0 0.0 7.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 NO2 79.3 27.9 49.9 115.7 122.4 132.6 230.5 317.3 207.0 81.9 181.75 334.0 Air emissions14 SO2 428.3 276.2 194.0 149.3 174.4 177.8 169.9 249.8 292.0 15.1 36.19 83.5 CIO2 mg/Nm3 0.0 0.0 9.8 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.00 HCl 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.00 Cl2 0.0 0.0 0.1 6.9 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.00 Opacity 3.0 2.8 16.7 16.4 10.3 10.0 12.5 10.00 TRS 0.0 0.0 2.1 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.00 Total Particulate 87.7 70.0 105.4 86.9 157.3 91.4 44.3 56.3 30.0 85.7 31.88 35.5 Distance to km Pulau Sempu Nature Tesso Nilo National Halimun Mountain Rawa Danau Tukung protected Reserve (30) Park (50) National Park (40) Gede Conservation area Area (20) Other Local water Lesti River Siak River Ciujung River Cisadane River source 14 Air emissions data follows Indonesia law on reporting against this parameter. Due to the complexity of the interlinked power generation to 96 various pulp and paper making facilities in several mills it is impos sible to report the air emission using unit measurement required by GRI CH 09 MILL Environmental data table Lontar Papyrus Pindo Deli 1+2 Pindo Deli 3 Tjiwi Kimia UNIT 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Water emissions pH 6.8 6.8 7.0 7.2 7.3 7.3-7.6 7.5 7.7 7.3 Discharge via TSS mg/L 42.4 38.9 52.9 19.5 17.9 11-52.7 Indah Kiat Perawang 22.2 14.3 47.6 BOD 64.2 60.0 46.1 27.8 25.4 14.3-37.6 25 20.8 33.8 COD 151.3 148.6 262.9 82.3 77.1 35.8-91.4 61.9 50 79.3 AOX 0.0 0.0 4.4 0.2 0.21 0.3 0.2 0.16 0.1 NO2 81.5 103.8 261.4 243.3 127.7 184.0 53.1 53.5 243 Air emissions* SO2 65.1 113.8 135.1 85.4 14.1 52.2 103.4 137.8 109 CIO2 mg/Nm3 0.2 1.0 3.5 0.0 0.0 Discharge via 0.0 0.0 HCl 0.1 1.1 0.4 0.3 Indah Kiat Perawang 1.4 1.0 Cl2 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.2 1.5 <0.9 0.0 Oppacity 13.4 11.6 12.0 0.0 4.4 10.0 TRS 1.5 2.2 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total Particulate 70.4 429.8 122.2 10.0f 10.7 25.8 18.6 19.3 68 Distance to km Bukit Tigapuluh National Nature Reserve of Tesso Nilo National Bromo Tengger protected Park (30) Tangkuban Perahu Park (50) Semeru National Park area Mountain (40) (80) Other Local water Pangabuan River Citarum River Siak River Brantas River source 97 CH 09 ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE APP INDONESIA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/ VERIFICATION SGS was commissioned by Asia Pulp & Paper The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance Indonesia (hereafter referred to as APP Indonesia) research, interviews with relevant accountable managers to conduct an independent assurance of the and employees at APP Indonesia’s headquarters in APP Indonesia Sustainability Report 2013 issued in Jakarta, and visits to three operating facilities: PT. September 2014. Indah Kiat Pulp & Paper Tbk. operations in Perawang and Tangerang and PT. Pabrik Kertas Tjiwi Kimia Tbk. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, in Sidoarjo. In addition the assurance team carried out included the text, statements, graphs and data in documentation and record review and validation with accompanying tables, contained in this report. external bodies and stakeholders where relevant; this included a visit to APP Indonesia’s major pulpwood The information in the APP Indonesia Sustainability supplier operations at PT. Arara Abadi in Perawang, Report 2013 for Indonesia and its presentation are the interviews with community beneficiaries of Indah Kiat responsibility of the directors or governing body and Perawang’s CSR programme in Riau, and interviews with the management of APP Indonesia. SGS Indonesia has two NGOs: The Forest Trust and Habitat for Humanity. not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the APP Sustainability Report for Financial data drawn directly from independently audited Indonesia. financial accounts has not been checked back to source as Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the part of this assurance process. text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification set out below with the intention to inform all APP Indonesia’s stakeholders. The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011) and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). These protocols follow differing options for Assurance depending the reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organization. This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny using our protocols for: • evaluation of content veracity; • AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2 evaluation of the report content and supporting management systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008); • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011) 98 CH 09 AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008)CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE RECOMMENDATIONS The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in • Inclusivity inspection, testing and verification, operating in more APP Indonesia has a clear understanding of than 140 countries and providing services including who its stakeholders are, at corporate level and management systems and service certification; in its key marketing regions. Key stakeholders quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and have additionally been identified separately for training; environmental, social and sustainability report development, implementation and monitoring of the assurance. SGS Indonesia affirm our independence from APP Indonesia, being free from bias and conflicts Forest Conservation Policy (FCP). The company has of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and also built relationships with key external partners stakeholders. such as The Forest Trust who have enabled it to identify and engage with stakeholders who may The assurance team was assembled based on their otherwise have found it difficult to engage. knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with The report reflects the outcomes of engagement International Register of Certificated Auditors (IRCA), with stakeholders around the FCP and within its Environmental Management System (EMS) Lead Auditor, operating regions. This year APP Indonesia used the Quality Management System (QMS) Lead Auditor, knowledge of its stakeholder representatives in each Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series region to provide an assessment of the issues that (OHSAS) Lead Auditor, Programme on Endorsement Forest Certification (PEFC) Lead Auditor, Forest are important to each stakeholder group, providing Stewardship Council (FSC) Lead Auditor. All members of an update to the broader consultation carried out in the assurance team have completed the IRCA Corporate 2011. The company has well developed engagement Responsibility Training Programme and have experience processes, and these are strongest around the most of auditing Forestry, Pulp and Paper operations. The material issues, i.e. those covered by the FCP. team also included Sustainability Report Assurers with significant international experience of SRA auditing using Recommendations on stakeholder engagement are the AA1000 AS and GRI standards. made below. • Materiality VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION The report focuses on the most material issues for its stakeholders, in particular those arising from the On the basis of the methodology described and the pulpwood supply chain in Indonesia. Regulations, verification work performed, we are satisfied that international standards and voluntary agreements the information and data contained within the APP are considered. As well as general standards (for IndonesiaSustainability Report 2013 is reliable and example ISO14001 and the UNGC), this includes provides a fair and balanced representation of APP specific commitments such as the UN CEO Water Indonesia’s sustainability activities in 2013. Mandate. APP has also sought the advice of experts in areas of most significant material impact, for The assurance team is of the opinion that the example engaging with TFT and globally respected Report can be used by the Reporting Organization’s universities. Stakeholders and we believe that the organization has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. Key organisational strategies are taken into account in defining material issues. The ability and capacity of pulpwood suppliers and employees to deliver change in areas of material impact, and their concerns with regard to this, are also considered in the approach to issues. APP Indonesia could do more to demonstrate that it understands what employees consider to be significant issues, especially employees at mill sites. In order for APP Indonesia to successfully address the material issues it faces it must engage with other companies within the forest landscape where its wood suppliers are located. APP Indonesia recognises this, and the company is beginning to build wider partnership and take a leadership position on forest conservation and resolution of social conflict in Indonesia, which is appropriate given its size and level of influence in the country. 99 CH 09 • Responsiveness GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING Transparency and openness about policies, GUIDELINES G3.1 2011CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS processes, controls, monitoring and performance are AND RECOMMENDATIONS critical to APP Indonesia’s sustainability programme. Key stakeholders have identified transparency as In our opinion the APP Indonesia Sustainability Report a material sustainability issue. In the perception 2013 fulfills the content and quality criteria for GRI of the stakeholders we spoke to, APP Indonesia is G3.1(2011) Application Level A+. making good progress in establishing trust through • Principles: transparency, and is responsive to stakeholder In our opinion the content and quality of the Report views, concerns and issues raised. In the assurance has been produced in line with the ten GRI Principles. process we saw evidence of APP Indonesia evaluating and revising its policies, processes and reporting in • Standard Disclosures: response to stakeholder feedback and concerns. All the standard disclosures required for reporting at an application level A+ are included or referenced in This report is one of several mechanisms that APP the report. Indonesia uses to communicate its performance on material sustainability issues to its stakeholders. • Indicators: Other mechanisms include the FCP monitoring All the indicators required for reporting at an dashboard and regular Roadmap updates. Through application level A+ are included in the report. these mechanisms APP Indonesia presents and evaluates its performance against its vision and Roadmap. The report includes comment on performance in relation to the Roadmap mission statement and values, and performance is described in relation to recognised standards. APP Indonesia has put in place significant resources in place to deliver its commitments and engage with stakeholders. In addition, the company has recognised that stakeholder engagement requires specific skills and capacity, and has begun to roll out training and capacity building for key staff in the mills and the regions. A particular area of good practice is the involvement of stakeholders in the design of collection methods for monitoring the delivery of the FCP, and in the case of breaches of the moratorium, the engagement of stakeholders in providing monitoring data. Stakeholders make it clear that there is still a long way to go for APP Indonesia to establish complete trust and support for its sustainability programmes. To claim a leadership position, APP Indonesia must maintain and continually improve its activities in this area, in particular with regard to monitoring, responding to grievances, dealing with breaches of the moratorium, and integrating stakeholder views into management and performance measurement. 100 CH 09 Recommendations APP Indonesia has made significant progress on 6. We recommend that future reports make clearer the its sustainability journey in the last two years, and relationships between APP Indonesia and APP China. recognises that there is still a lot of work ahead. Interviews with stakeholders suggest that progress so 7. Future reports should give more prominence to the far is viewed as positive. However, APP Indonesia’s goal social and environmental impacts of APP Indonesia’s of establishing leadership in addressing the complex mill operations, whilst still recognising that issues issues it faces will be demonstrated by continuing to around forestry impacts are of the most international maintain this commitment and learning and developing significance. in accountability over the next 5 years. 8. As APP Indonesia has a large number of stakeholders in Indonesia who have an interest in the report, The following opportunities have been identified including employees and supplier companies as well for future reporting cycles to support continued as NGOs and community groups, we recommend that improvement in APP Indonesia’s sustainability in future a version of this report is made available in reporting. Bahasa Indonesia. 1. APP Indonesia’s current materiality process focuses 9. We recommend that future report assurance on the issues that are of concern to its external includes interviews with a larger sample of stakeholders. While this is a critical source of stakeholder groups, including those involved in the information APP Indonesia should now extend its FCP processes, and regional stakeholders. This will process to formally include input from additional provide additional assurance with regard to the GRI sources, including societal and peer-based norms and AA1000 principles for reporting, and progress and the views of recognised experts. Definition of made on the FCP and Roadmap commitments. material issues should also take into consideration 10. We recommend that APP Indonesia’s 2014 the company’s growth strategy, in particular sustainability report uses the GRI G4 standard. reflecting any expansion in the number and location of mills or suppliers. 2. We recommend that APP Indonesia continues to develop its capacity to provide leadership, especially Signed: in Indonesia, where it is important that all companies For and on behalf of PT SGS Indonesia whose operations impact on virgin forests take the issues of forest conservation seriously. Shashibhushan Jogani 3. We recommend that as part of the development Business Manager of its materiality process, APP Indonesia takes September 2014 the opportunity to update the major stakeholder WWW.SGS.COM consultation carried out in 2011, with the following aims: to update findings in the light of changing context and emerging issues in Indonesia and in the industry; to evaluate APP Indonesia’s progress in the eyes of stakeholders; and to gather stakeholder views on its current reporting, and opportunities for improvement. 4. We recommend that learning from the FCP stakeholder engagement processes is used to develop engagement and capacity across the business as other issues arise. 5. We recommend that APP Indonesia continues to agree and report on stakeholder-generated performance indicators alongside GRI indicators. We also recommend that APP consider additional metrics for evaluating the impact of its CSR activities, for example evaluating the economic impact of projects 101 CH 10 Chapter 10 GRI INDEX CHAPTER 10 102 CH 10 Profile Description SectioN Response Level of Disclosure (page numbers) disclosure F=Full disclosure P=Partial disclosure NR=Not reported 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Chairman’s Statement (18) F 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Our Sustainability Strategy (26) F 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. Company Profile (9) F 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Our Products (23) F 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Company Profile (9) F operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Company Profile (11) F 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Company Profile (13) F countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Company Profile (9) F 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Our Products (13) F types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Company Profile (11) F 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, No significant F or ownership. changes in reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Company Profile (14, 15), F Our People (73, 74, 82) 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Introduction (9) F 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Introduction (9) F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Introduction (9) F 3.4 Contact point for questions. Introduction (9) F 3.5 Process for defining report content. Introduction (9) F 3.6 Boundary of the report Introduction (9) F 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Introduction (9) F 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Introduction (9) F outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Data table (93) F assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in Introduction (9) F earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Introduction (9) F boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Table (102) F 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for Introduction (9) F the report. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under Our Sustainability Strategy F the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as (39) setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an The Chair of F executive officer. the highest governing body is the Chairman, who is not an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number F and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Our Sustainability Strategy Minority F recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. + Annual Report (41) shareholders: General meeting of shareholders relevant with Government Regulation Clause 19 of article of association of the company and the Regulation of Indonesian Capital Market Supervisory Board National Financial Institution (Bapepam-LK) 103 CH 10 Profile Description SectioN Response Level of Disclosure (page numbers) disclosure F=Full disclosure P=Partial disclosure NR=Not reported 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Annual Report APP intends F body, senior managers, and executives. to form a remuneration committee for each mill 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Our Sustainability Strategy F interest are avoided. (44) + Annual Report 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise Our Sustainability Strategy F of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, (39) + Annual Report including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, Our Sustainability Strategy F and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social (44) performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Our Sustainability Strategy SHARK F organization’s identification and management of economic, (41) monitoring and environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and reporting opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Our Sustainability Strategy F performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and (39) + Annual Report social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Our Sustainability Strategy F is addressed by the organization. (37) 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Our Sustainability Strategy F principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or (30) + Our People (83, 85) endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Our Sustainability Strategy F national/international advocacy organizations. (42) 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Our Sustainability Strategy F (34) F 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Our Sustainability Strategy engage. (34) F 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Our Sustainability Strategy engagement by type and by stakeholder group. (35,36) F 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Our Sustainability Strategy engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics (37) and concerns, including through its reporting. 104 CH 10 Profile Description SectioN Response Level of Disclosure (page numbers) disclosure F=Full disclosure P=Partial disclosure NR=Not reported ECONOMIC DMA Disclosure of management approach Multiple references through report (11-43) EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Company Profile (11) F operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Our Sustainability Strategy F organization’s activities due to climate change. (27) EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report F EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. No financial F assistance received. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Our People (71) P minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Our People (71) F significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired Our People (72) F from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Our People (79-83) F provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, Our People (78-83) F including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL DMA Disclosure of management approach Our Sustainability Strategy F (11), Our Mills (26), Sustainable Fibre Sourcing (85) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Our Sustainable Fibre F Sourcing (28), data table (99) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Our Sustainable Fibre F Sourcing (47) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Data table (93) F EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Data table (93) F EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Our Mills (86) F EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Our Mills (86) F and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Our Mills (86) Not possible F achieved. for APP to split direct/indirect, it is all related to overall enegy use. This is explained in the context of the section at the introduction. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Our Mills (89), Data Table (96) F EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Data table (96, 97) F EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Our Mills (89), Data Table (96) F EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Our Sustainable Fibre F protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected Sourcing (60) areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Our Sustainable Fibre F biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Sourcing (60) protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Our Sustainable Fibre F Sourcing (48, 60-64) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Refer to F with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. F EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. APP is currently NR not calculating indirect GHG emission since the amount is estimated to be insignificant compared to GHG from manufacturing process. manufacturing process. 105 CH 10 Profile Description SectioN Response Level of Disclosure (page numbers) disclosure F=Full disclosure P=Partial disclosure NR=Not reported EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Our Mills (87) F EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Data table (96-97) F EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Data table (96-97) F EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Data table (96-97) F EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Data table (96-97) F EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. None in F reporting period EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed NR hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies Data table (96-97) F and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Our Mills (84-91), Sustainable F and extent of impact mitigation. Fibre Sourcing (46-69) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are As per APP’s NR reclaimed by category. nature of business, this is irrelevant because most of our products are intermediate products EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary None in F sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. reporting period EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Data table (96-97) F SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA Disclosure of management approach LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Our People (71-72) F broken down by gender. F LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by Our People (71) Rates in P age group, gender, and region. report, total number in data table LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Our People (71) F temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our People (72) F LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, Our People (71) Government F including whether it is specified in collective agreements. of Indonesia regulation states that if the company will be permanently closed down the requirement for notice period is 7 days. Notice period for other operational changes are not covered under Indonesian law. For specific operational changes, APP’s policy is for management to decide days of notice required based on the consideration of the nature of the operational changes. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementOur People (72) P worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Our People (72) APP record F number of work-related fatalities by region and gender. these statistics in line with Government of Indonesia requirements, which currently do not stipulate recording by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs Our People (70) Multiple F in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community references members regarding serious diseases. through case studies 106 CH 10 Profile Description SectioN Response Level of Disclosure (page numbers) disclosure F=Full disclosure P=Partial disclosure NR=Not reported LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Our People (74) F LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by Our People (76) APP record P employee category. these statistics in line with Government of Indonesia requirements, which currently do not stipulate recording by gender. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Our People (76) F the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Our People (76) F development reviews by gender. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Our People (71) + Annual P employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Reports membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Our People (71) F LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Our People (75) P SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS DMA Disclosure of management approach Our Sustainability Strategy (26-32), Our People (77) HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and Our People (78) No significant P contracts that include human rights clauses or that have undergone investments in human rights screening. the reporting period HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business Our People (78) P partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Our People (77) F aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Our People (77) F HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to Our People (77-78) None to F exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at report, significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. incidents would have been reported in company wide human rights risk assesment HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk Our People (77-78) F for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk Our People (78) P for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies Not material NR or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous For up to date P people and actions taken. information on cases, refer to Sustainability Dashboard on the APP website. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to 100%, as per F human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. SR2012 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and Refer to P resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. APP FCP dashboard 107 CH 10 Profile Description SectioN Response Level of Disclosure (page numbers) disclosure F=Full disclosure P=Partial disclosure NR=Not reported SOCIAL: SOCIETY DMA Disclosure of management approach Our Sustainability Strategy (26-32), Our People (79) SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Our People (79) 100% F engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related Our Sustainability Strategy (44) F to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Our Sustainability Strategy F policies and procedures. (44) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Our Sustainability Strategy (44) F SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Our Sustainability Strategy F lobbying. (42) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, No F politicians, and related institutions by country. contributions given. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, None in F and monopoly practices and their outcomes. reporting period SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No significant F sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. monetary fines in reporting period SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Our Mills (84) F communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Our Mills (84-91) F significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA Disclosure of management approach Our Sustainability Strategy, Our Products (23-32) PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Our Products (25) F services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Our Products (25) None in F voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and reporting services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. period PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Our Products (23) Third party F and percentage of significant products and services subject to such certification information requirements. and labelling predominately apply to sourcing and content life cycle stages. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Our Products (25) None in F voluntary codes concerning product and service information and reporting labelling, by type of outcomes. period PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Our Products (25) F measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related For marketing F to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and products we sponsorship. comply with Indonesian law on advertising. Our global sales offices also develop their own material relevant for their own market and adhere to the respective advertising laws. This is managed by the marketing division. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Not material NR voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Not material NR customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Not material NR regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 108 CH 10 109 CH 11 Chapter 11 Glossary CHAPTER 11 110 CH 11 Chain of Custody System of physical and documented traceability of fibre based products, from forest through to final product use Concession An area of forest where a commercial arrangement exists between a forest owner and a buyer of harvested wood from within the forest area FCP Forest Conservation Policy Forest Moratorium The halting of natural forest clearance across all APP suppliers, accounced in February 2013 FPIC Free Prior Informed Consent FSC Forest Stewardship Council GHG Greenhouse Gas HCS High Carbon Stock Areas where the land has a high concentration of organic matter above ground HCVF / HCV High Conservation Value Forest, contain biological, ecological, social or cultural values which are considered critically important ICAD Internal Control and Audit Division ISFMP Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Programme LBKP pulp Leaf Bleached Kraft Pulp LEI Ecolabelling Institute of Indonesia Issues voluntary Sustainable Forest Management and Chain of Custody certification MTH Mixed Tropical Hardwood NFW Natural Forest Wood, also known as MTH Peatland Forests characterised by waterlogged soil, with a thick layer of peat on the surface PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PHPL PHPL (Sustainable Production Forest Management) A mandatory Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) system (SVLK is the initial step to achieve full PHPL SFM certification) Plantation fibre Fibre originating from forests that have been planted for commercial purposes 111 CH 11 Pulpwood Wood suitable for processing into pulp for paper manufacture Ramin Hardwood tree native to parts of SE Asia, including Indonesia RFPPP Responsible Fibre Procurement & Processing Policy APP’s policy which sets out the standards we require our suppliers to adhere to SFM Sustainable Forest Management The ongoing management of forest areas according to evironmental, social and economic needs SVLK SVLK (Timber Legality Verification System) A mandatory verification system enacted in 2009 for wood legality Wood free Paper produced from chemical pulp that is free from wood based impurities, such as lignin that occurs naturally in wood 112 CH 11 113
