OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE BRINGS RESULTS The strategy Cramo has chosen, with a rigorous focus on operational excellence combined with efficiency measures, resulted in increased profitability and strong cash flow in a difficult market environment. Cramo has a solid foundation for strengthening its competitiveness in the future. Your strategic theme is operational Increased operational excellence have put great emphasis on safety excellence. How have you succeeded is also reflected in further enhanced issues with our own staff as well as with in delivering on it? customer service and in easier access to our customers to contribute to greater Within the last few years, we have indeed a wider range of products and services occupational safety. As a result of placed a strong focus on operational with higher reliability of equipment continuous improvements in processes efficiency. We have continued to delivery and functionality. At the same and management systems, our Finnish implement our strategy, that is, roll out time, our capability to keep our customers operations were granted an OHSAS a uniform business model and efficient ahead of the changing competition has 18001 certificate. Our sustainability processes. I am happy to report that this continuously improved. We have got report, which will be published in March, has proceeded well in all our countries closer to our customers; we understand provides more information on our and that our personnel and customers them and their needs today better than sustainability work. have both welcomed the changes. before. Our commitment to continuous This systematic strategy improvements ensures that our work with You promise your customers a great implementation, together with cost operational excellence will go on. day at work. What does that mean in savings and the efficiency measures We have also continued rolling practice? carried out earlier, has clearly improved out Cramo Care, our framework for We fully acknowledge that our reason our profitability and operational coordinating and monitoring the Group’s for existence is that we contribute to the efficiency. Meanwhile, our agility has sustainability work, a framework founded well-being of our customers and that further increased. on UN Global Compact principles. We we add value by adding our values to Focus on profitability and stable profit distribution Improvement in profitability 12.2 continued in 2013. Successfully 10.5 11.3 implemented cost savings and operational development in line 7.0 with the company strategy improved the company’s earnings. 3.9 EBITA % 2009–2013 TARGET >15% OF SALES 09 10 11 12 13 CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 11 the relationship. We believe a corporate business, demand remained at a high contribution in tough times. Thank you culture that breathes this vision and our level in all the Nordic countries as well. for that. Keep the Cramo spirit up and be values in every respect each day will also In Central Europe, our transition prepared for the tailwinds. make the difference in our performance. programme has proceeded as planned. Our slogan “For a great day at work” We also strengthened our position How about your shareholders simply means we will do everything in Norway in the spring through and investors? we can to contribute to our customers’ acquisitions and by concluding a longWe are stronger than before. The strategy success by providing professional hassleterm delivery contract with one of the we have chosen and the on-going free services and by preventing and largest construction companies there. The actions to improve operational efficiency, solving their problems – making their lives transfer of Russian operations to a joint profitability and agility are clearly bearing easier. venture was also completed in March. fruit. Our capital structure is stable Obviously we do that through Our results demonstrate that and our balance sheet is solid. We are continuous improvements in our our strategy and contingency plans one of the leading rental companies operations, for instance, by developing are working, and I believe our in Europe and also one of the oldest our expertise, customer service, product competitiveness in the near future and most experienced, celebrating our offering and internal processes. But it is as well as in the long term has been 60th anniversary this year, with a good also about our attitude – how we bolster strengthened. Our business indicates presence in all the markets we want to this passion to serve, our ever growing good continuity over time. be in. We are trim and agile and, I trust, desire to get closer to our customers and We will keep our cost levels low in ready for a positive swing in the markets. better understand them and their needs. order to further increase profitability as However, we still have tremendous The more we know about our customers, markets improve and sales grow. We will potential for improvement. There are their priorities and their everyday working specifically emphasise improvements in markets where we can increase our situation, the better we can develop our the countries with unsatisfactory results, market share. There will always be operations. This is best demonstrated but we will also keep a keen eye on all room for improvement in operational by new rental services such as those for our other markets. excellence. heating and site electricity developed Thank you for your loyalty and trust in together with our customers for their Tough times continued in 2013. What us. We will continue our work to generate specific needs. is your message for your employees? more stable profits for you. We have faced fierce headwinds for quite Economic uncertainty persisted, although a long time. However, I believe these the economy grew more stable in 2013. winds are now changing, our sails have How did that affect your business? been properly trimmed, and we know Sincerely, I am delighted that, despite the the right wind angle to sail rapidly. We challenging market situation, we achieved are ready to sail at high speed once the good results in Finland, Sweden and winds hit our tail. Eastern Europe, particularly in the Baltic You have shown tremendous Vesa Koivula region and Poland. In our modular space commitment and made a strong President and CEO Cash flow from operations CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS MEUR improved significantly year-onAND AFTER INVESTMENTS MEUR year. Investment cash flow 160 includes acquisitions of EUR 25.9 146 138 million carried out in the first quarter of 2013. 77 65 68 62 50 27 09 10 11 12 13 -55 12 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK – WHY IT MATTERS CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we deliver on our promise through sustainability HELPING TO MEET YOUR SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS By meeting increasing demands for sustainability and promoting fair, mutually rewarding relations, we create value for all our stakeholders as well as sustainable business. CRAMO CARE TARGETS FOR CRAMO CARE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE • Be the leader in responsibility and We are convinced that highly dedicated customer care employees are the key factor in driving Customer customer satisfaction and sustainable profits, Care and have thus implemented initiatives to create attractive working conditions. As a result of long-term work with Environmental Employee sustainability issues, we are able to provide Care Care our customers a wide range of sustainable services and solutions that help them not only to meet their sustainability targets but also to Community Care optimise their working processes and achieve effective results. Our focus is on safety and energy efficiency, but that also includes areas We believe sustainable CRAMO CARE FOR LONG-TERM, SUSTAINABLE PROFITS competitiveness in the long Cramo Care is our framework for term is achieved by caring coordinating and monitoring sustainability for our employees, being work. Our common values – commitment to being a credible business partner, to responsive to customer customer satisfaction and to creativity for needs, developing sustainable leading-edge solutions – constitute the products and services, and backbone of this work. Within the frame of the UN Global Launch of the first Smart Energy savings concept to reduce energy consumption at taking sustainability into Compact, which Cramo has taken part construction sites in 2009. consideration in the conduct in since 2009, together with Cramo Care, of our own operations. launched in 2010, the company has developed Group-level policies. Our Code of Conduct demonstrates our commitment to business ethics and provides concrete – A trusted partner. I know we can call them anytime and they will do everything to fulfil our needs as fast as possible. Mr Josef Tuma As a result of an expanded product of customers while delivering more Managing Director offering and increased focus on our flexibility and effectiveness in the Mobest Czech Republic customer approach, Cramo is able to Czech Republic. meet the growing and varied demands 20 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 such as occupational health. To be able ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 PRIORITIES FOR 2014 to develop market-leading sustainability • Step-wise implementation and • Further roll-out of Cramo Care services, we have a structured dialogue adaptation of Cramo Care, such as a • Fuller compliance with GRI-based and close cooperation with our most Group-level system for misconduct indicators and KPIs demanding and progressive key customers. reporting • More complete Group-wide GRI report We contribute to sustainable • Compliance with the UN Global • Improved emissions reporting development in society by conducting Compact included in supplier chain our own operations with consideration to management sustainability. Since we want to develop • A set of Group-level sustainability the market, we also take an active part in indicators and KPIs implemented developing sustainability in the European • First Global Reporting Initiative rental industry. We are creating a (GRI)-based, Group-level competitive advantage from sustainability. sustainability report guidelines for how we do business. CRAMO’S ECONOMIC IMPACTS IN 2013 MEUR Implementation of our sustainability work is decentralised and adapted to the local Customers Suppliers of materials and services 450.5 (497.9) 657.3 (688.4) • Materials, services and other purchases from local and business environment. •  Cramo provides global suppliers EUR 350.0 (373.6) million equipment rental, • Gross capital expenditure EUR 100.5 (124.3)1 million SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES rental-related Our local-level commitments include services and rental Owners and financial community 39.6 (32.5) of modular space support for local charity organisations, • 9,156 (9,096) shareholders • Over 150,000 schools and sports clubs. Since 2008 customers in • Dividends EUR 17.7 (12.4) million we have been a main sponsor of SOS 15 countries CRAMO • Interest on hybrid capital EUR 6.0 (6.0) million Children’s Villages at the Group-level. • Financial expenses EUR 16.2 (21.0) million Starting in 2014, we are focused on Personnel 106.9 (112.4) supporting SOS Children’s Villages • Cramo employed an average of 2,463 (2,664) people (FTE) in the Baltics and helping local • Women accounted for 13.1% (14.2) of personnel on SOS organisations to improve their 31 December 2013 fundraising capabilities.  Public sector, society and pensions 46.1 (43.0) 1 Excluding business Includes social security charges, pension expenses acquisitions and taxes (not deferred) – Cramo Friend has resulted in increased availability and faster deliveries for access equipment, which is extremely important for us as a renovation company. Mr Jyrki Ekonoja An initiative from a Rental Manager led programme, based on an initial deposit, Managing Director to the launch of our newest loyalty provides members a “sense of belonging”, Ekonrak Oy Finland programme, Cramo Friend, for small and greater discounts and additional VIP medium-sized customers in Finland. The features for smaller customers as well. CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 HOW WE DELIVER ON OUR PROMISE THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY 21 How we take care of quality, safety and environment IMPROVED ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND SAFETY Our commitment on quality, safety and environment enables our customers to improve their working environment, environmental performance and efficiency. HIGH QUALITY, SAFE, SAFE WORKPLACE ENERGY-EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS Our environmental and quality Our commitment to the environment, Environmental management systems together with our combined with our solid competence in Care Group-level QSE Roadmap, launched in developing safe solutions, has resulted 2010 and updated in 2012, ensure that in energy-efficient, cost-effective we meet high environmental and quality customer solutions with market-leading assurance standards and provide a safe, environmental performance. attractive workplace. Local depots are Our rigorous supplier selection system Quality Safety Environresponsible for operative environmental is reflected in modern equipment that ment management and activities. meets high quality and safety standards and has a minimum environmental load. Professional advice, explicit instructions and training for equipment maintenance In every aspect of our operations, 50% REDUCTION IN there is a focus on safety, high ENERGY CONSUMPTION Røren School and the SFO1, with more than quality and responsible 100 pupils in Hokksund, had an urgent environmental stewardship. need for new premises with neither the We work continuously to improve money nor time to build a new permanent building. A temporary school was built Modular space operations in Sweden the safety and environmental within a few weeks using energy-efficient were certified as the first unit of the Group according to ISO 9001 in 1998. performance of our operations modules that enable a 50% reduction in and customer solutions, energy consumption without sacrificing comfort or compromising on standards set throughout the product life-cycle. for permanent buildings. All Cramo operations in Finland and Sweden have been certified – The people who work here love the in quality, environment and occupational health and safety. Operations in Denmark and Norway are certified in quality and environment. new building. It is nice to look at and very comfortable to work in. Our neighbours also really liked the design. Ms Anne-Lise Holth Principal, Røren School Hokksund, Norway 1 SFO is a voluntary childcare programme provided by municipalities in the fourth grade of primary school in Norway 22 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 and safety, together with continuous ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 PRIORITIES FOR 2014 improvements in processes and quality • Step-wise implementation and • Continue QSE Roadmap roll-out management systems, contribute to better adaptation of our Quality, Safety and • Initiate work for ISO certification service, fewer errors, higher productivity Environment (QSE) Roadmap, such as in Latvia and Lithuania and greater occupational safety. OHSAS 18001 certification in safety for By implementing step-wise Cramo Finland and energy certificates improvements such as systematic energyfor two modular space projects in savings measures in our premises, Latvia increasing the use of renewable energy • First report to the Climate Change for heating and electricity, having safety Carbon Disclosure project systems in place for handling the waste from operations and striving to recycle extensively, we reduce the environmental impact of all our operations. THE SUN AS AN ENERGY Helping to reduce SOURCE Our commitment to energyenergy consumption efficient customer solutions led to a collaboration with Light Energy to at construction sites is develop site huts using solar panels one of our focus areas. as the energy source in 2013. After Mr Håkan Sönnergren a pilot project, the solutions for Product Manager passive site huts will be launched in Cramo AB 2014−2015. Sweden We rely on having people around us who we HELP TO MEET THE HIGHEST STANDARDS trust 100%. With Cramo we did not need to The biggest school project in Norway, worry. They took care of everything fast and the construction site of the new Risløkka competence centre for vocational training very professionally. in Oslo, suffered damage as a result of a water pipe leak. By taking care of Mr Lars Sandek Project Controller/Supervisor drying damp walls and purifying air as AF Group well as heating the site and submitting Norway documentation for services in building moisture and purity before closing the walls, Cramo helped to meet the high standards set for the construction’s indoor environment. At the same time, the energy used for heating and drying was environmentally friendly since applied energy, district heating and LPG were used as energy sources. CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 HOW WE TAKE CARE OF QUALITY, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT 23 a GREAT DAY AT WORK means WE HELP YOU IMPROVE YOUR QSE PERFORMANCE We are at the forefront when it comes to quality, safety and environment (QSE). Safety takes top priority in our relations. We work intensively to improve the working environment to help prevent injuries and reduce accidental deaths at our own and at our customer’s worksites. We also work to improve the environmental performance of our operations and customer solutions throughout the product life-cycle. CRAMO SAFETY Our occupational health and safety services include fall protection systems; protective guardrails, safety nets and personal protective safety equipment that protect your workers against falling accidents. ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING With our LED lighting system, you can reduce electricity consumption on your construction site. At the same time, it reduces the need to PROTECTION PRODUCTS FOR replace light bulbs. With AGAINST ENVIRONMENTALLY lighting installed at the VIBRATION AND SAFE HANDLING NOISE INJURIES We provide equipment CRAMO CONTROL main emergency exits, it is We invest in the latest for the safe handling of Our solution for security also safe to exit from the technology and provide chemical products. During and access control for construction site during a equipment with good a project, we can also construction sites ensures power failure. ergonomics and as low a provide help with waste control of who enters the sound level as possible. management. worksite. 24 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 QSE WORK STARTS AT OUR DEPOTS Our employees help you, whether it involves choosing the right tool for each job or calculating emissions. ENVIRONMENTAL We make environmental AND QUALITY assessments and take care MANAGEMENT of energy efficiency and SYSTEMS waste management. ensure that we comply with HIGH QUALITY the latest environmental EQUIPMENT and quality assurance THAT MEETS QSE standards. We are the REQUIREMENTS frontrunner in the industry, We provide top quality with ISO certification for products and solutions. We quality and environment have strict procedures and in the Nordic countries as thorough checks before well as work environment delivery, and monitor them in Finland and Sweden. on a regular basis. SITE HUTS AND MODULE SET-UP WITH LOW ENERGY CONSUMPTION With our energy-efficient TRAINING TO RAISE site huts and solutions COMPETENCE for daycare, schools and We organise internal offices, you can reduce and external training to your energy use by up to enhance security at the ENVIRONMENTALLY 50% without sacrificing worksite and promote RESPONSIBLE OILS standards and comfort. proper maintenance and AND FUELS use of equipment. We use environmentally responsible oils and fuels for our equipment. CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK – WHAT IT MEANS 25 How we delivered on our promise operationally in 2013 CREATING PASSIONATE RENTAL BUSINESS CHAMPIONS We are well on our way in developing passionate rental champions who understand our customers’ needs, sometimes even better than they do, and who have the competence required and a genuine desire to help. Develop TARGETS FOR MUST-WIN BATTLE STRENGTHENED PERFORMANCE• Develop Cramo People to be DRIVEN CULTURE Cramo passionate rental business champions By successfully carrying out its corporate game, Cramopol, the company has been People able to communicate its strategy and values to all employees. At the same time, the game has generated a lot of suggestions for improvements. With Cramo Dialogue, a model for annual performance reviews, the company helps its employees to achieve their highest potential while Cramo People Survey gives feedback on employee satisfaction. By offering attractive WE ARE A TEAM workplaces with good As part of its transformation from a family-owned company into a unified part opportunities for competence of a pan-European business, Theisen development and rewards for has developed its organisation to be contributing to our values and more sales-oriented and focused on The first version of Cramo School was leadership. At the same time, the creation organised in 1995. Today both internal goals, we increase employee of teamwork and a customer-oriented and external training are organised under this framework. commitment and loyalty. culture with higher employee participation has proceeded well. – Strengthening our sales activities brings us closer to our customers and thus enables us to take better care of their needs. Our new reporting model ensures that we all get the same information. Decisions are clear and transparent. Mr Joachim Drexler Operational Support Administrator Theisen Baumaschinen AG Germany 34 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Through Cramo Development, a ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 PRIORITIES FOR 2014 common framework for employee • The Cramo Training and Career • Roll out the Cramo Training and on-boarding, training and skills Development Programme further Career Development Programme development, Cramo ensures developed; career planning, onthroughout the Group professionalism and efficiency at all boarding processes and e-learning • Carry out third round of the One levels of the Group while encouraging the platform with first common training Cramo Share Plan for employees professional and personal development module included; implementation of all employees throughout their career almost completed in Finland, Sweden, at Cramo. By strengthening its valueLithuania and Latvia based performance-driven culture, the • Implementation of other new HR company drives high-level customer models completed at the country level satisfaction and long-term sustainable • Second round of the One Cramo profits. Share Plan for employees carried out TARGET ZERO ACCIDENTS EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY (FTE) 31 DECEMBER 2013 (2012) Our vision is zero accidents, and we work systematically with preventive FINLAND 416 (452) EASTERN EUROPE 451 (623) ESTONIA 143 (138) measures. By training our employees SWEDEN 832 (832) NORWAY 260 (223) LATVIA 54 (44) and our customers in the proper, safe LITHUANIA 57 (51) DENMARK 108 (97) use of equipment, we enhance work CENTRAL EUROPE 349 (327) RUSSIA 10 (191) POLAND 135 (150) safety and efficiency. For example, GERMANY 322 (295) CZECH REBUBLIC 43 (39) in 2013, 38 employees (11%) and 342 AUSTRIA 24 (29) SLOVAKIA 9 (10) HUNGARY 3 (3) customers took part in such training in BELGIUM 0 (1) Lithuania and Latvia. – Becoming acquainted KEY FIGURES 2013 2012 Change, % with safety requirements Average number of employees (FTE) 2,463 2,664 -7.5 and the proper use of Number of employees at year-end (FTE) 2,416 2,555 -5.4 equipment enables Total number of employees 2,528 2,637 -4.1 us to work faster and permanently employed 2,427 2,520 -3.7 smoother without temporarily employed 71 117 -39.3 the risk of harming women 331 375 -11.7 ourselves, our health men 2,197 2,262 -2.9 Mr Mindaugas Sutkus Personnel expenses/ or safety. Rental Officer Verkių Depot, Vilnius employee (EUR 1,000) Personnel expenses/ 56.3 54.0 4.4 Cramo Lithuania sales, % 21.1 20.9 1.1 Sick leave days/FTE 7.1 6.9 3.1 CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 HOW WE DELIVER ON OUR PROMISE OPERATIONALLY – MUST-WIN BATTLES 35 a GREAT DAY AT WORK means WE ENSURE COMPETENCE AND A PASSION TO SERVE We know the difference between doing a job for a paycheck and doing it out of a passion to serve, and would never settle for anything but the latter. In everything we do, we have a genuine desire to help. By taking care of our people, we create Cramo Spirit and an attractive workplace, with dedicated employees who have a passion to serve. CRAMO PEOPLE SURVEY Our Group-level employee survey is carried out in all our operating countries every two years, providing valuable information about our employees’ views and about areas for improvement. HEALTH AND SAFETY IS OUR FIRST PRIORITY Our vision is zero accidents ATTRACTING CRAMO in our workplaces, and we THE SHARPEST DEVELOPMENT MINDS AND work systematically with Our common framework THE BRIGHTEST preventive measures. We for employee on-boarding, SPIRITS work actively to promote a training and skills We offer attractive, creative healthy lifestyle among our development encourages workplaces with good employees. professional and personal opportunities for skills Mr Mindaugas Sutkus, development throughout development. Rental Officer at their career, thus ensuring Cramo Lithuania, talks professionalism and about safety training. p 35 efficiency at all levels. 38 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 THE GUNNAR GLIFBERG AWARD of EUR 15,000 provides young rental professionals in our Group with an opportunity to take part in an international CRAMO DIALOGUE management training Our structured approach programme. to performance reviews ensures that every employee has an annual review in order to establish personal development plans and targets. OUR COMMUNICATING STRATEGY AND WAY OF WORKING Our corporate game, REWARDING Cramopol, provides an CRAMO SCHOOL EMPLOYEES engaging way to convey AND CRAMO THROUGH THE our strategy and values ACADEMY ONE CRAMO to all our employees. It Our training programmes SHARE PLAN also builds team spirit and generates plenty are closely aligned with We encourage employees of suggestions for our strategy and are based to become shareholders improvement. on a 70:20:10 philosophy: and reward them for 70% learning by doing, 20% contributing to our values learning from others, 10% and goals through the plan. classroom learning. Mr Joachim Drexler, Operational Support, Theisen, talks about their customer-focused organisation. p 34 CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK – WHAT IT MEANS 39
