Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Maslak Ayazağa Caddesi, No: 2, 34396, Sarıyer, İstanbul Turkey Phone: +90 (212) 335 32 32 Fax: +90 (212) 335 30 90 www.dogusgrubu.com.tr 01 Content DOĞUŞ GROUP STRUCTURE 02 OPERATIONAL MAP 04 OUR GROUP 06 Company Profile 06 Awards and Recognitions 08 Strategic Partnerships and Memberships 13 CEO MESSAGE 14 CSR AT DOĞUŞ GROUP 16 CSR Management Approach and Policies 16 Key Stakeholders and Material Issues 18 ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT 20 Compliance and Risk Management 22 Responsible Investment 24 New Investments in 2013 25 Local Economic Development Programs 27 Supply Chain Management 27 Public Policy Contributions 28 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 32 Open Communication 35 Employee Health and Safety 36 Employee Satisfaction and Engagement 37 Employee Suggestion System 38 Performance Management 40 Training and Development Programs 40 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 42 Business Ethics 58 Human Rights 60 ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 62 Environmental Awareness Programs 64 Energy Efficiency 68 Waste Management 69 Water Consumption 70 PERFORMANCE DATA 71 ABOUT THIS REPORT 94 INDEXES 97 03 Doğuş Group Structure 02 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 05 Operational Map 04 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 07 OUR GROUP Doğuş Holding and its Functions1 Company Profile At Doğuş Holding we provide steering, coordination, control and audit functions, and generate value for the Group, monitor activities of the Group companies on behalf of shareholders, perform financial audits, and administer control systems. We aim to create competitive companies that put regional growth at the forefront of their operations. Founded in 1951, Doğuş Group has been taking its place among to Turkey. The Group is able to maximize the value of its brands Holding Functions the leading business conglomerates of Turkey. The Group is a by utilizing the highest quality human resources and the most • Corporate Communications corporate leader in the region. advanced technology to maintain the high standards that have • Finance and Financial Reporting made it a regional leader in the services sector. • Financial Affairs Doğuş Group is active in eight core businesses: financial • Human Resources services, automotive, construction, media, tourism and services, Doğuş Group always provides its services based upon the • Information Technologies real estate, energy and entertainment. In addition, the Group principles of customer satisfaction and trust. As a result of • Internal Audit sustains its growth with new investments in the areas of sports, this approach, the Group has created reputable brands with entertainment, technology and agriculture. global standards and has been representing Turkey worldwide. • Investments Its name is a source of attraction for international investors • Lean Management Doğuş Group utilizes a management style that is both customerwho are interested in Turkey. The Group has contributed to • Legal Affairs focused and productivity-centered. While it is formed through this process by creating a synergy with global giants including • Risk Management material gains, it embodies a strong corporate citizenship the following: BBVA (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.) in • Security and Administrative Affairs approach which is at the center of all business practices of the finance, Volkswagen AG and TÜVSÜD in automotive, CNBC, • Social Projects Group and which benefits the entire society. In line with this MSNBC and Condé Nast in media, Hyatt International Ltd. and • Tax Affairs approach, the Group implements several corporate responsibility HMS International Hotel GmbH (Maritim) in tourism, Latsis • Protocol and sponsorship projects, with a special focus on child Group, Kiriacoulis Group and Adriatic Croatia International (ACI) development, education, environment, culture & arts and sports. Group in marine, and the International Azumi Group in the food & beverage and entertainment industry. Doğuş Group is aware of its responsibilities and acts in accordance Key Financial Indicators (TL thousand) with a vision that includes leading by example and contributing Standing out as a pioneer of change, Doğuş Group is always to economic development. The Group plays a significant role ready to adapt to the developments around the world. In 2010 2011 2012 2012 Restated2 2013 in the Turkish economy by creating numerous employment line with this adaptation strategy, the Group also has the Revenues 8,654,592 9,929,164 11,000,016 6,649,328 8,644,506 opportunities and generating high levels of business volume. The advantage of capitalizing on its broad range of experience and Gross Profit 2,744,273 2,551,956 2,790,710 776,615 1,083,348 Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy; is to support collaborations. By signing partnership agreements with the economic, social and environmental development and increase leading global companies, Doğuş Group signals its intention to EBITDA 1,667,002 3,737,556 1,300,874 1,176,206 1,291,618 the level of prosperity by creating innovative and sustainable accelerate its investments throughout the world. Regarding the EBIT 1,425,944 3,455,629 993,655 961,861 1,052,443 business models in every sector and region. latest international partnerships of the Group, Doğuş has always underscored its ambitious standing in becoming the regional Net Profit for the Year 966,015 2,691,764 744,003 744,003 143,555 Doğuş Group has more than 200 companies and over 35,000 leader of the sectors in which it operates. General Administration employees. The Group has created strong customer loyalty while building brand value with its high-tech infrastructure. In almost all of its core businesses, the Group has strong Expenses 1,153,172 1,189,808 1,351,433 591,404 748,359 Doğuş Group continues contributing to Turkey’s ongoing process international partners providing high-quality services in 26 Selling, Marketing and of transformation and innovation. Utilizing its global perspective, countries, with 35 world-renowned brands, the list of which are world-class brands, and noteworthy partnerships, the Group’s provided below: Distribution Expenses 204,878 242,626 294,942 263,955 312,559 vision – particularly with regard to services – is a valuable asset Total Assets 49,285,930 50,970,721 56,085,148 17,815,222 20,748,914 Total Shareholders' Equity 7,701,796 9,864,793 10,801,229 10,801,229 10,586,002 GLOBAL PRESENCE SECTOR COUNTRY BRAND / COMPANY SECTOR COUNTRY BRAND / COMPANY Key Performance Indicators (%) Germany Oman Luxembourg Construction Qatar Doğuş Construction 2010 2011 2012 2012 Restated 2013 Malta Saudi Arabia People’s Republic of China Ukraine Gross Profitability 32 26 25 12 13 Romania Croatia Villa Dubrovnik Financial Russia Garanti Tourism and Italy Capri Palace Net Profitability 11 27 7 11 2 Services Switzerland Services Greece Flisvos, Zea, Lefkas and Gouvia Marinas The Netherlands Croatia D-Marin Marinas EBITDA Margin 19 38 12 18 15 Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus People’s Republic of China UK Thailand ROAReturn on Assets 2 5 1 4 1 Zuma Ukraine Entertainment UAE Iraq USA ROEReturn on Group Equity 13 27 7 7 1 Automotive D-Auto Switzerland UK Coya, Oblix, Roka, Tom’s Kitchen, Zuma Bulgaria Germany 1 Detailed information about the Holding Functions and Group Governance Structure can be found in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2013 at http://www.dogusgrubu.com. euro.message tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports Kazakhstan UAE Construction Doğuş Construction New Initiatives Libya UAE REIDIN Morocco Russia Crate and Barrel 2 Effective from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the new reporting standard (IFRS 11Joint Arrangements). The proportionate consolidation method applied to the Group’s interest in joint ventures is replaced by the “equity method” effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Therefore, key financial indicators for 2012 are restated for comparative presentation. 06 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 09 Awards & Recognitions Doğuş Holding • “1st Place”, Bank that Utilizes Technology the Best Category, the Webrazzi Awards 2013 • “The Best Corporate Social Responsibility Project of the Year” (The Doğuş Kids • Garanti Mobile Branch ranked 2nd,the Best Domestic Mobile Application Category, the Symphony Orchestra), 2013 Ace of M.I.C.E. (Meetings, Incentives, Webrazzi Awards 2013 Conferences, and Exhibitions) Awards • “The Best Bank in Social Media” Award, Global Finance Award Banking and Financial Services • iGaranti Application, the “Most Contagious Service” Award, the Annual Most Contagious Products/Services Awards, the Contagious Magazine. Garanti Bank • “The World’s 18 Strongest Bank”, Bloomberg Markets 2013 List th • “The iGaranti Online Campaign”, “Gold” in Marketing, Online Campaigns, Banking/Bill • “Turkey’s Best Bank”, The Bright Stars: World’s Best Banks 2013, Global Finance Paying Category, the W3 Awards 2013 • “Best Bank for Sustainability in Turkey”, World Finance Magazine • “Silver” with iGaranti Integrated Campaign in the Marketing, Integrated Campaign, Banking/Bill Paying Category, the W3 Awards 2013 • “Best Bank for Sustainability Europe”, IAIR Sustainability Awards 2013 • “Best Media Campaign” Award in Banking Category with the iGaranti Campaign, the • “2013 European Rising Star Award Cross Border Funding Acceleration”, MTN-i Crystal Apple Awards 2013 • The First Turkish Bank granted “A” level by GRI with its Sustainability Report • “Best TV Implementation” Award with the Integration of iGaranti into the ‘Kuzey Güney’ TV series, Crystal Apple Awards 2013 • “Best Project Finance House in Central and Eastern Europe”, EMEA Finance • “Best Branded Content Implementation” Award with the Integration of iGaranti into • “Turkish Project and Acquisition Finance Bank of the Year”, Inter Continental the ‘Kuzey Güney’ TV series, Crystal Apple Awards 2013 Finance Magazine, Global Banking & Finance Review, ACQ Magazine and Lawyers World • “Best Outdoor Implementation” Award with the ‘Guitar Racket’ designed for the 15th Anniversary campaign of Garanti Jazz Green, Crystal Apple Awards 2013 • “Best Turkish Finance Provider of the Year”, Acquisition International • “Bronze Apple” Award in the Best Ambient Medium Implementation Category with • “Best Turkish Refinance Provider of the Year”, Inter Continental Finance Magazine the ‘Torch Project’ for the National Women’s Basketball Team dubbed the Pixies of • Garanti Bank Call Center, “Gold” Award, the Best Technology Innovation Internal Basketball, Crystal Apple Awards 2013 Solution Category, the 2013 Top Ranking Performers Awards, the Contact Center • The “Best Website of the Year” Award, Golden Spider Awards 2013 World • “1st Place”, Garanti Internet Banking Branch, the Online Banking Category, Golden • Garanti Bank Call Center, “Bronze” Award, the Best Sales Campaign Category, the Spider Awards 2013 2013 Top Ranking Performers Awards, the Contact Center World • “Recruitment and Distinctive Implementations” Award, Garanti Bank’s Human • Garanti Customer Satisfaction Department, “Silver Medal”, the Best Customer Resources, The 6th PERYÖN People Management Awards Service Department of the Year Category, Stevie Awards • “Employer Branding” Award, Garanti Bank’s Human Resources, the 6th PERYÖN • Garanti Bank’s Service “Find Incentive”, “Best Customer Focus”, the Best People Management Awards Business Awards • Garanti Masters Private Banking, “Best Private Bank in Turkey” Award, World Finance Garanti Leasing • www.garantileasing.com.tr, “Award of Excellence”, the Financial Services Category, The 19th Communicator Awards 2013 held by the International Academy of Visual Arts • Garanti Masters Private Banking, “Best Private Bank in Turkey” Award, the 2013 Global Private Banking Awards co-organized by the Banker and PWM (Professional Wealth Management) magazines Garanti Factoring • “International Star Award for Quality ISAQ”, Gold Category, 2013 International Quality Award Convention Business Initiative Directions (BID) • “Turkey’s Best Relationship Management” Award, Garanti Masters Private Banking, the Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey 2013 conducted by Euromoney • “Best Internet Bank in Western Europe” Award, Global Finance Awards 08 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 11 • “Turkey’s Best Insurance Website”, “1st Place”, the Insurance Category, the Golden Automotive Garanti Pension & Life Spider 2013 • “Back to School: Educating, not Employing Children”, “Best Corporate Social Doğuş Otomotiv • VW Golf, “1st Place”, Small Compact Cars Category, the Golden Steering Wheel Responsibility Education Project of Turkey”, the 12th Golden Compass Public Awards Relations Awards • Doğuş Otomotiv Volkswagen Range Campaign, Medina Turgul DDB, “Silver”, Effie • Back to School, “Platinum” Award, Corporate Social Responsibility Category, the Awards Hermes Creative Awards organized by the Association of Marketing and Communication Professionals • Jetta, “TV Application of the Year”, Communication Category, ODD Awards • “Silver” Award, Financial Services Category, 2013 Vision Awards, League of American • Jetta, “TV Commercial Award”, Automotive Category, the Crystal Apple Festival of Communications Professionals (LACP) Creativity • “Silver Certificate”, Investors in People (IiP) • “Lovemark in Automotive”, Turkey’s Lovemarks Survey, MediaCat in Collaboration with IPSOS KMG Research Company • “Respect for People” Award, Kariyer.net • Volkswagen Caravelle Microsite, “Special Honor Award”, Awwwards.com • Back to School, “European Excellence” Awards, Communication Director Magazine, CSR Project of Regional & National Projects Turkey • Crafter 22+1 Radio Spot, “Silver Drum”, Golden Drum 2013 • Caravelle and Amarok, “The Best Magazine Advertising”, Commercial Vehicles Category, Kırmızı 2013 Awards Garanti Payment Systems • Bonus Head, “Bronze” Award, the Card-Based Payment Systems Category, Effie • A3 Sedan, “1st Place”, Middle Class Category, the Golden Steering Wheel Awards Awards for Effective Marketing Communications • Bonus, “Lovemark in Credit Cards”, Turkey’s Lovemarks Survey, MediaCat in Construction collaboration with IPSOS KMG Research Company • Miles&Smiles Webpage, “Bronze” Award, the Finance Category, the Horizon Doğuş Construction • The ENR Top 250 International Constructors, Engineering News Record Interactive Web Awards • “Overseas Contracting Services” Award, Turkish Constructors Association • Miles&Smiles Webpage, “Silver” Award, Travel and Leisure Category, the Horizon Interactive Web Awards Media • Miles&Smiles e-magazine, “Silver” Award, News/Blog Category, the Horizon Interactive Web Awards Doğuş Media Group • Approximately 950 awards to date for broadcasts and social responsibility campaigns • 77 awards in various areas from ministries, organizations, associations and • Miles&Smiles e-magazine,“1st Place”, the Events, Culture and Arts Category, the foundations, professional chambers, universities and high-schools in 2013 Horizon Interactive Web Awards Garanti Mortgage • Garanti Mortgage Website (www.garantimortgage.com), “Best in Class”, Financial Information Category, Interactive Media Awards, 2013 • Garanti Mortgage Website (www.garantimortgage.com), “Bronze” Award, Best Website Award in Financial Services Category, the Stevie Awards Garanti Invesment Trust Inc. • “Gold” Award, ESQR’s Quality Achievements Gold Category, European Society for Quality Research Garanti Technology • “The Most Successful and Creative Company in Customer Communication Technology” Award, CISCO, 2013 EMEAR Customer Collaboration Partner Sales Summit • Garanti’s Business Analytics Projects, “Analytic of the Year” Award, the SAP Forum 10 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 13 Tourism and Services Strategic Partnerships & Memberships Doğuş Tourism Group In 2013, Doğuş Group had memberships in the following organizations either on a corporate or individual basis: Grand Hyatt İstanbul • ASTD – American Society for Training and Development • “Certificate of Excellence”, Trip Advisor 2013 • CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project • “Sealed Air Sustainability and Tourism” Award, Skalite Awards 2013 • DEİK – Foreign Economic Relations Board • DenizTemiz TURMEPA – Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association • 47th on the World’s Best Hotels List, T+L 2013 World’s Best Award • EFAMA – European Fund and Asset Management Association • 4th in the Ranking of Large City Hotels of Europe (100 rooms or more) • FERMA – Federation of European Risk Management Association • Finans Kulüp Finance Professionals’ Foundation of Turkey D-Hotel Maris • “Best Spa” Award, Seven Star Global Luxury Award • FODER – Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association • Forum İstanbul • “One of the Best Resorts in the World”, the 25th Annual Robb Report USA Best of the Best Edition in 2013 • KİD – Corporate Communications Association • KRYD – Enterprise Risk Management Association • Tatler’s 101 Best Hotels in the World 2013 • ÖSGD – Corporate Volunteer Association • “Five Star Diamond” Award, American Association of Hospitality Science • Para Durumu (Turkey’s first financial literacy initiative) • PERYÖN – Personnel Management Association of Turkey • TBCSD – Turkish Business Council for Sustainable Development D-Resort Grand Azur • “Bronze”, Tui Nordic Blue Award 2013 • TEİD – Ethics and Reputation Society • Highly Recommended, Zoover.Nl 2013 • TİDE – The Institute of Internal Auditing, Turkey • Holiday Check Quality Selection Certificate 2013 • TKYD – Corporate Governance Association of Turkey • TÜBİYAD – Finance & IT Executives Association • Rentokil Certificate of Excellence 2013 • TÜFİDER – Financing Institutions Association • TÜSİAD – Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association Maritim Hotel Club Alantur • Holiday Check Quality Selection Certificate 2013 • UNEP FI – United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative • UNGC – United Nations Global Compact • Trip Advisor Excellence Certificate 2013 • UNPRI – United Nations Principles for Responsible Investments • Top Quality Hotel 2013, HRS • WEF – World Economic Forum • WWF – Green Office Program Strategic Sectoral Partnerships At Doğuş Group, we also give utmost importance to strategic sectoral partnerships and collaborate with global leaders related to our business activities. Finance Sector: BBVA (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria) Automotive Sector: Volkswagen AG, TÜVSÜD, Meiller, Krone, Scania Media Sector: CNBC, MSNBC, Condé Nast, National Geographic Tourism Sector: Hyatt International Ltd, HMS International GmbH Marina Sector: Kiriacoulis Group, Lamda Development, Adriatic Croatia International Retail Sector: Gucci, Armani Group, Capritouch, Porsche Design, Hublot, Loro Piana Entertainment Sector: Azumi Group, Doors Group, IMG Healthy Life: Chenot Group Other: SK Group, Crate & Barrel, REIDIN 12 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 15 CEO MESSAGE As one of the largest conglomerates of Turkey and the surrounding region, we aim to bring economic, social, cultural and environmental development in every sector, in which we operate, through innovative and sustainable business models. Dear Stakeholders, We are very pleased to present our Group’s sixth Corporate Social years (total investments in the past 10 years have reached USD In 2013, we made significant progress within the “Equality at Responsibility Report, which includes the social, environmental 5.2 billion). While approximately 15% of these investments Work” Platform. With the support of the Ministry of Family and and economic performances of Doğuş Group in 2013. Our have been actualized in foreign countries, the majority of the Social Policies and with Mr. Ferit. F. Şahenk, Doğuş Holding Board Group has always demonstrated its desire to invest in both today investments of the Group were realized in Turkey. Chairman, co-chairing the initiative, the Platform has initiated and tomorrow, focusing on stakeholder engagement with an its efforts to secure more female participation in business life employee and customer satisfaction oriented strategy. Doğuş Along with our economic success and contribution to the while creating opportunities and resources that encourage equal Group companies’ actions during 2013, toward being a sustainable development of the regions under our operational map, we also benefits. Within the scope of the Platform; we declared to develop corporation, reflect that comprehensive approach clearly. maintained our practices regarding social and environmental private coaching and mentoring programs to help the progress of sustainability in 2013 to bring prosperity to these regions. Doğuş our female employees and initiated several projects. We are very Our CSR strategy, is driven by our corporate values to create Group continued to focus its main community engagement pleased with the results and proud to share as a best practice. The shared value for the Doğuş Group’s stakeholders and for economic practices on two main areas: i) Education and development of female employee rate within the Group companies increased from development. We know very well that the sustainability and the younger generations and, ii) Development of arts and culture. 49% to 50%. In 2012, in terms of new employment, the rate of the progress of organisations are very much linked with the prosperity female employment in Doğuş Group was 36% whereas in 2013 of the community in which it operates. Financial literacy has also become one of our top targets concerning the ratio raised to 55%. community engagement since it has utmost significance for both During 2013, we investigated to determine our key stakeholders, economic and social development of a country. In the last period We will continue contributing to the social life of the regions, in and social and environmental material issues to concentrate in we initiated two financial literacy projects. With the “20,000 which we operate, in terms of economy, employment, and the the near future. Our CSR Committee worked to understand and Women on the Way to the İstanbul Finance Center” program, we environment, by providing the perfect synergy with more than reflect the key stakeholders’ concerns and needs to the results of aim to increase the awareness of women, in terms of utilizing and 35,000 employees. this study. Their collective feedback constituted Doğuş Holding’s managing their expenses, savings and investments intelligently. key stakeholder and materiality map with a view of appointing our We will include 20,000 women in the program by the end of 2014. I would like to thank our customers for their trust, our employees future projections regarding sustainability targets. In line with our Another program that we carry out is “3 Kumbara” by which we for their incredible dedication and our many stakeholders for Group’s CSR strategy, we hope that this study will serve as a guide ensure that financial literacy education is given to primary school their valued feedback. I believe Doğuş Group is forging deeper to lead the Doğuş Group companies. fourth graders in the various regions of our country. We aim to relationships with its stakeholders and will create stronger, and include 500,000 children and parents in the program in four years. even more trusted brands in the future. As one of the largest conglomerates of Turkey and the surrounding region, we aim to bring economic, social, cultural As Doğuş Group, we also believe that the agriculture and food and environmental development in every sector, in which we sector will play a defining role in shaping of the economic, social operate, through innovative and sustainable business models. and political future of the world. To satisfy the demands of Turkey’s The growth policy of Doğuş Group is to strengthen current agriculture sector, we made a strategic decision to link agro business lines and to increase our market share. Our investment business with research and development. In this context, Doğuş Hüsnü Akhan decision mechanisms are grounded on several sector scenarios, Agro Projects R&D Services Corporation, was established in 2012. Chief Executive Officer in addition to the Group’s targets and vision. All the investment We also founded the Niğde University Ayhan Şahenk Agricultural Doğuş Group decision processes include sustainability strategies. Conducting Sciences and Technologies Faculty to contribute to the potential corporate responsibility in such a vein, major investments of of our country’s agriculture and to meet the qualified human Doğuş Group has reached about USD 3.1 billion in the last five resources requirements in the sector. 14 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 17 CSR AT DOĞUŞ GROUP Responsible growth is the key objective of Doğuş Group’s Being one of Turkey’s leading business groups, we strive to Corporate Social Responsibility is itself a complex process of Detailed information on the Board and Committees, besides the corporate strategy, and is essential to our vision of being a ‘leader’ conduct all our business operations in a responsible way, taking self-regulatory codes, especially with supply chains and multiCode of Ethics and the audit processes can be found in Group’s with our brands in the Turkish services sector and the surrounding into consideration our stakeholders’ concerns and requirements, stakeholder business models. Corporate governance for Doğuş web site and in the Annual Report4. areas. With a customer focused approach, we believe that as well as profitability. Group is a precursor to CSR, which both enables CSR performance sustainable growth is about our material issue towards all of our and encapsulates it. Materiality key stakeholders. As sustainability is the key driver to innovation and for stakeholder The main principles of CSR are based on materiality and the social trust, we rely on responsible business models; we have found that Governance Structure and environmental impact of our companies with a major focus As Doğuş Group, we have a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by encouraging the Group companies, we have enhanced our most Doğuş Group’s Board of Directors is made up of eleven members, on key stakeholders’ expectations, in addition to concerns about Strategy that defines the structure of the CSR and sustainability valuable assets, in which we have invested since our foundation. including its chairman. The Board convenes four times a year or the life cycle of our business operations. Therefore Doğuş Group’s programs in our companies. Intending to be a regional leader in the more frequently, as the Group’s business dictates. There are two materiality process was constituted in line with this vision. We services sector, we have set up our CSR policies to coordinate and committees which directly report to the Board: the Risk and Audit believe it is critically important for all our Group companies to get manage sustainability performances. Committee and the Human Resources Coordination Committee. the process of materiality correctly; identifying the material issues There is also a Legal Advisory Council. Doğuş Group has 14 creates a successful and essential link between strategy and departments. There are no independent members on the Board sustainability. Integrating CSR and sustainability into the business of Directors. is a necessary driving force for reporting. Doğuş Group’s CSR Strategy To support economic, social and environmental development and increase the level of prosperity by creating innovative and sustainable business models in every sector and region in which we operate as a Group. Following in Doğuş Holding’s values and guided by its “Touching the Lives” mission in CSR activities, Doğuş Group considers that the major principle of CSR is “engagement with stakeholders”. In support of this approach we, as Doğuş Group, select the economic, environmental and CSR Management Approach and Policies social concerns of our stakeholders as the baseline of our every step forward by touching their lives. The UN Global Compact (UNGC) together with its ten principles consultancy according to AA1000SES (Stakeholder Engagement) about Human and Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption, standard and its methodology. which we signed in 2007, is the basis of our CSR strategy and policies. We are also one of the pioneers in Turkey on CSR Reporting Corporate Governance with respect to GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) International Doğuş Group’s corporate governance framework is the widest Framework, beginning in 2010. control mechanism, both internally and externally, for stimulating the proper and efficient use of corporate resources and simultaneously Doğuş Group CSR Management Model was disclosed together eliciting accountability for those resources. We believe that our with the CSR strategy and policies3 in the 2012 CSR Report. Group companies must be run with the contributions of our Because we are a multi-business conglomerate with global and stakeholder groups (customers, employees, suppliers) in response local presence in several sectors, it is essential to clarify strategy to the ecologic environment and the community of which they are and policies through a stakeholder engagement process. Therefore a part. Therefore when decisions are to be made, Doğuş Group in 2013, Doğuş Group CSR Committee worked on key stakeholders companies are encouraged to take into account how their decisions and the economic, environmental and social material issues of impact all these constituents. our Group. The workshops were managed by an independent 3 The details of Doğuş Group CSR Strategy and related policies within the CSR Management Model can be found in Doğuş Group CSR Report 2012 at http://www. 4 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-277-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/responsibilities_to_our_stakeholders dogusgrubu.com.tr/i/assets/contentfiles/dogus_kss_2012.pdf 16 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 19 Key Stakeholders and Material Issues Doğuş Group Stakeholder Engagement Approach Group Companies Compliance Employees Business Ethics Shareholders Ethical Competitiveness Customer Satisfaction Customers Customer Health and Safety Employee Health and Safety Suppliers Sustainable Profitability Inform Consult Involve Collaborate Empower Supplier Standards Public Institutes Quality Standards Creditors Human Rights Employee Satisfaction Investors Energy Efficiency For a conglomerate as diverse as Doğuş Group, a Group level Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Dialogue in Group Companies assessment of materiality cannot cover all material issues faced For Doğuş Group, stakeholder engagement is at the heart of our In Doğuş Group companies, stakeholder dialogue platforms are very employee loyalty surveys, partner and supply chain meetings and by each company within the Group. Our approach is to have a sustainability and stakeholder strategy and policies. We encourage much related to their key stakeholders’ needs and concerns. Every surveys, investor meetings and presentations, in addition to many Group level materiality assessment and provide guidance for all our Group companies to consider the environment in which they Doğuş Group company pays careful attention to stakeholders’ online information tools, are common dialogue platforms which our businesses. Some of our Group companies have published operate and to meet the requirements of the stakeholders affected requirements. Stakeholder engagement is among the pillars of our every Doğuş Group company utilizes annually. their individual CSR Reports, which include their CSR strategies by their operations while achieving their objectives successfully6. corporate strategy. Several stakeholder engagement processes are and stakeholder engagement processes5. managed by the Group companies in order to ask, learn, analyze and respond to their expectations. Customer satisfaction surveys, 5 For Garanti Bank CSR Reports: http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page? and Doğuş Otomotiv CSR Reports: http://www. dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx 6 Doğuş Group Stakeholder Dialogue Platforms are published in 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/i/assets/contentfiles/80-DOGUS_ GROUP_CORPORATE_CITIZENSHREPORT_09.pdf, Pages 66-67 18 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 21 Economic Engagement 20 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 23 and ERM penetration, and to obtain sound and timely information reviewed and documented by the Internal Audit Department and ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT for assessing and evaluating the decision making processes. In addition to establishing an independent reporting infrastructure reported to the Group’s Audit Committee. All risk assessment results are shared regularly with the senior management. In addition, and providing policies, guidance and know-how to our Group all our companies assess and monitor the integrity and compliance companies, raising Group-wide awareness for different types of performances within their own management processes. Doğuş risks and ERM culture is a continued undertaking facilitated by Group Internal Audit Team can play an essential role if there is a Doğuş Group’s Economic Responsibility Policy is set to manifest periodic risk roundtables, workshops, dashboards and reports necessity of consultancy, assurance, cooperation, advisement, throughout the organization. monitor or investigation need about possible corruption cases Group companies, enabling them to manage their economic impact, taking within any of the Group companies under the control of Group stakeholder benefits into consideration. Each sector has its own Risk and Audit Committee. These Audit Committee. committees, functioning under the Board of Directors, are also responsible for assessing risks and proposing appropriate solutions As a part of assurance activities, Doğuş Group monitors potential according to the risk appetite of shareholders. corruption risks, evaluates the internal control systems and provides advice for improvement to the Group companies. AntiInternal Audit is an independent department designed to improve corruption and bribery are our top compliance priorities in our risk and add value to Doğuş Group’s operations. It helps the Group management plans and the related subjects are covered in Doğuş Commitments Targets to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined Group Ethical Principles. approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk Local Supply Encourage all Group companies regarding local supply policy, institute a data management, control and governance processes. Transparency and Accountability gathering system for determining the Group’s local supply financials Doğuş Group adheres to strict business ethics that include Local Employment Establish mechanisms to encourage local employment and support local Our Internal Audit Department is responsible for performing principles of transparency and accountability in an environment vocational school programs financial, operational (process) and IT audits for Doğuş Group which recognizes that all players, from large corporations to Infrastructure Investments Establish a stakeholder feedback mechanism to monitor and assess the results companies in accordance with our annual risk-based audit plan. individual customers, and from employees to society in general, of current local infrastructure investments The Department operates with a risk-based approach, tracking are affected by each other’s actions. We have fully integrated Climate Change / Risk Management Set a climate change policy and awareness programs within the Group all internal audit findings and coordinating follow-ups to ascertain globally-accepted principles of responsible business conduct into that appropriate action is taken. Results are periodically reported all our operations and business activities; all stakeholders are kept to the Risk and Audit Committee of Doğuş Holding, which in turn informed of the Group’s position on these matters. monitors and reviews the scope, extent and effectiveness of the Doğuş Group’s Economic Responsibility Policy is set to manifest and / or counterparty risks. Risk Management and Internal Audit activity of the Internal Audit Department of Doğuş Holding and The Group’s efforts to uphold these principles and high ethical Group companies, enabling them to manage their economic departments within each sector, and at the Group level, provide receives a report. The report includes updates on audit activities, standards are not limited to its own business dealings; we also impact, taking stakeholder benefits into consideration. This policy and maintain awareness for different types of risks, including progress of the Group audit plan, the results of the audits, the require that the same approach be followed by all our stakeholders is a guiding principle for all Group companies. emerging risks, and ensure that appropriate risk management action plans to address these areas, and resource requirements at both the national and international levels. Doğuş Group strictly mechanisms are in place. of the Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit team consists adheres to the principle of not involving itself with any party that Doğuş Group: of qualified professionals in different audit disciplines with relevant acts contrary to globally-accepted standards and that cannot • Fulfills its responsibilities while proceeding with investments With diverse business operations in several different regions and experience in the business processes which are under review. All provide reliable disclosures with regard to its actions. towards sustainable growth targets, considering the Group’s direct countries, we have already recognized our need to monitor and audit processes carried out by the Internal Audit Department are in and indirect economic impact. manage various risks, including not only strategic, business and accordance with International Audit Standards and Internal Audit We pay careful attention to accurately disclosing information, • Ensures that the Group companies manage their operations and operational risks, but external risks as well. Institute of Turkey standards, besides all other globally accepted financial and non-financial, to our shareholders, employees, strive for the highest economic benefit within their value chain, audit principles, guidelines and standards. In addition, our Internal customers, national and international business partners, suppliers, aware of being important actors of economic development in their In 2013, Doğuş Group’s risk management activities proved once Audit Department monitors the findings determined during audits existing and potential investors in publicly-floated companies, and sectors. again successful in terms of maintaining and improving risk and the companies are interrogated about the progress once a the community at large. • Evaluates, monitors, and manages its contribution to economic management practices, both at the Group level and at the company quarter, at least four times a year. development under the principles of Risk Management, level, enhancing the risk culture across the Group. Risk Committee The Group makes all the relevant information available on its Responsible Investment and Local Economic Development. meetings are held on a regular basis, generating valuable and Each sector within Doğuş Holding has its own Internal Audit website and informs the public about its corporate strategy, relevant risk information which is discussed and escalated if department. The Internal Audit Department of Doğuş Holding activities, and new fields of investment via annual reports, periodic deemed necessary. works closely with the Internal Audit departments of the various press releases, and conferences. Compliance and Risk sectors to improve the effectiveness of control environments Risks are managed on a daily basis by various levels of management within the Group companies. The Group’s financial statements are drawn up quarterly in Management in each of our subsidiaries. Supporting risk management activities accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards such as providing a framework for related guidance and reporting Anti-corruption and Bribery (IFRS). Independent semi-annual and year-end audit reports are Doğuş Group acts proactively in terms of risk management in order mechanisms are conducted by the risk function teams. The Group Doğuş Group audit processes include analyzing risks related to shared with the public. to ensure that its business operations in various industries and Risk Management Function works closely with Company Risk corruption in every part of our business. To ensure full alignment, regions are not adversely affected by market, operational, liquidity Management departments in order to strengthen our risk culture each company’s compliance risk assessment processes are All our affiliated companies, listed on Borsa İstanbul (BIST), have 22 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 25 individual Investor Relations departments that can effectively Our real estate business lines project progress in general expenses Garanti Culture manage the flow of information to stakeholders in line with with the green building approach and improved evaluation systems. Newly established in 2011, Garanti Culture constructed a State of independent consultancy; all the customer and employee related national regulations. The fields of activity and the performance of In the construction and real estate sectors, our Group companies Emergency and Business Continuity Plan in 2013 with an risk issues were evaluated and analyzed during the process. the Group’s publicly-floated companies are disclosed in conformity are paying more attention to climate change related issues during with the principles of their respective companies by the Capital the planning, constructing and maintenance phases of the projects. Garanti SA Markets Board of Turkey (SPK). Support for Local Economic Environment the largest most recent investment project in Cluj. Ethical Principles Responsible Investment • Garanti Bank SA granted a financing to Softronic Craiova, the only locomotive manufacturer in South-Eastern Europe. The financing • Garanti Bank SA granted a financing to Urbis Baia Mare, for the acquisition of 10 buses and eight trolley buses for the Baia Mare Strict compliance with its Code of Conduct and standards is a was used for the manufacture of Hyperion, the first electrical Municipality. key principle for Doğuş Group, and any individual or entity that As Doğuş Group, we believe that companies, which demonstrate multiple unit train in Romania. • Garanti Bank SA granted financing to Mehedinti Emergency violates the Company’s Code of Conduct is subject to disciplinary powerful and transparent corporate governance and have • Garanti Bank SA was the sole financer of a new 2,100 meters runway County Hospital, for the acquisition of new medical equipment measures. As a participant to the United Nations Global Compact sustainable business policies, generate financial benefits in at the “Avram Iancu” International Airport in Cluj. It represents one for their maternity facility. since April 2007, we have reaffirmed our commitment to fight addition to enhancing value to brand reputation and gaining of the most modern airport runways in Romania and corruption both internally and in other areas which may fall within the trust of stakeholders. Effective environmental, social and our sphere of influence. economic management systems and policies ensure companies Garanti Asset Management credibility and sustainability because of a reliable risk management. Garanti Asset Management is a member of United Nations Principles decisions according to its Responsible Investment Principles Ethical principles are spelled out and documented under the Our investment policies actively encourage Group companies to of Responsible Investments Initiative (UNPRI) and takes investment Policy. following headings: improve their business standards by integrating the corporate • Time and resource utilization at the companies, responsibility approach to their management systems, monitoring Doğuş Construction • Relations with customers, subcontractors, suppliers of goods their social and environmental impact, and addressing corporate Responsibility to Make Contribution to Urban Infrastructure and other companies and individuals with whom the Company responsibility as a business case and risk management system. Projects has commercial interactions, Doğuş Construction is implementing its fourth metro project, in addition Responsibility to Ensure Minimal Disturbance to • The acceptance of gifts, invitations, and donations, The crucial goal of the responsible investment approach of Doğuş to the Taksim-Şişli, Kadıköy-Kartal, Otogar-Kirazlı-Başakşehir metro Inhabitants • Relations with the media, Group is to ensure that current and newly partnered companies’ projects that it has undertaken in İstanbul, the most congested city in By changing the construction methods at the intersections of station • Actions that can result in conflict of interest, managements align their business targets with the long-term Turkey. This line includes 16 underground stations, a double line tube construction works and existing roads, measures are taken to • Safeguarding of information pertaining to the companies, social, economic and environmental concerns of the stakeholders. tunnel 20 km in length, and installation and implementation of all of release the traffic on roads that are blocked. Information meetings personal information, professional misconduct, security and the electromechanical works at the vehicle warehouse / maintenance are held with neighbourhoods prior to the commencement of road harassment. Doğuş Group has reached about USD 3.1 billion in the last five site. The route of the metro line extends on a west-east axis to include closing works and residents are notified via brochures and posters years (total investments in the past 10 years have reached USD 5.2 the districts of Üsküdar, Ümraniye, Çekmeköy and Sancaktepe. regarding the works to be performed and its duration. In 2013 Doğuş Group Internal Audit Department made a study billion). While approximately 15% of these investments have been of Ethical Procedures of Doğuş Group companies and the results actualized in foreign countries, the majority of the investments of Responsibility to Implement High Technology Responsibility to Provide Information were reported to related companies. the Group were realized in Turkey. In the metro line rail systems, high-tech driverless vehicles shall Information regarding to works in progress is provided to concerned be employed. Platform isolator door systems shall be available in parties via project web sites and light boards at the site entrances. Climate Change Risks The new investments policy of the Group is to strengthen our each station as well as all types of handicapped accessible facilities, The project is introduced to visitors with an introductory film and Climate change risks are monitored in the external risks category current business lines and to increase our market share. It is very such as lifts and walking platforms. This metro line shall make great brochures and information is provided on the issues that people are and in the scope of long-term risks within Doğuş Group’s risk important for us to enhance our product and service portfolio by contribution to İstanbul’s transportation network, integrated with concerned about. monitoring systems. The risks related to the impact of climate entering into new business sectors. Our new investment decision the current Marmaray and Metrobus lines as well as to the Bostancı change have short-term effects on insurance programs which we mechanisms are grounded on several market and sector scenarios, Metro Line, which will be constructed in the near future. manage at preferred costs; especially catastrophic climate change in addition to the Group’s short and long term targets and vision. impact is followed intently by our Risk Management division. All of the investment decision processes include the corporate In the Group’s insurance related business lines, the climate responsibility strategy. Economic, social and environmental aspects of the Group’s growth process are analyzed by the related New Investments in 2013 change risks are considered under risk based pricing. During the divisions and experts. Doğuş Group and global sports, fashion and entertainment company rights of Beşiktaş Football Club (BJK). In August 2013 under IMG elementary insurance program buying process, the essential IMG Worldwide signed an agreement to form a 50/50 joint venture Doğuş’s consultancy, the biggest contract in Turkish sports history clauses are included and defined within the scope of assurance. company in Turkey. IMG-Doğuş, creates a broad range of projects in valued at $145 million was signed between Vodafone Turkey and fashion, entertainment and particularly sports in Turkey. BJK. Vodafone Turkey will have the naming rights of the Besiktas stadium, which is currently being reconstructed as the “Vodafone Ayhan Şahenk Foundation IMG-Doğuş is seeking to create a sports Academy and training Arena”, besides the main jersey sponsorship. IMG-Doğuş, also Since its establishment in 1992, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation the Foundation has continued to implement significant projects facilities; to develop and organize events in Turkey and the organizes a weeklong Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Istanbul has undertaken initiatives in the areas of education, health and in 2013 for the benefit of our people and our community with a surrounding regions involving popular sports and other mass event twice a year, which attracts foreign buyers and press to the environment, and offered social aid to those living in disadvantaged responsible perspective to help our government in fulfilling its participation events; and to construct and develop improved Turkish fashion industry. areas. With the vision and philosophy of its founder, Ayhan Şahenk, social welfare duties. sporting and entertainment infrastructure including stadiums and venues. IMG-Doğuş has already concluded a long-term Another investment of Doğuş Holding in the entertainment sector agreement to promote and market the sponsorship and ticketing in the recent years is the acquisition of Pozitif. The Company has 24 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 27 been leading the live music and entertainment industry in Turkey since its establishment in 1989. With cutting-edge events, global numerous channels, and automate their marketing processes. euro.message delivered more than 16 billion messages in 2013, up children with the mission of providing “equality of opportunities in education.” Darüşşafaka Sports Club was established in 1914 and Local Economic standards of excellence and an approach that seeks to challenge local industry conventions, Pozitif family is determined to retain by 8 billion from the year before. Other than euro.message, Related Group has two more brands under its umbrella. The Group’s digital opened the basketball branch in 1951. The Club has popularized Turkish basketball, raised star players and concentrated on the Development Programs and expand its leading position in the entertainment arena through agency is MadebyCat, recipient of many awards from national and development of youth setup throughout years with a passion to its partnership with IMG-Doğuş. Pozitif aims to take advantage of international organizations. The third service line of Related Group contribute to the development of social and cultural life in Turkey. Doğuş Group’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy fully intends to the synergy it has with its close partners to dominate the local is Brand Mail, which is established to respond to the demand for In September 2013, Doğuş Group, Darüşşafaka Association and ensure the well-being of the communities where we operate, and emerging entertainment market by extending its content permitted data for current customers and for online advertisers to Darüşşafaka Sports Club signed a long-term agreement to gain and the Group’s vision and values also support this target. through strategic artist deals, cross-market digital productions, manage e-mail databases. sportive achievements in Turkish and European basketball with Beginning from the local supply chain, Doğuş Group has a strong and developing strategic entertainment and festival tourism in a passion to advance Turkish basketball, while providing amateur economic impact on the local communities and high business Turkey, and in the neighboring markets. Doğuş Group, continuing to grow in the internet sector through athletes all over the country a chance for self-development in line standards support in public policy platforms as well as providing its new investments, became partners with the global real estate with “equality of opportunities in sports” mission. employment. Bonubon is a platform which enables premium brands to deliver information company REIDIN, a global real estate information lifestyle services to customers via mobile phones, internet company focusing real estate markets in the emerging countries. Doğuş Agro Projects R&D Services Corp. or at exclusive events. Via its highly segmented database REIDIN was established in Dubai in 2007 by two Turkish An agricultural research company established as a 100% subsidiary The second project consisted of a maximum-yield potato trial in enabling customers to be identified by their specific interests entrepreneurs, both with strong backgrounds in emerging of Doğuş Holding, Doğuş Agro Projects R&D Services Corporation’s the Konya region, involving two different potato varieties. It was and behavior, Bonubon enables merchants to deliver targeted markets, technology, investments and internet business. REIDIN mission is to create value-added products and services based on financed jointly by Doğuş Holding and Farm Frites BV from the lifestyle campaigns and experiences in fashion, dining, travel, was one the first companies in this sector to introduce a number actual needs of the developing agribusiness in Turkey. Netherlands, a global expert and a major actor in potato cultivation beauty, gifting, leisure and entertainment. By 2013, with over 1 of innovations in Turkey. The Company launched the world’s first and processing. The project tested the potato production million members, 230,000 Facebook fans and 56,000 customers, platform which focuses on real estate information in emerging The agribusiness industry in Turkey offers great potential. potential in the region and investigated the extent to which the Bonubon had claimed its position among the leading premium markets including Turkey as a main country. Acknowledging this opportunity, Doğuş Group established “Doğuş current production yields can be increased through utilizing high lifestyle platforms. Agro R&D”. The main goals of the Company include bringing a technology and efficiency increasing techniques. Completed in fall Doğuş Group established Doğuş Agro R&D to create value-added strategic and visionary approach to the agriculture sector in Turkey, 2013, the average production yields of both the region and Turkey Doğuş Planet, established in June 2012, is a joint venture between products and services based on actual needs of the developing increasing the productivity and value added of the sector, and were surpassed. The climate and soil of the Konya region was found Doğuş Group and the South Korean SK Group, which focuses agribusiness in the country. serving the interests of the public and private agricultural actors to be suitable for the production of high quality and high efficiency on the e-commerce sector. Doğuş Planet combines SK Group’s in the region by acting as an effective high-tech research hub. The potatoes to be used for French fries. experience in technology and innovation with Doğuş Group’s Doğuş SK Girişim Sermayesi, established in March 2013, is a joint Company’s office is located in Çukurova Teknopark, in Adana. local expertise, regional experience, and strong assets. The fruit venture between Doğuş Group (50%) and the South Korean SK In addition to these projects, Doğuş Agro R&D supported the of this strong partnership is Doğuş Planet’s new e-commerce Group (50%), which focuses on investing in small and medium Doğuş Agro R&D initiated two projects in 2013. The first project, establishment of FAST, a social responsibility project led by Doğuş investment, n11.com, launched in the first quarter of 2013. This size enterprises in Turkey. Targeting companies with strong currently underway, is to investigate the R&D and agro commercial Group. Established in 2013, FAST is the only agricultural faculty in new venture operates as an open market platform, connecting growth potential and a competitive advantage, DGSK will support potential of the Middle Anatolian region around Niğde (TR71 Turkey to conduct its courses in English. FAST has students at the diverse stores and brands to millions of customers. In 2013, them at every level; financially, strategically, operationally and at region). Academics from the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and undergraduate, M.Sc. and Ph.D. level. Doğuş Agro R&D also works within the first nine months of its operations, n11.com achieved the management level. Technologies (FAST) of Niğde University have been conducting inclosely with Wageningen University in the Netherlands, which a trade volume of more than USD 120 million. depth research on the agro inventory within the region and the is one of the top agricultural universities in the world, facilitating Doğuş Avenue was established on November 1, 2013 to bring level of efficiency in the agro production value chain. Based on the relationship between Niğde University and Wageningen Doğuş Teknoloji began its activities as a part of the Doğuş Group together the skills and experience of relevant shareholders for their findings, Doğuş Agro R&D expects the project to result in new University to enhance the quality of education in Niğde, to assist companies in 2012. Since then, it has remained an innovative, investing in Turkey’s developing retail market. Extensive analysis R&D projects which will serve the interests of the producers in the the development of double degree opportunities, and to make use solution-oriented and dynamic company ensuring customer of the houseware and furniture market in Turkey gives evidence region. The completion of the project is planned in the first half of of these institutions’ academic experience in the search for new satisfaction through high-quality, value-added products and that there is a huge potential for “affordable luxury”. The demand 2014. R&D projects for the Company. services at the lowest costs possible. Doğuş Teknoloji works in is quite high, but there are very few options which meet the a huge variety of areas of Information Technology infrastructures, expectations of consumers. Due to the limited range available, adapting systems and software products, creating and maintaining consumers are eager for modern, innovative and chic products, products using the latest technologies. Doğuş Teknoloji widely which are exactly what Crate & Barrel has to offer. increased its project portfolio in 2013 including e-Invoicing, ERP Supply Chain Management and CRM solutions. Doğuş Group founded Doğuş Sportif to make a big impact such as assessments, awareness programs, audits, social and Doğuş Group believes that the Group’s supply chain plays in Turkish basketball and, in the coming years, in European environmental issues. an important role in the decisive factors of the stakeholders Related Group offers a variety of online marketing services through basketball as well. Doğuş Sportif aims to stand out by consistently and represents an essential resource to achieve the Group’s its different business lines. Related Group initially entered the producing high quality basketball products and maintaining a During our purchasing process all international quality, health and strategic goals. We very strongly give importance to supply Turkish market under the name, euro.message, as an e-mail service sportsman character for the organization, with a focus on making safety certifications are requested from the suppliers. Supplier chain management systems and encourage business partners provider to a small number of the country’s market leaders. Since sports business one of the main fields of the Group’s operation. agreements include employee health and safety clauses. In regarding sustainable practices. We acknowledge that the value then, euro.message has been offering on demand e-mail marketing Darüşşafaka Association was seen as the best possible partner, 2013, one agreement with a supplier was cancelled for acting of supply chain service and quality have direct and recognizable services to more than 3,000 worldwide brands and helping them as it was Turkey’s first NGO working in the field of education, contrary to the provisions of the contract about the supplier’s impacts on our Group’s product and service quality, so we support implement e-mail, mobile and social media campaigns across founded in 1863 to support the education of poor and orphaned employee rights. any kind of improvement within the supply chain systems, 26 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 29 Doğuş Otomotiv Supply Chain Model Customers Doğuş Otomotiv began to focus on the sustainability approach in (food, cleaning and security) were carried out. Doğuş Otomotiv satisfaction oriented Group culture in every stage, through auditing Since its foundation, Doğuş Group has been taking its place among supply chain management in corporate responsibility in 2009. Due does not invite companies to the bidding process if negative and feedback mechanisms. the leading business conglomerates of Turkey. Active in eight core to the needs of the location and the sector in which the Company is factors have been identified within their businesses. During businesses including financial services, automotive, construction, operating, Doğuş Otomotiv has worked on a different model in the audits, companies are warned about any malfunctions observed, Doğuş Group Customer Satisfaction Oriented Management media, tourism and services, real estate, energy and entertainment, supply chain management, and started the field practices of this and support is provided for the correction of these malfunctions. Approach we utilize a management style that is both customer-focused and model in 2013. Doğuş Otomotiv implemented a Doğuş OtomotivIf the malfunctions continue, dissuasive penalties are imposed. The management and strategic approach to customer satisfaction productivity-centered. While formed through material gains, it based learning and mentorship strategy7 in this “3 Sided Responsible To get better service and improve the quality of service, Doğuş and loyalty are very important in service sector companies and also embodies a strong corporate citizenship approach, which is at the Supply Chain Management” model. Otomotiv constantly provides feedback to its supplier companies. in sustainable company policies. Since we underline the customercenter of all our business practices and benefits the entire society. Subjects that directly reflect the Corporate Responsibility strategy oriented culture that embeds customer satisfaction throughout our Additionally, supplier selection and auditing criteria were (like disposal of waste, hygiene and related document controls, the organizational practices, focus is on the total customer experience, Customer Satisfaction Oriented Group Culture strengthened and on-site audits were performed in 2013. At the number of employees and their competencies) are also included in customer service standards and accountability. Creating and Doğuş Group companies are committed to customers’ wellend of the year, pre-audits of suppliers in three major bidding areas its supplier selection criteria. 36 companies were audited in 2013. installing a “culture” of customer service in which employees being and satisfaction, and a loyal customer approach on every stage of their operations. To ensure this, every company has its are encouraged and expected to go to great lengths to satisfy own customer satisfaction strategy and monitors performances customers is another hallmark of a successful company. We work LeasePlan8 Suppliers accordingly. Product and service quality, as well as customer to create an environment where employees focus on customer LeasePlan Turkey uses a service and price-oriented approach in • Employ only staff who have health insurance and social security, health and safety, are the crucial key performance indicators of satisfaction in each encounter, every day. determining its suppliers. In line with research conducted in 2013, • Employ healthy and physically appropriate staff, the following articles were added to supplier contracts in 2014: • Provide necessary individual protection materials and ensure their our Group companies. We monitor and evaluate the customer • Take, implement and organize all necessary occupational safety use and control, measures, and provide necessary materials, • Provide well-maintained, solid and adequate tools and equipment, • Carry out all required risk analysis of operations and take • Employ only those over the age of 18 in heavy and dangerous appropriate measures, work. • Ensure that employees have had basic occupational health and Product Customer safety trainings, LeasePlan had a total of 490 registered suppliers in 2013. Supply Chain Training and and Service Compliance Complaint Management Development Quality Management Public Policy Contributions As one of the leading conglomerates of Turkey, we are aware of Doğuş Holding’s public policy contribution efforts including all our responsibility to enhance communities in which we operate community engagement programs, payments to trade associations Garanti Bank and our important role on the public policy processes, which has and taxes to governmental bodies are approved by the Board of Customer Satisfaction Management an impact on our business sectors. Directors to ensure the relevance of policies. Garanti Bank, by taking all stakeholders into consideration, aims to and they are available to all employees and customers. improve product and service quality and to achieve internal and Doğuş Group companies are among the major economic actors Doğuş Group companies engage with several councils and external customer satisfaction. In order to attain this, the Bank Garanti Bank also monitors the needs and concerns of its customers in Turkey’s economy with employment, investments, taxes and associations related to their business and sectors. All have active has designed all its systems to allow continuous improvement. In by surveying more than 10,000 customers, to gather information community development programs. We comply with all applicable roles in those communities to act as important actors of their addition to responding to customer inquiries, the “Customer Care and feedback about products and services. In 2013, according to the legal laws and regulations regarding our businesses. industries. Related information can be found on the corporate web Line” set up under the Customer Satisfaction Department receives results of Brand Image Monitoring Survey, the customers evaluated sites of the companies. customers’ suggestions and handles their complaints. Garanti Bank Garanti Bank as trusted, innovative and technology oriented. provides customers with the means to communicate their demands, complaints, and ideas and suggestions about management any Garanti Anatolian Meetings National Strategy on Financial Literacy: Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association time through the Garanti website or the Call Center (444 0 338). Celebrating its 11th year in 2013, the Garanti Anatolian Meetings FODER, the Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association, was Ministry Responsible for Women and Family Affairs, Ministry of The experienced customer satisfaction team offers service 24/7 (GAS) bring together Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), and founded in November 2012 with the aim of being the civil voice Finance, and relevant financial regulatory institutions such as the from the Facebook page and Garanti’ye Sor (Ask Garanti) account representatives of local administrations from various provinces on research, policy, practice and general coordination for financial Capital Markets Board, İstanbul Stock Exchange (Borsa İstanbul), on Twitter to give support and respond to questions in the fastest in Turkey. By discussing changes in the economy and market literacy. In this pursuit, Mrs. Özlem Denizmen (Head of Social Inter Card Center, Credit Bureau, Banking Regulatory Institution manner. In case of violation of the customers’ rights protected by conditions with professional experts in their fields SMEs and local Projects at Doğuş Holding), as the Founding Chair, has regularly and the Central Bank of Turkey for a national level financial literacy regulations and contracts, efficient and fast remedies are provided administrators are enabled to evaluate regional and international visited top executives of the Ministry of National Education, policy. and loss compensation mechanisms are facilitated for customers opportunities, discover potential business areas, and create who have incurred any loss. In addition, principles and values solutions together for local problems. Since the commencement of are compiled in a handbook, titled the Customer Satisfaction the program, 88 meetings have been held, bringing together 26,000 7 Details of the model are available in Authorized Dealers and After-sales Service Centers Section of the Doğuş Otomotiv 2013 CR Report at http://www.dogusotomotiv. Constitution, in accordance with the customer-focused approach, representatives from SMEs. com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx 8 Doğuş Otomotiv broadened its Corporate Responsibility Report scope in 2013 and included LeasePlan performances. For detailed information about LeasePlan’s CSR performance, please visit Doğuş Otomotiv CR Report 2013 at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx 28 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 31 KOBİLGİ (SME Informative) Meetings Garanti Mortgage Garanti Bank organizes seminars, conferences and industry-based all SMEs, the meetings also simultaneously play a major role in Garanti Mortgage conducts continuous process improvements to was reduced from 30 min. to 10 min. Through clustering the profiles informative meetings with the aim of helping to increase the the consolidation of customer loyalty. These training sessions, provide the most suitable service to its customers in shortest period. of the expertise companies’ appraisers and controllers, the need for information levels of SMEs. Commencing in 2011, the KOBİLGİ explaining in technical detail not only the latest regulations but also sharing personal passwords was eliminated. meetings consist of a series of seminars enriched with examples the most recent developments in areas such as marketing and sales, Several improvements were conducted for the systems used for and practical activities, and delivered by experts on subjects such were held in two different provinces and attended by approximately appraisal processes. With the automation of job assignment process, The automation of credit contracts reduced the possibility of as developments in regulations, marketing and sales. Open to 600 people in 2013. waiting time of a step, one hour on average, has been eliminated. human errors to a minimum, and the branch operations by 8 min. By improving control screens, report control duration was reduced on average. To increase the quality of communication with the by 50%. The reporting format was made more user-friendly and by customers, activities were conducted to increase the number of Garanti Bank SA Quality Standards developing the document scanning screen, the request entry time leads and their accuracy, resulting in 27% growth in leads. Quality and standards offer considerable value to business and to with the Romanian law and internal procedures, comprehensive people. In difficult times, this can provide extra cost saving, new responses are provided within the legal answer time. Indeed, customers, product innovation, market differentiation and lower there are customers who have difficulties in understanding all Doğuş Otomotiv Customer Satisfaction Survey risks, all of which make the difference to enable organizations the features of the product and services, especially for the most Doğuş Otomotiv continues CSS (Customer Satisfaction Surveys) which scored through “mystery customer” application; in 2013 all agencies were to survive, grow and ultimately thrive. It is simply good business complex ones, such as Bonus Card, loans or Garanti Online. Garanti were monitored monthly in the Authorized Dealers and After-sales subjected to these audits, managed by an independent organization. sense for companies to adopt quality and standards as a way to Bank SA does not have one specific application that it uses; each Services. The surveys included 120 questions, and demonstrated grow. Building a respected and reliable quality and standards answer is adjusted in order to address each client’s specific question an overall satisfaction; with regard to sales, the satisfaction rate After these evaluations, customers are contacted about opinions, infrastructure is essential to foster confidence in products and and provide all the necessary explanation to clarify aspects that the was 108.67/120, and in services, 100.81/120. At Doğuş Otomotiv, requests and complaints they have communicated through the services provided. Following this spirit, the Bank has initiated a large client does not understand. The Call Center, Alo Garanti, is available customers are directly called to measure customer satisfaction after website and social media channels. Brief advice is also offered to number of modifications to procedures for several departments, from 9h to 22h, from Monday to Sunday, and offers support to solve their service center visits, and the quality of service is audited and users of commercial vehicles regarding seasonal considerations. changes that intend to increase efficiency when decreasing the clients’ issues related to the functioning of products and services. existing risks and be effective in overall objectives of the Bank TÜVTÜRK Academy that need to be achieved. Also, Garanti Bank SA has improved the In 2013, Garanti Bank SA updated its Customer Satisfaction Policy TÜVTÜRK has opened TÜVTÜRK Academy with the aim of further satisfaction, effective customer experience, and flawless operations reporting system by initiating some applications to ease generating included in the Conduct Code, providing guidelines to the colleagues increasing its service quality and training qualified employees in 2013. reports for various purposes. about handling fair and successful business relationships, as well in fields such as inspection quality, service standards, customer as complaints management rules. The Bank has procedures that Customer Care Unit regulate these processes; products and services are checked by Clients’ written requests and complaints are received and analyzed several functions within the Bank before being implemented and n11.com by the Customer Care Unit, which handles these cases and prepares offered to the clients. Customers’ complaints are managed by a Support to local economic development via SMEs specific answers, together with the relevant departments. In line dedicated department within the Bank. n11.com carries SMEs, who are playing the key role in economic Furthermore, n11.com also performs Research and Development development of Turkey, to e-trading. By the end of 2013, n11.com studies about e-trading and customer perception in Teknokent, had reached 7,000 suppliers from various regions of the country. built in İstanbul Technical University. Garanti Pension and Life Hobby Clubs In 2008, Garanti Pension and Life initiated the Hobby Clubs Garanti Pension and Life members participating in Hobby Clubs benefit Project with the goal of keeping customers happy by providing from discounts up to 50% on hobby courses, training and hobby pleasant moments not only after their retirement but also during equipment. The Hobby Clubs website, hobimlemutluyum.com, gives the wealth accumulation phase. Currently, the Project covers 18 members the opportunity to discover different aspects of their hobbies different hobbies ranging from arts to sports, and is implemented and share their thoughts and accomplishments with other members. with the participation of 150 partners, all leading institutions in New events are organized every month to allow members the their fields. opportunity to develop their social lives and communities concurrently. Garanti Leasing Focus on SMEs The corporate policy of Garanti Leasing is focusing on SMEs. As a well-known player in the international markets, Garanti Leasing Active in the sector since 1990, it executes leasing transactions of is set apart from its competitors with qualified human resources, a broad customer base covering corporate customers, commercial solid technical infrastructure, high funding capability and diversity customers, and small and medium-sized enterprises. Being the of borrowing resources on global markets. only Turkish leasing company rated both by Standards & Poor’s (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Garanti Leasing maintains a performance above the sector average with its quality services that create distinction for its customers. 30 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 33 Employee Engagement 32 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 35 Equality at Work Platform Employee Engagement The Equality at Work Platform was established as part of the efforts of a task force formed under the World Economic Forum (WEF) voluntarily with the principles toward eliminating gender-based discrimination, and leading Turkey in spreading these principles and supported by the Ministry of Family and Social Policies to fight against gender-based social inequalities and reduce the gender over the whole country, promising to establish reliable systems gap in Turkey’s economic realm to a minimum. With two leading for this purpose and to be transparent in reporting the distance Doğuş Group believes that its success is directly linked to the Group’s businesspersons co-chairing the initiative Ferit F. Şahenk and covered in reaching this goal. Güler Sabancı -, the platform has started its efforts to change the culture of valuing and empowering its employees. One of the key principles current balance of male-dominated working life to secure more At Doğuş Group, as part of the efforts of this platform, we promised of our Employee Responsibility Policy is providing a great place to work for female participation in business, alter decision-making mechanisms to develop special coaching and mentorship systems to help our to ensure the effectiveness of women in the workplace, and create female employees develop and improve performance in their the employees. opportunities and resources that encourage equal benefits for the business life. We commenced our efforts for the project last year. genders. With these efforts, the Group aims to pave the way for our female employees who are mothers, spouses and managers at the same The Equality at Work Platform was introduced at a meeting attended time to quickly climb the ladders of their careers. by Fatma Şahin, the former Minister of Family and Social Policies, Commitments Targets Ferit F. Şahenk, Doğuş Holding Board Chairman and Güler Sabancı, As a first step, the Group created a work group within the Holding. Sabancı Holding Board Chairman. The goal of the 3-year project Its primary action was to start a reporting system. This reporting Dialogue Maintain an open door policy; improve in-house communication support is to increase the participation of women in the business work effort enabled us to analyze our current situation and take concrete programs force in Turkey and to reduce the gender gap in Turkey’s economic actions with respect to our objectives. In the last year: Transparency Share the results of feedback with employees and establish new feedback contributions and opportunities by 10 percent. mechanisms accordingly • The percentage of female employees increased from 49% to 50%. Training Support training programs and improve the training processes with regards to Led by Ferit F. Şahenk and Güler Sabancı, the Platform is open to • The percentage of promoted female employees increased by 3%. employee needs and global standards all private sector corporations. In this regard, attending the press • The percentage of female employees on the General Manager and Life-long Improvement Establish life-long improvement programs including voluntary and community meeting on the 15th of January 2013, leading companies in Turkey Vice General Manager level increased by 54%. work initiatives joined the Equality at Work Platform and signed the Platform’s • The percentage of female employees recruited in 2013 was 55%, Health and Safety Processes Implement international standards and encourage employee awareness within Declaration of Equality at Work, committing themselves to comply compared to 36% in 2012. the processes Career Variety in Group Reduce employee circulation rate and improve employee satisfaction Encouraging Women’s Employment Collaborate with community initiatives and support all activities to include and sustain women in the workforce Open Communication For Doğuş Group, employee engagement is a business approach Doğuş Group; to ensure that the employees are motivated to contribute to our • Encourages its employees to work at Doğuş Group for the Our employee engagement policy is based on establishing a business lines. Since engagement is strongly linked to positive success as well as enhance their own well-being. We believe that duration of their professional life. Hence it strongly supports culture of open and honest dialogue among our employees and business outcomes, it is important to encourage best practices only companies engaged with their employees have values strong employment and rotation within the Group and actively provides increasing the percentage of actively engaged employees in the regarding open communication. and sustainable enough to confront the future with clear evidence opportunities toward career variety to its successful employees. future for sustainable growth and more efficient and innovative of trust. We are also committed to extending and developing • Seeks employee feedback with open and transparent our employee engagement strategies, which we believe are communication mechanisms. Doğuş Holding Open Communication Strategy fundamental to the Group’s future success. • Provides the best working conditions. Encourage Employees to Engage Explain the Corporate Values, Mission and Strategy Clearly • Pays attention to the balance between business and social life • Doğuş Holding’s human resources management system actively • As employees are the Company’s most important assets, Doğuş Doğuş Group Employee Responsibility Policy of our employees, and supports their professional and personal encourages employees to engage, and regular meetings with other Group attaches great importance to sharing our values, mission and Doğuş Group believes that its success is directly linked to the development through training programs, mentoring and dialogue platforms are being established to keep the dialogue flowing. strategy with the employees, assuring that they have full knowledge Group’s culture of valuing and empowering its employees. One coaching. Promote Accountability of corporate culture. of the key principles of our Employee Responsibility Policy is • Takes precautions and provides solutions for employees’ physical • Business ethics and being accountable to every stakeholder are providing a great place to work for the employees. and mental health and safety. among Doğuş Holding’s main corporate values. The Company informs • Values equal opportunity employment, and requires the same its employees about business decisions and uses all communication level of awareness and practices from its business partners and tools to respond to their concerns. supply chain. 34 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 37 Garanti Bank Doğuş Construction Dynamic Human Resources Capable of Making Difference Labor Safety is Top Priority for Doğuş Construction Healthy Living Project in 2013 Local and international occupational health and safety requirements Through a “Healthy Living Project” we have developed, we aim As the first institution in Turkey awarded with “IIP Gold Certificate”, • Encouraging employees to share suggestions and innovative are meticulously enforced in every phase of construction works. to ensure our employees’ gratification and loyalty by investing on Garanti Bank firmly believes that its most valuable asset is its human ideas Compliance with project-specific and general environmental their physical and psychological health. “Smoke-Free Corporate resource, and leverages its practices above world standards. It • Best in class operational efficiencies and superior employee and labor safety requirements of each project is the key to the Culture” and “Personal Health and Nutrition Consultancy” by a continuously invests in its employees and thereby maintains stable productivity high service quality offered by Doğuş Construction to its clients. dietician are few projects we have implemented in this respect. and sustainable growth. Accordingly, training courses are provided to employees to Besides; Fitness and Activity Room, Kundalini Yoga Sessions, • Human Resources policies targeted at employee satisfaction Garanti Bank Recruitment System continuously keep up with the changing requirements in the Outdoor Activities and Trekkings, Healthy Eating Workshops, Water • Awarded talent programs In 2013, 57 people joined Garanti under the Management Trainee areas of Quality, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Purifying Devices and Hygiene Kits, Flu Vaccine are other practices • ~14,500 employee suggestion and ideas collected Program, and 42 others under the Assistant Auditors Program. Management Systems. of our “Healthy Living Project”. We believe a sustainable society • 86% of employees are university graduates Internship opportunity was provided to 1,117 university students is only possible with healthy individuals… Through supporting • 54 hours/employee training per annum under the ‘Temel Bankacılık’ program, to 18 university students Doğuş Construction is certified by Lloyd’s Register (LRQA) with ISO campaigns such as “Organ Donation”, “Blood Donation” and “Fight • 226,000 hours of trainings are delivered through technological under the ‘Genç Garantili’ and to 20 university students under the 9001:2008 Quality Management, OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Against Diabetes”, we choose to act sensitively towards societies’ methods ‘Garantili Deneyim’ internship programs. Health & Safety Management, and ISO 14001:2004 Environmental needs. Management Systems. n11 Employee – CEO Lunches D-Marin Marinas Group For newly employed staff, the CEO lunch is organized by n11 in the explains the Open Door Policy; employees can always ask for a D-Marin Mandalina first month of employment in order to meet the top management, meeting with the top management, and reach them via e-mail. D-Marin Mandalina is working with a certified company for health D-Marin Mandalina has risk analysis for entire marina. There are hear the Company’s vision and targets, and share ideas. The CEO and safety programs, which are regularly updated and applied in standards of behaviour and precautions, all made through a licensed the Marina. D-Marin Mandalina also conducted training on this company. Across the Marina there are warning signs and pictograms for topic, and all employees undergo regular medical check-ups. All safe behaviour within the marina area. There are warning signs in all the equipment used by Marina employees is in accordance with health important locations in the Marina, in the buildings and facilities such as Employee Health and Safety and safety regulations. travel lifts, electrical cabinets, transformer stations, boat yard, etc. All the warning signs are bilingual, and there are international pictograms. Doğuş Group always ensures employee safety and health as a All Doğuş Group employees attend employee health and safety universal value. Doğuş Group Human Resources and Employee courses and are periodically informed about first-aid, occupational Engagement Policy with the related targets outline the Group’s diseases, infectious diseases, obesity, prophylaxis methods and Employee Satisfaction and Engagement commitment to strengthen a safety and health oriented culture general hygiene practices. According to the employees’ work and conductive to the mental and physical well-being of the employees. position, they are also informed about protective security systems In today’s uncertain economic climate, both employee job satisfaction achieving satisfaction without engagement will have significantly and tools for maximum personal security. and employee engagement are important for business sustainability. less impact on business results. After all, engaged employees Top-performing organizations understand that measuring employees’ are emotionally committed to working hard, demonstrating Doğuş Holding Health and Safety Council contentment levels and emotional commitment to the organization initiative, and expending extra discretionary effort and doing so All the processes to establish Doğuş Group Employee Health and • Hypertension awareness week activities – medical screening by on a regular basis can put them at a competitive advantage. in alignment with strategic priorities to move the organization Safety Council were completed in 2012; the Council began its active the Company Doctor forward. duties in 2013. All business units and Holding subsidiaries are • World Diabetics Date Activities – Blood Glucose Monitoring for While employee satisfaction and employee engagement are represented on the Council. Health and safety committees report employees both critical to maintaining a happy and productive workforce, to the Council periodically. 20% of the total workforce participates • Informative e-mailings to employees about obesity and insulin Doğuş Holding in formal health and safety committees; the Council monitors and resistance relationship Employee Satisfaction Survey Employee Satisfaction Activities within IT Programs advises occupational health and safety programs. • Kızılay (Red Crescent) Blood Donation Campaign Doğuş Holding implements an employee satisfaction survey every With regard to access to IT resources and the utilization of intranet • Information e-mailings about seasonal diseases two years; the last was 2012, and the next will be carried out in systems and/or accounting practices, the IT Department has carried Other Health and Safety Activities in Doğuş Holding in • Free flu vaccination 2014. The result of the survey is directly reported to the CEO and out network infrastructure renovation, client renovation, improved 2013 • Trainings published through Doğuş Group LinkedIn pages. related management categories; the improvement programs are internet output speed and link speed between different units within • Informative e-mailings to employees about Hypertension planned accordingly. the organization in 2013, referring to the employee needs. The 2013 result of the IT services satisfaction survey was 90%. Garanti Bank9 Employee Health and Safety Garanti Bank In 2013, Garanti Bank employees attended 2 days of “First-aid” (357 employees) and 1 hour of “office ergonomics” trainings (1,703 employees). Employee Performance and Engagement System between business life and private life, and projects based on In line with Employee Engagement survey results, HR focused employee segmentation (female employees, talent management, 9 Detailed information about Garanti Bank’s comprehensive CSR performances can be found in the Company’s 2013 Sustainability Report at http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/ on the role of the managers in HR management, the balance etc.). Preserving the Bank’s focus on continuous development, all our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page? 36 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 39 managers were supported with competency-based feedback as İYİ Talks, İYİ Treats, İYİ Fun and İYİ Mini Courses to allow more “Gelişim Benden Başlar” is another suggestion platform that aims to concretize the ideas. All gathered ideas are evaluated by the training to improve the quality of their communications with employees to benefit from these initiatives. to create a happier, more peaceful working environment with “Gelişim Benden Başlar” Committee and the results are shared with employees, and to propagate a culture of providing feedback. the guidance of employee suggestions. Every month, employees all employees. In 2013, about 40 various amendments were made Career Development send their ideas and suggestions about a “topic of the month”. on a variety of topics, and suggestions which did not bear fruit were Employer Brand Management In line with the Bank’s preferred internal promotion strategy, 90% With the lead of Human Resources, a focus group (approximately also announced and explained to employees. Garanti Bank gives utmost importance to ensuring work-life of vacant positions were filled through internal recruitment in 2013. 15-20 people) develops those ideas and suggestions, in order balance, and to providing comfortable and non-monotonous Specialized career counsellors carried out planning and advisory working environments for its employees, reflecting that the Bank activities by: believes its human resources are the most valuable asset. • Planning medium-term workforce using task-based candidate pools, Garanti Leasing “I have an Idea” Suggestion System Following the Employer Brand Management initiative conducted • Offering tailor-made career-advice to 6,500 employees in one-toGaranti Leasing has an employee suggestion system called “I Have Team controls and monitors the system and, after evaluation, the in 2011, İYİ (Work Life Relationship), which was set up in 2012 one meetings, an Idea” which works completely online. The Project Management results are shared with employees. to enhance employee satisfaction and ensure a richer working • Announcing vacant positions to all employees via the “Career experience, increased the number of its events and services such Opportunities” section posted on the intranet. Doğuş Otomotiv Employee Suggestion System I Have an Idea Garanti Pension and Life Doğuş Otomotiv Suggestion System was designed to enable “I have an Idea” application was created to learn about and solve Employee Satisfaction employees to communicate suggestions and opinions to senior minor problems and requests of Doğuş Otomotiv employees. Garanti Pension and Life organizes monthly motivation activities, Survey results are shared with both supervisors and employees, management regarding the ways of doing business, daily operations Requests reaching this system are communicated to Corporate and offers background music broadcast and success rewarding to take precautions to overcome the deficiencies. With regards and business processes. Doğuş Otomotiv evaluates and implements Communications Department, which evaluates them and passes systems to its employees. The Company conducts an employee to 2013 survey results, suggestion systems were formed and all the suggestions through the system. Enhancing the efficient use of suitable ones onto relevant departments. In 2013, 140 requests satisfaction survey and an internal customer satisfaction survey employees have the right to share their opinions and suggestions the suggestion system is among the objectives of the managers as were submitted, and most of them were fulfilled. once a year, in addition to performance meeting efficiency surveys and get detailed feedback about the results. well as for lean leaders: a total of 60 directors and 64 lean leaders. twice a year. Doğuş Media Group Garanti Factoring A Newly Projected Employee Suggestion System Career interviews are held annually, and employee loyalty surveys are conducted biannually; the loyalty survey was made according to Hewitt’s Under the internal communication concept of “To the more employees to share their ideas, suggestions and opportunities via three basic behaviour method of “Talk, Stay, Improve”. innovative future…” a new suggestion system called “If I were…” was an independent platform. announced. The first step of the concept enables the Media Group Employee Suggestion System Mother-Infant Policy Employees who are new mothers continue to enjoy certain rights their children and the possibilities for children in the new school As Doğuş Holding we agree that employee suggestions are a and operating procedures. We also support employee suggestion after returning to work. Being aware of changing life conditions for year. form of employee-to-management communication that benefits systems in Doğuş Group of companies to help increase efficiency, new parents, Doğuş Holding supports them with a private, healthy employees as well as employers. Our suggestion system gives eliminate waste, improve safety, and improve the quality of our and safe nursing room in addition to other maternity leave and pay We make agreements with nursery schools for discounts to the employees a voice and a role in determining company policies companies’ products and services. rights. employees. All the information on mother-infant policy is available on the intranet system. The returning to the work rate after Employee Suggestion System at Garanti Bank In 2013, Doğuş Holding organized a seminar by a psychologist maternity leave was 100% in 2013 for Doğuş Holding. “Önersen” (You Suggest) Platform at Garanti Bank is a managed suggestions from employees in 2013. “Atölye” is another projectfor parent employees about how to manage a school year with process which encourages employees to suggest and share their based innovation platform; since 2010 it received innovative ideas within an independent platform about processes, products suggestions for seven projects from Garanti Bank employees. Doğuş Otomotiv Mother-Infant Policy and services. “Önersen”, opened in 2007, received 2,200 In 2013, Doğuş Otomotiv completed private nursery-related the mothers and their preferences were assessed; Doğuş Otomotiv studies for facilities which have 150 and more female employees. will start to work with the nursery that the employees have chosen. Garanti Pension and Life As of 2014, the costs of nursery and nursery care will be met by IiP Silver Certificate the Company. Seven educational intuitions were interviewed Employees can accumulate their breast-feeding allowance to use In 2013 IiP (Investors in People) Silver Certificate was received the sector, and one of the two companies that received this award which have proved themselves with their education quality and them all together at once, and utilize unpaid leave after giving within the Human Resources Quality Standards. The main aim in Turkey. are within close proximity to the workplaces, so that mothers can birth as well. They can monitor their babies in the workplace by of this process was to help employees take active role within the access them easily in case of emergencies. The selected institutions establishing camera systems in their homes. There are also breastproducts and services related decision processes. Garanti Pension and Life has two employee suggestion platforms: were presented to the Executive Committee, which assigned the feeding rooms in the Company. Return to work rate after maternity • Fikirler Fora (Unfurl the Ideas), decision to the mothers. These four institutions were visited with leave was 100% in 2013. Garanti Pension and Life believes that “only happy employees can • Gelişim Benden Başlar (Improvement Begins with Me) make happy customers”; within the concept of this principle the Company led the way and won a “Silver Award” from “Investors in “Fikirler Fora” is a suggestion platform in which employees propose People (IiP)” for valuing employees, becoming the first company in ideas with regard to profitability and productivity, and are rewarded. 38 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 41 Each Doğuş Holding employee received, on average, 7.5 days/year Doğuş Holding Intranet System Performance Management of training in 2013. The Intranet System, besides saving time, promoting internal communication, reducing costs, incorporating and distributed Doğuş Group is committed to the principle that a good performance of employees to ensure achievement of the overall organizational Training Programs in 2013: computing environment, and increasing collaboration, also promotes management system works toward the improvement of the ambitions and goals. Turkish Code of Commerce Training equal corporate culture in information viewing. The System helps to overall organizational performance, managing the performance Writing Skills maintain good communication between different departments and Emotional IQ facilities an immediate update of operations and information. In Financial Maths 2013, the Company works on some improvements towards renewing Doğuş Holding Performance Management System Coaching Sessions for Career Plans network infrastructure, client/server applications, internet output Doğuş Holding Performance Management System plays a very Performance reviews of employees were completed for 100% of Personal Image Techniques speed and increasing network speed in different locations of the important role in business success by ensuring that employees the employees in 2013. 27 new people were hired in 2013; 15 are Mediation and Breathing Techniques organizations. The renovation process still continues in collaboration understand the importance of their contributions to corporate goals women. 12 employees were promoted; four of them are women. MS Office Trainings with all Group companies. During the reporting period, 20,275 and objectives. The System primarily aims to facilitate a transparent Discussion Skills in English/Turkish individual accesses were reported for the D-Web Intranet System. relationship between the employee and the line manager based on The entry level wage in Doğuş Holding depends on position and is Outdoor Activities (Leadership Skills) trust and empowerment. approximately 70% above the minimum wage. Presentation Skills Project Finance Project Management Methodology Garanti Bank Stress Management Employee Performance and Engagement System Time Management In line with Employee Engagement survey results, HR focused on Preserving the Bank’s focus on continuous development, all the role of the managers in HR management, the balance between managers were supported with competency-based feedback business life and private life, and projects based on employee training to improve the quality of their communications with the Learning and Employee Development at Garanti Bank segmentation (female employees, talent management, etc.). employees and to propagate a culture of providing feedback. Having built its learning and development strategy upon five basic sessions, plus 26,000 hours of training using technology, were approaches, Garanti Bank is driven by the vision of the continuous realized. Garanti continued its training program enabling development of its employees and supports self-motivated learning specialization in credit risk management and marketing/sales through every channel, considering its human resources as an as a result of its aim for the expertise of employees and helping Garanti Asset Management and its “Target Tree” invaluable investment; them reflect their expertise in business results. A series of training Garanti Asset Management’s Performance Management System is the employee and the manager. There is a “Target Tree System” • Believes in employees’ potential, programs, attended by all Bank employees, was launched to build based on an online platform and the performance evaluation occurs in which a manager can assign sub-targets to the team if he/she • Supports business results, the knowledge and skills of employees regarding the continuously twice annually. Employees evaluate their own performance, and can relate them to his/her own targets. Furthermore the support • Likes technology, developing digital environment, gaining importance with its two top managers also evaluate their performances in the system. units are also evaluated by the employees to whom they give • Acknowledges differences and provides equal opportunities, tools and dynamics in the business world. A target was set to All the targets are set according to the common decisions of both services. • Develops long-term cooperation with the academic world. enhance service quality by restructuring the communication with handicapped customers. Along this line, important considerations This year, Garanti Bank offered a total of 896,500 hours of training while communicating with customers were transformed into with an average of 54 hours per employee, representing an annual experience guidelines and Disabled-Friendly Banking training was Training and Development Programs increase of 11% in training hours. A total of 6,800 classroom training initiated for employees. Doğuş Otomotiv Training Programs Doğuş Group considers it crucial to train and develop its employees and motivation and enhance their ability to make more effective In Doğuş Otomotiv, there have been title-based training programs know the Company better. In 2013, 10 employees participated in this in order to be a sustainable and innovative company. The training and decisions about both their professional and personal lives. for the career development of its employees, based on developing pre-scheduled rotation. development programs thereby increase employees’ performance their competencies. Additionally, employees can focus on areas where they want to improve themselves through specialization In 2013, a total of 33,845.5 man/hours (4,272 man-days) training Doğuş Holding Training Catalogue development programs. Employees may work in rotation in different was given at Doğuş Otomotiv and Doğuş Oto. On average, in-service Every year, Doğuş Holding employees complete forms regarding Leadership Program differs from others by aiming to develop departments for short-periods (2 weeks-1 month) or long-periods (1 training per employee is 25 man/hours at Doğuş Otomotiv and 33 the training needs during their performance reviews. Those personal improvement and management skills, learning through month-3 months), thereby gaining a chance to develop their career man/hours in Doğuş Oto. forms are analyzed by the Human Resources Department and a experience in both technical and spiritual areas. areas, get information about the processes they want to learn and training catalogue, which includes both personal and professional development programs, is prepared. Training programs abroad, or During the year, employee satisfaction regarding training, and further special courses for foreign languages, can be arranged. development suggestions, are monitored by the related department. Attendance at leadership programs is encouraged for employees; the The Company also has leadership programs at three levels, Company seek to provide discounts for advanced degree programs, conducted like an academy, which aim to support transitions for and for foreign language courses, in coordination with universities. those being promoted within the Group. Furthermore, our The employees also have the chance to use the rotation program within Doğuş Group. 40 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 43 Community Engagement 42 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 45 Para Durumu for Financial Literacy Community Engagement (Turkey’s first financial literacy initiative reaches out to the public) Financial literacy is an individual’s ability to make informed judgments in this important effort for promoting sustainable change in Turkish and effective decisions about the use and management of his/her society. As a result of this initiative, Mrs. Denizmen was honored by Our Group strives to support the development of communities and money. Thus, financially literate consumers manage their income, the White House Entrepreneurship Summit and as a Young Global contributes to both local and regional growth and new employment save and invest wisely and avoid fraudulent practices. The term has gained much importance all around the world, as each person and Leader 2011 at the World Economic Forum. Additionally, Para Durumu is recognized as a Financial Literacy initiative of Turkey by OECD. opportunities. household is the base of economic sustainability in a country. The initiative reaches out to youth (university students) through physical meetings as well. In 2011-2012, it visited 12 universities Para Durumu, Turkey’s first private media and interaction-based across country where average participation was 1,000 students. It Our Group tailors programs and opportunities to each Group As Doğuş Group, we: financial literacy initiative, reaches out to the public via a multialso visited high schools and elementary schools in different parts of company and the changing needs of their communities. In 2012, • Internalize ethical investment principles both for the community platform weekly TV show, a page in the most widely circulated national Turkey meeting with 200 young female students between ages 15we have worked on our community engagement policy to address and our business. newspaper, Posta, as well as the weekend section of Hürriyet, another 18 in Şanlıurfa, and bringing them along to Harran University, their effective engagement processes for the Group companies. We • Analyze the concerns of the community and enable people to prominent newspaper. Para Durumu is also published in the monthly first visit to a university. These special programs were presented as a adopted The 6 C’s (Successful Community Engagement Guidelines be part of the decisions which may have the potential impact on women’s magazine, Elele, actively uses social media channels such as model for financial education to the Ministry of National Education. of Brown, J and Isaacs, D10: capability, commitment, contribution, their social life and well-being. Facebook and Twitter, and operates a very popular blog and website continuity, collaboration and conscience) in our 2012 Corporate • Give top priority to being responsive to community needs. at www.paradurumu.tv. Para Durumu has already became an address where people seek Responsibility Report. This guideline has provided an effective • Monitor business processes for anti-corruption and comply solutions and guidance on personal finance problems, financial framework for our community engagement strategy in 2013. with respective laws and regulations, believing that the primary Para Durumu was founded and is spearheaded by Özlem Denizmen products, saving for a house, budget decisions, investment choices, responsibility of a company is doing its business ethically for the who is our Head of Social Projects at Doğuş Holding. We empower and credit card issues, and more. It has become a popular (and only) Doğuş Group Community Engagement Policy community’s well-being. encourage Mrs. Denizmen in her capacity as a social entrepreneur venue for people to “talk about money” in public. Our Group strives to support the development of communities and • Encourage our business partners and Group companies to contributes to both local and regional growth and new employment establish necessary monitoring mechanisms in order to detect opportunities. and prevent potential corruption risks. • Aim to be a role model to our stakeholders with an ethical business approach, and to execute awareness programs that Financial Literacy for Children: 3 Kumbara extend our approach among suppliers and other third parties. Doğuş Group has started the “3 Kumbara” financial literacy education In the 3rd phase, parallel to the ongoing education in İstanbul, program, which aims to increase the consciousness about money “3 Kumbara” has spread to 9 cities (Antalya, Erzurum, Eskişehir, management, savings and managing their budgets from an early Denizli, Hatay , Kahramanmaraş, Niğde, Rize, Şanlıurfa) in all the 7 age and turn it into behavior. “3 Kumbara” is undertaken with the regions of Turkey, reaching 70.000 students. “3 Kumbara” will be Commitments Targets support of the Ministry of National Education of Turkey, the social rolling out to another 30 cities throughout Turkey within the 2014Community Development Engage with community initiatives related to business impact enterprise Para Durumu and FODER (Financial Literacy and Inclusion 2015 education year and another 41 cities in the following year. Responsible Competition Comply with international competitiveness strategies and codes Association). We aim to teach 3rd and 4th Grade elementary Thus by the end of the 5th phase, “3 Kumbara” will be spanning the Anti-corruption Policies Study Group’s Code of Ethics, lead and manage the Group companies school students about savings, sharing, needs and wants as well country to all 81 cities, aiming to reach 500,000 children and their accordingly, encourage third parties to sign the Group’s ethical principles as entrepreneurship to make these children financially literate. “3 parents. Impact analysis surveys are being conducted and reported Kumbara” incorporates a three-step awareness raising sustainability out periodically through seminars by an independent research model of financial literacy. Accordingly the parents and the teachers company. Local Communities of these children are also educated about financial literacy in order Among our fundamental values is respecting the local communities negative, at each stage of the business life-cycle of our Group to ensure the sustainability of the program. Operation wise, a Financial Literacy for Women: İSMEK and people impacted by our businesses. Proper management companies’ operations. With more than 200 companies in 8 teacher from every city where the program is offered is trained to We have initiated a new personal finance education movement for of the social impacts of our operations is critical to our growth sectors, evaluating and monitoring social impact management become a “3 Kumbara” instructor in their own city. The program women, cooperating with “Para Durumu” and with support of the and sustainability. Social impacts that are not well-managed can systems and detailed analyses before and after the operations are started with a pilot study in 2011, as a six week project with Lütfi Ministry of Family and Social Policies and İstanbul Metropolitan be damaging for communities, and our associated risks include crucial for our businesses. Banat Elementary School where children were taught how to use Municipality. The movement aims to reach and raise financial loss of social licence to operate, cost inflation and schedule and manage money. In the second phase, “3 Kumbara” reached awareness of 20,000 women in İstanbul by the end of 2014. After drift. Managing our impacts consistently well will help us ensure Prior to making investments, our related departments conduct 25,000 children in the pilot city İstanbul. In the 2nd and preparation the completion of this phase of the movement, an education model mitigating these risks, so our projects run on time and on budget, detailed analyses about the concerns and requirements of local phase following the initial pilot study both national and international developed by “Para Durumu” will be carried out further and become and that we build a positive reputation that can strengthen access communities. We organize community briefing meetings before programs as well as standards were analyzed by the Advisory Board, a nation-wide education plan, taught at various Municipality Arts and to growth opportunities. the investments with the local communities and listen and try to which consists of experts in their fields (psychologists, pedagogues, Vocational Training Centers around the country. By the end of 2013, respond to their concerns with the related Impact Analysis Reports teachers etc). This phase enabled the program to be revised and the program has successfully reached a total of 14,500 women. The Social Impact Management and evaluation results about the projects. developed so that the content matches international standards. goal is to reach 20,000 women by the end of 2014. Inevitably there are social change implications, positive and 10 Brown, J & Isaacs, D (1994) ‘Merging the best of two worlds the core processes of organisations as communities’ in P Senge, A Kleiner, C Roberts, R Ross & B Smith (eds.) The fifth discipline fieldbook: Strategies and tools for building a learning organization, Doubleday/Currency Publications 44 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 47 Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Göbekli Tepe Promotion Project within the country and 5 abroad) benefited from the scholarship The Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra was established in 2006 as in which the story behind the establishment of the Doğuş Kids Doğuş Group sponsored the promotion project of Göbekli Tepe, and education assistance of our foundation. Of these, 31 attended Turkey’s first national, permanent children’s symphony orchestra. Symphony Orchestra told by Dr. Erdal Atabek, was republished. the oldest and largest known temple of the world that dates back primary schools, 18 attended high school, 72 attended universities The Orchestra is comprised of conservatory students between 11 In 2013, The Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra won a prize in the to 12,000 years ago. Doğuş Group attaches great importance to and 4 attended foreign universities abroad, and 1 attended master and 18 years of age from different regions of Turkey, and introduces category of “Best Corporate Social Responsibility Project” at the supporting projects that will uncover Turkey’s historical legacy. The degree abroad. the wonder of symphonic music to Turkish children as performed by Ace of M.I.C.E. (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions) Group’s sponsorship of this project aims to enhance the value of their peers. Concert proceeds were donated to the TOHUM Autism Awards, organized by the Tourism Media Group in which 230 different Şanlıurfa province, earn it the interest it deserves, and create a Another project that was completed by the Foundation in 2013 Foundation. Furthermore, in 2013 the book, “The Music Calls You”, projects were nominated in 29 categories. significant opportunity to play host to thousands of visitors from all was the refurbishment and maintenance of Darıca Faik Şahenk parts of the world. Secondary School in Kocaeli. Because it was originally built as a primary school, the building required many changes in order to be Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Website Within this sponsorship, Doğuş Group held two photograph used as a secondary school. Changes were made in the science lab, Having reached its target member number of 100,000 in less than The Festival has already attracted a loyal audience of its own exhibitions in İstanbul and Şanlıurfa. Furthermore, the book the computer lab, and the gym, renewing them with up-to-date five years, the Doğuş Kids website was replaced by the Doğuş Kids which regularly increases each year. In 2013, a total of 21,000 fans “Göbekli Tepe” was published. technical equipment. In September 2013, Faik Şahenk Secondary Symphony Orchestra website in July 2010. The website aims to followed the festival, which was joined with nearly 200 artists at School in Darıca opened its doors to its new students with its new create a communication platform among the orchestra members, seven concerts during the four days. İstanbul’s bid for the 2020 Olympic and Paralympics look – painted, furnished and up to new standards as a secondary and to inform and educate young people about classical music. Games school. Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey Symphony In 2013, İstanbul, which stands out not only with its cultural, natural Send Me to School Campaign (Baba Beni Okula Gönder) on Campus and historic heritage but also as a leading commercial hub, was Mobile Healthcare Units Since 2006, Doğuş Holding has been providing scholarship for the The Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey, established in one of the candidate cities for the 2020 Olympic and Paralympics In 2013, the number of patients who benefited from the “Mobile education of 50 female students on an annual basis through its 1826, has been one of the few special orchestras in the world Games. Doğuş Group and Garanti Bank were official sponsors of Healthcare Units” project totalled more than 20,000, thereby support of the Send Me to School Campaign, a joint effort with that has managed to survive to date. In November 2007, Doğuş İstanbul’s candidacy and supported the process. reaching a cumulative number of 434,000 patients since its Milliyet newspaper and the Association in Support of Contemporary Group signed an agreement with the Republic of Turkey Ministry of establishment in 1997. This project was conceived at the request Living (ÇYDD). Culture and Tourism to become the main sponsor of the Orchestra As part of Doğuş Group’s efforts, the primary objective was to of the Honorary Chairman of Doğuş Group, Mr. Ayhan Şahenk, for a period of three years and to start the “Technical Betterment raise public awareness about İstanbul’s candidacy for the 2020 who thought that patients living in underserved regions where D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival Project” of the Orchestra’s concert hall. Renovations of the entire Olympic and Paralympics Games. Communications support during immigration rates are high should be provided with good quality Doğuş Group continues to contribute to and provide support for inner building and the concert hall, landscaping and renewal of this process was not limited to Turkey, but also included various general health and ophthalmology services, both in terms of the development of classical music. The Group strives to ensure the orchestral and office furniture were completed in less than a promotional activities and lobbying on an international scale. treatment and preventive healthcare. Mobile health caravans, its access to a wider section of the population and help Turkish year and finished in October 2008. In line with its main sponsorship equipped with modern technology medical devices and specialized artists produce world-class pieces. Since 2005, Doğuş Group has contract with the Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey, which Ayhan Şahenk Foundation physicians and nurses, supply this service in coordination with been organizing the D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical was renewed in early 2012 for another three years, we initiated Schools and Scholarships primary schools and local municipalities. Music Festival in Bodrum. This Festival highlights the support that is a new corporate sponsorship project in 2009, “Symphony on In the area of education, the construction of a modern complex required for the development of diverse forms of music. Campus.” The objective of this project was to take the Orchestra on having 35 classrooms had been started in order to contribute to the It is operated in the are of health at 15 locations: Consisting of 13 tour of state universities in Anatolian cities, where they had never education of autistic children at Van in 2013. schools and 12 districts on both sides of İstanbul in mobile health D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival is a member visited, to promote classical music among university students and vehicles. In these operations, free health service had been provided of the European Festivals Association (EFA) which is the umbrella regional communities. In 2009, 2010 and 2012, the project covered In Artvin, Anatolian Girls’ Vocational and Technical High School, to 19,834 individuals: 4,343 to general examination, 13,902 to organization for festivals across Europe. For more than 50 years, the Konya-Selçuk, Niğde, Gaziantep, Kars-Kafkas, Erzurum-Atatürk, which will contribute to female children in getting a profession, eye screening and 1,589 to detailed eye examination. The general the Association has grown into a dynamic network representing Rize, Giresun and Trabzon-Black Sea Technical, Isparta-Süleyman has been completed. The School consists of 24 classrooms, 9 health examinations included 1,251 complete blood counts, 1,350 more than 100 music, dance, theatre and multidisciplinary festivals, Demirel, Afyon-Kocatepe, Denizli-Pamukkale, Burdur-Mehmet Akif laboratories, multipurpose saloon and amphitheatre. biochemistry analyses, 372 complete urine analyses and 361 EKGs. national festival associations and cultural organizations from about Ersoy, Aydın-Adnan Menderes and Muğla universities reaching a Since 1997, the first year of the project, till the end of 2013, more 40 (mainly European) countries. The Festival has been also awarded total audience of nearly 14,000. 1,768 computers were distributed to 70 schools and 7 institutions than 434,000 individuals had benefitted. Additionally, various as the “Classical Music Event of the Year” in the Donizetti Classical in 32 provinces around the country, and 126 students in total (121 medical devices were donated to Göztepe Hospital in 2013. Music Awards 2012 by the classical music magazine, Andante. On its In 2013, the Orchestra concertized in Yozgat-Bozok, Nevşehir, ninth anniversary, the Festival took place on 24-25 and 27-28 August Kayseri, Sivas-Cumhuriyet, Malatya-Turgut Özal universities and 2013, hosting many gifted artists and well-known orchestras from reached total audience of 6,000. Turkey and other countries including the world-renowned Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and famous operatic soprano Angela Gheorghiu. At the end of four years, the project has reached around 20,000 Festival proceeds were donated to the TOHUM Autism Foundation audiences in a total of 19 cities. The Symphony on Campus Project to be used for educational materials at the Foundation’s private will continue covering many more universities in the upcoming school for children with autism and for the training of teachers period. specialized in this area. Additionally, some of the proceeds were used for providing professional skills to the mothers of handicapped children with the cooperation of the Bodrum Health Foundation. 46 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 49 Garanti Bank 11 bring a new voice. Rather than targeting infrastructural issues such The Genç Hayat Foundation Community Volunteers Foundation (Toplum Gönüllüleri In 2012, the Women Entrepreneur Executive School program was as scholarships, donations, construction of schools, the Bank chose Since 2010, Garanti Bank has been supporting the Genç Hayat Vakfı) opened in conjunction with Bosphorus University. Under the program, to focus strategically on value-creating programs related directly to Foundation and the Color Wheel project carried out at Teacher Training Garanti Bank supports the Community Volunteers Foundation women entrepreneurs in several cities (Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir in 2012, teachers, who determine the quality of education. High-Schools, enabling students to gain awareness of themselves (Toplum Gönüllüleri Vakfı), a transformational project aimed at Adana, Antalya, Denizli and Gaziantep in 2013) received 100 hours and their environment and develop essential communication skills turning the energy of young people into a positive benefit for society. of instruction on subjects ranging from innovation to sustainable In 2008, following the completion of preparatory work, the and also to shape attitudes and behaviour conductive to a sense of company administration. In 2012 and 2013, a total of 497 women Teachers Academy Foundation was established to contribute to individual and social responsibility. The Community Volunteers Foundation (Toplum Gönüllüleri Vakfı entrepreneurs have completed the program. Follow-up mechanisms the implementation of an education model based on thinking, TOG) was formed in December 2002 with the aim of fostering were set up together with Bosphorus University to measure the questioning, and research in our country. The Foundation commenced Garanti Bank Supports UNICEF social peace, solidarity and change through pioneering youth and impact of the executive school trainings on the businesses. work on the “No Limit in Teaching” project, again developed and UNICEF has developed a framework for rights-based, childadult guidance. By enabling youth to participate in volunteerism implemented by Garanti Bank. friendly educational systems and schools that are characterized and socially responsible work, the Foundation contributes to their Disabled-Friendly Banking as “inclusive, healthy and protective for all children, effective personal development and encourages their social participation as In 2011, Garanti’s work on improving its services to customers No Limit in Teaching (Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok) with children, and involved with families and communities and volunteers. with disabilities, and on contributing to the general wellbeing of all Within the scope of the “No Limit in Teaching” Project, the Bank children”. Within this context, a major project, to contribute to persons with disabilities, was started. Providing access to finance signed a five-year contract with the Ministry of National Education the establishment of child-friendly schools, has been started by Young Community Volunteers, organized in clubs, groups or gatherings to disabled people in the same or in similar standards as with nonto arrange training activities aimed at the personal and professional UNICEF in more than 150 countries. In Turkey, UNICEF and Garanti in their universities, execute sustainable, socially responsible disabled people became its priority. The work began with customers, development of teachers. The Program commenced in the 2008-2009 have started to partner in 2013 to improve the conditions of initiatives according to the perceived needs of their communities. stakeholders whose financial lives it can improve within the education year, and Garanti Bank allocated a total of TL 15,000,000. primary schools in order to reach international primary school Among the projects carried out, with the support of the Bank, were framework of its service cycle. standards within the ‘child-friendly school’ project. In 2013, four the Voluntary Education Support program, aimed at contributing In the five years since it began, the project “No Limits in Teaching”, schools in Ankara and İstanbul were reached and brought to childto the personal development of students in disadvantaged regions, The program has categorized the ways in which Garanti can increase which Garanti Bank has launched in the field of education, one of friendly standards under this project. periodic summer projects consisting of educational support, summer the quality of lives of disabled persons in four ways: Turkey’s most crucial and top priority issues, reached 85,095 teachers social activities both nationally and internationally, and the Five • Adaptation of service channels to better fit the needs of disabled working at 3,407 schools in 79 cities. Under the Project, the Teachers Garanti Bank SALT Key Trainings aimed at creating awareness in youth of fundamental customers: Garanti currently has 34 disabled-friendly branches Academy Foundation offered one-on-one training in personal and With the intention of creating cultural awareness and public memory, concepts such as civil society, projects and volunteerism. and 102 disabled-friendly ATMs. Garanti’s plan is to increase this professional development, and was able to touch our teachers, Garanti Bank, identifying the social need for a cultural environment number by three-fold by the end of 2014. In internet and mobilewho take on the most vital role in educating and training the future able to recognize research and creation as an opportunity, has Support for Women Entrepreneurs phone banking, services have been revised to be readable for generations. Garanti Erciş Teachers’ Quarters was another project set itself the goal of forming a cultural institution that is unique, Garanti Bank sees the support of women entrepreneurs as a major visually-impaired customers. realized for our teachers in 2013. Last year, Garanti Bank completed autonomous and, most importantly, able to develop interactively with responsibility for Turkey’s social and economic development. In • Adaptation on its service presentation to prioritize disabled the construction of quarters for the teachers working in Erciş within its users. With this in mind, the cultural associations Platform Garanti addition to extending funds to women entrepreneurs, the Bank also customers: Branches can prioritize disabled customers via zerothe frame of a protocol signed with the Ministry of Education Contemporary Art Center, Ottoman Bank Museum and Garanti supports activities encouraging entrepreneurship and educational wait services. following the earthquake disasters of 2011 in Van and Erciş. This step Gallery, operating within the Bank and having been successful in their projects. • Training of employees to better serve disabled customers, and was intended to help alleviate, to some extent, the pain of the local own fields, have been restructured as one independent institution creating higher awareness regarding disabilities. community. under the name of SALT. In its seventh year of Turkey’s Woman Entrepreneur Competition, • Contribution to the social integration of disabled persons through organized with the aim of supporting and encouraging women corporate responsibility programs: In January 2013, Garanti Through the eKampus website, developed as a permanent finishing Since commencing activities in 2011, SALT Beyoğlu, SALT Galata and in business, Garanti, for the first time in 2013, introduced a new proactively applied to be the main supporter for the National platform in “No Limits in Teaching”, interested parties have the SALT Ulus have authored six comprehensive publications and held 28 category: Woman Social Entrepreneur of the Year, to recognize Wheelchair Basketball League and the National Wheelchair opportunity to continue their personal and professional development. exhibitions. In tandem with these exhibitions, 300 events and 100 the value of social entrepreneurship as an important category for Basketball teams. Over 55,000 thousand people use eKampus. student-oriented guided tours and workshop activities have been economic and social development. held. During this time, a total of 729,747 people have visited SALT In December 2013, Garanti organized volunteering sessions with the For further information concerning the “Teachers Academy Beyoğlu, SALT Galata and SALT Ulus. Through the Women Entrepreneurs Gatherings, organized in Diving Club of Garanti, for five persons with physical disabilities, and Foundation” please visit www.orav.org.tr collaboration with the Women Entrepreneurs Association of a National award-winning Diving Athlete. For its work on disabledMini Bank Children’s Movie Festival Turkey (KAGİDER), Garanti Bank aims to contribute to the personal friendly banking and social projects, Garanti was invited by the Turkish İstanbul Modern Education Program Since 2004, Garanti has been co-organizing the first children’s film development of women in business, informing them on fundamental Minister of Social Policies to attend the UN High Level Meetings on Since 2005, Garanti Bank has been supporting the education festival in Turkey, the “Mini Bank Children’s Movie Festival”, together business issues and encouraging them to create new opportunities in Disability and Development on 23 September 2013. program of Turkey’s first and only modern art museum, İstanbul with TÜRSAK (the Turkish Foundation of Cinema and Audio-Visual their own businesses. Modern. The program aims to play a central role in supplementing Culture). The Festival aims to bring the experience of cinema to Teachers Academy Foundation (Öğretmen Akademisi classroom education and fostering creative and inquisitive children in rural areas of Turkey, where most children, unlike those In 2013, the Women Entrepreneur Gatherings were held in five Vakfı) individuals who are familiar with, and actively participate in, the living in city centers, have no access to the art of cinema. provinces with the participation of around 1,000 businesswomen. Having supported education through the Deniz Yıldızları (Sea Stars) arts. Through the ongoing İstanbul Modern training program, Project since 1999, Garanti Bank began working on a long-term more than 503,833 children and teenagers have participated in Through this festival, approximately 70,000 children in nine different corporate responsibility initiative in the field of education in 2007 to the program to date. provinces (among which several have very limited access to cinema 11 Detailed information on Garanti Bank’s corporate responsibility performance is available in Garanti Bank Sustainability Report 2013 at http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page? 48 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 51 such as Aksaray Kars, Konya, Mardin and Ordu) received the Equestrian Sports International Women Association Christmas Bazaar loan, offered exclusively by Garanti Bank for the ASEBUSS MBA opportunity to familiarize themselves with the art of cinema. Garanti Masters Private Banking has been the official sponsor of the Garanti Bank supported the Christmas Fair organized by the program, benefited from the most competitive credit offers on the Turkish Equestrian Federation since 2008. representatives of diplomatic missions in 40 countries, which market, both in RON and EUR. The MBA is organized by the Institute The Lycian Way exhibited several objects. The money raised by this event was for Business Administration and it is dedicated to Romanian The Lycian Way is a 500 km-long walking road between Fethiye and Ladies European Tour donated to associations that help children with health problems. entrepreneurs. Antalya. Garanti took on the task of organizing guided walks along The Garanti Masters Pro-Am Golf Tournament unites amateur golfers The event was held for the 15th time, organized by the International the Lycian Way and placing road signs to make navigation easier for with famous professionals. In May 2012, the Turkish leg of the Ladies Women’s Association in Romania. Support to Women Entrepreneurs walkers. Moreover, a Lycian Way guidebook, prepared in 2006, has European Tour, the Turkish Airlines Ladies Open Garanti Masters ProSign of Success Campaign, part of the Women Entrepreneur Program: contributed to tourism in the region. Am, organized in several countries of the world, saw the participation Scheherezade Foundation In their third year of offering complex financing packages to women of 36 teams. Garanti Bank supported the Scheherezade Foundation, in its effort to entrepreneurs, designed especially for them and their needs, Garanti The Arykanda Excavations sustain the renovation of the hospital Sf. Maria in Iasi, a medical unit Bank launched in October 2013 the “Sign of Success” program, Led by Dr. Cevdet Bayburtluoğlu, the excavation of the ancient city of The Bonus Snow Masters that is the center of all pediatric medical units in Iasi. Over 60,000 targeting women who have investment projects or want to expand Arykanda has been receiving support from Garanti Bank for 18 years. Sponsored principally by Bonus for 11 years, the Bonus Snow Masters children in Moldavia benefit every year from its services, as well as their already established businesses (especially SMEs). The campaign The principle of protecting and excavating our archeological heritage, races are formed from the İstanbul Provincial Championships. The 5,000 children in Republic of Moldavia. included several components, special offers, targeted events with along with the excavation work supported by Garanti, serves universal winners of this race are awarded overseas skiing holidays. The winners existing or potential business women in Bucharest, Iasi, Constanta, culture in a significant way. of the Bonus Snow Masters Open, which has been open to unlicensed The Entrepreneurship Workshops Program Cluj and Timisoara, and a dedicated website www.femeiantreprenor. sportspeople for six years, are also rewarded with overseas holidays Organized by Romanian Business Leaders Foundation and supported ro, where SME business owners could find details about loans, 12 Giant Men and Pixies of Basketball and various other prizes. by Garanti Bank SA, the training is focused on the essential areas that deposits, necessary documentation and other useful information Garanti has been the main sponsor of 12 Giant Men (Turkish National determine the success of a recently founded business and has an for opening an account. Thus, support from Garanti Bank for women Men’s Basketball Team) since 2001 and of Pixies of Basketball (Turkish The American Express Sailing Regatta interactive approach. Following its strategy to support entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs came through both banking offers and practical advice National Women’s Basketball Team) since 2005. American Express Sailing Regatta, co-sponsored with the American Garanti Bank SA offered two scholarships for the entire program. from other successful businesswomen, within the events organized Express brand, aims to spread the love of the sport of sailing among across the country. The Bank’s representatives also discussed with the Wheelchair Basketball the public. The races continue with the 12 year support of the Garanti AntreprenorStart women present about the steps to follow in order to obtain financing, Garanti started to sponsor national wheelchair basketball teams for Payment Systems (GÖSAŞ). The races, consisting of the Bosphorus, Following its strategy to support Romanian entrepreneurs, Garanti offering advice and details about the support and special offers they both men and women and to establish national and local leagues, Turgutreis and Göcek stages, had the participation of over 140 boats Bank launched in September 2013 a student loan, AntreprenorStart, can receive from the Bank. Furthermore, an online application was called “Garanti Wheelchair Basketball Leagues. and more than 1,200 sportspeople. dedicated to the students in the MBA program offered by the created on Garanti Bank’s official Facebook page, www.facebook. Institute for Business Administration (ASEBUSS). The Bank offered com/GarantiBankRomania, where businesswomen were invited to Athletics The American Express İstanbul Challenger specific funding solutions to those accepted in the MBA program share their successful stories and become role models that inspire Garanti began support for two Turkish national athletes, Gülcan American Express İstanbul Challenger, under its other name, the TED dedicated to the retail segment. Those who accept the student other women to become entrepreneurs. Mıngır and Aslı Çakır Alptekin, at the time of their preparation for the Open, constitutes the İstanbul stage of Challenger tournaments, London Summer Olympics. Aslı Çakır Alptekin brought Turkey its first which were organized globally with the support of American Olympic gold medal in the women’s 1,500 meter race. Express in 1979. Another special tournament for American Garanti Pension and Life Express cardholders has been held for four years under the aegis Back to School: Educating, not Employing Children (İşimiz Football of the tournament, the American Express İstanbul Challenger, Okumak) Joining the main sponsors of the National Football Teams in 2008, where winners receive both the privilege of playing against worldSince 2010, aiming to lure secondary school age working children and Life’s cooperation with Uygur Children Theatre has, since 2012, Garanti began supporting sports on the green pitch. renowned tennis players as well as the opportunity to attend one of (most particularly the ones on the streets) back to school on a full continued to help children’s self-improvement. Professional drama the world’s major final’s matches. time basis, Garanti Pension and Life has been carrying out a project instructors have been organizing drama workshops for children to called “İşimiz Okumak” (Back to School: Educating, not Employing, enhance awareness about themselves. Children) in collaboration with İstanbul Provincial Education Garanti Culture Directorate and Bosphorus University. As a part of the project, Since the beginning of the Project, 650 Garanti Pension and Life All the Garanti Culture buildings have libraries, research centers and Education, workshops are organized with primary and secondary about 4,000 children from 34 schools in İstanbul have been taught volunteers have given their support and been a role model for exhibitions, and all the facilities are open to public use. According school students. to enhance their achievements and increase their loyalty to their children. Garanti Pension volunteers organized and sponsored various to the agreement signed with Provincial Directorate of National education. activities such as museum and shopping mall visits, Bosphorus tour and boat trips, basketball games, cinema, etc. Furthermore, they Garanti Pension and Life continues to manage the project in visited children at their schools to help them with their lessons. Garanti Bank SA various districts of İstanbul where there are intensive numbers “We Defeat Autism” Association Be Santa Claus This Year of child labor, and at 19 schools, in 2013. Nearly 1,500 students Since the beginning of the Project, 305 students have been Garanti Bank supports the children suffering from autism. As An online auction on the internal blog Garanti4all.ro was held to have attended extra lessons for their academic success with their returned to school completely. Compared with similar projects in partner of the event Blue Ball – the first charity ball in Romania to raise money for the children at SOS Satele Copiilor. In November – teachers’ assistance. There were also social lessons for children, the world, it had considerable success in taking children off the support autistic children, organized by the Association, Garanti Bank December 2013 period, the Garanti Bank SA’s employees could offer to enhance their self-improvement and help them to express streets and away from work, and significant improvement in the contributed directly to raising funds that help improve the integration objects or services for auction, to be bid on by their colleagues; the themselves. From the perspective that supporting academic academic success of these children has been observed. In addition, of children with autism in schools. Bank matched the proceeds. success with social skills is an undeniable truth, Garanti Pension the children’s parents now view education in a more positive light. 50 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 53 Garanti Pension intends to spread the project to other schools soon Garanti Pension and Life has been supporting several other Doğuş Otomotiv12 so as to let more children benefit from the Project. children’s education and personal development projects since Economic and Social Development 2006. By donating a specific percentage of its monthly sales to In order to support equal opportunity in education, Doğuş Otomotiv cause of death for men between the ages of 15-29. Distance Support for Cappadocia Vocational School the Foundation, the Company supports many projects carried out makes an annual donation of USD 500,000 to Darüşşafaka Education Learning Courses on Traffic Safety have been developed within Since 2008, Garanti Pension and Life has been collaborating with by the young Community Volunteers, including repairs in village Institute, which accepts students by examination and aims to the scope at Traffic is Life! platform for university students, who the Cappadocia Vocational School to prepare students for the schools, helping working children and street children, tutoring raise modern, self-confident leaders who are lifelong learners, generally fall within that age range. professional world. Company executives give lectures on the students of limited means with their high school and university researchers, questioners, and responsible to the community, private pension system and the life insurance sector, help students entrance exam preparations, teaching literacy skills, and providing environment and family. Distance Learning Course on Traffic Safety; to obtain the Private Pension Intermediary License, and share computer courses at Youth Centers. The Company continued to • The course was put into effect through the cooperation of a their experiences with the students. Garanti Pension and Life also work on children’s education and personal development projects To support the arts and culture, an annual contribution amounting to private (Pirelli) and public sector organizations. supports students in preparation for business life, offering them in collaboration with the Community Volunteers Foundation in USD 187,500 is made to TİM (Türker İnanoğlu Maslak Show Center). • This is the first thematic corporate responsibility practice included summer internships and job opportunities. The Company continued 2013. within the curriculum of universities in Turkey. its support to the school throughout 2013. Doğuş Otomotiv Volunteer Programs • All traffic related facts are explained within the content of the Activity-D Voluntary Programs course (designed by academicians for distance education), This program encourages Doğuş Otomotiv employees to participate wherein traffic is considered a science. in volunteer programs, raising their commitment to the Company by • The course is included in the universities either as a social elective Garanti Leasing joining various activities that support the work-life balance. During credit course or as an online course within a certification program. Community Support the year, a number of activities are organized with the volunteer Courses are suitable for all university students. Garanti Leasing supports the Community Volunteers Foundation young people’s energy to public benefit. Garanti Leasing sponsored • A pilot study, with the participation of 588 students, began in participation of employees. (TOG) since 2005; a community project which aims to transform the a total of 347 students. Kocaeli University in the fall semester of the 2012-2013 academic Tahsin Tarhan Elementary School Play Ground Construction year. Tahsin Tarhan Elementary School Play Ground Construction • By the end of the 2013 academic year, 5,000 students in 7 Garanti Fleet Management Voluntary Project was implemented on November 6th, 2013. universities (Kocaeli, Marmara, Bahçeşehir, İstanbul Ticaret, Driving Safe Responsibility After 3 hours of volunteer work, the walls of basketball court had Çukurova, Işık and Trakya) had taken the course. In keeping with the importance attached to driving safety, Garanti to the users of the cars leased by the Company. The training courses • Our objective is to spread the course to all the universities in been colorfully painted, an area of 80 m2 was replanted, and the Fleet initiated a collaboration with a specialist professional institution will continue in 2014. Turkey and then transfer it to YÖK (Board of Higher Education of playground floor was covered. A total of 20 employees (60 volunteer and began offering “Safe and Defensive Driving Techniques Training” hours) participated in the project. Turkey). All of the volunteers who participated in the program; Traffic is Life! Safe Driving Training Garanti Factoring • believe that voluntary programs make a positive contribution to Doğuş Otomotiv Safe Driving Training was provided for our CO-OP (Cooperative Education) their personal development. (business life, personal life, family) employees and the participants of Kocaeli University Spring Festival CO-OP is an integrated educational model of university study and recommendations and other required criteria are necessary for the and İstanbul Economic Forum in 2013. In support of the Traffic is • believe that voluntary programs also provide benefits for the the business world. Based on the work of the student during his CO-OP application. A student accepted into the CO-OP program is Life! platform, various information about safe driving was provided other parties (directly affected people and institutions) or her undergraduate education, the goal is to integrate education called a CO-OPer. through Scania to 261 drivers in 33 companies in 2013. • believe that the volunteer program provides benefits for the and business. For students who have taken advantage of the COCompany. OP opportunity, the transition into their workplace after graduation TEKSEM Theater Program Traffic Safety Focused Public Spots • believe that the volunteer program should continue. has been much easier and smoother. It is a continuous process, Garanti Factoring has supported the theater project of TEKSEM (a As in 2012, Doğuş Otomotiv has also prepared four radio public spots • expressed their wish to continuously participate in the volunteer completed in a single block of time: a minimum of 3 months and theater group consisting of handicapped people) which aims to in cooperation with the General Directorate of National Security in program. maximum of 9 months. change images of the handicapped and support their education. 2013. Awareness-raising activities continued with the broadcast of • think that the volunteer program does not cause any disruptions This theater group, which consists of visually and orthopedically these spots especially during Kurban Bayramı (Festival of Sacrifice), to their jobs. Garanti Factoring has cooperated with CO-OP Project for four handicapped persons and some volunteers, writes its own plays as traffic is dense during that time; the spots were broadcasted, years, offering students internships via “The World of Receivable and acts the roles itself. This year, the Group wrote a play called without charge, 1,500 times over various radio channels during the Traffic is Life! Finance” lessons. Undergraduate students from any faculties of the “Accessible Lives are in the Traffic” and pointed out seat belts and year. Doğuş Otomotiv is an exemplary corporate citizen, producing sustainable university, who wish to work through CO-OP, apply to the CO-OP some mistakes about first aid. In 2013, with the aim of supporting and innovative solutions for its stakeholders in the value chain. We Directorate. Submitting an application doesn’t necessarily mean this project, they staged a play called “Mischievous Cat in the Traffic is Life! & Cooperation with İDO established the Traffic is Life! platform, a community engagement that a student will be selected for CO-OP. A high academic record, Traffic” for children. Doğuş Otomotiv broadcasted traffic safety communication on program on traffic safety. Traffic is Life! is an educational platform aiming to engender cultural change regarding traffic safety in 2013. İDO (İstanbul Sea Buses) during Ramazan (Ramadan) and Kurban (Sacrifice) Festivals: a brochure containing information about Garanti Mortgage Traffic Safety Training in Elementary Schools long road trips was distributed to approximately forty thousand Wish-Tree Project According to a report of World Health Organization (WHO), traffic drivers, Traffic is Life! safety messages were broadcasted on the İDO For the “Wish Tree” Project of Mardin Ömerli Mehmetçik Primary Village Primary School for its technological requirements in the accidents are the second leading cause of death among people television screens, posters were hung on the walls and the radio School, Garanti Mortgage sent the necessities of the 110 students reporting period. between the ages of 15-29, and in our country they are the primary spot broadcasted in the ferries. of the school. Another support was given to Diyarbakır Yaprakbaşı 12 Detailed information about Doğuş Otomotiv’s CSR Performances can be found in 2013 CR Report of the Company at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx 52 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 55 Children and Traffic is Life! speed of our shuttle service vehicles with the Arvento vehicle Within the framework of European Union support projects, which Şişli Industrial Vocational High School Volkswagen Laboratory. Doğuş Otomotiv participated in the “Children and Traffic Education tracking system, which monitors the routes and speed rates also include Industrial Vocational Schools, Doğuş Otomotiv has Four teachers of Gazi Industrial Vocational School Volkswagen Workshop” organized by General Directorate of National Security of vehicles in any particular period of time, installed in each explained its cooperation and support studies to the visitors. Laboratory received a total of 64 days of training in Şekerpınar with our Traffic is Life! platform again in 2013. The event was held bus. Speeding is automatically transmitted to us via e-mail Doğuş Otomotiv has arranged trips to Doğuş Otomotiv Logistics Training Center. in Ankara and included representatives of ministerial and non(maximum speed limit is 115 km/h.) Penalties for exceeding the and Education Center, and provided training for students of governmental organizations. The agenda of the workshop was the speed limit are (also included in their contracts) deducted from impact of traffic on children, and children’s traffic education. the driver’s wages. This has resulted in an 80% decrease in the number of shuttle services violations. Drivers, who continue to Another 2013 event was the İstanbul Infant Festival; the program violate the speed limit, are assessed on a monthly basis, and TÜVTÜRK reached some 30,000 with our Traffic is Life! stand. Doğuş Otomotiv the assignments of those, who continue to do so despite the TÜVTÜRK’s Support to Traffic Responsibility Action also participated in the National Children’s Festival on April 23, in sanctions, are terminated. There are 69 shuttle service vehicles Traffic Responsibility Action (Trafikte Sorumluluk Hareketi) is a • Youth in Traffic Action addresses high school students. According İstanbul’s Fenerbahçe facilities, giving information to 850 children at Doğuş Otomotiv. corporate social responsibility program carried out under the to data provided by the World Health Organization, road accidents about safety in traffic. coordination of the Turkish Ministry of Transport, Maritime rank first among the causes of death for the age group 15-29. Supporting Equal Opportunity in Education Affairs and Communications in cooperation with institutions and As such, the Project aims to raise awareness among high school Traffic is Life! Safe Driving Training in Kocaeli University Cooperation with Turkish Petroleum Foundation and organizations that operate in the field of traffic and vehicle safety. students on safety in traffic and individual responsibility. The Spring Festival University Scholarship Program With the support of TÜVTÜRK, Traffic Responsibility Action aims to partners of the project are Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs The training, held on Umuttepe Campus of Kocaeli University on Equal opportunity in education, one of the cornerstones of raise public awareness of the need to take protective precautions and Communications, General Directorate of Secondary Education 29th of May, 2013, consisted of two stages: social development, has an important place in our community for safety of life in traffic and to act responsibly in traffic, which is (Ministry of National Education), TÜVTÜRK and Goodyear Tires. • Theoretical Training: Each participant in a three-person team was engagement. Doğuş Otomotiv provides scholarships for upper level one of Turkey’s severest problems causing loss of life and damage This project is especially noteworthy as it enables two private informed about fastening seat belts and its importance, mirror university students in the departments of Machines, Mechatronics, to property. sector entities to collaborate under the same umbrella. adjustment, seat height adjustment etc. Industrial, Electrical, Electronic, Electrical and Electronics, Computer, • Practical Training: Safety-related issues that need to be considered Metallurgical and Materials Engineering with Metal Education, The project is based on the fact that it is possible to produce The following results and outputs have been achieved by the subin moving vehicles were transmitted. and the Mechatronics and Automotive Education Departments of permanent and sustainable solutions to the problem of safety of projects: Technical Education Faculties; 180 students were given scholarships life in traffic only by engaging the relevant stakeholders. Among • Safe Vehicle Action reached more than 260,000 citizens, İstanbul Economic Forum in 2013. the stakeholders of the project are six ministries, five universities, • Responsible Citizen Action reached more than 180,000 people, In the first day of this organization, participants were provided safe two metropolitan municipalities, public institutions, NGO’s and • Bosom Buddies’ Action reached 115,000 students, and 230,000 driving training in İstanbul traffic by an expert instructor. 9 people Cooperation with Vocational High Schools occupational organizations. These stakeholders play a vital role in parents in 385 schools from 40 different cities, participated in the training, repeated three times and lasting 4 Doğuş Otomotiv’s training activities continued in 2013 at existing the project as they not only share their experiences and expertise • In the academic year of 2012-2013, Youth in Traffic Action reached hours. Vocational High Schools, and a new class has been added: within for improving the project, but they also steer the project on 50 teachers, 10 thousand students, 20 thousand parents and 500 the framework of a protocol made with Ministry of National the grounds of the feedback received from the field and target school bus drivers directly in 10 cities. Traffic Safety Courses for Our Employees Education, the fourth Volkswagen Training Laboratory was audiences. Some stakeholders, such as the General Directorate of Doğuş Otomotiv aims to reach all segments of society on the issue of opened in the Burhanettin Yıldız Industrial Vocational High School Basic Education, also cooperate with The Ministry of Transport, Another initiative of the Traffic Responsibility Action is the Traffic traffic safety, starting from within its organization. So the Company in Diyarbakır. Physical improvements, equipment, material and Maritime Affairs and Communications and TÜVTÜRK as partners Responsibility Platform. Pioneered by the Ministry of Transport, has organized traffic safety and first aid in traffic courses for its own hardware support were provided to this school. New students for sub-projects designed in order to reach particular target groups. Maritime Affairs and Communications, the platform seeks to employees since 2011; nearly 3,000 employees, including all new were selected by interview. Classroom teachers participated in encourage public and private entities to contribute to traffic safety recruits, have been trained. Volkswagen Trainings. Doğuş Otomotiv continued to provide Traffic Responsibility Action consists of four sub-projects: through internal and external activities for their employees and the supporting materials such as demo parts and educational • Safe Vehicle Action aims at raising awareness on vehicle safety public. The platform further envisages encouraging these entities 16 newly-recruited employees received training on safe driving and documents to 109 schools in 2013. in professional drivers, while reaching the public through field to incorporate traffic safety into their corporate policies, enabling first aid awareness in traffic on 17-18 December, 2013. activities. coordination and cooperation for activities on traffic safety to be Atelier internships were organized in 17 Authorized After-sales • Responsible Citizen Action aims to reach the public by benefiting carried out by different entities, and developing, adopting and Traffic is Life! Workshop Service Centers for a total of 143 students from four Volkswagen from the mechanism of Public Training Centers. The project is extending a framework for corporate traffic safety principles. In order to evaluate the Traffic is Life! platform and exchange views Laboratories and Industrial Vocational High Schools in the 2013executed through the cooperation by the Ministry of Transport, In addition to such activities and in order to reach the general on its development, Doğuş Otomotiv organized a Traffic is Life! 2014 academic year. A total of 42 students graduated in 2013, Maritime Affairs and Communications, General Directorate of population through mass media, eight introductory films were workshop with the participation of authorized people from each 21 of whom have begun to work in the Authorized After-sales Lifelong Learning (Ministry of National Education) and TÜVTÜRK. shot and broadcasted on television with messages about individual department within the Company in 2013, to draw up its roadmap. Service Centers, and another 16 continued their university • Bosom Buddies’ Action’s target groups are primary school responsibility in terms of traffic safety. These films were supported In 2013, Company spokespeople met and shared their knowledge education. Part-time employment has been provided for teachers, students, parents and school bus drivers. The partners by several celebrity volunteers such as Kenan Işık, Kenan İmirzalıoğlu and experiences with university students in nearly 30 conferences those who continue their education in evening classes. Doğuş of the project are Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and and pop music group Hepsi. The project’s films were broadcasted and symposiums. Otomotiv has also recruited five new graduates who finished Communications, General Directorate of Basic Education on national and local television channels and watched at least once their military service. 248 students have graduated from Doğuş (Ministry of National Education) and TÜVTÜRK. By training the by 80% of the population. Shuttle Services and Responsibility in Traffic Otomotiv Vocational Schools Program so far, and 149 students trainer and providing additional materials on traffic safety, Emphasis was given to providing safe shuttle services for Doğuş still continue their education. the project aims to raise awareness and improve the notion of Additionally, the Traffic Responsibility Action keeps traffic safety Otomotiv employees in 2013. The Company monitored the individual responsibility in traffic. always on the agenda by sharing the latest developments about 54 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 57 the project through its social media platforms, interacting Two web pages were developed within the scope of the project: D-Hotel Maris with the social network users on traffic safety, and organizing www.trafikhareketi.org provides updates on traffic, while www. Community Engagement Programs and Employee prize competitions with questions on traffic safety. The project candostlarihareketi.com is for primary school students. Volunteers has received nearly 50 thousand likes on Facebook and has D-Hotel Maris donated a tent canopy to be used as a cafeteria, and the children, and planted 60 saplings in the school garden. attracted more than 10.000 Twitter followers. Within the Informative Stakeholder Meetings on Traffic Safety and containers to be used as changing rooms for students at Hisarönü scope of the project, two internet pages were also developed: Vehicle Inspection Awareness Primary School in 2013, and employee volunteer programs were Another community engagement program was held with the same www.trafikhareketi.org and www.candostlarihareketi.com. In In 2013, TÜVTÜRK organized meetings in various cities to increase organized after these donations during the April 23 National Children school and a Knidos Datça Tour was organized for the students to consideration of its vision, scope and achievements in three awareness on traffic safety and vehicle inspection. Those meetings Festival. Volunteers painted the walls of the school, together with make them see the cultural heritage of their environment. years, the Traffic Responsibility Action was included in the were informative meetings and public institutions were also National Action Plan for Road Safety pioneered by H. E. Prime partners of the activities. Such meetings were very important tools Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, himself. for TÜVTÜRK to get feedback from stakeholders and analyze the D-Marin Marinas Group concerns and needs of the community about its product and services. D-Marin Mandalina As in previous years, in 2013 also, D-Marin Mandalina was involved D-Marin Dalmacija in sponsorships of: Investments for Public Benefit vdf • Dalmatian Chanson Festival: The Festival is one of the best and The funds were donated to schools in the town of Zadar: (Ante Community Support Donations and Economic most respectable festivals in the country. This sponsorship is Kuzmanić, Medical school – support for graduation party; University Development important from marketing perspective. The Festival is broadcasted of Zadar support for the annual event). In addition, St. Frane, vdf contributed the equivalent of TL 338,410 in kind to primary vdf is also a member of Financial Literacy and Inclusion in prime time on Croatian national television. nursing home for older people had been supported for upgrading schools besides Ayhan Şahenk Foundation in 2013. Association. • International Children’s Festival: This is one of the most interesting services, the Monastery of St. Marguerita had been supported and popular children’s festivals in the world, and promotes for renovation of the building (a national heritage site) and Zadar LeasePlan the brand of D-Marin Mandalina among the Sibenik society, General Hospital’s ophthalmology department were supported. The SafePlan Application contributing to pr and communication. Promotional materials Company also contributed to support for Croatian forests. In 2013, LeasePlan developed SafePlan, a product which assesses time spent in traffic. The instructor relays information about how are displayed in front of the main stage where they are seen on the risk level of car users in traffic in order to reduce the risk level users can improve their driving skills, and environmental factors televised broadcasts. The sponsorship is also mentioned in various The Significant Indirect Economic Impacts: Investments that began of fleet vehicles. The plan was prepared with the partnership of they should consider while driving. The application, encouraging other media, such as newspapers, radio programs, brochures etc. in October 2013 will provide new modern facilities, upgrade road VVCR Europe and Cranfield University and includes assessments users to exhibit more responsible behaviour in traffic and • Krka Rowing Club: A local sport which is very popular in the country, network in the marina and property landscaping, to a total of over and training to determine driving profiles of the users through improving their driving skills, also provides online training rich in history as the first and most important sports activity of Euro 17,000,000 improving the appearance and making it attractive online tests. Users are then evaluated by a supervisor during modules to improve deficiencies or inadequacies observed. Sibenik, rowing now needs to be supported for revival. The main to clients of higher standards who will extend their stay in the purpose of this kind of sponsorship is to contribute in developing a marina, providing benefit to the region’s economy. club and to encourage young people to deal with this kind of sport. Doğuş Construction Furthermore as rowing activities are held in the Sibenik Channel, Within the Company facilities, space is provided for independent Donations to Community Initiatives the most reasonable support as a marina of the same city for operations of 17 charter companies and other contractors which Doğuş Construction supports the communities where it operates different regions. The local supply ratio was reported as 55% something related to the sea. employ local people. through donations which, in 2013, reached TL 1,111,482. Also among all purchasing activities. the local supply amount reached to TL 140,000,000 in 2013 in With these donations and sponsorships, D-Marin Mandalina wants Companies in the area are marina suppliers. Part of the concession to support and participate in high quality social events in the city funds and part of tourist dues of marina is paid to local community. Doğuş Media Group and surrounding area. Dialogue in the Dark Exhibition Doğuş Media Group publications and dedicated projects put forward NTV Radio aired Muhteşem Yüzyıl (The Magnificent Century) for the concrete examples of its approach on corporate social responsibility, visually impaired. Doğuş REIT an important part of its corporate identity. By supporting various Social and Economic Development of the Communities projects on environment, education, health, and culture arts and NTV, NTV Radio and Radio Voyage supported Dialogue in the Dark Doğuş REIT intends to contribute to the social, cultural, artistic projects is the Company’s support of the Dudullu Cultural Center working with civil society organizations, state and local authorities, Exhibition as media sponsors. In the exhibition, visitors are led by and economic development of communities in which it operates. which aims to contribute to the social and cultural development Doğuş Media Group aims to fulfill its intermediate role for the blind guides in groups through specially constructed dark rooms The Company has been implementing several social responsibility of the area in tandem with the Evidea Residential Project in good of society. Some of the projects and NGOs supported in 2013 in which scent, sound, wind, temperature and texture convey projects to achieve this. The most significant example of these Çekmeköy. were Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey (TEGV), UNICEF, the characteristics of daily environments. The concept has been Community Volunteers Foundation (TOGV), the TOHUM Autism proved quite effective. Over the last twenty years Dialogue in the Foundation and the Doğa Foundation. Dark has been presented in more than 30 countries and 130 cities throughout the world since its opening in 1988. More than seven On 23rd April 2013, NTV aired special programmes during the day, million visitors worldwide have experienced Dialogue in the Dark hosting both TEGV and UNICEF. Viewers were called to action and and thousands of blind guides and trainers have found employment significant awareness has been created. through Dialogue in the Dark. 56 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 59 Business Ethics13 Business ethics is among the most important and vital principles business principles and implementations, audits with monitoring Garanti Bank SA Code of Conduct Trainings of Doğuş Group values and strategies. We pursue the highest systems are crucial assets that we encourage for our Group Garanti Bank SA Code of Conduct has specific provisions regarding the Bank provisions, as well as during the annual Compliance ethical standards in all aspects of our business, and ethical companies. the Bank’s anti-corruption policies. All employees are trained Training, also mandatory by law, governing financial institutions during the Induction Compliance Training Program regarding in Romania. Commitments Compliance Committed to comply with all laws and regulations Garanti Fleet Management Management Establish and maintain a Group Code of Ethics and related procedures All Garanti Fleet Management employees have attended “Avoidance of Bribery and Unethical Conducts Trainings” in 2013. Assessment Periodic risk assessments and due diligence Communication Engage and open dialogue with all parties Transparency Transparent and trustworthy operational procedures Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics15 Auditing Include ethical risks in all auditing processes Doğuş Otomotiv established a Code of Ethics Committee to Otomotiv Code of Ethics, with the Board of Directors’ approval, Training Employees, suppliers and third parties prepare a Corporate Code of Ethics, to include real case studies was transmitted to the employees and the public. Doğuş Otomotiv from the automotive retailing and services sector and complied Code of Ethics is the first corporate ethics code in Turkey which with international ethics standards, in 2011. The Committee was not adapted from international samples and includes local Doğuş Holding Anti-corruption Processes members worked on the code for one year and in 2012 the Doğuş and sectoral case studies. The main responsibility regarding Doğuş Holding’s ethical performance Anti-corruption risks are included in all risk assessment processes14 is vested in the Audit Committee, which reports directly to The Board and in any concern with regard to the Group companies’ operations, of Directors. The Internal Audit Department is responsible for auditing the Audit Department is informed by the related parties. As a part the Group companies’ effectiveness in internal control systems. of the assurance activity, the potential risk channels are monitored, LeasePlan Anti-corruption Practices Furthermore, the internal auditors are important actors with regard audit mechanisms’ effectiveness is evaluated and improvement There is a compliance officer employed only for ethics risk In 2012 LeasePlan activated its new “Whistle Blowing Procedure” to consulting, assurance, collaboration, suggestions, monitoring and suggestions are made. Group companies are audited every three management, who reports directly to General Manager, at and employees were trained regarding the system; 85% of them the investigation processes of anti-corruption cases. months. LeasePlan. All employees must read and sign the Ethical attended these trainings. Principles of the Company according to employee agreements. LeasePlan also has a system of Fraud Policy and Response Plan; LeasePlan Supplier Evaluation Process includes compliance with according to this system any employee who has concerns about LeasePlan Anti-corruption Business Principles. Garanti Bank Anti-corruption and Risk Management System corruption can communicate with the Board of Directors directly. Garanti Bank reports its ethical principles online via the corporate on Operational Risk Management, forgery and secure operations to website; all audit processes include the evaluation of ethical relevant employees during the year. Anti-corruption training, which is compliance. There are several control mechanisms for risky processes, mandated by Turkish Banking Law, was given to 96% of Garanti Bank Doğuş Tourism Group which are also reviewed periodically by the audit departments of employees in 2012. Ethical Principles and Code of Conduct courses Grand Hyatt İstanbul the Bank. Members of the Committee of Inspection give seminars were finished by 95% of the Bank employees in the reporting period. Anti-corruption and bribery trainings prepared by Hyatt Group are employees attended those trainings. Furthermore, Grand Hyatt mandatory for all Grand Hyatt İstanbul employees; 100% of the İstanbul also has corporate anti-corruption and bribery policy. Garanti Bank International N.V. Garanti Bank International N.V. only accepts clients subject Garanti Bank International N.V. is compliant with all applicable laws to satisfactory completion of client identification procedures and regulations relating to the prevention of money laundering (including, where necessary, identification of directors and major and terrorism finance; these are implemented and enforced in the shareholders) in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Bank according to written policies and procedures, and supervised customer due diligence and Know Your Client (KYC) requirements. by Garanti Bank’s Compliance Committee and Compliance Officer. The Bank adheres strictly to the Anti-money Laundering and All employees follow the e-learning module ‘Compliance and Counter Terrorism Financing Policy, and therefore transactions Integrity’, which includes Garanti Bank’s anti-corruption policies and which do not satisfy the requirements of the mentioned policy are procedures. Additionally, front officers follow the e-learning module refused without exception. ‘Customer Due Diligence Investigation’. 13 Doğuş Group Ethical Principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-278-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/ code_of_ethics 14 Doğuş Group Corporate Risk Management details can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-280-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_ 15 Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics can be found on the corporate web site at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/tr/kurumsal-sorumluluk/etik-kod.aspx governance_principles/corporate_risk_management_ 58 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 61 Human Rights Doğuş Holding Human Rights Training to the Security Commitments Targets Staff To support the implementation of the policy, Doğuş Holding provided continued to develop useful new corporate tools in 2013. 75 security Policy and Strategy Disseminate the Group’s Human Rights Policy within the value chain staff attended human rights trainings in 2013. an updated human rights training program to the security staff, and Dialogue Platforms Highlight the importance of human rights and effectively communicate Group’s approach Training and Awareness Programs Organize human rights e-learning training among employees and promote Garanti Bank Human Rights Trainings awareness programs with the support of community initiative about Garanti Bank instituted an online e-learning module in 2012 covering The mandatory biannual training, with regard to crime revenues, was women the Ethical Principles and Code of Conduct, including the human given to 13,700 employees totalling 20,500 hours in 2012. rights principles of the Bank. Doğuş Group Human Rights Policy At Doğuş Group, we manage our operations in compliance Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its protocols, United with local laws and regulations. United Nations Global Compact Nations Convention of International Covenant on Economic, Doğuş Tourism Group principles lead the Group’s Human Rights Policy. Our Human Social and Cultural Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental 100% of the Grand Hyatt and Park Hyatt İstanbul employees have staff trainings also include human trafficking training. The total Rights Policy also refers to the main principles of United Nations Principles and Rights at Work, and the Vienna Declaration and attended human rights training, mandatory for all new employees; training hours are 90. Program of Action. continuing employees also have the training once a year. The security Doğuş Group; • Conducts and encourages training and awareness programs • Gives special importance to establishing dialogue platforms regarding human rights in its value chain and among regarding human rights while operating our businesses and employees. ensuring its continuity. • Takes precautions to protect the rights of local communities. Since its foundation, Doğuş Group has shared a set of core • Requires the human rights approach from every business values based on integrity, understanding, excellence, creativity, partner, including suppliers. unity and responsibility. These values continue to guide and drive business decisions made by each company within the Group. 60 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 63 Environmental Engagement 62 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 65 Doğuş Holding ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT DenizTemiz Foundation the marine sector with the aim of protecting the seas and the 8,333 Since 2007, Doğuş Holding has been one of the corporate members of the DenizTemiz Turmepa Foundation. DenizTemiz Foundation kilometer coast line that stretches around most of Turkey from Hopa was founded on 8 April 1994 by leading business institutions and to the İskenderun region. Ayhan Şahenk Foundation Commitments Targets The spring and autumn maintenance of Ayhan Şahenk Endearment Also, within the framework of environmental operations, 12,000 new Forests consisted of planting 550,000 saplings at Bodrum, Marmaris, saplings were planted. Investment Processes Include environmental requirements in the investment and audit processes Niğde, Şanlıurfa, and İstanbul/Beykoz-Alemdağ-Silivri. Waste Management Encourage Group companies to pursue and employ waste management and reuse systems Employee Awareness Develop and deploy employee awareness programs within the Group. Garanti Bank Indirect Impact Supply Chain Awareness Support energy efficiency and environmental consciousness programs Credit Lines and Sustainability among the supply chain and include environmental policy statement into the Garanti Bank deals with the environmental and social impacts of With work on conserving biological diversity and ensuring the supplier agreements activities for which it has provided financing, under a separate topic sustainable use of natural resources with the intention of building called “indirect impacts”. The Bank initially set up the Environmental a future where humanity co-exists harmoniously with nature, Reduction of Paper Consumption Encourage programs for reduction of paper consumption within the Group and Social Loan Policies (ESLP) in order to minimize the indirect impacts the WWF is an international NGO supporting 2,000 conservation Effective Logistics Support programs for logistics optimization and establish collaboration with of loans granted by the Bank and put them into practice in 2011, projects around the world. With nearly 4,000 employees, it is the Group companies following approval by the Bank’s Board of Directors. Environmental and the world’s largest environmental organization. The Foundation Social Loan Policies constitute the environmental and social principles carries out projects in around 100 countries in the main areas of governing the extension of loans at Garanti Bank. Within the framework climate-change, forest conservation, fresh water, protecting the of these policies, the Bank runs the “Environmental and Social Impact seas, endangered species and sustainability. Due to its long-term Doğuş Group Environmental Responsibility Policy • Requires environmental management approach from its support for WWF-Turkey’s nature conservation projects, Garanti Assessment Process” (ESIAP) that was designed within two years with We acknowledge that environmental responsibility is directly business partners and supply chain. Bank was recognized in 2008 for the second time with the Golden the support of an independent consulting firm. As part of the ESIAP, related to the change of communities’ consumption trends and • Analyzes the environmental impact of its investment and supply Panda award. Having received the same award in 2001, Garanti Garanti also applies an “Environmental and Social Impact Assessment culture, and therefore has a very powerful effect on human chain processes, and pursues new technologies to minimize retains its status as the only Turkish company to have won a Golden Model” (ESIAM). rights. We monitor the environmental performances of the potential negative impacts. Panda award. In addition to its regular, systematic support, Garanti Group companies with care and support their efforts to minimize • Builds systems and supports awareness programs in order Bank also supported the Report on Turkey’s Ecological Footprint in During the reporting period, Garanti has established an Environmental the current and potential negative environmental impacts of its to decrease paper consumption, and encourages the use of February 2012, prepared by WWF-Turkey, which investigated the Policy and developed an Environmental Management System which products and services within the ecologic and social environment. recycled paper. consumption patterns and their impact on natural resources. covers both its direct and indirect impact on the environment; this was Doğuş Group is committed to behave in alignment with its • Operates in accordance with environmental management certified to ISO14001 standards following audits performed in October environmental policy and encourages all Group companies to systems which shape our consuming behaviour, waste Efforts to Raise Awareness 2012 by TÜVSÜD. With its 23 facilities including certain branches and follow suit. management processes and ensures effective logistics Garanti Bank is aware that the effectiveness of the Environmental regional offices, in addition to Headquarters in Zincirlikuyu, the Güneşli management. Management System cannot be taken for granted without the Blocks and the Dikilitaş Training Center certified to ISO14001, Garanti The key elements of the environmental responsibility policy are support of its employees. Acting on this fact, the Bank designed a has been recognized as the first bank that operates an Environmental stated below: Sustainability E-Learning program for all Bank employees, to raise Management System in such a large area and context in Turkey. In 2013, Garanti Bank increased the number of points of service covered awareness on the issue, and is committed to raising the awareness Doğuş Group: of all its employees. The Bank also added its concept of sustainability under the ISO14001 certified Environmental Management System • Is committed to comply with regulatory and voluntary codes and to its orientation training, spelling out expectations of employees to 260. Garanti will continue to effectively apply its Environmental plans its business processes with environmental consciousness. on this issue. The brochure entitled “101 Measures” is an initiative Management System, expand its scope and set new targets in the coming years. Garanti Bank’s Environmental Management System launched with the aim of informing employees about climate encompasses the indirect environmental and social impact resulting change and the measures that can be taken to prevent negative Environmental Awareness Programs from the Bank’s suppliers and loans, in addition to environmental impact arising from facility operations. Garanti aims to extend this environmental impacts. system, audited by an independent accredited agency every year, to Environmentally Friendly Practices throughout Supply Doğuş Group’s environmental awareness approach In addition, community awareness also should be the part of all service points and continues to work to increase the number of Chain Management mainly depends on employees as an important part of the the environmental awareness approach as progress towards a ISO14001 certified points of service to above 600 in 2014. Garanti Bank took its first step for an environmentally friendly implementation processes because it is their engagement that more sustainable approach to business is essential if we are to supply chain by adding a binding article in supplier contracts in 2012 will increase the probability of a successful implementation of all compete in a reality of limited resources and interlinked ecological WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Foundation Turkey) concerning full compliance with the EMS. Articles that aim to protect kinds of environmental practices. Employees are an important systems. We believe in this double effect of awareness to Garanti Bank, as the main sponsor for 20 years of WWF Turkey, is the environment were included in the purchase processes in EMS source of knowledge, expertise, and ingenuity when it comes to reach successful and effective results regarding environmental making a major contribution to the sustainable use and conservation procedures, ensuring that the Bank’s sensitivity regarding the supply the company, its procedures and its equipment. awareness. of Turkey’s natural resources with the slogan “Garanti for Nature.” chain was comprehensively adopted. 64 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 67 Garanti Bank SA next generations, Doğuş Construction takes necessary actions so as The biodiversity impact of Doğuş Construction’s operations is being Garanti Bank SA supervises projects benefiting of financing to check and recycle it. The paper is transported by cargo-bicycles, unique in not to endanger the existing ecological balance. All these activities are monitored at every stage of the business. Especially before leaving the that they meet the necessary social and environmental standards. The Romania. People with disabilities ride the bicycles, thus having a job. implemented voluntarily, toward constructing a sustainable future and operational area of rock pits, the Company carries out regenerating Company supports the protection and the administration of the natural sustainable world. landfill work. biodiversity, and takes into consideration the projects in need of such Save the Virgin Forests of Romania financing. Through a sound social responsibility policy, the indirect impact of Biodiversity and Landfill United Nations Global Compact Garanti Bank SA is the support of the economic development of Doğuş Construction has ISO14001 Environmental Management Doğuş Construction signed the United Nations Global Compact WWF Bonus Card is the first eco affinity card in Romania. For any Romania, through responsible consumption stimulation. A part of Certification and the Company fulfils the obligations of the certification in 2012 and committed to 10 global social and environmental purchase paid with WWF Bonus Card, Garanti Bank SA donates, on the funds, collected through the partnership developed with WWF and related audit processes. principles. Doğuş Construction will publish its first Sustainability behalf of the credit cardholder, 0.5% of the purchase’s value to WWF Romania, is directed to the “Save the Virgin Forests in Romania” project. Report in 2014. projects for preserving the protected areas in the Carpathians, along the The campaign, launched by WWF Romania in October 2011, alongside Danube and in the Danube Delta. ambassadors and supporters, aimed to put under protection the few remaining virgin forests in our country and among the last in Europe Ayson Geotechnical and Marine Construction Co. Since 2011, Garanti Bank SA has supported the Wild Romania Exhibit since over 80% of virgin forests in Romania are not currently under any Ayson established an integrated management system comprising Furthermore, Ayson signed the United Nations Global Compact (spectacular wild nature images by the photographer Dan Dinu in Green form of protection and are in danger of being legally destroyed. The Quality, Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental in 2012 and committed to 10 global social and environmental Village, at B’estfest Summer Camp Tunari 2013). Green Village consisted Bank strongly believes that one should not expect for these forests to Management System in 2009 and achieved certificates from LRQA principles. Ayson will publish its first Sustainability Report in 2014. of a series of eco-friendly programs and activities in an area arranged be destroyed and afterwards to react, but to give a helping hand to their (Lloyd’s Register). Management systems are established on the within the festival. This area hosted an NGO (Non-Governmental protection, and so to prevent their destruction. basis of ISO 9001: 2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 Organization) fair and “green” company. standards. Another program, for which funds are being raised through the Recicleta Project WWF Bonus Card, is “Forests with high conservation value and forest certification”. It aims to identify and preserve forests with high Doğuş Tourism Group Garanti Bank SA supports a “green” philosophy within and outside the conservation value, as well as to inform relevant target groups of the Park Hyatt İstanbul Bank. Thus, the Bank joined the Recicleta Project, the first carbon neutral concept. Environmental Awareness Trainings impact of the hotel, reducing the impact will also be under the project in Romania, aiming to collect paper waste from office buildings All hotel employees received environmental awareness trainings responsibility of the Committee. by Şişli Municipality Environmental Directorate in 2013, and Garanti Asset Management departments attended the Hyatt Earth Module 1 training within the D-Marin Resort Göcek Green IT reporting period. Environmental Awareness Trainings Garanti Asset Management transferred its computers to a solid state disc high CO2 rates. All old computers were reconfigured for home or school The trainings and activities held in 2013 for the hotel employee are system, which uses less energy and has lower radiation. The Company usage and donated to the related parties. D-Hotel Maris stated below: also stopped using data cartridges in 2013, eliminating materials with D-Green Committee • Soil and water recycling (Tema Foundation) In 2013 a committee called “D-Green” was established in D-Hotel • Environmental Awareness Training (Muğla University) Maris. The committee is responsible for environmental awareness • Tree Planting Activity LeasePlan activities at the hotel. Besides the evaluation of environmental Environmental Awareness During LeasePlan’s 50th anniversary celebrations, an Audi A6 model who joined the organization, received training on economical driving car travelled through 25 countries to draw attention to environmental techniques. After the event, the team with the lowest fuel consumption D-Marin Marinas Group sustainability and efficient use of resources. Starting from the performance shared their driving strategies with 6,000 LeasePlan Local Planting Greenery To increase the diversity of local plants in D-Marin Göcek, greenery Employee Awareness Programs Netherlands, the car covered 20,000 kilometers, visiting Denmark, employees around the world. was built within the marina and local planting is supported by D-Marin Didim collaborated with public institutes and university Norway, Sweden, Finland, Russia, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania cultivation of various species. Additionally, to increase the diversity students to draw attention to environmental awareness and and Turkey in turn. The winning LeasePlan team consumed 5.39 liters of In 2013, all car users learned techniques to reduce fuel consumption of species in the sea, an octopus nest was originated, and 300 locust organized training for the local community about Blue Flag and the fuel per 100 km in a journey from Moscow to Warsaw. Two employees, and completed safe driving trainings. trees were planted with the collaboration of Directorate of Regional importance of clean sea and coasts. On the Word Environment Day, Forestry. the local community in Didim, with the D-Marin Didim employees, attended a coast cleaning activity. Furthermore, all the D-Marin Doğuş Construction Didim employees attended to “Oil Pollution Operation and Support Environmental Interaction Responsibility Groups Trainings in 2013”. Soil movements are monitored regularly on and below the surface to the sewage system already cleaned. Hazardous wastes such as in order to minimize environmental effects during the project chemical materials, used motor oil, and batteries are collected and implementation process, relative measurements on gas, noise, dust are disposed of in hazardous waste collection centers. Also, wastes such as made and necessary measures are taken. In addition to washing pools paper and boxes are delivered to recycling plants. at the entrance and exit points of the sites (to wash vehicles’ wheels), surrounding roads are washed and cleaned regularly by street washers. The preservation of the environment and natural resources is of critical Water used at the sites is filtered through holding tanks and transferred importance to Doğuş Construction. In consideration of the needs of 66 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 69 Energy Efficiency Waste Management Our environmental responsibility policy commits us to procure carbon emissions and to support all energy efficiency programs. Doğuş Group is active in eight core businesses: financial effect on communities and the related areas of responsibility. and use energy efficiently, cost-effectively and responsibly, At Doğuş Group, we lead and promote energy efficiency services, automotive, construction, media, tourism and services, Every sector where we do business, has various impacts on the and we expect all Group companies to use energy efficiently at programs to ensure that the Group companies do their business real estate, energy and entertainment. In addition, the Group environment, and all of our companies have their own strategy their facilities, to preserve current natural resources, to reduce in accordance with our environmental responsibility policy. sustains its growth with new investments in the areas of sports, to manage their impact. Waste management is one of the core entertainment, technology and agriculture. With more than elements of environmental responsibility. The general strategy Garanti Bank 200 companies and over 35,000 employees, we have a strong and progress on waste management for Doğuş Group is: Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in Buildings In compliance with its activities to improve energy efficiency, Garanti • LED lighting systems are used for band lighting at ATMs, and, the Measurement Waste produced from the direct operations Bank has joined the energy working group of TBCSD and contributed Bank switched advertising boards in its branches to the LED system, Understand Global waste management processes to the formation of a new initiative called the Manifesto for Energy achieving significant energy savings. Goals Reduce the generation of wastes Efficiency in Buildings. By signing this Manifesto, Garanti committed • Astronomical time clocks, adjusted according to sunrise and sunset Management Remove, reduce, reuse, recover, recycle itself to taking measures to ensure energy efficiency in its office times, are used in the outer fronts of all ATMs and branches. Processes Consider waste minimization buildings, setting targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and • The Bank plans to begin using LED lighting in 2013 in new branches Engagement Employees, suppliers, customers reporting to the public the progress made toward these targets. The that will be opened soon or renovated, in line with feasibility studies signature ceremony took place in January, 2013 at the 4th National performed with the purpose of replacing old light bulbs with energyDoğuş Group companies16 have detailed waste management services. All Group companies comply with the laws and Energy Efficiency Forum and Fair with the Minister of Energy and saving LED lighting. and disposal processes, according to their products and regulations concerning waste management. Natural Resources Taner Yıldız in attendance. • The Bank focuses on ensuring the maximum use of daylight (natural lighting) in new branches that will be opened soon or in branches that Server Virtualization will be renewed. As well as enabling the Bank to benefit from lower Garanti Bank The highest carbon emissions per m2 in Garanti Bank’s physical service energy expenses, greater use of natural lighting will provide a healthier Pendik Technology Campus is designed according to the buildings are derived from the use of servers. Through the virtualization environment by supporting its employees’ motivation. LEED Criteria Garanti Technology, which examines their potential scope for re-use. project launched in 2007, the Bank began to virtualize 300 servers in • The Bank aims to prevent energy losses by installing heat insulation at Construction work began in August 2011 on the Pendik Technology Repaired computers are then donated to schools in need. its data centers, located throughout Turkey. This technology allows the branch fronts. Campus, a project with sustainable architectural and engineering • Recycling: Beginning with buildings subject to the EMS, the Bank efficient use of the server’s capacity and has enabled the Bank to reduce • Garanti Bank has examined possible saving opportunities by reducing solutions. During the project’s design and construction work, LEED began to deliver recyclable wastes to authorized recycling and both electricity consumption and cooling requirement of the servers. energy costs in the maintenance and use of its head office building. criteria such as the building’s compatibility with the land, the reduction disposal facilities. Separation at the source is implemented, and The Banks aims to render the building energy efficient and to obtain an of energy and water consumption, selection of environmentally friendly recyclable materials are delivered to municipal service points or to a Rotaban energy performance certificate. materials and the waste management in construction work were taken licensed recycling firm. The Bank will further accelerate its efforts for Rotaban is a practice that aims to reduce fuel consumption in Garanti into account. separation at source. Bank’s personnel service buses in İstanbul. Route optimization is Use of R410 Gas and Switching to Energy-conditioning • Management of Hazardous Waste: Hazardous waste produced by the performed through an online service in personnel services buses, which Garanti Bank began using air-conditioning units which work with R410 Garanti Bank’s Recycling Program Bank is collected in accordance with determined rules and delivered are used in many locations in İstanbul. gas, which is not contributing to ozone depletion like R22, in the recently The Garanti Bank EMS envisages the re-use of waste where possible to authorized recycling and disposal facilities. opened or renovated branches. and, where not, recycling or disposal by an authorized disposal • Excavation Waste: Excavation waste and debris left over from branch Restoration of Energy and Lighting Systems company. opening or renewal is removed to disposal areas as designated by the Garanti Bank has launched a number of practices at different points of Renewable Energy • Re-use: Computers that are broken or redundant are delivered to municipality. its organization, aiming to save energy in its lighting systems: Garanti Bank considers the financing of renewable energy projects as • The Bank launched a number of initiatives at the head office an important opportunity to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of Doğuş Otomotiv including motion sensors and LED systems that increase lighting, Turkey offering its greatest support to wind farm projects, which reduce Waste Management efficiency, and LED systems for the lighting of the outer front of its Turkey’s current account deficit, and have little environmental and cardboard was collected from the offices and recycled through Sadık 750 tons of waste motor oil from After-sales Service Centers were sent head office. social impact. Kağıt Company. to various cement and lime factories and used instead of conventional fuels (coal, petroleum coke, etc.) in these facilities. Due to the limited use of such fossil fuels as coal and petroleum coke, the Company has Doğuş Otomotiv and Doğuş Oto obtained 624,255 liters of base oil from Park Hyatt İstanbul prevented an extra 3,476 tons of CO2 emissions, equalling 158,000 trees the waste oil collected in 2012 and 2013, thereby preventing 8,449 tons Energy Efficiency Improvements include: or 395 hectares of forest17. of CO2 emissions. Doğuş Otomotiv has contributed to the protection • Apparatus affixed to the taps to reduce the amount of the water while • Timers placed in the bathroom floor heating thermostats in the guest of environment by disposing 152 tons of waste engine oil in waste increasing the pressure. rooms. Doğuş Otomotiv has saved approximately 9,265 trees18 with the incineration plants. • Electricity consumption reduced from 2400W to 550W by LED lanes • The cooling chillers changed with new and more energy friendly models. recycling of 544,896 kg of paper and cardboard. 234,154 kg of paper affixed to guest rooms and the corridors. and cardboard was recycled through ÇEVKO; 268,880 kg of paper and Waste Management in Authorized Dealers and Aftercardboard from our logistics warehouse was collected separately and sales Service Centers Real Estate recycled though a licensed recycling company; 41,862 kg of paper and Authorized Dealers and After-Sales service Centers of Doğuş Otomotiv Gebze Center Energy Efficiency The regular maintenance of devices which have high energy consumption. In 2013 the electricity consumption decreased 2,689,953 16 Garanti Bank and Doğuş Otomotiv waste management performances and processes are included in their CSR Reports and can be found online at http://www.garanti.com. consumption potential is increasing productivity but decreasing energy kWh comparing to the 2012 results. tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page? and http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx 17 Calculated on the assumption that a pine or eucalyptus tree can absorb 22kg of CO2 per year and a hectare of forest is composed of 400 trees. 18 Based on the assumption that recycling of 1 ton of paper-cardboard waste saves 17 trees. 68 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 71 Environmental Impact in Administrative Operation Process PERFORMANCE DATA19 are obliged to comply with the waste management standards of Doğuş Otomotiv. These standards are monitored during the audits of Reducing Paper Consumption Authorized Dealers and After-sales Service Centers. To reduce the amount of paper used in the work orders of vehicle servicing, Doğuş Otomotiv opened 657,462 work orders in 2013 using In order to raise environmental and recycling awareness among tablets, thereby saving 1,314,924 sheets of A4 paper and 112 trees. This customers, and society as a whole, a pilot project for Disposal and figure equals to 2,800 kg of CO2 emissions per year. LOCAL ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION DATA Recycling of Parts resulting from maintenance / repair was started in 2012 with the collaboration and approval of customers, and dissemination With the use of tablets for the admission of vehicles to service, Doğuş Doğuş Holding 2012 2013 efforts continued in 2013. Doğuş Otomotiv asks customers if they would Otomotiv anticipates savings approximately 1.34 million sheets of A4 Local Purchasing (TL) 2,185,345 1,962,384 like the Company to dispose of replaced parts on their behalf, and act paper and 130 trees (2,850 kg of CO2 per year) in 2014. accordingly. Since disposed parts are identified at the entry of Aftersales Service Center through this application, the amount of wrappers Environmentally Friendly, Economic and Safe Driving for used parts placed inside the vehicle has been reduced. When the Training in After-sales Services LOCAL CONTRIBUTION DATA process is implemented fully, Doğuş Otomotiv anticipates savings of Doğuş Otomotiv’s “Environmentally Friendly, Economic and Safe approximately 145,000 wrapper bags. Driving” training course continued on a voluntary basis in 2013. The Company especially encourages the participation of employees who Local Purchasing (TL) Local Purchasing (TL) % Percentage of Total % Percentage of Total Company Waste parts after warranty repairs are collected from Authorized Afterare in direct relationship with customers to take advantage of this 2012 2013 Purchasing 2012 Purchasing 2013 sales Service Centers by a professional waste management company 2-day in-class training, which uses permanent learning methods Banking & Financial and are either recycled onsite or disposed in compliance with the with experiments, practices and tests. This training was conducted Services law. This procedure is performed regularly throughout the year, at the in 2 groups this year, and 25 employees were given completion Garanti Bank SA 45,142,500 40,306,500 85 94 request of authorized dealers. certificates. Garanti Pension & Life 5,455,382 6,623,181 5 5 Garanti Asset 8,682,397 8,921,633 93 94.50 Management Water Consumption Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv20 180,912,345 339,447,466 98 54.190 Construction Doğuş Group strives to manage water in an environmentally scarce or effluent quality is challenged. Our “Environmental Doğuş Construction 110,000,000 140,000,000 51 55 sound and socially responsible manner, while cost-effectively Responsibility Policy” states our commitment to developing addressing the short-term and long-term water related risks management practices that conserve and protect freshwater Ayson Geotechnical and 14,000,000 183,477,341 35 100 Marine Construction Co. to our businesses. Our recent focus has been on developing resources and enhance the efficiency of water usage at our awareness based water strategy, driven by individual facilities. Energy business units, and focusing on assets where fresh water is Boyabat HEPP 56,395 3,913,672 100 99.69 Aslancık HEPP 158,038 244,729 100 100 Garanti Bank New Investments Efforts to Save Water Doğuş Planet N/A 2,033,051 N/A 85 Measures aimed at saving water have been implemented at the Bank’s it in landscape irrigation. Furthermore, city water is treated and used existing service points, as well as its new branches. In this context, Garanti as drinking water at the head office building. This practice eliminates Bank aims to keep daily water consumption under control through the use of plastic bottles and the greenhouse gas emission caused by their EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DATA use of new faucets with a lower flow rate. The Bank also treats and transport. collects the rainwater from the roof of the head office building, using COLLECTIVE BARGAINING TABLE Collective Bargaining Collective Bargaining % of Employees % of Employees Company Agreement 2012 Agreement 2013 Covered 2012 Covered 2013 GarantiBank Yes Yes 95 95 International N.V. TÜVTÜRK N/A Yes N/A 88.8 D-Resort Grand Azur Yes Yes 71.03 71.03 Maritim Hotel Club Yes Yes 78.21 79.88 Alantur Doğuş Construction Yes Yes 55 75.12 19 Average exchange rates of Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey have been used. 20 Local purchasing data doesn’t include group companies. 70 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 73 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT NEW EMPLOYMENT AND PROMOTIONS Total Employee Total Employee Women Women % Total workforce % Total workforce New New Women Women Total Total Company Performance Viewed Performance Viewed Employee Employee 2012 2013 Company Employment Employment Employment Employment Promotion Promotion 2012 2013 Promoted Promoted 2012 2013 New 2012 New 2013 2012 2013 Holding 2012 2013 Doğuş Holding 78 137 70 100 Holding Banking & Financial Doğuş Holding 28 27 14 15 11 12 4 4 Services Banking & Garanti Bank 16,062 16,324 93 93 Financial Services GarantiBank 158 165 70 70 Garanti Bank 2,355 3,786 1,423 2,109 2,950 3,469 1,816 2,229 International N.V. Garanti Bank SA 829 889 100 90 Garanti Pension 487 324 348 238 164 200 101 137 & Life GarantiBank Moscow 80 82 100 100 Garanti Leasing 27 20 10 10 8 11 6 4 Garanti Pension & Life 706 732 81 85 Garanti Asset Garanti Leasing 150 155 95 95 10 13 4 8 2 7 0 3 Management Garanti Asset Garanti 55 50 100 88 28 27 6 8 8 8 3 6 Management Securities Garanti Securities 109 104 100 100 Garanti 35 67 17 46 38 36 19 21 Garanti Factoring 218 242 100 100 Factoring Garanti Mortgage 63 7321 79 100 Garanti 26 42 4 10 9 16 3 9 Mortgage Garanti Payment 595 623 88 84 Garanti Payment Systems 430 535 187 224 56 163 19 45 Systems Garanti Technology 994 1181 100 100 Garanti Fleet Automotive 28 25 15 13 1 7 1 2 Management Doğuş Otomotiv 557 587 100 100 Garanti 204 215 68 71 220 259 80 91 Vdf Group 149 193 100 100 Technology Garanti Kültür N/A 2 N/A 2 N/A 1 N/A 1 LeasePlan 67 73 100 100 Automotive Construction Technical Engineering Doğuş Otomotiv 59 67 10 16 46 33 16 13 14 0 100 0 DoğuşOto 221 246 54 61 7 13 1 6 and Consultancy Inc Tourism & Services vdf Group 40 44 23 30 10 15 5 10 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 266 291 100 100 TÜVTÜRK 9 8 6 3 0 1 0 1 Park Hyatt İstanbul LeasePlan 18 17 10 10 4 10 2 7 116 106 100 100 Maçka Palas Construction Doğuş Retail Group 121 155 100 100 Doğuş D-Gym 68 73 100 100 23 14 10 6 9 8 3 5 Construction Körfez Havacılık N/A 31 N/A 100 Ayson Real Estate Geotechnical 2 767 1 8 0 0 0 0 and Marine Doğuş Real Estate 29 33 85 90.91 Construction Co. Energy Media DOEN Doğuş Energy 10 20 100 20 Doğuş Media 240 189 100 76 29 31 20 16 Artvin HEPP N/A 33 N/A 25 Group Media Tourism & Services Doğuş Media Group N/A 1,190 N/A 87 Doğuş Tourism New Investments Group Head 11 18 4 9 2 7 0 4 Doğuş Planet 58 180 62 96 Office 21 Garanti Mortgage employees were transffered to Garanti Bank in the 2013. Therefore, although Garanti Mortgage has 69 employees, 73 employees’ performance were reviewed. 72 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 75 Women Women EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION SURVEY New New Women Women Total Total Employee Employee Company Employment Employment Employment Employment Promotion Promotion Promoted Promoted 2012 2013 New 2012 New 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Company Survey Result (%) 2012 Survey Result (%) 2013 Frequency 2012 Frequency 2013 Grand Hyatt 39 70 17 27 31 24 8 7 Holding İstanbul Park Hyatt Doğuş Holding 80 (2011) 81 Biennially Biennially İstanbul – 35 51 15 13 11 7 3 1 Maçka Palas Banking & Financial Services D-Hotel Maris 367 295 113 89 29 44 8 10 Garanti Bank 56 52 Every year Every year D-Resort Göcek 70 51 16 16 2 0 2 0 D-Resort Grand Garanti Pension & Life 47 44 Every year Every year 146 142 58 55 9 13 2 2 Azur Garanti Leasing N/A 52 Every year Every year Maritim Hotel 52 22 3 9 0 1 0 0 Garanti Factoring 42 N/A Biennially Biennially Club Alantur Antur 10 17 4 10 1 4 0 1 Automotive Doğuş Retail 44 55 23 31 5 8 3 3 Doğuş Otomotiv 62.6 N/A Biennially Biennially Group D-Marin Marinas vdf Group 82 83.5 Every year Every year Group Head 12 6 4 4 0 0 0 0 TÜVTÜRK 58 70 Biennially Every year Office D-Marin LeasePlan 76 75 Every year Every year 6 9 0 3 2 0 0 0 Turgutreis Tourism & Services D-Marin Didim 15 3 2 1 2 0 0 0 D-Marin Göcek 7 5 2 0 1 0 0 0 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 84.8 86 Every year Every year D-Marin Park Hyatt İstanbul – 7 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 76 79.2 Every year Every year Mandalina MaçkaPalas D-Marin Real Estate 3 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 Dalmacija Doğuş Real Estate 87.5 N/A Every year Every Year D-Marin Borik 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 Doğuş Construction N/A 78 Based on need Based on need D-Gym 86 38 33 17 1 73 1 27 D-Life 9 8 2 7 0 0 0 0 New Investments Körfez Havacılık 5 5 0 2 0 0 0 0 Doğuş Planet N/A 56.7 N/A Every Year Real Estate Doğuş REIT 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 Doğuş Real 4 4 1 2 2 5 0 2 Estate Energy DOEN Doğuş 11 8 1 2 0 2 0 0 Energy Artvin HEPP 10 18 0 1 0 0 0 0 New Investments22 IMG-Doğuş N/A 11 N/A 6 N/A N/A Pozitif N/A 39 N/A 16 N/A 2 N/A 2 Bonubon N/A 18 N/A 8 N/A 13 N/A 8 Doğuş Planet N/A 133 N/A 55 N/A 9 N/A 1 Doğuş Teknoloji N/A 51 N/A 10 N/A 21 N/A 7 22 New investments include companies established in 2013. 74 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 77 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES TRAINING Percentage of Total Percentage of Total Man/Hour Man/Hour Health and Safety Health and Safety Workforce Represented Workforce Represented Company Company 2012 2013 Committee 2012 Committee 2013 in H&S Committees in H&S Committees (%) 2012 (%) 2013 Doğuş Holding 43.45 67 Holding Banking and Financial Services Doğuş Holding Yes Yes 7 4 Garanti Bank 51.02 54 Banking & Financial Garanti Bank International N.V. 18.8 15.76 Services Garanti Bank SA 9.43 17.6 Garanti Bank Yes Yes 32 35 Garanti Bank Moscow 4.44 2.43 Garanti Leasing Yes Yes 18 18 Garanti Pension & Life 50 60 Garanti Factoring Yes Yes 15.34 18.65 Garanti Leasing 30.4 45 Garanti Fleet Yes Yes 20 20 Garanti Asset Management 11.33 29.4 Management Automotive Garanti Securities 15.4 12.19 Garanti Factoring 44 44 Doğuş Otomotiv Yes Yes 1.09 3.9 Garanti Mortgage 6.4 6 vdf Group Yes Yes 5 5 Garanti Payment Systems 8 8 TÜVTÜRK Yes Yes 6.5 8 Garanti Technology N/A 7.5 LeasePlan Yes Yes 10 7 Garanti Kültür N/A 3.7 Construction Automotive 5 (Head Office) 5 (Head Office) Doğuş Otomotiv 47.5 25 Doğuş Construction Yes Yes 2 (For the projects) 2 (For the projects) Doğuş Oto 38.8 33 vdf Group 30 30 Ayson Geotechnical and TÜVTÜRK 52 52 Yes Yes 4.5 0.02 Marine Construction Co. LeasePlan 27.13 26.55 Media Construction Doğuş Construction 4.14 15.95 Doğuş Media Group Yes Yes 2.5 2.5 Üsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÇekmeköy Metro Tourism & Services Çekmeköy Metro 3,431.01 2,469.25 Grand Hyatt İstanbul Yes Yes 5 5 Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP Project Project 5,015.466 3,720.94 Park Hyatt İstanbul – Adana Kavşakbendi Adana Kavşakbendi Dam Yes Yes 10 10 Maçka Palas Dam and HEPP Project and HEPP Project Ayson Geotechnical and Marine 866.66 2,988.53 Construction Co. Kandil Dam and HEPP D-Resort Grand Azur Yes Yes 5 5 Project 3,188.14 Maritim Hotel Club Körfez Bay Crossing Project N/A Yes N/A 4.5 Alantur 1,448.04 Entertainment Petkim Port Project D-Ream N/A Yes N/A 3.70 1,114.77 New Investments Doğuş Planet N/A Yes N/A 3 76 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 79 Man/Hour Man/Hour WAGES Company 2012 2013 % Female/Male % Female/Male Company Media 2012 2013 Holding Doğuş Media Group 1 4.8 Tourism & Services Doğuş Holding 1.58 1.45 Doğuş Tourism Group 11.84 10.72 Banking & Financial Services Grand Hyatt İstanbul 3.43 5.59 Garanti Bank 0.94 0.94 Park Hyatt İstanbul – Maçka Palas 9.75 9.68 Garanti Bank International N.V. 0.4261 0.3545 D-Hotel Maris 0.20 2.36 Garanti Bank SA 1.49 1.5 D-Resort Göcek N/A 10.09 Garanti Bank Moscow 1.04 1.06 D-Resort Grand Azur 0.13 11 Garanti Pension & Life 0.62 0.57 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 1 8 Garanti Leasing 0.71 0.49 Antur 10.72 27.6 Garanti Asset Management 0.32 0.41 Doğuş Retail Group 15 21.15 Garanti Securities 0.41 0,50 D-Marin Marinas Group 40 15 Garanti Factoring 0.76 0.65 D-Gym 36 4 Garanti Mortgage 1.5 0.46 D-Life 1.45 22.22 Körfez Havacılık 25.5 66 Garanti Payment Systems 0.01 0.01 Real Estate Garanti Technology 1.04 0.96 Doğuş REIT 15 20 Garanti Kültür N/A 0.44 Doğuş Real Estate 2.80 4.35 Automotive Energy Doğuş Otomotiv 0.93 0.93 D Energy 12.5 11.66 Doğuş Oto 0.91 0.92 Entertainment vdf Group 0.79 0.98 D-Ream N/A 0.43 TÜVTÜRK 0.78 0.70 New Investments LeasePlan 90.66 101.02 Doğuş Planet N/A 3.7 Construction DoğuşTeknoloji N/A 51.3 Doğuş Construction (Head Office) 0.52 0.56 Ayson Geotechnical and Marine 0.89 0.76 Construction Co. Media Doğuş Media Group 1.06 1.10 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 0.60 0.38 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 1.09 1.06 Park Hyatt İstanbul – MaçkaPalas 1.04 1.45 78 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 81 % Female/Male % Female/Male TURNOVER RATES23 Company 2012 2013 Employee Turnover Rate (%) Employee Turnover Rate (%) Company 2012 2013 D-Hotel Maris 0.90 0.31 D-Resort Göcek 0.74 0.41 Holding D-Resort Grand Azur 0.89 0.41 Doğuş Holding 19 4.9 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 0.86 0.32 Banking & Financial Services Antur 0.98 0.89 Garanti Bank 13.03 11.5 Garanti Bank International N.V. 7.35 11.5 Doğuş Retail Group 0.99 1.09 Garanti Bank SA 9.36 10.7 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 0.47 0.70 Garanti Bank Moscow 22 17 D-Marin Turgutreis 0.74 0.77 Garanti Pension & Life 47 32.8 D-Marin Didim 0.51 0.78 Garanti Leasing 15 18.06 D-Marin Göcek 0.55 0.50 Garanti Asset Management 0.09 14.03 D-Marin Mandalina 0.80 0.80 Garanti Securities 27.52 30.769 D-Marin Dalmacija 0.91 0.91 Garanti Factoring 23 23.56 D-Marin Borik 0.60 0.60 Garanti Mortgage 29 50.724 D-Gym 0.94 0.5 Garanti Payment Systems 0.29 57.006 D-Life 1.75 1.73 Garanti Fleet Management N/A 19.117 Körfez Havacılık 0.35 0.12 Garanti Technology 7 11.09 Real Estate Garanti Kültür N/A 25 Automotive Doğuş REIT 0.35 0.27 Doğuş Otomotiv 8.97 7.84 Doğuş Real Estate 0.77 48.63 Doğuş Oto 14 10.86 Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 0.15 vdf Group 2 3 Doğuş Gebze Center N/A 27.14 TÜVTÜRK 13 7.5 Energy LeasePlan 17.91 13.7 D Energy 0.36 0.57 Construction Artvin HEPP 0.03 0.44 Doğuş Construction 10.2 11.3 Entertainment Technical Engineering and Consultancy Inc. 8.7 7.14 D-Ream N/A 0.37 Ayson Geotechnical and Marine Construction Co. 5 4.16 New Investments Media Bonubon Doğuş Media Group 13 18 N/A 1.27 Doğuş Planet Tourism & Services N/A 0.78 Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 38 12 DoğuşTeknoloji 0.88 0.98 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 18 23 Park Hyatt İstanbul – MaçkaPalas 29 53 D-Hotel Maris 47 39.14 23 Figures are based on company definitions for better aligment with other reporting tools. 80 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 83 Employee Turnover Rate (%) Employee Turnover Rate (%) TOTAL WORKFORCE Company 2012 2013 Female Female Male Male Total Total Company Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce D-Resort Göcek 57 38.16 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 D-Resort Grand Azur 55 47 Doğuş Holding 62 64 50 46 112 110 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 21 29.19 Banking & Financial Services Antur 11 23 Garanti Bank 9,808 10,648 7,475 8,089 17,283 18,737 Doğuş Retail Group 53 55 Garanti Bank International N.V. 96 97 127 137 223 234 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office24 N/A 10.647 Garanti Bank SA 588 635 241 254 829 889 D-Marin Turgutreis 7.87 4.5 Garanti Bank Moscow 60 58 20 24 80 82 D-Marin Didim 13.79 5.5 Garanti Pension & Life 620 651 253 246 873 898 D-Marin Göcek 15.38 2 Garanti Leasing 75 75 83 80 158 155 D-Marin Mandalina 7.54 1 Garanti Asset Management 20 23 35 34 55 57 D-Marin Dalmacija 3.49 1 Garanti Securities 44 42 65 62 109 104 D-Marin Borik 8.7 0 Garanti Factoring 111 135 107 107 218 242 D-Gym 28 35.06 Garanti Mortgage 26 21 54 48 80 69 D-Life 43 1.86 Garanti Payment Systems 324 357 350 378 674 735 Körfez Havacılık 0 9.67 Garanti Fleet Management 22 25 34 43 56 68 Real Estate Garanti Technology 329 399 665 782 994 1,181 Doğuş REIT 0 0 Garanti Kültür N/A 21 N/A 3 N/A 24 Doğuş Real Estate 2 27.27 Automotive Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 25 Doğuş Otomotiv 156 165 401 422 557 587 Doğuş Gebze Center N/A 11.7 Doğuş Oto 229 248 802 1,124 1,270 1,372 Energy vdf Group 98 115 71 80 169 195 D Energy 0 10 TÜVTÜRK 18 18 55 56 73 74 Artvin HEPP 12.5 3 LeasePlan 27 33 40 40 67 73 Entertainment Construction D-Ream N/A 14.2 Doğuş Construction (Head Office) 52 47 104 107 156 154 New Investments Technical Engineering and Consultancy Inc. 3 3 11 11 14 14 IMG-Doğuş N/A 1 Ayson Geotechnical and Marine Construction Co. 5 6 15 18 20 24 Pozitif N/A 5 Media Bonubon N/A 82.85 Doğuş Media Group 481 465 944 910 1,425 1,375 Doğuş Planet N/A 21 Tourism & Services DoğuşTeknoloji N/A 12.62 Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 15 24 25 37 40 61 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 66 71 200 220 266 291 Park Hyatt İstanbul – MaçkaPalas 30 28 86 78 116 106 24 Became operational in 2013. 82 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 85 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA Female Female Male Male Total Total Company Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Company Total Amount (TL) 2012 Total Amount (TL) 201325 D-Hotel Maris 129 148 342 361 471 509 Garanti Factoring 1,800 1,800 DResort Göcek 16 34 54 84 70 118 Doğuş Otomotiv 42,000 84,372.51 D-Resort Grand Azur 84 92 92 173 176 265 vdf Group N/A 15,556 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 50 40 174 158 224 198 TÜVTURK N/A 65,000 Antur 23 25 24 26 47 51 Doğuş Construction 53,223 40.735 Doğuş Retail Group 53 72 68 86 121 158 Ayson Geotechnical and Marine Construction Co. 22,350 25,200 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 58 98 247 381 307 479 Park Hyatt İstanbul-MaçkaPalas 13,800 N/A D-Marin Turgutreis 6 8 55 60 61 68 D-Hotel Maris N/A 25,839 D-Marin Didim 8 7 51 50 61 57 D-Marin Göcek 11 11 46 45 57 56 D Resort Göcek 3,510 5,140 D-Marin Mandalina 10 10 20 20 30 30 D-Resort Grand Azur 10,600 12,000 D-Marin Dalmacija 21 21 65 67 86 88 D-Marin Marinas Group 3,961,426 N/A D-Marin Borik 2 2 10 10 12 12 D-Marin Turgutreis 171,040 149,868 D-Gym 25 28 43 49 68 77 D-Marin Didim 143,247 183,712 D-Life 12 17 16 14 28 31 D-Marin Göcek 810,175 51,591 Körfez Havacılık 4 6 22 25 26 31 D-Marin Mandalina 2,980,455 216,432 Real Estate D-Marin Dalmacija 17,069 0 Doğuş REIT 5 4 6 7 11 11 Gouvia Marina 285,233 84.704 Doğuş Real Estate 12 12 22 22 34 34 Zea Marina N/A 192.170 Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 1 N/A 3 N/A 4 Flisvos Marina N/A 534,743 Doğuş Gebze Center N/A 12 N/A 22 N/A 34 Artvin HEPP 21,759 96,199 Energy Aslancık HEPP 17,000 3,950,000 D Energy 6 9 5 11 11 20 Artvin HEPP 1 31 15 2 16 33 Entertainment D-Ream (Head Office) N/A 58 N/A 104 N/A 162 New Investments IMG-Doğuş 4 9 6 11 10 20 Pozitif N/A 41 N/A 64 N/A 105 Bonubon N/A 21 N/A 14 N/A 35 Doğuş Planet N/A 82 N/A 104 N/A 186 Doğuş Teknoloji N/A 32 N/A 71 N/A 103 25 Average exchange rates of Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey have been used. 84 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 87 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Company Electricity Consumption – kWh 2012 Electricity Consumption – kWh 2013 Company Electricity Consumption – kWh 2012 Electricity Consumption – kWh 2013 Doğuş Holding 571,4 1,672,41826 Media Banking & Financial Services Doğuş Media Group 9,408,98628 9,300,000 Garanti Bank 123,056,46527 130,388,064 Tourism & Services Garanti Bank International N.V. 611,758 533,895 Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 166,000 296,809 Garanti Bank SA 1,071,247 1,200,250 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 7,017,859 6,829,446 Garanti Bank Moscow 246,102 227,215 Park Hyatt İstanbul – Maçka Palas 3,708,985 3,459,681 Garanti Pension & Life N/A 950.000 D-Hotel Maris 6,954,534 5,510,715 Garanti Leasing 1,050 900 D-Resort Göcek 686,573 1,591,749 Garanti Asset Management 4,040 9,293.00 D-Resort Grand Azur 2,691,161 3,197,565 Garanti Securities 4,040 9,292.50 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 1,691,232 1,575,284 Garanti Factoring 175,000 180,000 Doğuş Retail Group 1,826,902 2,234,769 Garanti Fleet Management 233 300 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 13,412,105 N/A Garanti Technology N/A 12,606,479 D-Marin Turgutreis 4,029,995 3,884,312 Automotive D-Marin Didim 3,408,658 3,418,769 Doğuş Otomotiv 3,221,646 3,577,363 D-Marin Göcek 1,567,985 1,851,303 vdf Group 10,500 22,791 D-Marin Mandalina 1,779,107 1,725,834 TÜVTÜRK 13,500,000 13,500,000 D-Marin Dalmacija 2,626,360 2,476,620 LeasePlan 87,400 81,650 D-Marin Borik N/A 103,047 Construction Lefkas Marina 1,344,000 1,542,000 Head Office Head Office Gouvia Marina N/A 2,230,400 5,840 5,440 Zea Marina 4,162,800 3,673,200 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project Artvin Dam and HEPP 4,456,000 4,900,000 Flisvos Marina N/A 9,510,000 Doğuş Construction Boyabat Dam and HEPP Project D-Gym 1,437,251 1,653,160 22,068,000 D-Life 4,524 N/A Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Körfez Havacılık 76,575 71,305 Metro 362,198 390,000 Real Estate Head Office Head Office Doğuş REIT 1,977 1,925 389 429 Doğuş Real Estate 52,390 54,793 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Üsküdar Ümraniye Metro Ayson Geotechnical and Marine 205,290 5,133,727 Doğuş Gebze Center 17,621,965 16,503,358 Construction Co. Artvin Dam and HEPP Project Artvin Dam and HEPP Project Doğuş Center Maslak 2,091,114 1,567,199 3,253,773 4,009,065 Energy Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Project Artvin HEPP 4,892,182 225.000 711,740 Boyabat HEPP 220,656 1,661,835 Aslancık HEPP 106,501 184,435 New Investments 26 Headquarters’ energy consumption amount includes D-Energy, D-Marin Dalaman, D-Marin Didim, D-Marin Turgutreis, D-Marin Göcek, D-Marin Marinas Group, Garanti Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş, Doğuş Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş., Antur Tourism, Doğuş Holding, Doğuş Retail Group, Doğuş Tourism Group, Altınkılıçlar Kahve Kakao Ürünleri Bonubon N/A 54,300 Tic. ve San. A.Ş. and some smaller companies within the headquarters. Doğuş Planet N/A 145,000 27 Consumption amount includes all Garanti Bank branches, ATMs, Garanti Payment Systems, Garanti Technology and Garanti Mortgage data. 28 Only Maslak building is included. 86 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 89 WATER CONSUMPTION Water Consumption – m3 Water Consumption – m3 Water Consumption – m3 Water Consumption – m3 Company Company 2012 2013 2012 2013 Doğuş Holding 377 5,322.1429 Grand Hyatt Istanbul 75,139 89,288 Banking & Financial Services Park Hyatt Istanbul – Maçka Palas 20,941 22,295 Garanti Bank 222,396 330,932 D-Hotel Maris 112,568 143,346 Garanti Bank International N.V. 19,028 2,171 D-Resort Göcek 9,231 13,095 Garanti Bank SA 2,450 4,950 D-Resort Grand Azur 69,766 59,860 Garanti Moskow N/A 919 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 34750 97,976 Garanti Pension & Life N/A 3,000 Doğuş Retail Group 6,228 7,037 Garanti Leasing 3,000 2,800 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 300,240 N/A Garanti Asset Management 1,014 1,168 D-Marin Turgutreis 82,677 71,389 Garanti Securities 1,014 1,168 D-Marin Didim 84,831 91,890 Garanti Factoring 434 694,043 D-Marin Göcek 46,713 50,523 Garanti Fleet Management N/A 940 D-Marin Mandalina 29,529 34,648 Garanti Technology N/A 10,942 D-Marin Dalmacija 53,782 58,577 Automotive D-Marin Borik 2,708 1,471 Doğuş Otomotiv 19,04411 25,88830 Lefkas Marina 35,981 26,961 vdf Group 1,200 2,760 Gouvia Marina N/A 102,000 TÜVTÜRK 25,000 25,000 Zea Marina 36,346 35,215 LeasePlan 480 700 Flisvos Marina 66,312 71,234 Construction D-Gym 12,250 14,973 D-Life 3,263 1,935 Head Office 4,450 Körfez Havacılık 411 312 1,171,817 (Reuse Water) + 12,500 Real Estate Doğuş Construction Artvin Dam and HEPP 575,000 Doğuş REIT 121 146 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Doğuş Real Estate N/A 537,36 24,500 DoğuşGebze Center 55,992 55,691 Head Office 400 Doğuş Center Maslak 14,739 9,806 13,400(Reuse Water) + 226,000 Üsküdar Ümraniye Metro Energy Ayson Geotechnical and Marine 1,567,231 Construction Co. Artvin HEPP 523,922 231 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project 40,800 Boyabat HEPP 581 171 Total: 1,608,431 + 7,300 (Reuse Water) Aslancık HEPP 302 84 Media New Investments Doğuş Media Group 12,301 12,600 Doğuş Planet N/A 2,705 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 1,095 1,054 29 Water consumption data includes other companies (D-Energy, D-Marin Dalaman, D-Marin Didim, D-Marin Turgutreis, D-Marin Göcek, D-Marin Marinas Group, Garanti Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş, Doğuş Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş., Antur Tourism, Doğuş Holding, Doğuş Retail Group, Doğuş Tourism Group, Altınkılıçlar Kahve Kakao Ürünleri Tic. ve San. A.Ş. and some smaller companies) such as in Electricity Consumption Data. 30 Headquarters and Logistics Center 88 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 91 PAPER CONSUMPTION Waste Paper (kg) Recycled Paper Waste Paper (kg) Recycled Paper Company 2013 2013 Company 2013 2013 2012 (kg)2012 2012 (kg)2012 Banking & Financial Services Tourism & Services Garanti Bank International N.V. 1,850 6,040 1,000 2,680 Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office N/A N/A 1,331 N/A Garanti Bank S.A N/A 3,500 N/A 2,500 Grand Hyatt İstanbul N/A N/A 48,300 41,990 Garanti Moskow N/A 7,642 N/A N/A Park Hyatt İstanbul – Maçka Palas 13,640 14,480 10,050 13,220 Garanti Pension & Life 1,268 2,000 423 750 D-Hotel Maris 2,000 9,365 N/A 5,450 Garanti Leasing 6,662 6,250 5,000 5,000 Garanti Asset Management 930 1,155 1,472 1,666 D-Resort Göcek 1,000 500 500 400 Garanti Securities 2,340 2,175 1,472 1,666 D-Resort Grand Azur 1,337 1,653 N/A 165 Garanti Factoring 751 6,000 822 1,336 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 33,000 38,000 9,555 11,000 Garanti Fleet Management N/A 700 N/A 2,000 Doğuş Retail Group 800 950 300 350 Garanti Technology 541,000 414,000 47,000 38,000 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 14,860 N/A 17380 N/A Automotive D-Marin Didim 2,500 3,100 1,500 1,900 Doğuş Otomotiv 712,748 888,697 299,354 547,749 vdf Group 800 1,000 715 750 D-Marin Göcek 4,900 5,235 3,200 3,480 TÜVTÜRK 4,750 N/A 750 N/A D-Marin Dalmacija 8,290 11,680 8,290 LeasePlan N/A 1,254 459 625 Gouvia Marina 27,700 N/A 23,000 N/A Construction Flisvos Marina N/A 1,075 N/A 1,075 Head Office Head Office Head Office Head Office 1,450 1,900 1,450 1,900 D-Gym 96 350 96 350 Artvin Dam and Artvin Dam and Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP Project HEPP Project HEPP Project D-Life 500 600 200 300 2,190 1,850 2,100 1,800 Körfez Havacılık 1,000 1,000 800 800 Boyabat Dam and Boyabat Dam and Doğuş Construction HEPP Project HEPP Project Real Estate 4,500 4,500 ÜsküdarDoğuş REIT N/A N/A 815 356 Üsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÇekmeköy Metro Çekmeköy Çekmeköy Metro Çekmeköy Metro Doğuş Gebze Center 240,000 1,000,00031 200,000 1,000,000 15,800 Metro 15,000 16,100 Head Office 16,800 Head Office 15 Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 17,240 250 Hall Building Head Office Head Office Head Office Head Office 36,000 250 300 140 180 Energy Üsküdar Üsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar Ümraniye Artvin HEPP 100 (Artvin Office) 400 90 (Artvin Office) 300 Ümraniye Çekmeköy Metro Çekmeköy Metro Metro Metro 1,549 650 700 Boyabat HEPP 1,500 1,200 60 50 Ayson Geotechnical and Marine 1,800 Construction Co. Adana Kavşakbendi Aslancık HEPP 397 421,35 20 21,2 Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Dam and HEPP Project Project New Investments 320 486 Doğuş Planet N/A 750 N/A 600 Artvin Dam and Artvin Dam and Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam HEPP HEPP Project HEPP Project Project Project 700 850 230 20 31 Includes all shops within the mall. 90 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 93 COLLECTED PAPER by AYHAN ŞAHENK FOUNDATION (kg) 2007 322,770 2008 353,800 2009 354,920 2010 376,845 2011 469,130 2012 295,972 2012 175,956 2013 503,442 92 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 95 ABOUT THIS REPORT Unless otherwise stated, Doğuş Group 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report covers all businesses, including the subsidiaries, of GROUP COMPANIES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTS Doğuş Group companies’ corporate responsibility performance, in line with the Group CSR Strategy. The reporting period for this, Doğuş Group’s 6th Corporate Responsibility Report, is the calendar year 2013. As mentioned in our first Corporate Responsibility Report (2008), we remain committed to report our CSR performance annually. Garanti Bank Sustainability Report 2013 All our reports are uploaded in the public domain on our company website. We continue to follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, the most widely adopted non-financial reporting framework throughout the world, used to help http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page? communicating sustainability performance, in addition to encouraging transparency and accountability. In 2012, we reviewed our Corporate Responsibility management approach and policies and commitments, and scaled up our Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 application level to B. This year we also used the international corporate responsibility standard ISO26000 requirements to check our corporate responsibility performance, and included the ISO26000 index to our report as well. http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx Additionally, the Doğuş Group Corporate Responsibility Team worked on Key Stakeholders and Materiality Mapping in 2013 to determine the report contents and for choosing the focus performances according to material issues. It is important to underline that every sector and every company can have its own key stakeholders and material issues and their performances should be analyzed accordingly. The Doğuş Group key stakeholders and material issues are directly related, first of all, to the Doğuş Holding corporate responsibility approach and reporting and secondly as an initial framework for the Group companies. In the preparation of this report, all Doğuş Group companies were covered and the information used in the report was consolidated from surveys prepared according to GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, submitted by the reporting teams in each Group company. In each section, best practices among the Group companies were selected and shared. Doğuş Group very proudly announces that the Group’s companies have begun to report their own Corporate Responsibility performances according to GRI G3.1 Framework. Although the leader is Doğuş Otomotiv, which has reported since 2009 (and since 2010 at B application level), in 2012 Garanti Bank further enhanced Doğuş Group with its first GRI Report of A application level. All the detailed information about Doğuş Group companies can be found in their own reports separately. We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our stakeholders, both internal and external. Your suggestions are vital and help us to improve both the quality of our reporting and the quality of our products and services. Please e-mail your suggestion / views / opinions to: Gülçin Akdağ Savan Corporate Communications Specialist gakdag@dogusgrubu.com.tr Location of the Group’s Headquarters: Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Maslak Ayazağa Cad. No: 2, 34396 Sarıyer / İstanbul Phone : +90 212 335 32 32 Fax : +90 212 335 30 90 Web : www.dogusgrubu.com.tr 94 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 97 Reporting Content Index Indexes GRI INDEX Performance GRI G3.1 ISO26000 UNGC Information and Links Reference Pages In presentation of this year’s report, the reporting project team used the GRI indicators, submitting them to the related departments of Profile the Group companies through sector specific questionnaires. The team prepared the report content by consolidating the findings of the Indicators questionnaires collected from each sector. 1. Strategy 6.2 and Analysis Senior management 1.1 / Full 6.2 Since Doğuş Group operates with more than 200 companies in eight different sectors, every GRI indicator could not be applied to declaration CEO Message 14-15 the entire group. The responses gathered from different sectors and Group companies were not always comparable and combinable, Basic effects, risks 1.2 / Full 6.2 CEO Message 14-15 therefore limiting the number of indicators to be used for reporting purposes. and opportunities 6.6.6 6.8.3 CSR at Doğuş Group 16 Response Status Explanations CSR Management and 16-17 Approach and Policies Full The indicator is fully addressed in the referenced pages of the report and other sources. Partially The indicator is partially addressed in the referenced pages of the report due to lack of data Compliance and Risk 22-24 and/or information covering the entire group. Management 2. Corporate Profile Corporation name 2.1 / Full About This Report 94 Brands, products 2.2 / Full Our Group 6-7 and services Detailed information about Group companies’ operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/ dogus_grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors Operational structure 2.3 / Full 6.2 Our Group 6-7 of the corporation Corporate Governance 16-17 Headquarters 2.4 / Full Our Group 6-7 About This Report 94 Countries in which 2.5 / Full Our Group 6-7 the corporation operates Detailed information about Group of Companies operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/ dogus_grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors Ownership 2.6 / Full Our Group 6-7 properties and legal state More information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2013. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ annual_reports 96 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Economic Engagement • Employee Engagement • Community Engagement • Environmental Engagement 99 Markets serviced 2.7 / Full Our Group 6-7 Important changes in 3.11 / Full About This Report 94 the report scope and Detailed information about contents Group of Companies’ No important changes. operations can be found at GRI Index 3.12 / Full Indexes 97-111 http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/ Report supervision 3.13 / Full 7.5.3 No independent assurance. dogus_grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors Corporation scale 2.8 / Full Our Group 6-7 4. Governance, Performance Data 71-72 Liability and Sharing Important changes 2.9 / Full Our Group 6-7 Practices in size, structure and ownership situations Corporation 4.1 / Full 6.2 Principle 10 Corporate Governance 16-17 More of information is governance available online in Doğuş structure More information about Group’s Annual Report the governance structure, 2013. including the committees http://www.dogusgrubu. under the Board of com.tr/web/83-337-1Directors is available online 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ in Doğuş Group’s Annual investor_relations/reports/ Report 2013. annual_reports http://www.dogusgrubu. Awards 2.10 / Full Awards&Recognitions 8-12 com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ 3. Report investor_relations/reports/ Profile annual_reports Reporting period 3.1 / Full About This Report 94 Autonomy of the 4.2 / Full 6.2 Governance Structure 17 Chairman of the Date of previous 3.2 / Full About This Report 94 Board Chairman of the Board of report Directors is not also an Reporting frequency 3.3 / Full About This Report 94 executive officer in Doğuş Group. Contact information 3.4 / Full Back Cover Number of 4.3 / Full 6.2 Governance Structure 17 about report independent Report contents 3.5 / Full Materiality 17 members in the Keys Stakeholders and Material 18-19 Board of Directors Issues Stakeholders’ 4.4 / Full 6.2 Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 About This Report 94 and employees’ 6.8.3 Issues Report contents 3.6 / Full About This Report 94 involvement in limits management Employee Engagement 34 Report Content Index 96 Report scope and 3.7 / Full About This Report 94 Open Communication 35 contents limitations Report Content Index 96 Employee Suggestion System 38-39 Reporting principles 3.8 / Full About This Report 94 on joint ventures Full stakeholder list is and other subsidiary Report Content Index 96 available online in Doğuş companies Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. Data assessment 3.9 / Full CSR at Doğuş Group 16-17 com.tr/web/83-342-1techniques and 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ calculation methods About This Report 94 investor_relations/reports/ corporate_responsibility__ reports (Pages; 74-75) Reasons for the 3.10 / Full About This Report 94 repetition of information in the previous report 98 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 101 Linkage between 4.5 / Full 6.2 CSR at Doğuş Group 16 Union and 4.13 / Full Strategic Partnerships & 13 compensation of association Memberships the executives and memberships the sustainability Corporate Governance 16-17 Strategic Sectoral Partnerships 13 performance Stakeholders list 4.14 / Full Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 Issues Processes 4.6 / Full 6.2 Corporate Governance 16-17 preventing conflicts Full stakeholder list is of interest Compliance and Risk 22-24 available online in Doğuş Management Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. More of information is com.tr/web/83-342-1available online in Doğuş 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ Group’s Annual Report investor_relations/reports/ 2013. corporate_responsibility__ http://www.dogusgrubu. reports (Pages; 74-75) com.tr/web/83-337-1Key stakeholders 4.15 / Full Materiality 17 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ determining process investor_relations/reports/ Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 annual_reports Issues CSR Management 4.7 / Full 6.2 CSR at Doğuş Group 16 More information is Strategy of the available online in Doğuş corporation Materiality 17 Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 com.tr/web/83-342-1Issues 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ corporate_responsibility__ Corporation’s rules 4.8 / Full CSR at Doğuş Group 16 reports (Pages; 74-75) of mission and behaviour regarding Materiality 17 Stakeholder 4.16 / Full Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 CSR performance participation process Issues Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 Issues Full stakeholder list and CSR performance 4.9 / Full CEO Message 14-15 engagement platforms are and the supervision available online in Doğuş of its risks by senior CSR at Doğuş Group 16-17 Group’s CSR Report 2011. management http://www.dogusgrubu. Self-check of senior 4.10 / Full CSR at Doğuş Group 16-17 com.tr/web/83-342-1management about 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ CSR performance investor_relations/reports/ corporate_responsibility__ Risk management 4.11 / Full Principle CEO Message 14-15 reports (Pages; 74-75) attitude of the 3,4,5,6 corporation in fields CSR at Doğuş Group 16-17 Stakeholder 4.17 / Full Materiality 17 related to CSR participation and Compliance and Risk 22-14 primary subjects, Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 Management responsiveness Issues performance Foreign enterprises 4.12 / Full Principle 1,2 CEO Message 14-15 and activities in Performance areas regarding CSR CSR Management Approach 16-17 Indicators and Policies Management Economic 6.2 Principle Doğuş Group Economic 22 approach Performance 6.8 1,2,7 Responsibility Policy / Full 100 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 103 Direct economic EC1 / Full 6.8 Our Group 6-7 Investments made EC8 / Full 6.3.9 Responsible Investment 24-25 value produced and 6.8.3 for public interest 6.8 distributed 6.8.7 Responsible Investment 24-25 6.8.3 Local Economic Development 27 6.8.9 6.8.4 Programs New Investments in 2013 25-27 6.8.5 6.8.6 Public Policy Contributions 28 Performance Data 71-72 6.8.7 6.8.9 Community Engagement 44-57 New Employment and 73-74 Important indirect EC9 / Full 6.3.9 CEO Message 14-15 Promotion economic effects 6.6.6 Detailed information is 6.6.7 Responsible Investment 24-25 available online in Doğuş 6.7.8 Group’s Annual Report New Investments in 2013 25-27 6.8 2013. 6.8.5 http://www.dogusgrubu. Local Economic Development 27 com.tr/web/83-337-16.8.6 6.8.7 Programs 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ 6.8.9 Supply Chain Management 27-28 annual_reports (Consalidated Financial Local Economic Contribution 71 Statement) Data The effect of climate EC2 / Full 6.5.5 Principle 7 CEO Message 14-15 Management Environmental 6.2 Principle Doğuş Group Environmental 64 change on the approach Performance 6.5 7,8,9 Responsibility Policy financial success of Doğuş Group Economic 22 / Full the corporation, risks Responsibility Policy Percentage of EN2 / Partially 6.5 Paper Consumption 90-91 and opportunities materials used 6.5.4 Climate Change Risks 24 as recycled input Collected Paper by Ayhan 92 Corporate liabilities EC3 / Full There is no salary based material Şahenk Foundation regarding defined pension contribution at Direct energy EN3 / Partially 6.5 Energy Consumption 86-87 benefit pension plan Doğuş Holding. consumption 6.5.4 Important financial EC4 / Full There is no significant assistance received financial assistance Saved amount EN5 / Partially 6.5 Energy Efficiency 68 from the state received from government of energy due to 6.5.4 in the reporting period improvements Energy Consumption 86-87 except Boyabat Dam Products and EN6 / Full 6.5 Environmental Awareness 64-67 investment subsidy and services that provide 6.5.4 Programs the use of vat and customs energy efficiency exemption. Energy Efficiency 68 Policy, practice and EC6 / Partially 6.6.6 Doğuş Group Economic 22 rates of payment 6.8 Responsibility Policy Attempts to reduce EN7 / Full 6.5 Environmental Awareness 64-67 regarding payments 6.8.5 indirect energy 6.5.4 Programs made to local 6.8.7 Supply Chain Management 27-28 consumption and suppliers reductions obtained Energy Efficiency 68 Local Economic Contribution 71 Data Total amount EN8 / Partially 6.5 Water Consumption 70, 88-89 of water used 6.5.4 Local employment EC7 / Full 6.8 Principle 6 Doğuş Group Economic 22 according to its 6.8.5 Responsibility Policy sources 6.8.7 Water sources EN9 / Full 6.5 There are no water sources Responsible Investment 24-25 significantly affected 6.5.4 significantly affected by water extraction by withdrawal of water. New Investments in 2013 25-27 Doğuş Group uses water from public water system. New Employment and Production centres EN11 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 64-67 Promotions 73-74 within protected 6.5.6 Programs areas Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. 102 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 105 Effects on biological EN12 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 64-67 Total waste EN22 / 6.5 Waste Management 69-70 diversity 6.5.6 Programs according to type Partially 6.5.3 Doğuş Group companies and disposal method Paper Consumption 90-91 do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected Collected Paper by Ayhan 92 areas of high biodiversity Şahenk Foundation value. Protected or EN13 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 64-67 reclaimed living 6.5.6 Programs Total number of and EN23 / Full 6.5 There was no leakage spaces Doğuş Group always size of important 6.5.3 caused by activities of respects, protects and leakage Doğuş Holding. The restores the habitat which company’s operations it operates in. have no risk of dangerous leakage in significant Strategies regarding EN14 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 64-67 quantities. Wastes carrying bio-diversity, 6.5.6 Programs leakage risk (batteries, etc.) activities in progress Doğuş Group companies are classified according and future plans do not have any operations to their types and sent to in or adjacent to protected the relevant companies areas of high biodiversity for proper disposal, in value. compliance with laws and Number of the EN15 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group companies regulations. species in IUCN 6.5.6 do not have any operations Red List in the related to IUCN Red List. Names, sizes, EN25 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group has living spaces in the protection states and no operations which 6.5.3 areas affected by bio-diversity value significantly affects habitat 6.5.4 the operations and of water bodies because of the discharge of 6.5.6 the species in the and related living the water. national protection spaces significantly list, according to affected by the extinction risk level water discharges Attempts to reduce EN18 / 6.5 Principle 8,9 Climate Change Risks 24 and leakages of the emissions Partially 6.5.5 corporation Environmental Awareness 64-67 Programs Attempts to reduce EN26 / Full 6.5 Principle Environmental Awareness 64-67 the environmental 6.5.4 7,8,9 Programs Energy Efficiency 68 effects of products 6.6.6 6.7.5 Energy Efficiency 68 Waste Management 69-70 Discordances with EN28 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group companies environmental laws were not fined in the and regulations year of 2013 because of not complying with Total water EN21 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Holding discharges environmental laws and discharge 6.5.3 its waste water, which is regulations. supplied from the local Effects caused EN29 / 6.5 Principle Doğuş Group Environmental 64 administrations, directly by product Partially 6.5.4 7,8,9 Responsibility Policy into the city sewer system. transportation and 6.6.6 100% of the used water employee logistics is discharged to the city Total amount of EN30 / Full 6.5 Environmental Investments 85 sewerage systems in the environmental operation areas. expenses and investments Management Labor 6.4 Principle Doğuş Group Employee 34 approach Practices and 6.4.3 1,3,6 Responsibility Policy Decent Work / Full 104 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 107 Total number of LA1 / Partially 6.4 New Employment and 73-74 Annual average LA10 / 6.4 Training and Development 40-41 employees according 6.4.3 Promotions training hours per Partially 6.4.7 Programs to employment type, employee contract and district Total Workforce 83-84 Training 77-78 Employee training LA11 / Full 6.4 Training and Development 40-41 Total number of LA2 / Partially 6.4 Turnover Rates 81-82 6.4.7 Programs employees and their 6.4.3 6.8.5 circulation according Total Workforce 83-84 Training 77-78 to age groups, Regular performance LA12 / Full 6.4 Performance Management 40 gender and district and development 6.4.7 Benefits provided LA3 / Full 6.4 Principle 6 Training and Development 40-41 monitoring Performance Management 72 for the full time 6.4.3 Programs Men-women wage LA14 / 6.3.7 Principle 1,6 Wages 79-80 employees 6.4.4 rates according to Partially 6.3.10 More of information is employee category 6.4 available online in Doğuş 6.4.3 Group’s CSR Report 2011. 6.4.4 http://www.dogusgrubu. Return to work and LA15 / 6.4 Mother-Infant Policy 39 com.tr/web/83-342-1retention rates after Partially 6.4.4 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ parental leave, by investor_relations/reports/ gender corporate_responsibility__ reports (Pages; 43) Management Human Rights 6.2 Principle Doğuş Group Human Rights 60 approach Performance 6.3 1,2,6 Policy / Full Number of LA4 / Full 6.4 Principle 1,3 Collective Bargaining Table 71 employees covered 6.4.3 by collective 6.4.4 bargainings Percentage and total HR1 / Partially 6.3 Principle CSR Management Approach 16-17 6.4.5 number of significant 6.3.3 1,2,6 and Policies 6.3.10 investment 6.3.5 Period of notice LA5 / Full 6.4 Legal notice period is used agreements 6.6.6 Human Rights 60-61 due to operational 6.4.3 in cases of dismissal. There comprising human changes 6.4.4 is no standard notice period rights clauses and 6.4.5 in cases of position change screened for human or transfer, which depends rights on the process and type of Number of suppliers HR2 / Partially 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group companies duty. and contractors 6.3.3 1,2,6 either include or plan Annual vacation periods screened for human 6.3.5 to include the human are in compliance with the rights 6.6.6 rights statements within applicable labour law. Three 6.4.3 their supplier audits and days leave is permitted agreements. to employees in cases of marriage, fatherhood, and Doğuş Group is a large in decease of first level conglomorate which relatives. consists of approximately Percentage total LA6 / Full 6.4 Employee Health and Safety 36-37 200 companies from labour represented 6.4.6 different sectors. So that it in the health and Employee Health and Safety has thousands of suppliers safety committees Committees 76 and business partners Consultancy, LA8 / Full 6.4 Principle 1 Employee Health and Safety 36-37 for which it requieres a precaution and risk 6.4.6 long and complex activity control regarding 6.8 to include them in the serious illnesses 6.8.3 CSR Report. A detailed 6.8.4 calculation of all third 6.8.8 parties is not possible Health and safety LA9 / Full 6.4 Health and safety issues in the current reporting matters existing in 6.4.6 are included in the union period. the agreements with agreements according to Total number of HR3 / Partially 6.3 Principle Human Rights 60-61 unions the law and regulations hours for human 6.3.5 1,2,6 in which the Group rights training companies have collective bargaining agreements. 106 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 109 Total number of HR4 / Full 6.3 Principle Equality at Work Platform 35 Management Product 6.2 Principle 1 Doğuş Group Product and http://www.dogusgrubu. incidents regarding 6.3.6 1,2,6 approach Responsibility 6.6 Service Responsibility Policy com.tr/i/assets/contentfiles/ discrimination and 6.3.7 Human Rights 60-61 Performance 6.7 dogus_kss_2012.pdf precautions taken 6.3.10 / Full (Page 25) 6.4.3 Doğuş Group companies Health and safety PR1 / Partially 6.3.9 Principle 1,2 Supply Chain Management 27-28 did not report any incidents in the life cycle 6.6.6 of discrimination during the of products and 6.7 Customers 29-31 reporting period. services 6.4.7 Freedom of HR5 / Full 6.3 Principle 1,3 Doğuş Group Human Rights 60 6.7.5 organization and 6.3.3 Policy Number of incidents PR2 / Full 6.3.9 No incidents are reported collective bargaining 6.3.4 in discordance with 6.6.6 for non-compliance with 6.3.10 Human Rights 60-61 the regulations laws and regulations 6.7 6.4.3 and voluntary rules 6.4.7 concerning health and 6.4.5 Collective Bargaining Table 71 regarding health safety impacts of products 6.7.5 and safety effects and services of Doğuş UNGC Principles 3 of products and Group of companies during services the reporting period. Child employment HR6 / Full 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group Human Rights 60 Labelling PR3 / Full 6.7 Doğuş Group fully and precautions 6.3.3 1,2,5 Policy 6.7.3 complies with the laws taken 6.3.4 and regulations about 6.7.4 6.3.5 Human Rights 60-61 the product and service 6.7.5 6.3.7 6.7.6 labelling. 6.3.10 UNGC Principles 5 6.7.9 Total number of PR4 / Full 6.7 Doğuş Group companies Operations HR7 / Full 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group Human Rights 60 incidents displaying 6.7.3 comply with regulations having the risk of 6.3.3 1,2,4 Policy discordance with 6.7.4 and voluntary codes forced labour and 6.3.4 regulations and concerning their products 6.7.5 precautions taken 6.3.5 Human Rights 60-61 voluntary rules and services. There 6.7.6 6.3.7 regarding labelling 6.7.9 have been no incidents 6.3.10 UNGC Principles 4 noncompliance with Rate of security HR8 / Full 6.3 Principle 2 Human Rights 60-61 regulations and voluntary personnel 6.3.5 codes regarding labeling. trained on the 6.4.3 Customer PR5 / Full 6.7 Customers 29-31 corporation’s policy 6.6.6 satisfaction 6.7.4 and procedures 6.7.5 Doğuş Group companies regarding human 6.7.6 have a variety of customers rights factors 6.7.8 and do customer loyalty Total number of HR9 / Full 6.3 Doğuş Group companies 6.7.9 and satisfaction surveys on incidents which 6.3.6 did not report any incidents their own every year. The resulted in the 6.3.7 of violations involving rights results and the assessment violation of the rights 6.3.8 of indigenous people during methodology of the of the native public 6.6.7 the reporting period. surveys vary according to and precautions the sectors. taken Adherence to laws PR6 / Full 6.7 Doğuş Group companies and regulations 6.7.3 fully comply with the laws regarding marketing 6.7.6 and regulations about the communication 6.7.9 marketing communications and they all have policies and principles on the subject. Number of HR11 / Full 6.3 No grievances related to grievances related 6.3.6 human rights reported to human rights by Doğuş Group filed, addressed and companies through formal resolved through mechanisms during the formal grievance reporting period. mechanisms 108 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 111 Confirmed PR8 / Full 6.7 Doğuş Group companies Precautions taken SO4 / Full 6.6 Principle 10 Compliance and Risk 22-24 complaints 6.7.7 fully comply with the against incidents of 6.6.3 Management regarding customer laws and regulations corruption confidentiality about the customer Business Ethics 58-59 information security and use international standards No incidents are reported and systems to protect in Doğuş Holding in which the customer information. employees were dismissed There are no incidents or disciplined for corruption recorded about confirmed or with business partners complaints regarding cancelled contracts due customer confidentiality. to violations related to Non-compliance with PR9 / Full 6.7 There are no recorded corruption during the laws and regulations 6.7.6 significant incidents about reporting period. regarding supplying non-compliance with laws Attitude against SO5 / Full 6.6 Principle Compliance and Risk 22-24 and usage of product and regulations regarding public policy and 6.6.4 1,10 Management and services supplying and usage of assistance activities 6.8.3 product and services. for public policy Responsible Investment 24-25 Management Social 6.2 Principle 10 Doğuş Group Community 44 approach Performance 6.6 Engagement Policy / Full 6.8 Public Policy Contributions 28 The influence of our SO1 / Full 6.3.9 Key Stakeholders and Material 18-19 Business Ethics 58-59 activities on local 6.8 Issues public 6.8.3 6.8.9 Local Economic Development 27 Financial and real SO6 / Full 6.6 Doğuş Group companies do Programs contributions to 6.6.4 not have actions regarding political parties, 6.8.3 the financial or other kind Local Communities 44 politicians and of contributions to political related institutions parties, politicians and Social Impact Management 44 related institutions. Risk analysis SO2 / Full 6.6 Principle Compliance and Risk 22-24 Number of legal SO7 / Full 6.6 No incidents are reported regarding corruption 6.6.3 1,2,10 Management cases regarding 6.6.5 for non-compliance with behaviour outside 6.6.7 laws and regulations Business Ethics 58-59 competition and concerning outside monopolism competition and Doğuş Group companies monopolism of Doğuş include corruption risks Group of companies during to their risk analyses and the reporting period. audits procedure for every Prevention and SO10 / 6.3.9 Doğuş Construction 25, 56 stage of their operations. mitigation measures Partially 6.5.3 Corporation’s SO3 / Full 6.6 Principle 10 Compliance and Risk 22-24 implemented in 6.5.6 policies against 6.6.3 Management operations with 6.8 corruption and significant potantial trainings on the Business Ethics 58-59 or actual negative subject Doğuş Group Code of impacts on local Conduct and detailed communities information about ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/82-278-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/ corporate_governance_ principles/code_of_ethics 110 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013 Report Contacts Deniz Bayel Corporate Communications Executive Vice President, Doğuş Holding Tel: +90 (212) 335 31 05 e-mail: dbayel@dogusgrubu.com.tr Gülçin Akdağ Savan Corporate Communications Specialist, Doğuş Holding Tel: +90 (212) 335 31 03 e-mail: gakdag@dogusgrubu.com.tr Location of the Group’s headquarters: Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Maslak Ayazağa Cad. No: 2 Sarıyer/ İstanbul Phone: +90 (212) 335 32 32 Fax: +90 (212) 335 30 90 Web: www.dogusgrubu.com.tr CSR Consultancy FCS Finansal İletişim Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. Tel: +90 (212) 283 41 46 e-mail: info@finansaliletisim.com www.finansaliletisim.com Designed and Produced by İndeks İçerik-İletişim Danışmanlık Phone: +90 (212) 347 70 70 www.indeksiletisim.com 112 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2013
