Welcome Welcome to the Safety Induction Parami Energy Maximum involvement from each employee is required in this Induction as well as this in house safety process You MUST Participate in Order For You and The Project to Succeed!!! Main Targets OUR PURPOSE In This Orientation Is To Make Sure That You Return To Your Families Safely By Understanding And Then Following The Rules YOUR PURPOSE Is To Follow the Rules And Work Safely What is Safety ? • The word safety refers to your freedom from danger, injury and damage, and to your personal security. The word safety has been used so often that many of you may think of it as a Preaching Word , or a word that forces you to alter your ways or change bad habits. • Primary Duty People (Protect people from death and injuries) Property (Prevent properties damages) Environment ( Protect environment ) Notice : not only help reduce workplace hazard ,we need to help reduce costs of organization Safety is everyone’s responsibility and accountability! ! STOP Work Principle ALL employees have the right and are expected to STOP WORK if they believe that the work is unsafe due to conditions or direction from their supervisor. No employee will be dismissed for asking questions or wanting to make sure the project works safely. Employee Conduct Rules  Follow in house Company Rules  Follow and obey all Project Safety Rules outlined in this orientation  Follow all Camp or Accommodation rules  Do not engage in horseplay, fighting, gambling or drug abuse  Always maintain good relationship among other employees Employee Conduct Rules (Cont.)  Do not misuse equipment  Do not tamper with any electrical equipment  Smoke in designated area only  Do not engage in any obvious unsafe act or at risk behavior  Maintain discipline and demonstrate good work ethics at worksite Supervisor’s Responsibilities • Supervisor shall conduct daily tool box talks • Supervisors shall not instruct their workers to perform any work in an unsafe manner • Shall review Risk Assessment and Method Statement and submit to PTTEP and proceed with Permit to Work. • There is zero tolerance for non-compliance of any work activities within Supervisor’s control Disciplinary Program The following list represents infractions of Company and project rules and regulations that are of such a serious nature that non-compliance would result in the immediate removal from the physical site in of the employee and direct supervision depending on knowledge of event. • Use / Influence and / or Possession of illegal drugs, alcohol or controlled substances on the Construction site • Use and / or possession of firearms, weapons or explosives on the Construction site • Fighting on the Construction site • Violation of the construction work permitting procedures including but not limited to: • Improper use of machinery or equipment which results in an injury or serious near miss incident • Deliberate disregard for any company policy or procedure Emergency  Emergency contact number is  Shutdown all electrical equipment and appliances  Know your designated assembly point and move to location when directed do not panic or run  Wait for all clear information and further instructions from your Supervisor Emergency Reporting Stay Cool, Calm and Collective!!! Make sure you provide clear information in the following sequence: • Your Name and Company (당신의 성명과 회사) • Exact Location, e.g. • Type and Nature of Emergency, e.g., fire, injury, etc. • Number of casualties if there are any • What kind of assistance or rescue equipment required Fire and Firefighting  Raise an alarm  Inform others in the vicinity  Check for routes to escape  Do not risk trying to extinguish the fire if you feel that your life would be in danger  Leave the dangerous area and proceed to your assembly point  Stay at assembly point until you receive further instructions from your Supervisor 12 Medical  Report all injuries to the Clinic and your Supervisor  Know location and contacts of medical clinic: What are the four categories of hazard in work place ? Material Equipment Environment Employees Identify Hazard Four important Processes to identify hazard 1. Walk around Inspection 2. Informal and formal Observation 3. The job Hazard Analysis (JHA) 4. Incident /Accident Analysis Controlling the Hazard you identify 1. Engineering Controls 2. Management Control 3.Personal Protective Equipment 1. Interim Measures Machine Guards Incident/ Accident / Near Miss Reporting Report to your Supervisors all work related incidents, accidents and near-misses immediately • Supervisors will investigate all incidents • All incident reports MUST be reported within 24 hours • Major incidents shall be notified IMMEDIATELY (verbally is acceptable) to HHI Reporting Unsafe Acts & Conditions Unsafe Acts, i.e. Unsafe Conditions, i.e. • Not using PPE • Open Manholes • Crossing Barriers • Non barricaded deep excavations • Not Complying to permit requirements • Slippery Walkways • Climbing “Red Tag” scaffold • Loose gratings • Horseplay • Unsafe scaffolding • Poor lighting Unsafe Acts and/ or Conditions may result in personal injuries or even death of co-workers. REPORT THEM TO YOUR SUPERVISOR AND HSE REPRESENTATIVE!!! Examples of Unsafe Acts & Conditions Unsafe Acts Unsafe Conditions Health & Hygiene • All employees are expected to report any areas where they believe that their Health or Hygiene could be improved. • All employees shall have clean potable water • Food services shall be monitored for cleanliness and compliance to standards • Employees shall report to the medical clinic the following situations: • Any personal medical condition that would be contagious to others Environment • All employees will comply with basic environmental policies for the project • The following shall apply: Use waste containers for construction / personal waste No oil or hydrocarbons shall be put into any water area All employees will participate in housekeeping efforts This Is Our Home – Keep It Clean !!! Waste Management • The throwing of trash on the ground is not permitted • All personnel will participate in housekeeping • Marked containers shall be placed on site for waste Containers will be labeled for their trash • Waste will not be allowed to accumulate • All employees are expected to comply with cleaning their work area daily Traffic • Posted Speed Limit within the project site is •The use of seat belts by all personnel including front–back seat passengers is mandatory • Riding in the back of a pick-up truck is prohibited unless the vehicle is constructed by carry passengers • All traffic signs shall be fully obeyed Minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Safety hard hat Safety Glasses Safety Boots Additional PPE as required Protective Clothing Hearing Protection Respiratory Protection Hand and skin Protection 26 WHAT KIND OF PPE DO I NEED? Tool-Box Talks • All employees shall attend tool-box talks • Supervisor’s to conduct tool box talk daily before work starts • Work related hazards for that day and safety requirements to reduce any risk shall be discussed • Supervisors / Foreman and employees shall actively participate • Employees to sign attendance list Barricades/Signs Hard Barriers shall be installed for the following critical activities with scaffold tubes or suitable timbers and wrapped with tape streamers and required signs be posted: • Deep Excavation • Platforms and open Floor Areas Soft Barriers shall be used for the following areas: • Lifting area (crane radius)) • Scaffolding erection and dismantling • Blasting and Painting locations • Hydro-testing locations The above requirements are mandatory as warnings for employees Barricades/Signs Warning (경고표시) Background color shall be yellow with a triangular warning. Safe conditions Background colour shall be green with white symbol or text. Fire Background colour shall be red with white symbol or text. The shape of the sign shall be square or oblong. Compressed Gas Cylinder Safety Cylinders are stored upright, secured and valve caps are in place Cylinder laying in a horizontal position Electrical cord in Contact with the cylinder 31 Compressed Gas Cylinder Safety Compressed gas cylinders must be: • Stored upright and secured • Segregated and labeled content/full/empty • Stored in proper ventilated area • Stored under sun shade • Fire fighting provisions must be provided • Equipped with valve caps • Flash back arrestors must be fitted at the Gauges and the torch end Compressed Gas Cylinder Safety Compressed gas cylinders must be: • Stored upright and Secured • Segregated and Labeled content/full/empty • Stored in proper ventilated area Stored under sun shade • Fire fighting provisions must be provided • Equipped with valve caps • Flash back arrestors must be fitted at the Gauges and the torch end in accordance Electrical Safety • All electrical equipment – cords shall be inspected before use • All electrical equipment shall be color coded for the proper period of inspection • Do Not: • Use damaged cords • Make a homemade electrical plug-in • Allow electrical cords / cables to lay in water or where personnel walk or could hit the cord / cable • Do: • Report all damaged equipment / cords / cables to your supervisor immediately and DO NOT USE!!! Electrical Safety (Cont.) IN… OUT… Ignition/Fire Control • All hot work within the operational plant and any construction area deemed as a permit area requires a signed permit before hot work takes place • When welding or burning any open flame look for sparks •Where required use fire blankets • A fire watch is required for all hot work activities • Never touch a fire extinguisher unless you are going to use it • Never pull a pin from a fire extinguisher and squeeze the trigger – Putting the pin back does not keep the extinguisher from leaking • Turn off all vehicles when re-fueling • Only smoke in designated areas Open Flame/Hot Work Workers performing arc welding operations with the correct PPE Welding Near Wood & Flammable Materials Ladder Safety • No homemade ladders are allowed on the project •Ladders shall be tied at the top to prevent falling or held by an employee at the bottom • Only (1) person will work off a ladder at one time •Step ladders shall be fully opened with hinges fully extended •Top step of step ladder shall not be used – Best practice is to leave the top 3-steps empty.) •A step ladder shall always be held at the bottom by an employee • AT NO TIME will an employee use any ladder and not have both hands free for climbing – No carrying tools and climbing.) Scaffold Safety All scaffold metal components shall be sound and free of penetrating rust, breaks, bends through inspection  Do not work on unguarded scaffold platforms  Do not remove any components of scaffold structure What is wrong with this scaffold? Scaffold Safety  DO NOT USE OR CLIMB scaffolding with Red Tag  Green Tag will be displayed on completed and approved scaffolding HHI HHI  Only qualified scaffolders will erect, dismantle or alter a scaffold.) Scaffold Safety Can result in this Untrained Scaffolders Working at Height • Working above 1.8 meters • requires full safety harness • with double lanyard attached • • Fall protection is 100% • mandatory, noncompliance • is subject to instant • dismissal from the Project Working at Height • Always tie off overhead, • never below the waist • DO NOT TIE OFF to electrical • conduit, plastic piping or • floor gratings Working At Height Fall Protection 100% Tie Off THIS COULD BE YOU! Lifting and Rigging Inspect and tag all rigging and lifting gears Do not use Home-made Damaged – Spliced slings or other rigging materials and accessories Unsafe rigging gear will be immediately removed from site All chains, com-a-longs, shackles shall be inspected and approved Tag lines of 3-meters shall be used for all lifts regardless of their weight All Lifting activities shall be stopped in the following circumstances:  Heavy rain, snow or storm  Strong winds  Lightning  Poor visibility Lifting and Rigging There are three main hazards Identifying Hazards: when using cranes and slings: Keep your eyes open Crane failure Dropping a load Be constantly aware of the crane’s movements Striking personnel and/or equipment with load or crane Stay out of the way of the machine and its moving parts Listen and heed the crane’s warning signal. Get out of the way—and fast Never exceed the crane’s rated capacity, or the maximum load it can safely handle Totally Unacceptable 51 Consequences Incident & Injury Free (IIF) • IIF is a culture that is the basis for the project safety programs • IIF means that everyone can go home everyday without any injury • • IIF is good for you and your family • More training and coaching sessions will take place during the project • Why Safety is Very Important??? 54 Commitment Slide Commitment Slide Remember… It’s all about them what would they do without me? Personal Commitment – I will not to engage in at-risk behaviors, and I will perform my work with an incident free mindset. I promise to stop unsafe acts and conditions. I will not ignore them. If I see a problem, I will own it and take action to prevent someone from being hurt 56 57 58 59
