WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Table of Contents CEO Introduction 3 Innovation Driven Sustainability 4 Enabling Long-Term Success 4 Together with our Stakeholders 5 Materiality 7 Governance 9 Customers & Solutions 10 Ambitions and Strategy 10 Policy and Targets 10 Performance and Impact 11 Case Studies 12 Resource Management 14 Ambitions and Strategy 14 Policy and Targets 15 Performance and Impact 16 Case Studies 18 Community Involvement 19 Ambitions and Strategy 19 Policy and Targets 19 Performance and Impact 21 Case Studies 21 Employee Engagement 25 Ambitions and Strategy 25 Policy and Targets 25 Performance and Impact 27 Case Studies 28 About This Report 30 Company Profile 31 Awards & Honors 36 Memberships 38 Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact 40 Global Reporting Initiative 40 Global Compact 46 Contact & Report Information 49 This PDF version is provided for users of the online 2013 Sustainability Report (available through www.wolterskluwer.com) that prefer reading in print. The report is only provided as a download and not available in printed format from the company. 2 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO Introduction Sustainability is at the heart of Wolters Kluwer’s growth We further distributed our Standards of Engagements for strategy. We see sustainability as a critical element in our Suppliers, ensuring that our suppliers incorporate Wolters core business – one that drives our innovation agenda and Kluwer’s social and environmental goals in their operations. improves our customer satisfaction. We team up with our suppliers to ensure awareness and agreement with these Standards. I strongly believe Wolters Kluwer’s services add value to the communities in which our professional customers work. This report provides an overview of Wolters Kluwer’s A good example is the more than 13 million professionals performance as regards its environmental, social, and who use our Wolters Kluwer Health services when making financial impact. In addition, it gives an overview of how urgent decisions to improve their patients’ health. With our our products help to solve current societal challenges in sophisticated sustainable solutions we enable our customers a sustainable way. There are many examples of this, such to improve people’s lives and to make efficient use of as Ovid, an innovative information solution that offers resources all around the world. improved access to medical research findings, and TeamMate, a management software system that provides an integrated Together with our 19,000 employees worldwide, we have paperless strategy for managing audits. worked on integrating sustainability into our business and will continue to do so in 2014. Our efforts lead to Looking back on 2013, we can be proud of what we have the mitigation of long-term business risks, efficient use achieved. I expect more results of these efforts to appear of resources throughout the supply chain, and increased in the coming year. They will serve as a solid base for profitable and sustainable growth, as well as a greater further sustainable progress that benefit our customers, contribution to society, our customers, and employees. communities, and society. Our sustainability strategy continues to rest upon four major building blocks: 1 Customers & Solutions: Our high-quality solutions Nancy McKinstry contribute to the effectiveness of our customers’ work CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board and to society. 2 Resource Management: We reduce the environmental impact of our company, our suppliers, and our customers. This fits our transition from a paper-based to an innovative digital products and services company that strives for data center efficiency. 3 Community Involvement: Our businesses and employees and their solutions help to improve communities in which we are active. 4 Employee Engagement: Our working environment creates an atmosphere of inspiration and ambition that delivers innovative solutions, year after year. In 2013, we worked hard to expand this strategy and improve the sustainability performance of Wolters Kluwer worldwide. We again took our data collection to a higher level of completeness and reliability. The data collection process supports our transparency ambitions and we integrate this process step-by-step with the collection and consolidation of financial data. We strongly support this development, as sustainability is an integrated part of our business, rather than an isolated topic. 3 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Innovation Driven Sustainability Enabling Long-Term Success offices work. It serves as a guide that helps to determine local objectives and to accommodate the demands of Long-term business success is only achievable when local stakeholders. a business operates in harmony with its environment. Our sustainability efforts are focused on creating this enabling environment. l Maxim e nta ize We operate in a market that is in constant transition. The nm t Minimize En means of delivering our services to professionals are changing ds l Han hake rapidly. Similarly, the demands of our customers and their Foot viro cia customers are in transition. Innovationpri So In order to guarantee long-term success, we make sure that: Driven n Sustainability • Wolters Kluwer develops innovative products and services that meet relevant societal demands. We aim for continued customer satisfaction and future added value M ax lt s to society. im iz e e su • We acknowledge that resources are finite and aim Fin a n cial R to minimize our environmental impact and natural resource use. • Wolters Kluwer engages with business relevant stakeholders in order to accommodate their changing Our continuous efforts reflect that sustainability is a demands, concerns, and needs. strong driver for innovation and customer satisfaction, ensuring long-term business growth. We will continue to In short, we respect the interest of people, planet, and invest in sustainability in 2014, guided by our four major profit. We combine a strong focus on financial results with building blocks: minimizing our environmental footprint and maximizing our contribution to society, or social handshake. 1 Customers & Solutions: Our high-quality solutions contribute to the effectiveness of our customers’ work and At the global level, we have established strategic goals and to society. developed measures to assess our performance. Our global 2 Resource Management: We reduce the environmental strategy also respects the diverse contexts in which our local impact of our company, our suppliers, and our customers. Kleos creates a virtual office environment to deliver integrated legal content and Across Europe, a rapidly increasing number of professionals practice management resources. in law firms are reaching new levels of productivity with the cloud-based Kleos solution from Wolters Kluwer. Supporting the practice of Kleos, an end-to-end legal practice management law, Kleos offers trusted tool, streamlines the practice of law, plus the practice expert content from Wolters management of the law firm. It provides a complete virtual Kluwer’s flagship legal office for activities including case management, document content databases to provide management, email, tasks, and accounting, anytime and lawyers with the premier anywhere in a secure, cloud-based environment. content they need to make confident decisions. Kleos also Now offered in eight different countries across Europe, supports improved practice Kleos is the first solution that fully leverages the latest management capabilities with cloud and mobile technologies in a highly secure convenience and ease. 4 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This fits our transition from a paper-based to an innovative shared value. It also helps us to understand the current and digital products and services company that strives for data future needs and priorities of our customers. center efficiency. 3 Community Involvement: Our businesses and employees and their solutions help to improve communities in which we operate. l ie er s 4 Employee Engagement: Our working environment pp stom Su creates an atmosphere of inspiration and ambition that rs Cu delivers innovative solutions, year after year. s& M Re an so er ns ag ur om io st lut em ce en Cu So Together with our Stakeholders t InnovationDriven Sustainability Operating in harmony with our business environment is only possible in close cooperation with our stakeholders. They C ee t In om strongly influence our current and future business success. At oy en pl em vo m Investors lv un em it the same time, we facilitate the efforts of our stakeholders to Em gag en y En t be of value to society. Our stakeholders consist of a diverse s m oy Co group of customers, employees, suppliers, communities in pl ee m which we work, and shareholders/investors. The importance Em un ity and influence of these stakeholder groups will be described below. We also have frequent contact with third party stakeholders that share our interest in sustainability, such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), government Suppliers institutions, media, educational institutions, research We have taken important steps in our upstream supply institutes, and civil society representatives. chains. We want to be certain our ethical and environmental standards are respected throughout the supply chain. Our Active engagement with our stakeholders gives us a deeper Standards of Engagement for Suppliers communicate understanding of their different needs and priorities. to our suppliers what is expected of them. The code was This approach reduces our organizational and product established in 2012 and includes sustainability standards performance risk and identifies opportunities to generate that Wolters Kluwer wishes to uphold. It is based on the Wolters Kluwer Spain helps immigrants learn law ’Conoce tus Leyes‘ is a pioneering initiative at both a national and international level. The Community of Madrid Wolters Kluwer Spain helps thousands of immigrants to has been the first Spanish and European region to choose learn the fundamentals of Spanish law through a special to equip immigrants with knowledge of the fundamentals program. ​​The course ‘Conoce tus Leyes’ (‘Know Your of Spanish law, teaching them their main rights and Laws’) is an initiative of the Wolters Kluwer Foundation, obligations, and how they are regulated by Spanish legal the Cremades & Calvo-Sotelo Foundation, and the requirements. government of Madrid. Since its inception in 2009, this integration and participation program has been followed by 28,500 Spanish and non-Spanish citizens. The number of participants has increased every year. Almost 10,000 immigrants participated in 2012 in this program and in 2013, more than 13,000 people have followed the training sessions. 5 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration Investors of Human Rights, the eight core labor standards of Investors increasingly see the value added through the International Labor Organization, and the United sustainability. They actively scan the environmental, social, Nations Global Compact, a framework for businesses that and governance (ESG) policies and practices of companies aligns our operations and strategies with universally accepted they invest in. We are conscious of their demands for principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, the transparency on sustainability and act accordingly. We environment, and anti-corruption. have participated in reports and sustainability analyses made by Amundi, Corporate Knights, EIRIS, CDP, DJSI, We started asking our main suppliers to sign the Standards Goldman Sachs, Involve, MACIF, Natixis, Oddo, Oekom, of Engagement for Suppliers and will continue this effort Sustainalytics, VBDO, and Vigeo. in 2014. Wolters Kluwer’s sustainability performance was again Suppliers which operate in high-risk countries are monitored recognized in 2013 by the Dow Jones Sustainability™ on their social and environmental standards. In the event that Index (DJSI). For the sixth time in a row Wolters Kluwer was the standards cannot be met, we see it as our responsibility included in the media sector list. In addition, Wolters Kluwer to find solutions and invest in improvement measures. has been awarded the Bronze Class Sustainability Award 2014 from RobecoSAM, as a part of “The Sustainability Customers Yearbook” 2014. The Bronze Class achievement demonstrates In our efforts to fulfill the needs of our current and future customers, close engagement with this stakeholder group is of great importance to the company. We analyze customer drivers and future in order to devise new solutions. We Wolters Kluwer Talent Review process involve customers in the development of new high-quality solutions. For example, Teleroute® engaged with its customers and discovered demand for an additional freight exchange program tailored especially to small freight or small van operators. An important means of testing customer satisfaction and impact is the Net Promoter Score (NPS®). NPS® tests whether customers would recommend Wolters Kluwer based on their experiences with our products. NPS® is used widely by Wolters Kluwer businesses throughout our company. Employees Our company consists of 19,054 employees, who contribute to the value we add for our professional customers and Wolters Kluwer is committed to fostering a culture that society in general. Every employee has his or her own is focused on talent development. The Global Talent focus and individual insights, based on his or her unique Acquisition & Development team is looking at ways to background. Wolters Kluwer fosters the sharing of these help nurture that growth. diverse insights within the company. We collect suggestions, innovative ideas, and feedback for improvement. We Some of the initiatives already in place include annual also create an environment that supports the ability of global talent reviews to build greater awareness of our people with different professional skills, nationalities, and employees and drive greater internal movement across backgrounds, to aid the development of new ideas and to divisions, functions, and geographic regions. The team approach challenges from a different angle. is also focused on launching a best-in-class leadership development curriculum and continuing to drive a Our ambitious talent development strategy attracts the Future Leader Summer Intern Program, to attract and right people to the right role, at the right time. Several of our recruit students from selected universities feeding into businesses have conducted employee engagement surveys in our early career pipeline. Additional plans for 2014 2013. In 2014, we will roll out a standard engagement survey include the launch of a global performance management throughout the company. strategy and process to support our focus on creating a culture of high performance and accountability, and a global employee engagement survey. 6 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Wolters Kluwer’s continued commitment to sustainable Formulating policies and/or targets for the themes indicated business and an excellent sustainability performance. Wolters as having both a high stakeholder interest and a high Kluwer was also listed in the Corporate Knights Global 100 impact on Wolters Kluwer, is an ongoing activity. One of List of the most sustainable large corporations in the world its outcomes is the increasing share of electronic solutions (2013: position 34, 2014: position 35). This list is announced compared with paper solutions year by year. annually at the World Economic Forum in Davos and ranks the best performing companies worldwide on a number of High stakeholder interest and high impact on specific sustainability indicators. Wolters Kluwer Our stakeholders have expressed great interest in the Communities following five topics with a high impact on Wolters Kluwer: Our employees and customers work and live within access to information, customer data protection, energy communities that influence them and are influenced by and emissions operations, paper use, and diversity and equal them. Engaging with communities is therefore relevant for opportunities. Customers, analysts, non-governmental the company. We actively develop initiatives that improve organizations (NGOs), and others showed their interest local quality of life. In collaboration with local non-profit in these themes during the year. At the same time, these organizations and NGOs, we contribute to well-being in sustainability topics are of high business relevance to Wolters these communities. Kluwer. They are typically integrated into our core policies. We therefore try to communicate our performance record on these topics. Materiality Customer data protection Sustainability covers a broad range of themes. Wolters Privacy is high on the agenda of many organizations, Kluwer is interested in the topics that impact our future including many of our stakeholders and our own company. business success and that are relevant for our stakeholders. Customer data protection in particular is our highest priority In order to gain a better understanding of topics relevant from a business as well as a sustainability perspective. We to both our business and our stakeholders, Wolters Kluwer have policies and training programs in place to educate our conducted a materiality analysis. The materiality index takes employees about data protection. into account input from our broad range of stakeholders. The following graph shows our current understanding of the Access to information relevant topics, and the level of interest of our stakeholders. Information is of vital importance for development and The results are based on the variety of contacts we had with equal opportunities around the globe. Our stakeholders the internal and external stakeholders from which we derived recognize the positive impact that our core business has on their most important sustainability themes. Understanding societies. They often point out the relevance to society of the relevance of specific sustainability topics for our broad information access. Through innovation and constant stakeholders is in our mutual interest and can support us in improvement, we make sure that access to information fits building our sustainability strategy. the ever-changing environment of our customers. At the same time, we strive to share relevant information with other groups outside our customer base and to broaden our High Social Access to Customer data customer base in emerging markets. Through blogs, seminars, responsibility information protection supply chain and expert meetings we provide society at large access to Responsible Energy & Paper use information. This topic is important for business of Wolters emissions paper use operations Kluwer, our current position in society, and our future Stakeholders interest Community Diversity & equal competitiveness. investment opportunities Energy usage digital & services Paper use Paper use forms a significant natural resource impact and Waste management we keep minimizing paper use as an important topic for our sustainability strategy. Our influence as a company on the Water use amount of paper used is high and we keep on pressing to Low Impact on Wolters Kluwer High lower that amount. 7 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy and emissions operations Both our operations and those of our suppliers and Baseline measurement customers produce emissions based on their use of energy. CO2 emissions reduction is now a publicly acknowledged The Green Team is a group of Wolters Kluwer Asia Pacific sustainability measure. Our influence on reducing emissions staff members committed to minimizing the company’s has declined in recent years due to an ever increasing environmental impact. Representatives from Australia, electronic portfolio, as explained further on in the ‘Energy New Zealand, and Malaysia hold monthly meetings usage digital and services’ section. to agree on projects aimed at reducing our carbon footprint, in our office and further afield. Diversity and equal opportunities At Wolters Kluwer, we believe diversity sparks innovation. In 2013, the Green Team selected an external body to Diversity has a significant impact on the company and we measure carbon emissions related to CCH Australia’s devote a great deal of effort into maintaining a diverse group people, paper, power, air travel, and land travel to arrive of colleagues. It goes without saying that equal opportunities at a baseline carbon footprint. This will enable the team are a precondition for realizing diversity. to identify the improvements needed to help CCH Australia become carbon neutral or carbon positive. High stakeholder interest and low impact on Wolters Kluwer We try to be as transparent as possible about our ambitions and performance on the following three topics that our stakeholders consider important. Social responsibility supply chain Our business inputs rely on our suppliers. Wolters Kluwer wants to ensure that these inputs are being purchased through suppliers that adhere to our standards of social of energy consumption used for our digital services is and ethical conduct. Wolters Kluwer’s suppliers can help of increasing importance. Our influence on the amount to achieve this aim. Our Standards of Engagement for of energy use related to these products and services is Suppliers reflect that effort. significantly lower than it used to be. Data center, server, and device efficiency does often not lie directly in our sphere of Responsible paper use influence. It is still important to understand the dynamics Responsible paper use is linked to sustainable forestry, around the increasing use of resources for these products. which helps to secure long-term ecosystem services. Our sustainability strategy aims to closely monitor and Low stakeholder interest and low impact on stimulate the use of sustainable paper. We consider ourselves Wolters Kluwer responsible for the environmental impacts of our natural resource consumption and continue to pursue this strategy. Waste management Although waste management is not considered a priority Community investment by our stakeholders and does not have a high impact on We feel a responsibility to take good care of our environment. our business, we still include this topic in our sustainability We are part and parcel of the community and that is also strategy. why we want to contribute to that community with our time, energy, and expertise. The community contributions align Waste is a topical and important issue in itself, but with our corporate identity and business objectives. Wolters Kluwer does not generate waste streams with high environmental impacts. As part of our corporate citizenship, Low stakeholder interest and high impact on we are aware of the waste streams we produce and closely Wolters Kluwer monitor recycling processes or other waste treatment We have identified one sustainability topic which is of lower measures. We report our progress on reduction of paper use concern to stakeholders, yet has a high impact on Wolters which is our most significant waste stream. Kluwer and which we consider an important element of our sustainability strategy. Water use Similar to our waste streams, our water use does not create Energy usage digital and services a high environmental impact. We monitor our water use as Given Wolters Kluwer’s transformation from a paper-based to part of the environmental performance of our business units. a mainly digital products and services company, the impact 8 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance These principles are reflected in our: • Company Values and Business Principles; Sustainability is an integral part of our company and is • Whistleblower Policy; supported at all levels of our organization. The Executive • Acceptable Use Policy; Board is committed to further integrating sustainability into • Mobile Devices and iPad Policy; our business. Under the leadership of Nancy McKinstry, CEO • Global Travel Policy; and Chairman of the Executive Board, Maarten Thompson, • Insider Trading Code; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Company • Global IT Security Policy; Secretary, is responsible for the company’s sustainability • Environmental Policy; program and our Corporate Sustainability team. The Short• Standards of Engagement for Suppliers; Term Incentive Plan (STIP) was once again partly based on • Human Rights Policy. revenues from electronic products as a percentage of total The last six policies and our Company Values and Business revenues. The payment of the STIP bonus for each Executive Principles were updated in 2013. All our publicly available Board member only takes place after verification by the policies can be found on the Wolters Kluwer website. external auditor of the financial statements of the company, including the financial performance indicators on which the Besides our policies, which all employees can access on the STIP targets are based. intranet, we also made further progress on our compliance training programs on Business Principles and Company Our Corporate Sustainability team is responsible for the Values, Competition/Anti-Trust Law, Anti-Corruption1 and development and implementation of new policies, active Information Security Awareness. The programs, translated stakeholder engagement, and the collection of annual into nine languages, are available for managers in most of sustainability data. Each division at Wolters Kluwer is our global businesses. An overview of managers who have encouraged to set up and implement its own sustainability undergone training in these programs can be found below. initiatives. On a local level, our operating companies implement policies and compliance regulations that suit their specific local context. Business Principles 2013 2012 Guidance as % of Management % of Employees With Access 2013 2012 to Measures Handling Provided Access to the Complaints and Grievances Business Principles 100% 100% Completed the Business Whistleblowing Program 100% 100% Principles Training 88% 70% One or Several Internal Measures 98% 97% Completed Security Awareness Training 89% Internal measures referred to in this table consist of a Completed Anti-Corruption help line, counseling and/or an independent person or Training 88% depart­ment in charge of solving complaints. In 2013, Completed Competition we have seen a slight increase in the total percentage of Law Training 89% employees with access to these measures. In 2013, we have been measuring additional training programs. An increase in business principles training for Good corporate governance is key to maintaining our 2013 reflects our implementation efforts on this credibility among internal and external stakeholders. relevant topic. National and international regulations guide us in realizing corporate governance principles. These include the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and international guidelines, such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 1 In 2013 no confirmed incidents of corruption have been reported. 9 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customers & Solutions Ambitions and Strategy and accounting. This saves legal professionals valuable time so they can focus their attention on what matters most: Wolters Kluwer helps to drive sustainability worldwide by their clients. providing information solutions to customers when they have to be right. We help 90% of U.S. banks and a total of To achieve and maintain compliance, financial institutions 210,000 tax and accounting firms to comply with national desire robust solutions that enhance user productivity by and international regulations. In more than 150 countries, improving the breadth and quality of data. The Wiz Sentri™ our solutions improve patient conditions and save lives platform provides an enterprise view of financial crime risk through the 13 million professionals we service. In addition, across the organization along with workflow capabilities, we support 250,000 legal professionals worldwide to helping provide more accurate crime detection and more improve their quality of work. By providing our customers effective prevention. with the right information, we help make our communities a better place to live in. UpToDate® answers clinical questions, changes decisionmaking, and is associated with improved patient outcomes, In 2013, we incorporated this approach in our new worldwide quality of care, productivity savings, and hospital brand strategy that revolves around our new tagline performance. ‘When you have to be right’. It represents our commitment to solving the challenges that our customers and their communities face each day. Wolters Kluwer Health boosts Chinese publishing Our products impact people’s lives and natural resource use. This puts sustainability at the core of our business, enabling Wolters Kluwer Health works together with the professionals to produce a positive impact and add value to People’s Medical Publishing House (PMPH), the the communities they work in. Our product development largest medical publisher in China, to expand their includes a constant dialogue with our customers. It helps domestic and foreign publishing market. us find innovative solutions that match future needs. Furthermore, it suits our constant focus on customer The parties are making joint efforts to work with top satisfaction. domestic and foreign authors to develop and publish medical and nursing titles for both domestic and international markets. Wolters Kluwer’s cooperation Policy and Targets with PMPH began in the 1990s. Since then, they have co-published more than 200 titles of teaching materials Focus on innovation and reference books in medicine and nursing. A continuously changing business environment requires innovative solutions. Annually, we invest 8 to 10% of our Wolters Kluwer publishes world-class content for revenues in product innovation. Sustainability is an important professionals across the globe. Through cooperation starting point for our innovation agenda. It reflects the with PMPH, we can better serve China’s doctors, nurses, needs of our customers, who look for efficient solutions and students during the medical reforms in China, by that increase their positive impact on society. Employees providing leading, credible, evidence-based content in play a key role in the innovation process, since they have electronic and print formats. an overview of changing customer needs. Employees are encouraged to spend time with customers in order to understand their workflow and new demands for information consumption. Our Global Innovation Award calls on employees to submit their most innovative ideas and solutions to reinvent the way we do business towards a more sustainable company. For example, Kleos, an end-to-end legal practice management tool, streamlines the practice of law, plus the practice management of the law firm. It provides a complete virtual office for activities including case management, document management, email, tasks, 10 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT General Counsel NAVIGATOR addresses information In order to develop General Counsel NAVIGATOR, Wolters needs of corporate counsel Kluwer conducted extensive interviews with a variety of corporate legal departments and learned that on average, The General Counsel NAVIGATOR is a web-based interface corporate counsels need specifically designed to address the unique research and to find an answer to their daily workflow demands of small to mid-size corporate question in 15 minutes legal departments. It allows corporate counsels to quickly or less. General Counsel pinpoint information and answer the plethora of questions NAVIGATOR enables they face on any number of legal topics using a single busy corporate counsels convenient workflow tool. The time-saving benefits and to quickly find what they actionable content of General Counsel NAVIGATOR are need, in an easy to use critical elements that have long been absent from other format, on a wide variety legal information solutions available to corporate counsels. of legal issues that can change from one day to the next. Customer satisfaction agencies, lawyers, and corporate law departments can make Innovation focuses on our future propositions. Our customer critical decisions. One example is CT Corporation System, satisfaction program, on the other hand, focuses on our which supplies software for corporate business compliance in current role for our customers, ensuring that we meet over 35 countries for more than 1.6 million entities. Although the real needs by using the appropriate means. In order its origins go back as far as 1892, CT Corporation System to measure customer satisfaction with Wolters Kluwer’s dedicatedly supported more than 300,000 start-up and solutions, we implemented the Net Promoter Score (NPS®) small businesses in 2013, as well as 75% of Fortune 1000 for our global customer groups in 2010. We measure NPS® companies. for each product separately and according to different market sectors and locations. Based on the results, we can provide The Tax & Accounting division provides information and the right employees with the right information to take services for 20,000 accounting firms, corporate finance appropriate action that helps our customers. departments, tax and auditing departments, government agencies, universities, and libraries worldwide to improve their efficiency, flexibility, and transparency. In 2013, Performance and Impact 5,842 employees worked in this division worldwide. They are assisting customers with the transition from paper Wolters Kluwer’s solutions are developed with the aim to digital accounting. To do this, our employees create of creating a positive impact on society. Innovation and solutions that increase transparency, resource efficiency, and customer satisfaction are key to staying ahead of the curve collective value creation throughout a range of supply chains. and providing sustainable innovation services. In 2013, One example is ADDISON®, a tax and accounting software Wolters Kluwer continued to invest a considerable proportion company that creates more financial transparency in the of its revenues in innovation. We received approximately German market. 700 submissions from employees in 2013 for our Global Innovation Award, providing a pool of solutions with a high The Health division provides medical, nursing, and related positive impact on society. health information resources to health professionals, students, and libraries all around the world. More than Our four divisions were highly motivated last year to provide 13 million professionals use these services, which are and develop sustainable solutions for various purposes developed by the 2,779 employees of this division. They help and customers. professionals make critical decisions that directly influence people’s lives by improving outcomes, access, and efficiency The Legal & Regulatory division provides legal and business of medical treatment. One example is Ovid, designed as professionals with law, business, and regulatory compliance an innovative information technology for improved access solutions that help them manage complex and fast-changing to medical research findings. Ovid has developed into an information. This division employed 7,263 people in 2013. It information services company that publishes more than provides expert information, workflow solutions, and services 4,500 eBooks, 1,300 peer-reviewed journals, and over on a constant basis so that universities, governmental 100 full-text databases. 11 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Financial & Compliance Services division enables audit, match their freight to an appropriately sized vehicle, saving compliance, finance, and risk management professionals to transport energy. make clear-sighted decisions. The 2,339 employees of this division work for a diverse group of industries, including banking, insurance, life science, energy, and transportation. Supporting insights One of the many products offered by this division is TeamMate, an audit management software system that Gaining financial stability provides an efficient solution for paperless audit processes. The financial industry is increasingly bound by legal Some 90,000 auditors from over 2,200 organizations used requirements that demand sound practices of critical data this service in 2013, realizing impressive efficiency gains and management. As regulations and requirements grow more saving significant quantities of paper. complex, many financial companies need new tools to cope with more complex data streams. Our financial solutions make it more efficient and easier to follow those rules and Case Studies regulations. The ultimate benefits to society range from a more robust taxation system to more secure private The following examples showcase these solutions and their bank deposits. added value to society. Efficient use of natural resources Teleroute® for small transport operators Teleroute® has adapted its products Teleroute® PRO and Teleroute® ACTIVE with new tools to post offers or find small freights and small vehicles. This will benefit small operators, as well as larger transport companies which often have a van in their fleet that is not being used optimally. In the internet era and e-business boom, the road transport sector has more small loads that need to be delivered. Teleroute engaged with customers to understand if small freights or small vans offers could fill a demand on the freight exchange. The results are clear: many operators want to use Efficient use of human resources the freight exchange to post small freight or advertise their small vans. Exam preparation tool for nurses PassPoint, powered by PrepU™, is an adaptive learning and exam prep tool for nursing students. It simulates the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN®) with comprehensive, adaptive practice exams, and includes access to thousands of pages of evidence-based, clinically-oriented content. It is the first learning tool that fully integrates content with the adaptive learning system, so students can immediately work to fill learning gaps as they discover them. More than 98 % of U.S. nursing students who used PassPoint passed Therefore, Teleroute customers who have freight smaller the exam in 2013, exceeding the than 1.6 tons can now benefit from detailing their offer national passing average by more with the four new check boxes on the freight exchange. than 10 percentage points, according Van operators can find freight suitable for their vehicles to research conducted with the more easily, while small freight providers can make their load National Center for Research more easily identifiable. This helps small freight operators on Evaluation, Standards and Student Testing at the University 12 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of California Los Angeles (UCLA). UCLA evaluated PrepU™ Kluwer Arbitration Blog presents international arbitration results in 16 undergraduate nursing courses involving nearly news and information in a timely and fresh way by enlisting 700 students. diverse experts and guest authors, each of whom adds a distinct voice to the subject matter at hand. The goal of Research has also found that students who use PrepU™ the blog is to present unique insights into international to support classroom and textbook learning frequently arbitration, authored by leading experts from Wolters outperform both prior classes and current classmates who Kluwer, law firms, arbitration institutions, and academia. did not use the tool. We have had the good fortune to bring together respected thought leaders in a forum that both informs and inspires the profession to provide meaningful and practical guidance Access to information to audiences who would not otherwise have access to this sphere of respected luminaries. As a market-leading information services and publishing company, Wolters Kluwer serves professionals around the globe. Through innovation and constant improvement, we make sure that access to this vital information is tailored to the constantly changing environment of our customers. We believe this information enables people to have a positive impact on society. That is why we strive to share relevant information with other groups outside our customer base. Through blogs, seminars, and expert meetings, we provide access to information for society at large. Kluwer Arbitration Blog earns prestigious CPR Award The Kluwer Arbitration Blog has received a prestigious CPR Award from the International Institute for Conflict Prevention & Resolution (CPR Institute). The CPR Institute is a non-profit think tank and alliance of global corporations, law firms, scholars, and public institutions, dedicated to the principles of commercial conflict prevention and alternative dispute resolution. The Outstanding Electronic Media award is presented annually to a company, group, or individual that has produced exceptional electronic media focused on the field of alternative dispute resolution. 13 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Resource Management Ambitions and Strategy Due to these developments, we believe that electronic services are not only a more sustainable alternative, but also Natural resources are a key link in delivering our solutions. pave the way towards an information services industry that Analyzing the impact of our core business, we have identified puts less pressure on natural resources in the future. three main categories of natural resources. We focus on these categories in our ambition to minimize our environmental footprint: Paper fades, tapping rises • Paper use for publications; • Energy use for running software-based services; and As large volumes of the medical books are traded in for • Resources used for transportation. digital solutions, such as UpToDate®, Wolters Kluwer is changing medical practice. Doctors no longer call their Within these categories, we actively monitor our environ­ peers to discuss their latest scientific articles. Nowadays, mental impacts and minimize them where possible. At the doctors can discuss their articles on a tablet and make same time, we create an impact on both the upstream and their procedures more transparent. downstream supply chains. Wolters Kluwer also develops products and services to minimize the natural resources use In a Bloomberg article, Ohio doctor Mrunal Shah of customers. states how he gives away four boxes with medical texts. He taps his iPad for medical information and cannot Wolters Kluwer has transformed from a paper-based remember the last time he opened a book. publishing company into a primarily electronic information products and services company. Our electronic products “There is no paper chart in any of my hospitals, and it and services help customers to save time and natural is rare to see people even using paper and pen,” says resources. For the 23% that was paper-based in 2013, Shah, 41. Wolters Kluwer targets the paper to be certified recycled or certified responsibly sourced by the FSC (Forest Stewardship Today, most U.S. patient records are collected digitally in Council), PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). Wolters Kluwer has Certification), or SFI (Sustainable Forestry Initiative) developed a range of solutions that can be integrated programs. with these EMRs, making paperless patient care possible. ProVation Care Plans, for example, help clinicians Customers to directly access both care plan information and all Wolters Kluwer’s solutions support organizations in making accompanying evidence-based content at the point of the transition towards non-paper based administration, care through their EMR. communication, and information consumption. Some 77% of our 2013 revenue was generated from digital solutions and services. Besides efficiency gains, this transition results in increasing amounts of paper saved. The ultimate environmental impact of these changes still depends on customer decisions. Take, for example, the type of device or energy our customers choose. Each device has different levels of energy consumption. Fortunately, our transition does not occur in isolation. Two other rapid developments are helping boost the positive environmental impact from our shift towards more electronic services. First, there is the current energy transition towards more renewable energy. Second, data centers increasingly show significant energy efficiency improvements. 14 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Relocating the sustainable way • 31 cubicles and 7 sets of office furniture were shipped from the Ambler office to be reused in a new office in Our Wolters Kluwer Health colleagues from our Ambler Houston, Texas. office moved in with their colleagues in the Philadelphia • Two 30-yard dumpsters of general trash removed and office in November 2013. Sustainability was an integral recycled during clean-up activities. part of the relocation process. When moving out, • An estimated $11,000 of unused office supplies were the Wolters Kluwer Health colleagues applied the recovered from multiple storage caches and used for our sustainability principle in three ways: reduce, re-use, central supply. and recycle. The sustainability operation was directly coordinated by the business units themselves, having the best overview of the office needs. Key highlights include: • A total of sixty-one tons of paper were recycled. The site included 479 lateral file units that consisted of 1,809 file drawers of retained paper files. • 321 computers and components, such as monitors and printers, were collected during clean up and recycled. Wolters Kluwer’s operations Policy and Targets In our operations, we always try to lower our environmental impact by reducing our use of natural resources. Impact Customers assessments for each location help us make smarter Innovative mobile or cloud-based solutions are key to the decisions for improvement. Firstly, paper use is reduced to growth strategy of Wolters Kluwer. Annually, we invest a minimum and secondly, we target to increase the use of 8 to 10% of revenues in product innovation. The Global certified sustainable paper. In order to reduce electricity use Innovation Award encourages all employees to submit their related to our services, we focus on making data centers innovations, taking sustainability into account. Through such more efficient. The third category of core business resources initiatives, we aim to stay ahead of the curve by providing is related to transportation. We minimize transportation solutions that entail lower resource use throughout the where possible and promote sustainable alternatives, such supply chain. as videoconferencing. In 2014, we will invest in improved videoconferencing equipment in various Wolters Kluwer Wolters Kluwer’s operations offices. In 2013, the Global Procurement departments cooperated with the Corporate Sustainability team to put our resourceSuppliers related sustainability ambitions into action. Wolters Kluwer uses its influence to alter the environmental impacts of its upstream supply chain partners. We ask Our Environmental Policy was updated and published. It our suppliers to adhere to environmental standards, for applies to all Wolters Kluwer companies and business units transparency about resource use, and for their cooperation worldwide. The policy includes global goals such as: in order to improve sustainable practices throughout the supply chain. • Incorporating environmental considerations into core business plans and management practices; • Encouraging employees to use paper that is approved by a recognized third party certified forest sustainability standard, and whenever paper is purchased, to measure whether this paper is certified in accordance with the standards of FSC, PEFC, or SFI; and • Promoting alternatives to business travel, such as teleconferencing, videoconferencing, and presentations via internet. 15 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Suppliers Wolters Kluwer’s operations Wolters Kluwer published a supplier engagement policy Our environmental footprint reduction strategy focuses on on sustainability-related topics in 2012. These Standards energy, paper, and transportation. of Engagement for Suppliers reflect our ambition to be part of a responsible supply chain. With regard to resource We measure the environmental performance of our business management, we focus on responsibility and traceability of units in terms of energy, water use, and paper. We also natural resources, transparency on hazardous substances use, measure the carbon emissions-related impact of businessand responsible waste treatment. related air travel. As a services-based company, our supply base mostly consists of indirect service providers, including IT Energy Consumption 2013 2012 consultancy, transport, and print. We ask all suppliers to comply with these Standards of Engagement for Suppliers. Total Energy Use in GWh 118 116 For suppliers in high-risk countries, Wolters Kluwer monitors Electricity from Renewable the certifications used by these organizations. Sources 12% 10% Total CO2 Emissions from Energy in Metric Ton 37,562 39,838 Performance and Impact Tons of CO2 Emissions from Energy per FTE 1.9 2.1 General Wolters Kluwer strives to lower environmental impact by Energy use is based on electricity, natural gas, heating oil, reducing use of natural resources throughout the supply and ethane. Data is collected for facilities that cover more chain. Paper is an important resource for our sector. Through than 1,000 m2 and is extrapolated for all Wolters Kluwer innovation and deep customer understanding we try to facilities. CO2 emissions are calculated with location improve the percentage of revenues from electronic services specific conversion factors. Average Full-Time Equivalent and reduce our paper consumption. (FTE) is used for the per FTE calculations. The table on ‘Revenue by Media’ shows how we performed in Due to corrections in energy usage data for 2012, the 2013 on this critical sustainability indicator. figures above changed in comparison to the Sustainability Report 2012. Revenue by Media 2013 2012 In 2013, we have seen an increase in total energy use. Due to a different mix of energy sources, total CO2 Media Format emissions decreased. We have also seen an increase in the • Digital Publishing / proportion of renewable energy use. Although we are often Online 29% 27% dependent on our local suppliers for renewable energy • Software / Workflow access, we strive to further increase this percentage in Tools 32% 31% subsequent years. Digital 61% 58% Services 16% 16% Subtotal Digital and Services 77% 74% Print 23% 26% Water Consumption 2013 2012 Total 100% 100% Total Water Use in Cubic Meter 62,541 68,517 Water Use in Liters per FTE 3,206 3,564 In 2013, total water use has decreased by 9%. Data is collected for facilities covering more than 1,000 m2, and is extrapolated for all Wolters Kluwer facilities. 16 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Total Use of Certified Paper Use 2013 2012 Responsible Total Paper Use of Certified Responsible Paper In Metric Ton Total Paper Use in in Metric Ton Metric Ton 26,128 28,131 3,579 Certified Responsible Paper FSC 3,188 4,889 PEFC 5,428 7,121 SFI 3,579 1,698 3,188 Total Use Responsible Paper in Metric Ton 12,195 13,708 8 Responsible Paper 47% 49% 5,42 In 2013, we successfully reduced paper use quantities. At the same time, the proportion of responsible paper has decreased. In 2013, we focused on minimizing paper use. We will increase our effort to improve responsible paper use in 2014. FSC (3,188) PEFC (5,428) SFI (3,579) Paper use in 2012, including responsible paper use, had to be restated due to updated data. Business Air Travel 2013 2012 Total Millions of Kilometers (km) Travelled by Plane 98 109 Flight Use (km/FTE) 5,024 5,675 CO2 Emissions from Business Air Travel in Metric Ton 11,827 18,233 CO2 Emissions from Business Air Travel per FTE in Metric Ton 0.61 0.95 Business air travel is a significant part of our CO2 emissions. Due to a decrease in total kilometers and a reduced amount of business class tickets, CO2 emissions have been reduced by 35%. Due to new insights in flight kilometers of 2012, the figures above changed slightly compared to numbers reported last year. Flight data was converted to CO2 emissions using conversion factors related to short, medium, and long haul flights and the associated class. 17 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Case Studies Secure Document Exchange produces almost no waste Reducing carbon emissions with FedEx® Secure Document Exchange (SDX) is a Wolters Kluwer Wolters Kluwer uses FedEx® to ship its freight, because Financial Services platform that allows designated users FedEx has committed to reducing carbon emissions from to send documents to designated parties, in a secure, its transport operations. It currently operates the world’s auditable workflow. largest fleet of hybrid delivery trucks. In 2020, FedEx plans to have its greenhouse gas emissions related to global air operations reduced by 20%. In addition, FedEx is reducing its environmental footprint by changing its physical distribution to create the maximum amount of shipment density. The focus of SDX is on electronic transfer and electronic signature whenever possible, which helps saving paper. However, it was recognized that paper is sometimes required due to timing and processing exceptions. So, a balanced approach was chosen. As a result, SDX is fully integrated into a state-of-the-art print fulfillment center in the U.S. state of Minnesota. This print facility is designed to be green. Every printing and mailing process is optimized to reduce waste and recycling is used to reclaim material. The results speak for themselves: in 2013, more than 10,000,000 electronic packages were sent and 2,674,968 printed packages shipped with only about 90 kilos of waste produced. 18 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Community Involvement Trailwalkers Employees of Wolters Kluwer Spain participated in the Ambitions and Strategy 2013 Intermón Oxfam Trailwalker, walking 100 km in 26 hours to raise money for fresh water wells and Wolters Kluwer has customers in more than 150 countries. sanitation facilities in the Sahel. The challenge consists Our employees are dedicated to developing and providing our of a non-stop trekking of 100 km in teams of four services that benefit countless individual communities. Their that must walk together. It is the toughest fundraising knowledge and experience is invaluable to making our global initiative in the world. Eight employees of Wolters products suitable for the local environment. They devote time Kluwer Spain completed the walk in 26 hours. 270 teams and resources to communities in need of our support. took part in the Trailwalker, raising €630,000. Community support framework In 2013, Wolters Kluwer started using the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) community support framework to help us measure and report our community contribution in a more transparent and reliable manner. This framework, which is also being used within the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, makes donations, time, and costs invested in community involvement visible. This gives us an overall picture of the impact of our existing community efforts and identifies improvements for the future. Two types of community contributions are recognized within our activities, based on the LBG framework: charitable donations and community investments. Our charitable Policy and Targets donations refer to gifts as a response to an appeal for help, such as disaster relief efforts. Community investments Wolters Kluwer is an engaged company that enriches the are long-term projects where Wolters Kluwer partners communities where our employees and customers live with a community organization to improve quality of life and work. We provide a positive contribution, supporting in communities, harnessing our knowledge and expertise. employee and customer initiatives that we are passionate A good example of a community investment project is our about and that help communities advance. We actively focus partnership with Ladder Up, a non-profit organisation that on our community initiatives falling under four themes: helps disadvantaged communities with financial aid and tax preparation. Emergency relief: A special case is made for natural disasters such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, or other natural Charitable donations disasters. These are disasters that do not necessarily affect Our employees spend time and money to enhance living one specific community, but have a major impact on the conditions in communities around the world that are in lives of all communities concerned. In 2013, Wolters Kluwer direct need of our help. Wolters Kluwer actively helps out provided emergency relief after the devastating impact of communities hit by natural disasters with financial matching the Haiyan typhoon in the Philippines. programs and by making its solutions available when they can make a difference. Expertise for our community: In many cases, community involvement initiatives coincide with our area of expertise. Community investment In Philadelphia for example, our employees sponsor a literacy All employees are also a part of their own community. As program that enhances the reading skills of young children. our employees often have a better eye for local community problems, they regularly collaborate with local organizations Achieving for our community: Some community on a project basis in order to support the underprivileged in involvement initiatives – such as sporting challenges or musical their communities. We support our employees when they events – require an unusual amount of motivation. In Spain, for use their skills, knowledge, and motivation to help their instance, Wolters Kluwer employees participated in a charity communities advance. concert to raise money for underprivileged children. 19 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Supporting the underprivileged: Our employees help to to more than 40 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins journals brighten the lives of underprivileged citizens by raising money from November 11, 2013 to December 8, 2013. or by volunteering in their own communities. Our employees in the U.K. assembled and decorated 30 bikes for children In Spain, employees participated in the 2013 Intermón who are disadvantaged and have experienced trauma. Oxfam Trailwalker to raise money for fresh water wells and sanitation facilities in the Sahel. The challenge consists of Our objectives and goals in community involvement are a non-stop trek of 100 km in teams of four that must walk summed up as follows: together. It is the toughest fundraising initiative in the world. • We support initiatives that matter to our employees and Eight employees of Wolters Kluwer Spain completed the walk customers and benefit our communities; in 26 hours. Some 270 teams took part in the Trailwalker, • We encourage employees to develop and carry out raising €630,000. community involvement initiatives that they are passionate about; and Community investment • We support emergency relief involvement by providing Wolters Kluwer Spain helps thousands of immigrants to learn financial matching contributions; by offering our expertise, the fundamentals of Spanish law through a special program. products, real estate or services donations; or by devoting This teaches them their main rights and obligations, and how employees’ time to a specific cause. they are regulated by Spanish legal requirements. ​​Since its inception in 2009, this integration and participation program Charitable donations has been followed by 28,500 Spanish and non-Spanish As a provider of medical information, it is our mission to citizens. The number of participants has increased year provide health care professionals with fast access to medical after year. literature for emergency and trauma care. In support of disaster relief efforts in the Philippines following typhoon Our employees in Philadelphia are proud to sponsor Haiyan, Wolters Kluwer Health provided an Emergency Philadelphia Reads, a literacy program that matches Resources Portal to Philippine hospitals and institutions. children with adult volunteers for weekly sessions geared The portal provided free online access for 60 days to to help children learn to read well and independently. The emergency, disaster, and trauma resources. In addition, program helps enhance the literacy skills of Philadelphia’s Wolters Kluwer Health participated in the National Library youngest students. Employees of our Philadelphia office of Medicine’s Emergency Access Initiative providing access volunteer as reading coaches to children in a local second grade class. Support for literacy and educational network of community organizations engaged in food community programs distribution, education, and advocacy. In 2013, this included the Walk Against Hunger, Thanksgiving food Wolters Kluwer Health Professional & Education baskets, Santa’s Elves, Keeping Kids Warm, and gift cards (P&E) is a proud sponsor of Philadelphia Reads, a literacy for Women Against Abuse. program that matches children with adult volunteers for weekly, hour-long, one-on-one sessions geared to help children learn to read well and independently. The goal is to enhance the literacy skills and experiences of Philadelphia’s youngest students. Through this program, P&E employees in our Philadelphia office volunteer as reading coaches to children in a local second grade class. The children come to our office once a week to meet with their reading coaches. In addition to Philadelphia Reads, P&E participates in a number of other activities and events to support Philadelphia Sending Hope And Resources Everywhere (S.H.A.R.E.), a non-profit organization serving a regional 20 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Performance and Impact Serving meals at the Wheeler Mission Employees participated in a community outreach activity Community Contributions 2013 2012 by serving lunch at the Wheeler Mission Shelter for Men, in Thousands of Euro in downtown Indianapolis. Wheeler Mission provides programs and services for the homeless, and those in need, Community Contributions and temporary emergency shelter to homeless and/or in Cash 514 847 disadvantaged men. Community Contributions in Kind 149 Employees also collected much needed items on the men’s Management Costs Related ’wish list’ including razors, soap, deodorant, shampoo, to Community pillows, pillow cases, towels, and gently used clothing. Contributions 25 25 Total 688 872 Our community contributions in 2013 are in cash, as well as in kind. Many of these contributions are initiated by Wolters Kluwer and have not changed significantly over several years. Other contributions, for example contributions to a disaster relief program, are very dependent on extreme events during the year. Typhoon Haiyan was one of these events. We contributed in kind by making a free Emergency Resources Portal available in the Philippines. The contribution in kind is calculated at product cost to our company. Wolters Kluwer Health supports disaster relief efforts The data on contributions in cash of 2012 is restated due to in Philippines new data on contributions in this particular year. In support of disaster relief efforts in the Philippines following typhoon Haiyan, Wolters Kluwer Health provided an Emergency Resources Portal to Philippine hospitals Case Studies and institutions. The portal provided free online access to emergency, disaster, and trauma resources via the Ovid CCH teams with Ladder Up to help hardworking people platform. Access was immediate and was made available get ahead for 60 days. In addition, Wolters Kluwer Health participated in the National Library of Medicine’s Emergency Access With many families, individuals, and students still struggling Initiative providing access to more than 40 Lippincott to make ends meet, CCH has teamed up with the ChicagoWilliams & Wilkins journals during a four-week free access area, non-profit organization Ladder Up to donate time, period from November 11 to December 8, 2013. money, and resources in helping hardworking individuals climb the economic ladder. Through an innovative social In addition, Wolters Kluwer actively supported the Red media campaign and a strong desire to support economically Cross’ efforts by amplifying employee donations through a disadvantaged local communities with assistance, such special matching program, which doubled the total amount as volunteer tax preparation help, CCH and Ladder Up are of donations received through employees. We have donated making a positive difference for those who want to help a total of $28,548 to help the relief efforts. themselves. Ladder Up offers tax, financial aid, and financial literacy Medical Research global sales meeting helps programs to generate economic benefits for low-income children’s charity individuals and families. With an interactive campaign on the CCH Facebook page, CCH is able to educate visitors Each year, the Medical Research (MR) business unit’s annual about this great organization and generate company global sales meeting is held in a different location around the donations each time someone shares content within social world. For each country and region, the team looks for unique media communities. This campaign was completely driven ways to recognize the local community through a charitable by CCH customer participation. ‘give back’ program. Each member of the sales team gets 21 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT involved to help make a difference to the lives of the neediest Dorothy Day Center individuals within the community they are visiting. ProVation® Medical, part of Wolters Kluwer Health, In 2013, the meeting was held in St. Andrews, Scotland. The volunteers, serves meals, and offers food donations in MR sales team created a ‘Build-A-Bike’ program for Aberlour, the warehouse of the Dorothy Day Center, which provides Scotland’s Children’s Charity and its Sycamore Services. people and families experiencing homelessness with basic Sycamore is a community-based cluster of integrated necessities and offers resources that give hope for a better residential, education, and fostering services for children future. The drop-in center and overnight shelter provides a who have experienced disadvantage and trauma. The MR hospitable environment while restoring hope and upholding sales team partnered with Sycamore staff to assemble and the dignity of people in need. decorate bicycles for each child in the home. This was the first time that many of the children had experienced the joy The Dorothy Day Center serves approximately 550 men, of riding a bike. women and children each day. Last year, more than 5,800 clients visited the center for meals, basic needs, health care and other services. More than 214,000 meals were served, an emergency shelter was provided for 2,400 people and 173,974 pounds of food were distributed to 5,250 households. Even though our employees were standing and working in the walk-in freezer for eight hours, they kept on smiling! Greater Boston Food The Greater Boston Food Bank is the largest hunger relief organization in New England (U.S.) and among the largest food banks in the country. Last year, it distributed almost 41 million pounds of food, enough to provide healthy meals to as many as 545,000 people. The organization was committed to increasing its food distribution in 2013 to provide at least one meal a day to every person in need in eastern Massachusetts. In June 2013, 20 UpToDate® employees volunteered at The Pot lunch session Greater Boston Food Bank. The team sorted 3200 pounds of food creating enough meals to feed a family of four for Wolters Kluwer India organized a Dhaba (pot lunch session) almost six months. On November 26, 2013, UpToDate® to boost employees engagement while making a significant employees volunteered again. This time, the team sorted contribution to a noble cause. 4800 pounds of food. As part of this fund raising activity, employees brought large quantities of home-cooked food to the office. They set up stalls where food items from different states of India were displayed and sold to their colleagues. The money collected was donated to a non-governmental organization (NGO) for underprivileged children. They also displayed packaged food products prepared by the members of this NGO and sold it to staff to generate funds. At the end of the program, certificates were distributed to the master chefs and junior chefs (parents, spouses and kids of the employees) for contributing home-cooked food for 22 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT the event. The NGO used the money raised to buy winter Charity concerts clothes, books, and medicines for the underprivileged children. The employees’ choir of Wolters Kluwer Spain and the University Choir of Valladolid, together with soloists and maestros of the Madrid Sinfonietta Orchestra, gave two concerts in two prominent concert halls: the National Auditorium of Madrid and the Miguel Delibes Auditorium of Valladolid. The program included the complex Requiem op. 48 by Gabriel Fauré. The concerts raised nearly €30,000. This was given to Fundación Balia, which helps children at risk of social exclusion. More than 1,600 people attended the concerts, which feature 210 musicians on stage (50 in the orchestra and 160 in the Habitat for Humanity choir) and entailed more than 100 hours of rehearsals. Employees of ProVation® Medical make a difference in their community by volunteering time and services to external housing projects for elderly and disabled homeowners who are unable to perform the work themselves. Habitat for Humanity is best known for its home ownership program, where volunteers build and rehabilitate simple, quality homes in partnership with low-income families and the community. But Habitat for Humanity also preserves Charity action with employees and distributors home ownership by helping low-income homeowners repair and maintain their homes through the ’A Brush With Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting in Spain organizes annual Kindness‘ program, which assists families living in the city of meetings for their software distributor customers. Normally, Minneapolis. these meetings would end with a relaxing activity for the customers. In 2013, however, more than 200 people ended the meeting by working for non-profit organization ADEPAS, refurbishing their facilities with painting, cleaning, decoration, gardening, and the preparation of a greenhouse, as can be seen in this video. The initiative came as a complete surprise for the software distributor customers. However, their feedback was highly positive and the initiative was even mentioned in customers’ blogs. 23 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WOLF RUN Wolters Kluwer Health improves health care in Haiti Wolters Kluwer employees from the Hinckley office in the Wolters Kluwer Health works together with Partners In U.K. joined hundreds of others in April 2013 as they scrabbled Health (PIH) to improve the quality of clinical education through woods, obstacles, fields, and very cold water to raise at the University Hospital in Haiti. Wolters Kluwer Health money for cancer research during a 10-km obstacle challenge donates medical textbooks, which play a vital role in called The WOLF RUN. educating Haitian professionals. In Haiti, one reason for needless deaths is the lack of trained professionals. There are only 25 physicians per 100,000 Haitians. The United States, for instance, has more than 10 times that number: 280 doctors for every 100,000 Americans. Due to a lack of opportunities, many young Haitian doctors seek training and employment in other countries. Some 80% of all physicians trained in Haiti leave within five years of graduation. The medical education programs of PIH at the University Hospital aim to slow the brain drain by Holiday season sale action at Wolters Kluwer encouraging talented young doctors to train in Haiti and stay headquarters there to practice medicine. For the third year, Wolters Kluwer Corporate Office and Kluwer Netherlands organized a Holiday Season Sale during the last two months of the year. All employees working at Wolters Kluwer’s Alphen aan den Rijn office could participate by donating items such as books and CDs to the ‘charity table’, which anyone could take in exchange for an appropriate donation. In addition, a weekly Bake Sale was held: employees were encouraged to bring home-baked cakes, cookies, and other goods to sell to colleagues to the office. The proceeds of the Holiday and Bake Sales were split between War Child and disaster relief for Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. 24 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employee Engagement Ambitions and Strategy Leadership Summit Our successes depend on our dedicated employees. Their problem-solving skills and expertise are indispensable to the Around 200 of Wolters Kluwer’s current and future quality of our products and services. Our employee programs leaders meet annually to discuss, learn, and shape the are designed to develop their talents to their full potential. drivers of Wolters Kluwer’s future success. Strategies These programs are the key to our success and result in for growth, innovation, leadership, and operational better services for our customers and communities. excellence are among the key topics discussed during the three-day event. Speakers include our own leaders Talent development and top talent as well as outside speakers to encourage Talent is what differentiates a good company from an and stimulate fresh perspectives. outstanding company. Our talent development programs aim to attract and retain talented and skilled employees. The new format which fully combines our Senior We believe that a diverse workforce and promoting Management Council meeting and Leadership Forum excellence provide the right incentives for our continued supports closer interaction between current and future innovation and success. leaders and is a more efficient way to organize these two previously separate events. We help to grow our in-house talent in order to continue our success and to remain competitive in the future. Talent development is a responsibility shared between employee, manager, and employer. Global Innovation Award The annual Global Innovation Award is developed to reward employees for their efforts in developing an exceptional product or service that is of great value to our customers and that reinvents the way we do business. Wolters Kluwer wants to encourage inspiring ideas, which our employees use to develop innovative products. Our customers constantly require new solutions to steer them through the changing environments in which they operate. We cater to this demand by continuously finding new and better solutions and Policy and Targets honouring the employees who develop them. Talent development Diversity Our vision at Wolters Kluwer is to be a globally integrated As an integral part of our business model, Wolters Kluwer enterprise with a culture of high performance and works to create an inclusive culture through a variety of accountability, employing world-class talent that drives channels. We believe that the more diverse our environment, business success. Running through our culture are our the more innovative we will become and the more energized company values, which include a focus on the customer, and productive our employees will be. innovation, accountability, integrity, value creation, and teamwork. Our commitment to our employees’ experience Wolters Kluwer pays special attention to diversity at the working at Wolters Kluwer is articulated in the four principles middle management level in order to create even more of our Employee Value Proposition: Make it Better, Embrace diversity at the executive level positions in the future. As Change, Engage the Customer, and Be Influential. our CEO Nancy McKinstry explains in one of her interviews on diversity: “In some companies, women tend to take In addition, we are committed to: on functional roles, but at Wolters Kluwer, women have • Attracting, developing, and retaining people with worldresponsibility for a profit & loss statement by running class talent; businesses. You have to have that kind of experience and • Building an inclusive culture that fully engages all track record if you ultimately want to aspire to be a CEO of employees; and a company or a non-executive director of a multinational.” • Developing the next generation of Wolters Kluwer leaders. 25 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our talent processes and programs include: ways of using existing content and processes to make our • An annual talent review process within each division and customers’ lives easier. function as well as across the company to understand the skills, capabilities, and career aspirations of our talent and Diversity ensure we are prepared for today’s work and tomorrow’s Diversity is one of the main drivers of innovation at Wolters strategy; Kluwer and makes us stand out among our competitors. • Providing best-in-class leadership programs focused on Our diverse workforce consists of 19,054 employees who strengthening our leadership pipeline to be ready for operate in 40 different countries, serving customers in growth and expansion; more than 150 countries. We believe that bringing together • Listening to and engaging our employees through an different perspectives is vitally important to maintaining our annual employee engagement survey; and innovative strength. For us, diversity also includes pursuing • Driving a common performance management a strategy of gender balance in our workforce. Wolters Kluwer approach focused on regular feedback and professional has many female leaders. Important female leaders in our development. company include: Karen Abramson, CEO of Tax & Accounting; Stacey Caywood, CEO of Legal & Regulatory; Shasha Chang, Innovation Award CEO of China; and Corinne Saunders, CEO of Developing Our annual Global Innovation Awards ceremony honours & Emerging Markets. At present, 50% of our divisional teams of employees who have developed inspiring and CEO positions are filled by women. Such figures represent successful solutions. The winning solutions deliver high value a company-wide phenomenon: women make up 52% of to customers through a combination of expert knowledge, our workforce. software, and services. In 2013, out of approximately 700 submissions, 16 teams of finalists travelled to New York to present their solutions to a jury of Wolters Kluwer leaders and external experts. The teams presented solutions that address acute and substantial issues facing our customers today, such as developing mobile and cloud-based solutions, introducing new learning programs utilising mobile technology, and creative new No glass ceiling Wolters Kluwer Belgium was highlighted in national media as an exemplary company for gender balance at all levels of the organization. Some 55% of employees, 54% of managers and four in nine members of senior management are women. As Hans Suijkerbuijk, CEO of Kluwer Belgium says: “The glass ceiling clearly does not exist in Belgium!” Diversity is also considered important at the global level. Patricia Nolan, Vice President for Human Resources at Wolters Kluwer Health, is a member of the Businesswomen’s Association, which supports the professional development of women. She says she first grew interested in the subject of diversity at college: “There are several successful women I admire individually; Some of the female team in Belgium hitting the headlines. From left however, the women I most admire are the leaders who to right: Hadewig De Corte, Chief Operating Officer, Claudine Weyn, anonymously ‘pay it forward’ every day by being good Director Legal & Public, Conny Hooghe, HR Director Kluwer Belgium leadership role models with the intention of helping others and Tax & Accounting Europe, Christine Moons, Director Tax & to succeed by sharing what they have learned.” Accounting. 26 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Performance and Impact Employees that Employees ThatHave HaveTaken PartininSkill TakenPart SkillAssessments Assessments Gender Diversity Diversity of Gender Total Employees ofTotal Employees and Capability and Capability Development Development In % In % in in % 100% 100% 50 50 50 71 73 73 47 49 85 80 75% 76 75% 73 69 63 50% 53 51 50% 50 50 50 29 27 27 25% 25% Executives Managers Employees 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Executive Divisional Senior Employees & 2013 Board CEOs Management Managers 2012 Males Every year, we engage employees in skill assessments and capacity Females development opportunities as much as possible. The figures above show an increase in % employees and executives that have taken part in these In 2013, we have seen a slight increase in the proportion of female programs. For managers, we have seen a decrease in 2013. However, employees working at Wolters Kluwer. Especially in the category of managers show the highest participation rate in skill assessment and divisional CEOs, the increase is significant. In addition, a higher capacity development programs. percentage of female employees and managers are working at Wolters Kluwer in 2013 compared to 2012. Turnover In % Turnover in % Wolters Kluwer’s 2013 2012 Workforce in 2013 in 15% Ultimo FTE per Division 12.3 11.8 0.5 0.4 6.2 Legal & Regulatory 7,263 7,623 6.4 Tax & Accounting 5,842 5,785 10% Health 2,779 2,528 Financial & Compliance Services 2,339 2,358 5.6 Corporate 106 102 5% 5.0 Total 18,329 18,396 2012 restated for early adoption of IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’. 2013 2012 Natural Voluntary Involuntary The % turnover per category is based on average FTE. 27 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Case Studies Wolters Kluwer partners with Human Potential Project to drive culture change Annual Rewards and Recognition Forum Two years ago, Wolters Kluwer Health Professional & Wolters Kluwer India organizes the Annual Rewards and Education (P&E) embarked on a journey to create a culture Recognition Forum for staff to recognize high performers. of accountability to inspire innovation. To this end, P&E Awards are presented to the Best Employee of the Year, Sales partnered with the Human Potential Project (HP2) to Champion of the Year, Rookie of the Year, Team behind the drive the principles and practices of commitment-based Best Product Launch of the Year, Best Project of the Year, and management into all levels of the organization. HP2 helped many more. Health check-up sessions were also conducted in us develop a powerful, customized training program to teach the office for staff. our employees and managers a new set of practices that would be required to transform our culture and succeed in an ever-changing business environment. By participating in P&E plus, employees and managers gain insight into their own behavioral styles and learn to coordinate more effectively with local and global colleagues, build and maintain trust, mobilize resources, take action, and generate results in a focused, coherent manner. In 2014, P&E New Wolters Kluwer tagline: graffiti attack in Spain employees who have already graduated from the program will serve as internal ambassadors and facilitate the next Employees at Wolters Kluwer Spain were surprised to see the round of training. new corporate tagline, ‘When you have to be right’, sprayed in graffiti in their offices. Genuine wall-painting artists came to the facilities at night, pretending to carry out an attack of HR meeting in China vandalism. More than 400 HR professionals attended the 2013 China To celebrate the new tagline, all employees were invited for Staff Awards, which was organized by Wolters Kluwer in a drink to share impressions with their colleagues. China. The China Staff Awards have become the most acclaimed annual HR event in the Greater China Region The initiative aimed to help employees understand since their inception in 1998. It is an important forum the deeper meaning of the tagline and to give them an for discussing future HR trends in China. opportunity to socialize. Feedback from employees was enthusiastic. 2013 Technology Conference For the sixth year running, Wolters Kluwer hosted its Technology Conference in 2013 to educate, inspire, and provide the tools to speed, improve, and develop technologies that strengthen Wolters Kluwer’s role as a technology leader. 28 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT During the conference, colleagues were challenged to rethink Kluwer Café the use of Big Data, the need for mobility, the complexity of working in the cloud, and the growing need for on-demand Since September 2012, Wolters Kluwer Belgium has been availability of advanced technology processes. They were organizing a monthly evening at the pub with customers, also encouraged to take full advantage of the opportunity prospects, trainers, authors, and colleagues. to network and learn from each other’s experience and knowledge. Although the event takes place in a different region and venue each time, the recipe remains the same: a brief talk on The Technology Conference clearly demonstrates the richly a relevant topic by a well-known speaker, drinks, snacks, and innovative quality of the Wolters Kluwer portfolio, the the opportunity to network with other professionals. benefits of sharing and collaboration, and, most importantly, our greatest competitive asset: our people and leaders, who The goal of this initiative is to strengthen the connection with are the heartbeat of innovation. stakeholders. The meetings of the Kluwer Café have proved highly successful in terms of image-building and generating sales leads. 29 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About This Report This report is our annual attempt to share our ambitions, We report in accordance with the guidelines of the Global strategies, policies, and performance on sustainability Reporting Initiative G4 (GRI) and the UN Global topics. Our performance is translated into clear social and Compact. We live in a changing environment in which we environmental impacts for 2013. Where possible, we provide need to adapt our practices continuously. Accordingly, the a comparison with earlier years. Data for 2013 are compared Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) released the G4 against 2012 as reported last year and based on the 2012 reporting guidelines, the successor framework to the G3.1 conversion factors. Where data have been revised, in order sustainability reporting guidelines. The G4 reporting to reflect new insights, this is indicated below the table guidelines shift the focus to what matters in an organization or graph. (materiality) and where it matters (see paragraph on Materiality under Innovation Driven Sustainability). Performance in other areas is explained in a qualitative Companies are encouraged to identify aspects upon which manner. These mainly concern the positive environmental they have most influence, also considering the influence of and social impacts we realize with our products and services. relevant stakeholders in the decision-making process. The Our customers will report on elements of their sustainability guidelines also make an explicit distinction between social, performance, which are often linked to these products and environmental, and ecological impacts of a company’s services. Ultimately, society benefits from the knowledge, operations, and determine whether impacts appear within time savings, and resources savings that our products and and/or outside the organization. services provide to professionals. We try to cover these benefits throughout the entire report. Transparency is key to reliable and coherent communication of a company’s sustainability efforts. The G4 reporting Sustainability is as dynamic as our changing society. We guidelines therefore embrace a more stringent approach therefore dedicate a separate section of our website to concerning the transparency of communicating the assurance developments during the year. New policies, activities, level. The G3.1 ‘A,B,C’ application levels are replaced by ‘In awards, and engagement opportunities are published here. Accordance – Core or Comprehensive’ certification levels. The ‘Comprehensive’ assurance level builds on the ‘Core’ The data presented in this report is collected on an annual guidelines requiring detailed disclosure of all identified basis by the Corporate Sustainability team. As of 2012, material aspects. Companies also have the option of only the heads of Procurement, Human Resources, Facilities, following the guidelines, without meeting the ‘In Accordance’ Compliance, and Communications have been closely involved assurance criteria. In this report, Wolters Kluwer reported in collecting the data from all business units and operating in accordance with the ‘Core’ guidelines. The adaptations countries. All data is consolidated by the Accounting & to the G4 reporting principles consider synergies with other Control department using the financial consolidation system. reference tables such as the United Global Compact and The data was collected using the following scoping rules: enable the harmonization of reporting requirements for the different frameworks. • As a basic rule, we collect data from countries that represent 1% of total revenue or of Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs). • Corporate governance data is collected globally. • For resource management we collect: • Paper: per country; • Business air travel: per country; • Energy and water: per country and for offices bigger than 1000m2. For the U.S. we only collect data for offices that we own. • Community contributions: per country. • Employee data: per country. All calculations expressed as ‘per FTE’ (emissions from energy consumption, turnover, water consumption, and business air travel) are based on average FTE. Where relevant, currencies are converted using the financial year’s average exchange rate. 30 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Company Profile Our customers make critical decisions every day; we help them move forward with confidence. Wolters Kluwer provides legal, tax, finance, and health care professionals the essential information, software, and services they need to make decisions with confidence. We Support: –––––> Over 600,000 legal professionals worldwide –––––> Over 210,000 tax & accounting firms worldwide, that is over 40 million tax returns –––––> Healthcare professionals in 164 countries –––––> Over 90% of U.S. banks and the top 40 global banks Our Strategy and Ambition Expand our leading, high-growth positions: –––––> Focus majority of investment on high-growth segments with market leadership –––––> Drive growth in digital solutions and services Deliver solutions and insights: –––––> Products and services that support customers to make critical decisions and increase productivity –––––> Invest in mobile applications, cloud-based services, and integrated solutions –––––> Product investment of 8-10% of revenues Drive efficiencies: –––––> Drive efficiencies in sourcing, technology, real estate, organizational processes, and distribution channels –––––> Deliver cost savings to support investments and margin expansion 31 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Key Figures and Structure 2013 Total Annual Revenue 2013 €3,565 mln Total Ordinary EBITA Margin 21.5 % Total Employees 18,329 in FTE Legal & Regulatory Annual Revenue €1,447 mln Ordinary EBITA Margin 21.6 % Employees 7,067 in FTE Tax & Accounting Annual Revenue €965 mln Ordinary EBITA Margin 26.8 % Employees 5,689 in FTE Health Annual Revenue €775 mln Ordinary EBITA Margin 22.6 % Employees 2,735 in FTE Financial & Compliance Services Annual Revenue €378 mln Ordinary EBITA Margin 17.1 % Employees 2,295 in FTE Global Shared Services Employees 318 in FTE Global Platform Organization Employees 119 in FTE Corporate Office Employees 106 in FTE 32 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Revenues Revenues by divisions Revenues by media in millions of euros in % 3,354 3,597 3,565 1,600 100 56 58 61 1,451 1,485 1,447 1,200 75 981 965 931 800 50 745 775 639 29 26 23 400 25 333 386 378 15 16 16 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Legal & Regulatory Digital Tax & Accounting Print Health Services Financial & Compliance Services Revenues by geography Organic revenue growth in % in % 100 2 44 30 40 30 39 1.1 0.7 0.7 75 1 54 54 50 50 0 25 (1) 5 5 6 1 1 1 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Europe North America Asia Pacific Rest of the world 33 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ordinary EBITA Ordinary EBITA by division Ordinary EBITA margin in millions of euros in % 728 774 765 400 21.8 21.7 324 327 300 313 21.7 257 259 259 200 21.6 175 163 21.5 21.5 126 21.5 100 64 73 64 (43) (48) (46) 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting Health Financial & Compliance Services Corporate Other KPIs Ordinary free cash flow Diluted ordinary earnings per share in millions of euros (in actual currencies) in euros (in actual currencies) 550 1.60 1.56 1.56 500 507 1.55 503 450 1.50 1.47 443 400 1.45 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Key Performance Indicators 2013 Target 2013 2012 Ordinary EBITA margin in % 21.5 21.5 22.0 21.5 Ordinary free cash flow 1 in € mln 525 ≥ 475 509 Return on invested capital in % 8.7 ≥ 8 8.7 Diluted ordinary EPS 1 in € 1.61 low single digit growth 1.57 1 In constant currencies (€/$ = 1.29) 34 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable Approach Sustainability is at the core of our business, driving our innovation agenda and improving our customer satisfaction. –––––> Our products and services help our customers make critical decisions and add value to society –––––> Minimizing our environmental footprint is a key focus –––––> Our engagement with customers and stakeholders drives a positive impact on current and future generations Global Team of Experts We are proud to have many leading experts and highly-engaged professionals among our global workforce. What we promise and expect from our employees is to let their actions be guided by four simple but powerful principles: make it better, embrace change, engage the customer, and be influential. Our six company values guide our employees in their work: customer focus, innovation, accountability, integrity, value creation, and teamwork. Headquarters Wolters Kluwer is headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, and stock-listed on Euronext Amsterdam: WLSNC.AS, stock code 39590, ISIN code NL0000395903; included in the AEX and Euronext 100 indices. Wolters Kluwer has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt program. Corporate Executive Board Office Financial & Legal & Tax & Health Compliance Regulatory Accounting Services China / Emerging & Developing Countries Global Platform Organization Global Shared Services 35 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Awards & Honors Below is an overview of Wolters Kluwer’s recent awards and • Wolters Kluwer Health Garners Five Major Wins at honors: Annual BMA Medical Book Awards Wolters Kluwer Health received a total of 15 wins at the Sustainability 2013 British Medical Association Medical Book and Patient • Wolters Kluwer included in Dow Jones Information Awards. Sustainability Index • Wolters Kluwer Health Ranked Third Overall The Dow Jones Sustainability™ Indices are maintained Software Vendor in 2013 Best in KLAS®: Software collaboratively by S&P Dow Jones Indices and RobecoSAM. and Services Report • Wolters Kluwer recognized as one of the ‘Global Wolters Kluwer Health ranked third overall among 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World’ 24 software vendors in the 2013 Best in KLAS®: Software as announced by Corporate Knights during the World & Services report by an independent IT vendor research Economic Forum in Davos. firm that recognizes vendors for their leadership in working • Wolters Kluwer Receives Bronze Class with customers to ensure satisfaction. Sustainability Award 2014 • Wolters Kluwer Health Wins 15 Apex Awards for from RobecoSAM as a part of The Sustainability Excellence in Publishing Yearbook 2014. Emergency Medicine News takes Apex Grand Award for • Corporate HR Award for Wolters Kluwer Belgium Excellence in the category of magapapers & newspapers Wolters Kluwer Belgium was awarded a Corporate HR for fourth consecutive year. Award at the HR Excellence gala in Genval. • Wolters Kluwer Health Receives 13 Awards from the • Wolters Kluwer Wins Best Investor Relations in American Society of Publication Editors (ASHPE) Media Sector Award for Editorial and Design Excellence Wolters Kluwer is honored with the award for ‘Best Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, part of Wolters Kluwer Investor Relations by Sector: Media’ at the IR Magazine Health, published journals won 13 ASHPE awards in Awards held on June 20 in London. 10 categories. ASHPE’s annual awards competition recognizes member articles and publications for editorial, Tax & Accounting design, print, and online award categories. • Young CCH Innovators Honored as Industry’s Top 40 • Wolters Kluwer Health Selected as Innovation Under 40 for 2013 Champion by Australia’s Adelaide Research and This award honors 40 trailblazers who are changing the Innovation (ARI) accounting profession. CCH, part of Wolters Kluwer is ARI Innovation Champions were selected for their a leading global provider of tax, accounting, and audit partnerships with University of Adelaide entities on information software and services. research and development activities through more • Groundbreaking CCH Axcess™ Wins 2013 Technology effective products, processes, services, policies, Innovation Award in Tax & Accounting technologies, or ideas. The award was presented at the 2013 California • Wolters Kluwer Health Customer Support Team Accounting & Business Show, attended by more than Earns its Fourth Award of Certification as 1,000 tax and accounting professionals. BenchmarkPortal’s Center of Excellence • Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting Executives The Wolters Kluwer Health customer support organization Abramson and Mackintosh Among Most Powerful Women received for its Ovid and Lippincott Williams & Wilkins in Accounting businesses certification for the fourth time as a Center This honor recognizes 25 women who are making the of Excellence by BenchmarkPortal, the global leader in greatest impact on the tax and accounting profession. support center benchmarking. • Lexicomp®, part of Wolters Kluwer Health, Wins Health NorthCoast 99 Award • Wolters Kluwer Health Published Journals Wolters Kluwer Health’s Lexicomp® was recognized by Recognized for Excellence in Editorial and Design Employers Resource Council as one of Northeast Ohio’s at the 2013 FOLIO: Eddie & Ozzie Awards best places to work. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins medical and nursing journals won eight awards in four categories at the 2013 FOLIO: Eddie & Ozzie Awards. 36 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Lexicomp® Online for Dentistry Featuring VisualDx • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Receives XCelent Oral Recognized as “Best of Class” by the Pride Customer Base Award 2013 for Basel III and Institute. Liquidity Risk Management Lexicomp® Online™ for Dentistry featuring VisualDx® In its report, Basel III and Liquidity Risk Management Oral was awarded the ’Best of Class’ award for dental Solutions – Balancing Compliance and Profitability, technology products by the Pride Institute. Each XCelent provides detailed descriptions of IT vendors and product honored with this recognition features unique their offerings in each of the Basel III IT layers. characteristics that differentiate it from the competition • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services’ Regulatory in a compelling way and, more importantly, creates value Analysis Team Recognized as Best Editorial for the general dentist. Team at the 10th Annual Compliance Register • Wolters Kluwer Health Global Customer Support Platinum Awards Awarded Omega’s NorthFace ScoreBoard Awardsm for The awards, which are in the 10th year, recognize Customer Service Excellence exemplary service to compliance and regulation and The Global Customer Support team supporting the Ovid acknowledge more than 45 people, teams, and companies and LWW Journals business received the NorthFace in a number of different categories. ScoreBoard Awardsm from Omega Management Group • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Awarded Risk Corp for achieving excellence in customer service Management Software of the Year – Financial Risk and support. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services was recognized in the • UpToDate® Global Customer Support Receives Omega’s ’Risk Management Software of the Year – Financial Risk‘ NorthFace ScoreBoard Awardsm for Customer Service category at the Continuity Insurance & Risk (CIR) Risk Excellence Management Awards 2013. The CIR Risk Management The UpToDate® global customer support team has Awards, adjudicated by industry experts, recognize those received the NorthFace ScoreBoard AwardSM for excellence who have significantly added to the understanding and in 2012 from Omega Management Group Corp. practice of risk management. • UpToDate® Recognized as 2013 Computerworld Honors • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Wins Best Laureate for Global Health Initiative Regulatory Data Management Platform Reader’s Wolters Kluwer Health’s clinical decision support resource Choice Award UpToDate® was named by IDG’s Computerworld Honors Wolters Kluwer Financial Services was named ‘best Program as a 2013 Laureate for its Global Health Initiative. regulatory data management platform’ by the readers of • ProVation® Order Sets from Wolters Kluwer Health A-Team group’s selection of publications. A-Team Group – Tops its Category in KLAS® Clinical Decision a global news, research, and events organization focused Support Report for Second Consecutive Year on IT in financial markets – presented the award at its Data ProVation® Order Sets outscored the competition on Management Summit in London. several key indicators, including overall satisfaction, • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Named Bestproduct quality, ease of use, and quality of phone/web in-Class for User Experience and Enterprise support as well as delivery of new technology and ability Operations in AML Technology Assessment to support integration goals. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services was selected as a • KLAS® Report Rates Wolters Kluwer Health’s ’Best-in-Class’ vendor in two of four categories in the CEB Sentri7® Clinical Decision Support Tool Highest TowerGroup 2012 Anti-Money Laundering Technology in Pharmacy Surveillance Analysis research report. Sentri7® is a web-based, real-time decision support • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Named Best application that drives continuous improvement and Compliance Management Provider at the European CEO empowers organizations to achieve excellence in care Risk & Compliance Awards 2013 delivery. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services won the 2013 European CEO Risk & Compliance Award for ’Best Compliance Financial & Compliance Services Management Provider’. The annual awards, determined • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Named Best-inby the publication’s 50,000-strong readership as well as a Class Provider for Know Your Customer Solutions panel of expert judges, recognize excellence in the practice Wolters Kluwer Financial Services has been selected as of financial risk and compliance. a ’best-in-class‘ vendor in two of four categories in CEB • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Moves to No. 4 TowerGroup’s December 2013 Know Your Customer in Chartis 2014 RiskTech100 Ranking Technology Analysis. Wolters Kluwer climbed two spots from last year’s sixth position in the analyst firm’s report and was named winner in the Regulatory Reporting category for the third year in a row. 37 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Memberships L’Association des Editeurs Belges (ADEB, Belgium) Cobb Chamber of Commerce (United States) American Institute of CPAs (AICPA, United States) CrossRef (United States) Agoria, Federation of Technological Industries (Belgium) Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung eV (Germany) American Bankers Association (Tax and Business Law District of Columbia Bar Association (United States) sections) Editors Association of Canada American Bar Association Federación de Gremios de Editores de España (Spain) American Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands Fédération Nationale de la Presse d’information Spécialisée American Marketing Association (France) American Medical Publishers Association Federgon, Federation of HR Service Providers (Belgium) Association for Corporate Tax and Tax Technology Groupement Français de l’Industrie de l’Information (France) Professionals (ACT, United States) House and Senate Periodical Press Galleries, U.S. Congress American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) (United States) America’s SAP Users Group (ASUG) Illinois CPA Society (United States) American Society of Cost Segregation Professionals Illinois State Bar Association (United States) (United States) Independent Community Bankers of America (United States) American Medical Student Association (AMSA, United States) Institute of Chartered Accountants (Australia) Amsterdam Partners (Netherlands) Institute of Management Accountants (United States) Arbeitsgemeinschaft der rechtsund staatswissenschaftlichen International Association of Scientific, Technical & Medical Verlage eV (Germany) Publishers (STM, Netherlands) ARMA International (United States) International Facilities Management Association Associazione Italiana per l’Information Technology (Unites States) (ASSINFORM, Italy) International Legal Technology Association (ILTA, Association of American Law Librarians (AALL, United States) United States) Association of American Publishers (United States) International Society for Medical Publication Professionals Association of Certified Financial Crime Specialists (ACFCS, (United States) United States) International Society Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes Association Chartered Accountants (ACA, United Kingdom) Research (ISPOR, United States) Association Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA, IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program United Kingdom) (United States) Association of Customer Services (United Kingdom) La Confederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers (Spain) (United Kingdom) Law Society of New South Wales (Australia) Associazione Italiana Editori (Italy) L’Association des Editeurs Belges (Belgium) Assosoftware (Italy) Legal Marketing Association (LMA, United States) Auckland Chamber of Commerce (New Zealand) L’Union Wallonne des Entreprises (Belgium) Australasian Society of Clinical & Experimental Magyar Terjesztés-ellenorzo Szövetseg (MATESZ, Hungary) Pharmacologists and Toxicologists (ASCEPT, Australia) Medical Library Association (United States) Australian Human Resources Institute Mortgage Bankers Association (United States) Australian Institute of Management Mortgage Industry Standards Maintenance Organization Australian Society of CPAs (United States) Advies, informatie, netwerk voor werkgevers (AWVN, National Association of Computerized Tax Processors Netherlands) (NACTP, United States) Better Business Bureau (United States) National Association of Federal Credit Unions (NAFCU, Biotech Industry Association (BIO, United States) United States) Börsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels (Germany) National Council of Prescription Drug Programs British Educational Suppliers Association (United States) Canadian Tax Foundation Nederlands Uitgevers Verbond (NUV, Netherlands) Certified General Accountants (Canada) New York State Bar (United States) Chicago Bar Association (United States) New York State Bar Association (NYSBA) (United States) Chartered Accountants (Canada) New Zealand Law Society Chartered Institute Management Accountants (CIMA, New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants United Kingdom) Ohio State Bar (United States) Circa (United States) Ontario Bar Association (Canada) 38 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Peterson Pulaski Business and Industrial Council (United States) Pharmaceutical Management Science Association (United States) Pharmaceutical Marketing Research Group (United States) Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand Private Law Libraries (PLL, United States) Professional Scholarly Publishers (United States) Risk Management Association (United States) Society for Corporate Secretaries & Governance Professionals (United States) Special Libraries Association (United States) SQL Server Administrators Association (United States) State Bar Associations (United States) State Bar of Michigan (United States) State Specific Bankers Associations (United States) Syndicat National de la Presse Professionelle (France) Syndicat de la Presse économique et juridique (France) Syndicat de la Presse et des Éditions des Professionnels de Santé (France) Syndicat de la Presse médicale (France) Taxation Institute of Australia Tax Court, Admitted to practice (United States) Tax Payer Choice Alliance (United States) Technology Association of GA (TAG, United States) The Institute of Internal Auditors (Global) The Publishers Association (United Kingdom) Toastmasters (United States) Verbond van Belgische Ondernemingen (Belgium) Vereniging VNO-NCW (Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers, Netherlands) Vlaams Economisch Verbond (Belgium) Vlaams Instituut voor Logistiek (Belgium) Vlaamse Uitgevers Vereniging (VUV, Belgium) Vlaamse Vereniging voor Zakelijke Communicatie (Belgium) Vlaams netwerk van ondernemingen (Voka, Belgium) West Suburban (IL) Bar Association (United States) 39 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO statement CEO Introduction G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Innovation Driven Sustainability: Enabling Long-Term Success Organizational profile G4-3 Name organization Front Cover G4-4 Products and services Company Profile G4-5 Location headquarters Contact & Report Information G4-6 Countries located Annual Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report G4-8 Markets Annual Report G4-9 Size of operations Annual Report G4-10 Breakdown of total workforce Company Profile Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact G4-11 Total employees covered by collective bargaining Innovation Driven Sustainability: agreements Governance G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-13 Organizational changes Annual Report Organizational Profile: Commitments to external initiatives G4-14 Precautionary approach Annual Report Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-15 Externally developed principles Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-16 Memberships in associations Memberships Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Operational structure Company Profile Annual Report G4-18 Process report content About This Report G4-19 List of all the material Aspects Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality About This Report 40 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality About This Report G4-22 Re-statements About This Report G4-23 Reporting changes About This Report Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-27 Key topics through stakeholder engagement Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Reporting profile Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About This Report G4-29 Previous report Website G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-31 Contact person(s) Contact & Report Information G4-32 GRI Context Index Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table G4-33 Assurance Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance Governance G4-34 Governance structure Annual Report G4-35 Delegation process of authority for economic, Innovation Driven Sustainability: environmental and social issues Governance G4-36 Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, Innovation Driven Sustainability: environmental and social topics Governance G4-37 Consultation process between stakeholders and the Innovation Driven Sustainability: highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics Materiality Governance G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its Annual Report committees G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report G4-40 Expertise highest governance body Annual Report G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Annual Report Wolters Kluwer website Dutch Corporate Governance Code Innovation Driven Sustainability: Enabling Long-Term Success Materiality Together with our Stakeholders G4-42 Responsibilities for strategy and policies related to Innovation Driven Sustainability: economic, environmental and social impacts Governance 41 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-43 Enhancement of the highest governance body’s collective Innovation Driven Sustainability: knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Governance Annual Report G4-44 Performance highest governance body Annual Report G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body Annual Report Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the Innovation Driven Sustainability: effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics Governance About this report G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review Annual Report G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and Innovation Driven Sustainability: approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. Governance G4-49 Communicating process for critical concerns Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality Annual Report G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were Innovation Driven Sustainability: communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Governance Annual Report G4-51 Remuneration of highest governance body Annual Report G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report G4-53 Stakeholders’ views on remuneration Annual Report Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Internally developed statements Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Innovation Driven Sustainability: ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Together with our Stakeholders G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns Innovation Driven Sustainability: about unethical or unlawful behavior Governance Economic performance indicators DMA Management approach to Economic performance Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance Materiality Customers & Solutions G4-EC1 Direct economic value Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Customer & Solutions: Performance and Impact Annual Report 42 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-EC2 Financial implications due to climate change Innovation Driven Sustainability: Enabling Long-Term Success Materiality Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EC3 Coverage benefit plan obligations Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable G4-EC9 Locally-based suppliers Resource Management: Performance and Impact Environmental performance indicators DMA Management approach to Environmental Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality Resource Management G4-EN1 Weight of materials used Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations G4-EN2 Recycled input materials Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations Suppliers G4-EN3 Energy Consumption within the organization Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Case Studies G4-EN4 Energy Consumption outside of the organization Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Case Studies G4-EN5 Energy intensity Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN7 Reductions in Energy Requirements of products and Customers & Solutions: services Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact About This Report G4-EN8 Total water use Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations G4-EN11 Location land in protected areas Not applicable G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Resource Management: Performance and Impact Suppliers G4-EN15 Energy direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN16 Energy indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN17 Other indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) Resource Management: Performance and Impact 43 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not applicable G4-EN21 NOx, SOx air emissions Not applicable G4-EN22 Total water discharge Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN23 Total weight of waste Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations (partly included) G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Performance and Impact Case Studies Social Indicators Labor Rights and Decent Work DMA Management approach to Labor Rights and Decent work Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality Together with our Stakeholders Governance Employee Engagement G4-LA1 Employee turnover Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact G4-LA9 Training per employee category Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact G4-LA10 Programs for skill management Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-LA12 Gender breakdown of governance bodies Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Human Rights DMA Management approach to Human Rights Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality Together with our Stakeholders Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Community Involvement G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human Innovation Driven Sustainability: rights clauses Governance Resource Management: Policy and Targets G4-HR10 Screening of suppliers on human rights Resource Management: Policy and Targets G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance Employee Engagement G4-HR5 Child labor Innovation Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance G4-HR6 Forced or compulsory labor Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance 44 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society DMA Management approach to social responsibility Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality Community Involvement G4-SO1 Impact on communities Community Involvement G4-SO4 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Innovation Driven Sustainability: policies and procedures Governance G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Innovation Driven Sustainability: Governance Together with our Stakeholders Product Responsibility DMA Management approach to Product Responsibility Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality Together with our Stakeholders Governance Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy G4-PR3 Product information and labeling Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Customers & Solutions: Performance and Impact G4-PR6 Marketing communications Customers & Solutions Employee Engagement G4-PR8 Customer Privacy Innovation Driven Sustainability: Materiality 45 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of Innovation Driven Sustainability: internationally proclaimed human rights. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in Innovation Driven Sustainability: human rights abuses. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Innovation Driven Sustainability: the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Innovation Driven Sustainability: forced and compulsory labor. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact 46 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Innovation Driven Sustainability: child labor. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination Innovation Driven Sustainability: in respect of employment and occupation. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Innovation Driven Sustainability: environmental challenges. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Innovation Driven Sustainability: environmental responsibility. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact 47 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and Customers & Solutions: diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Innovation Driven Sustainability: including extortion and bribery. Enabling Long-Term Success Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact 48 WOLTERS KLUWER 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contact & Report Information Contact Stakeholder inquiries Wolters Kluwer nv Maarten Thompson Zuidpoolsingel 2 Senior Vice President, General Counsel/Company Secretary P.O. Box 1030 Tel: +31 (0)172 641 450 2400 BA Alphen aan den Rijn sustainability@wolterskluwer.com The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 Investor inquiries Fax: +31 (0)172 474 889 Meg Geldens Vice President, Investor Relations www.wolterskluwer.com Tel: +31 (0)172 641 325 Chamber of Commerce ir@wolterskluwer.com Trade Registry No. 33.202.517 Media inquiries Caroline Wouters Vice President, Corporate Communications Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 press@wolterskluwer.com Report This Sustainability Report is available online. Concept Wolters Kluwer Corporate Legal Department Production Wolters Kluwer Corporate Communications Content Roland Waardenburg and Lukas Hoex Graphic Design Lesley Moore Mevis & Van Deursen (cover) Nexxar (visual) DTP Strak (Haiko Oosterbaan) 49
