COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 United Nations Global Compact June, 12th 2014 CONTENTS p.4 CEO’s Statement p.6 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance p.6 Leading content and media companies p.7 Innovative CSR positioning p.8 United Nations Global Compact integrated into Group’s CSR strategy p.9 Integrated reporting pilot project « Intangible cultural capital » p.10 Group’s key figures p.14 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights p.14 Principles p.15 Commitments p.16 Some examples p.17 Protecting and empowering young people p.22 Promoting cultural diversity p.27 Knowledge sharing Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 2 p.30 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards p.30 Principles p.31 Commitments p.32 Some examples p.39 Focus on suppliers and subcontrators p.42 Implementation of principles relating to Environment p.42 Principles & Commitments p.43 Some examples p.47 Implementation of principles relating to Anti-corruption p.47 Principles & Commitments p.48 Some examples p.51 Appendix Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 3 CEO’s Statement Vivendi est au cœur des univers des contenus, des plateformes et des réseaux interactifs Vivendi is a key player of the media sector and cultural industries. Our group differentiates itself through its approach and contribution to sustainable development : to meet the needs of present and future generations to communicate, to feed their curiosity, to foster talent development, and to encourage intercultural dialog. As a publisher, producer and distributor of content, the Group has a human, intellectual and cultural influence. Vivendi, a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, reports in its “2013 Communication on Progress” the implementation of the ten principles of the Pact within the Group’s sphere of influence. We ensure in particular to put in the spotlight the responsibility specific to the media sector and cultural industries, as well as the human rights that relate to these. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 4 CEO’s Statement Vivendi has focused its corporate social responsibility Other declarations such as the European Union policy on three strategic CSR* issues directly linked to the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the United Nations Group’s activities: Millenium Development Goals could also be mentioned.  protecting and empowering young people when they use digital media ; The elaboration of an innovative non-financial  promoting cultural diversity in the production and reporting relevant to our sphere of influence, the inclusion distribution of content while fostering the creative process of CSR* criteria related to human rights in the variable of artists ; compensation of senior executives, the commitment  promoting knowledge sharing by enabling as many towards integrated reporting, the willingness to report our customers as possible to access content offerings and responsibility to all our stakeholders, are all illustrations of communication services. the implementation of the Global Compact Principles. These three strategic issues relate to human rights and refer to international founding texts such as the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, UNESCO’s 2001 Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, and, Paris, June 12, 2014 of course, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The latter indeed reminds, in its article 27, that everyone has the Jean-François Dubos, Chairman of the Management Board right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community and to enjoy the arts. * CSR: Corporate social responsibility Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 5 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance A strategic review of all the Group’s assets has been initiated in June 2012 by the Supervisory Board. This one resulted in the sale of two major assets (Activision Blizzard and Maroc Telecom*) in 2013 and 2014 and in the announcement of carving Vivendi out SFR est fromauthe cœur des univers Groupe. des contenus, The Supervisory desthe Board set plateformes foundationetfordes réseaux interactifs a structural transformation project aiming at developing the future Vivendi into a dynamic player in the growing digital media market. Leading content and media companies Vivendi is among the few multimedia groups to be a leader in the entire value chain of content producers. Vivendi’s future Media entity will be based on a combination of three highly competitive companies, which are capable of creating, producing and distributing exclusive musical and audiovisual content: • Canal+ Group is the leading French audiovisual group, and also operates in certain emerging markets and countries (Africa, Poland FOCUS Scope Information and Vietnam); This 2013 Communication on Progress takes into account Vivendi’s refocus • Active in 77 countries, Universal Music Group is currenlty the on media, and presents the actions carried world leader in recorded music and is one of the leading global out by the headquarters, Canal+ Group, music publishing group; Universal Music Group and GVT. • in Brazil, a prime growth country, GVT is a telecom player as well as However, the mentioned indicators are a media player. Just two years after its launch, GVT’s pay-TV offer extracted from Chapter 2 of the Annual Report has attracted 600,000 subscribers. which also consolidates, for the 2013 period, the societal, social and environmental information of SFR and Maroc Telecom. Moreover, these two entities are themselves signatory of the Global Compact. * Maroc Telecom sale was concluded on May, 14th 2014. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 6 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance FOCUS Our Strategic Issues stem from Innovative CSR positioning Human Rights Vivendi differentiates itself through its approach and contribution to sustainable development. As a publisher and  Protecting and empowering young people is provided distributor of content, the Group has a human, intellectual and for under the 1989 United Nations Convention on the cultural influence on society. Rights of the Child (Art. 27) and the “Children’s rights and As early as 2003, Vivendi has focused its societal Business Principles” established by the United Nations responsibility on three strategic issues directly linked to the Global Compact, UNICEF and the NGO Save the Children Group’s activities, which are related to human rights and (March 2012); refer to international declarations.  Promoting cultural diversity refers to the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Art. 27), to Vivendi sheds the light on the first principles of the Global UNESCO’s 2001 Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity Compact relating to human rights, which comply with the (Art. 5) and UNESCO’s 2005 Convention on the Protection Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights set and Promotion of Diversity of Cultural Expressions (Art. 2); out in 2011 by John Ruggie.  And Knowledge-sharing contributes fully to the exercise of human rights, as stated in the European Union’s Charter Active Contribution to of Fundamental Rights (2000) in Article 11, relating to FOCUS Media Sector Supplement freedom of expression and information, and by the United In 2009, Vivendi were invited by the Global Reporting Nations in their Millennium Development Goals (2000Initiative to become a founding member of an international working 2015). group responsible for devising quantitative and qualitative sector indicators for the media industry. In May 2012, this work resulted in the publication of a “sector supplement” following GRI’s reporting guidelines. This is a significant advance in the reporting process for the media sector. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 7 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance United Nations Global Compact integrated into Group’s CSR strategy Vivendi signed in March 2008 the United Nations Global Compact, five years after defining, in 2003, its three strategic issues linked to its activity as a producer and distributor of content / to its production and content distribution activity. The group has thus identified human rights relating to its core business and those that are inherent to its status of a listed company with a global reach. This innovative approach to sustainable development issues makes Vivendi one of the CSR pioneers in the media sector and cultural industries. The Global Compact’s ten principles meet these requirements, and that is why they are the basis of the group’s CSR reporting. CSR Criteria integrated into Senior Cross-Reference Table FOCUS FOCUS Executives’ Variable Compensation GRI French Grenelle II Law – United Nations Since 2010 and on the Supervisory Board request, CSR Global Compact OECD Criteria are integrated into Senior Executives’ Variable Vivendi’s non-financial reporting is a management tool Compensation. For them, this means measuring their contribution to used by the Group to improve its risk management and to capitalize on performance objectives linked to the three CSR strategic issues. The opportunities. Vivendi establishes a cross-reference table between the criteria defined for each business unit be related to their particular information published in the period 2013 and know-how and their positioning. Vivendi was one of the first CAC 40 the main non-financial reporting references companies to implement such approach. selected by the Group: In 2013, all objectives were reached or even exceeded in all the Group’s  GRI Guidelines (G3.1 and G4, media sector companies. supplement MSS) (For further information, please consult Annual Report 2013, p.51)  Article 225 of the French Grenelle II law;  Principles of the United Nations Global Compact;  OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. (Table available online on www.vivendi.com) Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 8 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance Integrated reporting pilot project « Intangible cultural capital » Driven by the desire to better assess the contribution made by CSR to the results obtained by the Group in the performance of its various missions, Vivendi has introduced an integrated reporting approach. Since 2003, the promotion of cultural diversity in content production and distribution has been recognized as one of the strategic issues of the Group; it forms part of the Group’s economic performance and helps reinforce social cohesion. In 2013, Vivendi’s General Management approved a pilot project aimed at measuring the contribution made by investment in diversity of musical, cinematographic and audiovisual content to the creation of societal and financial value. As a first step , this project is limited in scope to Universal Music France, Canal+ in France, and Studiocanal, and confined specifically to cultural or intangible capital. Under the authority of Vivendi’s General Management, this initiative has involved the departments in charge of finance and strategy of these three subsidiaries along with representatives of investors and analysts (Amundi, Groupama AM and Oddo Securities). This exercise has clearly demonstrated that producing richly diverse cultural content satisfies the public interest (societal value) and gives the Group a competitive edge (financial value) over its competitors. For further information, please consult the presentation of the pilot project, available on p. 50 of Group Annual Report 2013, on p. 6 of Non-financial Indicators Handbook 2013 or also on Vivendi’s coporate website (www.vivendi.com). Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 9 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance Group’s key figures / Revenues breakdown (as of 12.31.2013) Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 10 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance Group’s key figures / Investments in Contents, impact and audience (as of 12.31.2013) In 2013, Vivendi invested €2.4 billion in music, film and audiovisual programs. Moreover, it dedicated €2.6 billion to net industrial investments, including €2.4 billion for telecommunications activities. In terms of audience, the group recorded around 48.5 million subscriptions. Gross investments in content represent the films, This indicator does not apply to UMG. As of December 31, television and sports rights paid by Canal+ Group, 2013, are measured in this indicator: regarding Canal+ Group, advances paid by UMG to artists, as well as the €27 pay-TV subscribers around the world (France, Overseas, Africa, million of investments in content realized by Watchever* Vietnam and Poland); concerning GVT, the number of individual (line “Others”). customers’ lines and SME in service; as for SFR, the mobile and internet subscriber bases. NB: The indicators are extracted from Vivendi’s Annual Report 2013 and/or the Non-Financial Indicators Handbook 2013, available on the group’s institutional website< www.vivendi.com/home > *Watchever: in January 2013, teams from Vivendi Mobile Entertainment (VME, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi) focused on the development of a new offering in Germany. For a subscription, Watchever provides a wide selection of TV series and series and German, European and international movies, via tablets, smartphones, PCs, game consoles and connected TVs. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 11 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance Group’s key figures / Headcount (as of 12.31.2013) As of December 31, 2013, the Group has more than 41,000 employees in the world. NB : The divestiture of Maroc Telecom Group was achieved in May 14th 2014. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 12 The Group and the CSR policy at a glance Group’s key figures / Distributing the Value Produced (as of 12.31.2013) This chart shows schematically the distribution of the value produced by Vivendi among major stakeholders. (Data as of 12.31.2013 excluding activities sold or in the process of sale as of 12.31.2013, i.e., excluding Activision Blizzard and Maroc Telecom Group) Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 13 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Principle Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of 1 influence ; Principle …and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 2 abuses. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 14 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights  Vivendi contributes, within its sphere of influence, to Vivendi pursues an active dialogue with its stakeholders and promote human rights and ensure its employee’s awareness regularly brings together employees and representatives of civil society on the topic. to discuss the key topics of sustainable development and the promotion of human rights.  Vivendi must reconcile the development of content and  In 2003, Vivendi defined the protection of young people as one of its service offerings enabled by new technologies with the CSR strategic issues. The group evaluates the impact of its product and protection of young audiences against harmful behaviors. service offerings on young audiences in terms of opportunities or risks, and apprehends generational approaches of media and cultural practices.  Vivendi shares the vision of UNESCO, whose 2005 In 2003, Vivendi defined the promotion of cultural diversity as one of Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity its CSR strategic issues. The group and contributes to promoting the of Cultural Expressions states that cultural diversity is “a variety and diversity of its content. mainspring for the sustainable development for communities, peoples, and nations.”  Vivendi commits itself to support and participate in the In 2003, Vivendi defined the sharing of knowledge as one of its sharing of knowledge and access to new technologies (8th strategic CSR issues. The group contributes to producing pluralistic Millennium Development Goal defined by United Nations). quality content for a large and diverse audience. It aims at facilitating access to this content and to digital tools.  Vivendi is committed to support and to implement the Compliance Program formalizes the group’s commitments, concerning fundamental principles of human rights and promotes them human rights, on the form of rules of conduct. Adherence to these rules to its suppliers and providers. of conduct is a condition for belonging to Vivendi. An annual progress report, based on these rules of conduct, is prepared by Vivendi’s General Counsel’s office and presented to the Audit Committee. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 15 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Human Rights, Reporting and Statutory Auditors’ report Vivendi’s non-financial reporting is a CSR management tool that enables the Group to better control risks and capitalize on its opportunities. The incorporation of indicators linked to the Group’s strategic issues is an innovative approach in the media and cultural industries sector. In 2013, Vivendi’s reporting Protocol was updated: it meets the requirements of Article 225 of the French Grenelle II law and incorporates the guidelines of the Media Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), to which Vivendi has been an active contributor. Its materiality eview of societal indicators has been deepened. The non-financial data collected pursuant to this reporting Protocol is presented in Chapter 2 of this Annual Report and such disclosure has been audited by Ernst & Young. In the cultural and creative industries sector, Vivendi has for several years pioneered the reporting and verification of indicators directly linked to its activities. activités. Main Focus of our three CSR strategic issues Protecting and empowering Promoting cultural diversity Knowledge Sharing young people  Protecting young people: Promote rules of  Encouraging creation in all its diversity:  Promoting pluralism of information and quality professional ethics, Carry out awareness Encourage diversity of talents and music of content: Implement the Group’s commitment, campaigns, Offer the appropriate control tools repertoires, Promote diversity in audiovisual and Guarantee quality and pluralism of content to parents cinematic expressions, Contribute to the promotion  Encouraging intercultural dialogue: Build bridges  Empowering young audience: Foster of languages between cultures, Encourage a spirit of openness media literacy, Familiarize them with career  Promoting young and new talents: Spot the between peoples and generations opportunities in the creative and cultural talents of tomorrow, Empower local talent industries  Raising awareness of sustainable development:  Strengthening local production skills in Encourage awareness of sustainable development issues,  Give Youth a Voice and associate them Africa: Support training programs, Organize Contribute to causes in the general interest to the Group’s reflexions: risks and meetings among various stakeholders  Facilitating access to ICTs and content: fighting opportunities of digital life, creativity,  Promoting cultural heritage: Preserve and Intercultural dialogue, citizenship against digital divides: Invest in isolated regions, promote works that are part of cultural heritage, Accompany persons with low incomes, Contribute to the Support local artistic expression autonomy of disabled or elderly persons Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 16 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Protecting and Empowering Young People Safer Internet Day On February 5, 2013, on the occasion of the Safer Internet Day (the European day for more responsible and safer Internet for the young), Vivendi invited about thirty speakers (politicians, professionals, scientists, experts, young college students) to exchange views on questions of online reputation and discriminating minds. The debate was broadcast on Vivendi’s webradio. This operation has been renewed for the 2014 edition of the Safer Internet Day (some podcasts in english are available on the webradio’s website: vivoice.vivendi.com). The CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for kids At the beginning of 2013, Vivendi provided a report on the best practices implemented by its subsidiaries in the framework of the CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for kids, an initiative led by Neelie Kroes, Vice-President of the European Commission on digital strategy, joined by the group. Five key actions were defined to better adapt the Internet to the needs of children and improve its level of safety: CEO Coalition  Developing simple and robust reporting tools for users; to make the Internet a better place for kids  Setting age-appropriate privacy parameters;  Extending the use of content classification;  Increasing the availability and use of parental controls; and  More effectively eliminating child pornography material. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 17 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Vivendi, 3rd of « Children’s Rights and Business Principles » ranking Vigeo examined the extent to which various listed companies abide by the principles governing companies in the field of Children’s Rights, upheld by UNICEF, the United Nations Global Compact and the NGO “Save the Children”. Vivendi was ranked third in Vigeo’s survey on how these principles are embraced by CAC 40 companies and was invited to speak at the debate organized by Vigeo on October 9 last on the topic “Companies & Children’s Rights: an issue central to CSR”. Media & News Literacy Vivendi Vivendi gave its support to the conference entitled “Public Policies on Media and Information Literacy in Europe. Training and Capacity Building in the Digital Age”, which took place at the Sorbonne Nouvelle University on December 13 and 14. This conference brought together the viewpoints of a number of experts representing an extensive network of European universities (the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST), intergovernmental organization gathering 36 Members State as well as UNESCO-UNITWIN chairs (University Twinning and Networking Programme) promoting international cooperation and networking of Universities), on the initiative of Divina Frau-Meigs, media sociologist and expert working with UNESCO and the Council of Europe. Vivendi contributed to this event by speaking at the round table on “The needs and uses of media and information literacy in and outside schools” and covered them on its Vivoice webradio. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 18 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights France’s National Youth Day Empowering young people in their digital and media practices also requires knowledge of jobs in the artistic and cultural industries. Vivendi partnered for the second consecutive year with the France’s National Youth Day, which took place on November 29, 2013. Organized under the patronage of the French Ministry of Education, this day is an annual meeting between young student and professionals, allowing college students aged from 14 to 20 to discover the labor world and consider their future. Vivendi invited three classes for a morning of discovery of cultural and creative industries’ jobs, presented by Universal Music and Canal+ colleagues. Culture(s) with Vivendi: an open window on creatives jobs In order to provide concrete illustrations of the major role played by culture in fostering economic growth and enhancing social cohesion, in 2012, Vivendi launched the website “Culture(s) with Vivendi”: an open window on cultural industries and the creative world. Among others items, it enables young Internet users to discover, in the section devoted to “Creative Jobs,” the value chain and the highly diverse range of professions found in the cultural industries. This section presents exclusive interviews with professionals from music and movie sectors. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 19 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Raising youth’ awareness on their personal data protection The Vivendi Group is particularly focused on raising the awareness of users, particularly young audiences, regarding issues of personal data protection and management of their private lives online. The CSR department brought together the Group’s subsidiaries to discuss the topic “Young Internet users and the digital lifestyle: the issue of personal data” together with representatives of the EU Council, French Defender of Rights, and the CNIL. The objective was to raise awareness of regulatory changes related to the protection of privacy and changes in uses with regard to the placing of online personal information by young people. The CSR department also focused on gaining a better understanding of the treatment methods used for personal data of children and teenagers on the websites of the Group’s subsidiaries offering media content to that audience, in order to anticipate the measures that will be implemented within the framework of future European regulations. CAMPUS BAC on Canal+ Canal+ Group strives to offer quality content suitable for young audiences on its channels. Thus, the first educational recommendation engine on television, CAMPUS, available on CANALSAT on demand (channel 14), was launched in September 2013. This service puts the quality and richness of the content of the Canal+ channels at the disposal of education, providing easy access to all programs in connection with courses of study, from sixth grade to twelfth grade, by level and by topic. From April 12 to July 12, 2013, CAMPUS focused on the baccalaureate and offered an exceptional series of programs totally devoted to the French Baccalaureate. This dedicated channel called CAMPUS BAC (French channel 19) is offered by CANALSAT and the Planète channel, in partnership with the magazine Etudiant. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 20 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights UMG, Utalks! In the United Kingdom, the educational program “Utalks” provides anyone interested in the world of music with an opportunity to speak directly with UMG and to raise about any topic desired. There have been discussions between UMG employees and young people of all geographic, social and cultural perspectives (students of Westminster University, expert music bloggers, students of Goldsmiths College, new urban musical talents of “Urban Development”, members of the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts, representatives of popular music in Glasgow, Oxford University students and young musicians from the national festival “Music For Youth”) Internet Responsavel 5.0 On December 2013, GVT launched the 5.0 version of “GVT Inspires – Responsible Internet Use” with on line and off line content focused on youth, children, parents and teachers. This material is used to motivate a healthy discussion about cautions needed on the web between parents and children. It can also be used by teachers in school activities. GVT supports this initiative since 2008. Edutainment content made by GVT In 2013, seven new fun comic strips were released on topics such as Facebook, flashmobs, mobile apps, foursquare… Also, some comics gained interactiveness allowing the user to pick up the end of the story in the app versions to IOS and Android. Widely disseminated through the media and social networks, the fun educational materials produced by GVT to raise awareness and protect children and teenagers on the Internet reached nearly 700,000 people in 2012. As part of the operator’s volunteer involvement initiative, GVT’s employee-volunteers visited six schools with the goal of sensitizing both teachers and students to the responsible use of the Internet. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 21 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights FOCUS Integrated Reporting Promoting Cultural Diversity Pilot Project (see p.8) A new section on Culture(s) with Vivendi Launched in 2012, the website “Culture(s) with Vivendi” is aimed at providing a concrete illustration of the role played by the cultural industries and the media sector in stimulating economic growth, reinforcing social cohesion and promoting innovation. Its new section “De Facto”, launched in 2013, promotes culture as a pillar of sustainable development, using facts and figures, testimonials and studies. This is a special forum for anyone wishing to demonstrate the link between culture, human development, openness towards others, access to knowledge and the fight against poverty. As a resource center, this section is especially concerned with gathering arguments in favor of integrating culture into the new global strategy for sustainable development and into the Next Millennium Goals, to be adopted for 2015-2030. « RDV Culture » on Vivoice, Vivendi’s webradio In 2013, culture was regularly featured in the programs of Vivoice, Vivendi’s webradio, in its “RDV Culture” and special programs. Debates and topics such as “who funds creation in the digital age?”, “cultural diversity in the digital age”, “cultural diversity and sustainable development: the same challenge?”, “investors, CSR and culture” have been taken up on air, and distinguished guests have spoken on Vivoice. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 22 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Study « Women in music and cinema in Europe » On the occasion of International Women’s Day on March 8, 2013, Vivendi and Laboratoire de l’Egalité signed a partnership to conduct a study and formulate proposals for promoting women in film and music in Europe. This partnership brings the network of researchers and members of the Laboratory together with the Group’s professional network: executives and employees of the Universal Music Group, Canal+ Group, artists and other stakeholders in the value chain of the cultural and creative industries. This study was published in November 2013 and was presented at the high-level discussion forum on the theme: “Fighting stereotypes to build a culture of equality between women and men”, held at the Education Show. This study was also featured in a program on Vivoice, Vivendi’s webradio. World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialog and Development On May 21, 2013, on the occasion of this special Day declared by the UN, Vivendi received in Paris young Malian professionals enrolled in the sound engineer’s training course launched by Vivendi in 2006. Hitherto run in Bamako in the Salif Keita studio, the 9th session was run in recording studios and concert halls of Paris for three weeks. Vivendi supports this training program, which aims to make Moffou a cultural hub in Mali. In order to give pride of place to this program, for the second year running Vivendi partnered with the Do ONE Thing campaign, promoted by United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) in partnership with UNESCO. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 23 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Support for cinematographic creation in France In 2012*, Canal+ was the leading contributor to French cinema. It actively supports film production by financing 54.1% of French films approved by the French National Center for Cinema and the Animated Image (CNC), to a total amount of €176 million. Discovery of new talent and supporting young filmmakers In 2012*, the Canal+ channel pre-purchased 27 debut French films. Moreover, in addition to the talent identification program, Repérages, the channel develops specific programs to identify new talent, including:  the “Ecrire pour” collection;  the “Nouvelle trilogie”;  the “Laboratoire d’Images”; and  the magazine “L’Œil de links”. Studiocanal: a major actor of cinematographic heritage Studiocanal, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Canal+ Group, which comprises the French entity as well as its British and German subsidiaries, has established itself as a leading European player in the co-production, acquisition and distribution of films. In 2013, Studiocanal produced 17 feature-length films from filmmakers of 7 different nationalities. Nearly 2,600 cinematographic works were disseminated by Studiocanal in at least one of these three countries (France, UK, Germany), and approximately 1,000 titles outside those three areas. NB: The information and the indicators indicated by the sign have been published in Vivendi’s Annual Report 2013, and as such have been subjected to a verification from one of Vivendi’s statutory auditors. *For reasons of consistency with the data published and verified by the statutory auditors, the indicators of this Communication on Progress are not restated. Indeed, during the preparation of the Group’s publications (March 2014), the CNC official data for the year 2013 were not available. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 24 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Canal+ supports african cinematographic production For several years, Canal+ Africa has supported numerous African cinematographic productions. Since 2005, 42 films have been coproduced or pre-financed and 12 African films are broadcast each year on the Canal+ channel. In 2013, 7 cinematographic projects were cofinanced. Canal+ partner of African movies festivals For the past several years, Canal+ Africa has supported three major festivals:  The Pan-African Festival of Cinema in Ouagadougou (FESPACO) which was last held from February 23 to March 2, 2013. Canal+ Africa, which partnered this 23rd edition, awarded seven prizes in three categories: Films made by African film schools, Digital video fiction and TV series;  The Festival Écrans Noirs (Canal+ Africa awarded the prize for best “Short feature film” at this event); and  The Festival Clap Ivoire (competition of short video features open since 2004 to young technicians and producers from member states of the West African Economic and Monetary Union). Canal+ supports female African film-makers Canal+ Africa and Canal France International (CFI), two key players and committed partners of African cinema, joined forces on the occasion of “Africa by women” (“L’Afrique au feminin”). This short documentary competition, on the theme “Being successful in Africa today”, is aimed at female African filmmakers. This excellent initiative of Canal+ Africa reasserts its commitment to supporting projects involving African cinema, women and training, while revealing new talents. The best documentaries produced (8 to 12 minutes long) formed a collection to broadcasted on Canal+ in Africa on March 8, 2014, on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 25 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Musical diversity at the heart of UMG’s business activity Universal Music Group, which covers approximately fifty labels, offers a vast catalog with a wide variety of musical genres. It bases its growth policy on developing international artists, but also on developing local talent, whether young talent or best-selling acts, in order to maintain a leadership position in its different national markets. In 2013, local artists across 60 countries account for more than 61% of Universal Music Group’s physical and digital sales (within a scope of 59 countries). Prestigious labels and artists UMG artists achieve distinction every year with their undisputed worldwide success, recording the strongest album sales due to best-selling acts. In 2013, UMG set a new record holding nine titles of the top ten digital sales in the August 2013 Billboard ranking in the United States, based on Nielsen SoundScan sales figures. These nine titles are the end result of a balanced combination of new and best-selling artists, covering a wide range of genres, particularly country music, pop, R&B, rock and electronic music (EDM), representing the diversity of this major company’s labels. In September 2013, UMG once again received a number of awards at the Gramophone Awards ceremony (the equivalent of the Academy Awards for classical music). The Decca and Deutsche Grammophon labels won four prestigious awards. Decca was recognized as Label of the Year. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 26 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Knowledge Sharing Intercultural Dialogue at the heart of Culture(s) with Vivendi The “Intercultural Dialogue” section illustrates how culture promotes mutual understanding, through numerous testimonials of artists, students and experts. 5th UN Alliance of Civilizations Forum (UNAOC) Vivendi had the honor of being invited by the United Nations to participate in the 5th UN Alliance of Civilizations Forum held on February 27 – 28, 2012, in Vienna (Austria). In the presence of Ban KiMoon, Secretary General of the UN, this event brought together policy makers, business leaders and representatives of civil society towards one common objective: to include cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue in the global agenda for sustainable development Meeting with MENA Fellowship Program In 2013, Vivendi, a partner of the UN Alliance of Civilizations, welcomed beneficiaries of the MENA Fellowship Program for the third consecutive year. The Fellowship Program aims to enable young leaders of the Arab world and the Muslim world to better know and understand the reality of Europe and the United States, and vice versa for young European and American leaders. These meetings are an opportunity to present Vivendi’s strategic orientations in terms of sustainable development and share with these young leaders the key role played by the media in building bridges between cultures while respecting human rights. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 27 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Canal+ engaged documentary policy In 2013, Canal+’s documentary policy, which reflects today’s world, confirmed its commitment to human values, social cohesion, the development of a sustainable world and openness to other cultures. The channel carried out initiatives beyond the screen to demonstrate its commitment including the production of the documentary Les Insoumises, produced by Elzévir & Cie, telling the story of women who are shifting the boundaries of the patriarchal system in five countries, Thailand, Mali, Turkey, India and France. In addition, in October 2012, Canal+ developed a complete program to increase public awareness of the fight against waste during its prime time broadcast of Olivier Lemaire’s film Global gâchis. The “Kindia 2015” editorial project, launched by the Canal+ documentary department, in contrast to on-the-spot current events news reports and broadcasts, follows the process of development in the city of Kindia in Guinea Conakry over the long term. This has led to the ﬁlming of four documentaries to be aired in prime-time slots between 2012 and 2015. The second episode, broadcast on October 30, 2013, presented the advances of the project. At the same time, Canal+ Group has established an endowment fund for the associations being ﬁlmed. At the Cannes Corporate Media & TV Awards, Kindia 2015 by Anthony Orliange and François Bergeron received the Silver Dolphin award in the environment and ecology category, and Global gâchis by Olivier Lemaire received the Gold Dolphin award in the education category. Content Accessibility Canal+ Group channels are engaged in accessibility to content. They already offer their subscribers the following two features: subtitles for those who are deaf or hearing impaired (100% of programs on Canal+) and audio-description for those who are blind or visually impaired. Since June 2012, Polish children with hearing difficulties have been able to watch animated series in sign language on the MiniMini+ and teleTOON+ channels Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 28 Implementation of principles relating to Human Rights Strategic Partnership and catalog digitalization Universal Music Group develops digital music services in the territories where it operates, which facilitates access to its offerings. UMG’s digitalization of its exceptional catalog of music works is a privileged means for accessing thousands of recordings no longer available on physical media.  UMG has developed a new pan-African mobile music streaming service called Kleek in partnership with Samsung and Sony Music. Kleek is an unprecedented digital platform for artists and music consumers to distribute and access music across the continent. Via Kleek, UMG is opening routes to new fans for artists across the region, creating employment and promoting collaboration across Africa in a growing network of countries and companies.  UMG has launched uDiscover, a new multi-faceted music curation and discovery platform, that gives music lovers new ways to explore and be immersed in Universal Music’s catalogue of legendary artists, albums and songs. GVT contributes to accessibility of communication technology The operator contributes to making information and communication technologies accessible to the greatest possible number of people. It lends its support to five institutions working to minimize the digital divide in Brazil. In 2013, GVT provided kits completely free of charge to the CDI – Committee for the Democratization of the Internet. These kits included a screen, a decoder, 28 television channels, a modem to access the Internet and additional services. This initiative demonstrates GVT’s commitment to facilitating access to information and knowledge sharing. GVT also provided with broadband internet some institutions that work on digital inclusion. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 29 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Principle Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining ; Principle The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 4 Principle The effective abolition of child labour; and 5 Principle The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 6 and occupation. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 30 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards  Vivendi works to establish a constructive dialogue between  Vivendi leads a process of dialogue and consultation with the social management and the competent bodies representing unions in order to encourage collaboration and communication within the employees that respect their prerogatives. Group.  The essential principles which form Vivendi’s employment policy are to ensure the safety of its employees wherever they may be, to respect  Vivendi supports and implements the fundamental principles their employment rights, to give each of them recruitment, employment of labour rights and promotes them among its suppliers and and promotion prospects based on their abilities and sense of providers. responsibility, and to maintain employment conditions that respect their individual dignity and private life. This is the 1st rule of conduct of the Group’s Compliance Program.  In its Compliance Program, the Group states that « Behavior which offends the dignity of individuals, and in particular psychological and  Vivendi affirms and asserts its attachment to diversity in sexual harassment and discrimination based on unlawful selection recruitment and its fight against discrimination, which it criteria such as sex, age, lifestyle, race, ethnicity, nationality, disability, holds to be guarantees of richness and performance. religious or political opinions or beliefs, or union membership, is contrary to the values of tolerance and respect for the individual and is incompatible with the employment policy that the Group intends to apply. » Employees’ Rights within the Compliance Program “Ethical business practice is one of Vivendi’s fundamental values. Acting with probity, complying with the law, respecting the dignity and individual rights of employees, protecting confidentiality, placing business ethics above the search for economic performance, protecting the Group’s property and resources: these are all principles which must guide the professional conduct of employees to ensure the Group’s business is conducted ethically and legally. (…) The essential principles which form Vivendi’s employment policy — in the context of a constructive dialogue between management and the competent bodies representing employees which respect their prerogatives — are to ensure the safety of its employees wherever they may be, to respect their employment rights, to give each of them recruitment, employment and promotion prospects based on their abilities and sense of responsibility, and to maintain employment conditions which respect their individual dignity and private life.” Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 31 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Respect and promotion of ILO Fundamental Conventions Vivendi agrees to comply with the fundamental principles of the ILO. In the area of labor law, these commitments require compliance with the four fundamental pillars of the ILO: freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, combating child labor, and eliminating discrimination in the area of employment and profession. Two of these four principles (freedom of association and combating discrimination) are of particular relevance to Vivendi (see Section « Social Indicators » of Vivendi Annual Report 2013). Respect for Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining With its social partners, Vivendi promotes social dialog and consultation at all levels. All workers based in France and in the Overseas Departments and Territories are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The same is true worldwide, for more than 90% of Group employees and 100% of GVT ones. Eliminating Discrimination in Employment Vivendi has affirmed its commitment to diversity in recruitment and preventing discrimination in employment. The Group’s Compliance Program calls for active prevention of all forms of discrimination based on selection criteria such as gender, age, lifestyle, ethnic identity, nationality, disability, religious, political or trade union opinions and commitments. These commitments are applied in practice through policies relating to gender, diversity and non-discrimination, and in the employment and job placement policies for workers with a disability (See Section 3.2.6.of Vivendi Annual Report 2013). Abolition of Forced or Compulsory Labor and Child Labor The Vivendi Group complies with the ILO conventions and bans all forms of forced labor. Child labor is strictly prohibited in the Group. In certain specific cases, such as filmmaking or music recordings, where minors may be required to make a contribution, all regulatory requirements are rigorously respected. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 32 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Social dialogue takes place at all levels of the Group The Group’s Works Council and the European Authority for Dialogue between Management and Labor enables social partners to be informed of and exchange views on Vivendi Group’s economic strategy and the major guidelines of its human resources policy. At the level of each business unit, management, local and central works councils, employee representatives and health and safety committees collaborate to maintain and strengthen a spirit of openness, and to build a dialogue based on mutual trust. In 2013, there were again many agreements signed by the Group’s entities in France, most of them concern compensation (43%), health and safety (17%), social dialogue (17%). Other subjects include gender parity, employment of disabled workers, work-time organization to allow employees to work from home. In the Generation Collective Agreements French companies reinforced local policies pertaining to forward looking jobs and skills management agreements, employment of young and senior staff members. The i3 program The i3 (innovation, initiative, information) program supports and promotes the social initiatives of the Group’s businesses. Seven projects and their teams received an honorary award from Mathieu Peyceré, Director of the Vivendi Group’s human resources division, at a ceremony dedicated to promote those initiatives. Another ceremony awarding prizes was held in the spring in Brazil for the two winners from GVT. Among the projects selected, we highlight the personalized compensation report, a solidarity program in Brazil (HandsOn Program), a summary of employees’ experiences as customers (Vigie Expérience Client) and a program where young people meet with companies to discuss the careers of the future (Ma Caméra chez les Pros). In addition, UMG Spain was awarded the Coup de Cœur prize for all its contributions. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 33 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards An Ambitious Employee Share ownership Policy Vivendiis committed to ensuring that employees’ contributions to the Group are rewarded and distributed equitably. Consequently, the Group has implemented a profit sharing policy that exceeds legal requirements and strongly encourages employee Share ownership .  In 2013, the total net amounts received by the employees of the Group’s French companies in the form of optional profit sharing plans, statutory profit sharing plans and employer’s contributions to the Vivendi Group Savings Plan (Plan d’épargne groupe or PEG) amounted to €98.8 million, a decrease of 10% from the record year 2012.  A growing portion of employee savings was allocated to employee shareholding (45.9% of the amounts invested)  Pursuant to a decision of the Management Board dated April 29, 2013, and authorizations granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 30, 2013, the annual share capital increase reserved for employees of the Group’s companies under the Group Savings Plan (PEG) was approved on July 25, 2013. For the sixth consecutive year, the capital increase involved the simultaneous launch of a regular employee share offering (in France) and a French and international leveraged and guaranteed capital plan, entitled Opus 13.  As a result of the July 25, 2013 share capital increase reserved for employees, the Group’s employees collectively owned 3.7% of Vivendi’s share capital compared with 3.38% the previous year. An employee shareholding representative to Vivendi’s Supervisory Board In 2012, the threshold of 3% was reached, allowing, in 2013, the appointment for the first time of an employee shareholding representative to Vivendi’s Supervisory Board, thus defending employee shareholder interests. Nathalie Bricault, the employee shareholding representative, was proposed by the Management Board and appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board by vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 30, 2013. Pursuant to the Company’s bylaws, this appointment followed a general vote held in February 2013, and taken by the employee shareholders (35,000 voters) from all the countries concerned. Four members of the Supervisory Boards of the Group Savings Plan (PEG) shareholding funds ran as candidates. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 34 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Campus carrière Campus carrière (Career Campus) is an à la carte program created to help employees manage their career plans. Conferences, courses, training sessions and group workshops are among the educational approaches used. Participants become aware of the avenues available to them to create and manage their personal and professional networks, prepare for a discussion on mobility, develop an effective resume, express their motivation. U learn, U develop, U manage, U lead In 2013, the number of employees trained at UMG increased by 25%, emphasizing the company’s commitment to investing in training its employees. UMG International adopted a new training slogan in 2013. It reflects the name of the Company as well as its ambitious training policy: U Learn, U Develop, U manage, U Lead. Continuous training at GVT Continuous training is one of GVT’s daily concerns, even more since headcounts are especially young (20% of its employees are under the age of 25 and 70% are under 34). In 2013, its employees benefited from an average of 63.9 training hours per employee. At GVT, training is dispensed in modules, on site or remotely, using elearning methods. It covers three main areas: job skills, skills improvement, and personal development programs. In 2013, two priority areas were identified: training of employees working with ‘Direct to Home’ (DTH) television technology and Managers in charge of administrating the new work-time management system. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 35 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Gender equality With 5 women among the 13 directors on Vivendi’s Supervisory Board, Vivendi ranked 4th among 120 French companies that participated in a survey on the feminization of company board members. Sponsored by the French Women’s Rights Ministry, the study took place in October 2013. (See Ethics and Boards website for the complete study). Two of these women directors chair Board committees: the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Human Resources Committee. In 2013, the percentage of women in the Vivendi Group remained stable at 35%. In some entities, particularly Canal+ Group and at Vivendi’s headquarters, for several years parity for women has been reached or exceeded. Mixity and Mentoring Concerned by promoting women at leadership positions, Vivendi’s Supervisory Board approved a mentoring and networking program to promote gender balance at the highest level. The ANDIAMO network, created in March 2012, is a forum for future female leaders. The network aims to support women in their development through encountering personal examples of role models, as well as participation in co-development and training workshops. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 36 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Integration and Non-Discrimination against Staff with Disabilities In the recruitment process, the subsidiaries ensure equal treatment for applicants with strict respect for the individual. In parallel, they have developed specific training to sensitize employees and managers to disabilities. Beyond these commitments, the subsidiaries are mobilizing around programs and partnerships supporting all types of disabilities: the adaptation of tools and workplaces for disabled employees, work-study contracts, furnishing and accessibility of our facilities, implementation of the infrastructure required for telecommuting, managers and Human Resources Officers training on disabilities of all kinds and establishing partnerships and greater use of sheltered sector companies. CanalHandi+ In 2013, Canal+ Group continued its initiatives to support disabled employees under the CanalHandi+ banner. Key actions at Canal+ Group included:  Entrusting part of its central activity in customer relations to a sheltered sector company called Handicall and increasing business with the sheltered sector;  Working with a significant number of employees to declare their disability, with the help of a social worker to fill in applicable forms;  Raising awareness internally during the French National disabled employment week on the topic of “Talents”, and this through conferences and quizzes;  Maintaining a policy of recruiting young graduates with a disability, through their recruitment as interns and through work-study programs; and  Participating in recruitment fairs and maintaining specific partnerships such as Job in Live, Handicafé and Tremplin. Between 2010 and 2013, the number of disabled employees more than doubled in Canal+ Group, primarily thanks to the efforts of units within the SEUs (Social Economic Unit). Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 37 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Young workers’ Access to Job and Training Vivendi continues to pursue its engagement in employing young staff members through various types of work-study contracts. The increase in the number of contracts in 2013 (+10%) is the result of Canal+ Group’s active investment in numerous apprentice training programs. Canalpluschool Attracting the strongest candidates and creating a pool of high potential employees are two of the goals behind the creation of Canalpluschool. This initiative is part of an innovative policy oriented toward modern, interactive recruitment techniques that strengthen the image of the Canal+ brand. Three channels were selected for social networks. A Twitter account is directed at students and recent graduates. On Facebook, a page entitled “You Deserve Canal+” is intended to inform candidates via videos and photo galleries. Finally, the Canal+ interns’ network is a community of former interns and apprentices on LinkedIn which allows them to remain in close contact with each other and their former employer, Canal+. Mentoring at UMG Mentoring is a method of apprenticeship that has proved its worth. In South Korea, UMG has set up a mentoring program that allows experienced employees to train younger staff members, helping them to acquire skills and deepen their understanding. This program also helps develop a strong business culture. GVT’s Young employees GVT believes that teamwork and talent networking are the best resources for attracting and keeping young employees. GVT contributes actively to hiring and integrating young Brazilians: 20% of its employees are under the age of 25 and 70% are under 34. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 38 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Focus on suppliers and subcontractors Responsible Supplier Relationship Charter In July 2013, Vivendi signed the French Responsible Supplier Relationship Charter, which has some commitments that aim at raising awareness of the economic actors regarding responsible purchasing and the quality of customers-suppliers relationship. In order to raise awareness among the group’s correspondents that are in charge of these topics, a CSR committee was held in December 2013 and was attended by the responsible of the buyers/charters/label pole of the French Ministry of Industrial Renewal. Furthermore, an internal mediator was appointed in compliance with the Charter’s provisions, it follows up any potential litigation between the Group’s subsidiaries and one of its suppliers Reporting and Information Efforts In addition to this commitment, in 2013 enhanced attention is being paid to the supply chain.  Following the comments by the Statutory Auditors in charge of auditing non-financial data, indicators relating to the Group’s purchasing policy were added to the Reporting Protocol to evaluate more precisely the importance of the sub-contracting that is part of the Group’s activities.  Within the framework of the Legal department’s Annual Report on the application of the Compliance Program by the subsidiaries, representatives of the business units are asked to report on their audits in relation to their suppliers. This report is approved by the Audit Committee within the Supervisory Board.  In the CSR section introduced into the COSO reference framework for internal control by the Audit department, the subsidiaries are asked to provide information on the methods used to ensure suppliers’ compliance with the Codes of Conduct. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 39 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards Importance of Purchasing and Subcontracting at Vivendi To obtain an overall view of the risks related to the supply chain, the Group has analyzed the purchases made with suppliers and subcontractors that account for at least 75% of the total expenditure of the subsidiaries. Analysis has shown that the Group purchases mainly infrastructure, content, and professional services. These purchases are made from suppliers predominantly located in the European and American regions. The Group’s Commitment and suppliers’ responsabilization Vivendi is committed to increasing the awareness of its main suppliers and subcontractors on its societal, social and environmental issues. The subsidiaries ensure accordingly that their suppliers take part in the implementation of the Group’s commitments in these areas. Vivendi’s Compliance Program includes a rule that reminds suppliers of their undertaking to provide services in compliance with the Group’s commercial and social ethical standards Each of the Group’s subsidiaries has made a formal commitment, by virtue of a code, charter or clause, to the acknowledgment of societal, social or environment issues. This commitment refers particularly to the fundamental principles, such as the ones formulated by the ILO in its conventions, the United Nations Global Compact or the OECD. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 40 Implementation of principles relating to Labour standards CSR Integrated in Subsidiaries’ Contracts and calls for tender  The legal prerequisites included in the Canal+ Group’s calls for tender in France specify the supplier’s CSR commitments. In addition, a number of specific calls for tender include special obligations corresponding to a number of these criteria: a social responsibility label and personal data protection for call centers, and waste management for the manufacturers of set-top boxes.  When tendering and contracting with global suppliers in all major territories (including the United States, Germany, France, Japan, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Scandinavia, Australia, New Zealand and Brazil), UMG includes a clause in the tender referring to the UMG CSR policy and an additional link to Vivendi’s CSR requirements.  A specific provision referring to the United Nations Global Compact is included in GVT’s supplier contracts. These partner suppliers are then bound to comply with the principles of the Brazilian operator’s Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards. Training in Responsible Purchasing  In 2013, all the purchasing teams of Canal+ (100%) underwent “Socially Responsible Purchasing” (Achats Solidaires) training. Moreover, all employees involved in purchasing are given awareness training on a regular basis regarding dependence on suppliers and fair practices.  Within UMG, all the purchasing teams (100%) are trained in responsible purchasing and follow the corresponding guidelines. Moreover, since 2009, as a member of the Creative Diversity Network, the UMG purchasing team is committed to encouraging diversity in purchasing processes in the United Kingdom.  One year ago, GVT announced an ambitious objective: giving awareness training in responsible purchasing to at least 90% of the teams concerned before the end of the year. This objective has been fully achieved: 98% of the purchasing teams have received this training. As a result, in early 2013, all GVT’s purchasing departments met at an in-house seminar to share their best practices and results. A special presentation was made on the importance of responsible purchasing. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 41 Implementation of principles relating to Environment Principle Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 7 environmental challenges; Principle Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 responsibility; Principle Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental 9 friendly technologies.  Vivendi defends environmental awareness and takes  Environmental awareness is a clearly defined rule of conduct set full responsibility in this domain, while it operates in down in Vivendi’s Compliance Program. In 2000, the company put business sectors where exposure to environmental in place a Program of compliance with environmental, health and risks is relatively low. workplace safety standards, as well as an Environmental Charter. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 42 Implementation of principles relating to Environment Vivendi’s commitment in favor of the environment The seventh rule of the Compliance Program defines the commitment of Vivendi towards environment: ”Vivendi undertakes to promote the respect of the environment in all its activities. It is up to each Group employee to contribute, within the scope of his or her duty, to the Group effort to protect the environment:  by becoming familiar and complying with laws and regulations, instructions and procedures set out by its company;  by immediately reporting, to the attention of the persons responsible for managing such situations, any non compliance with regulation, risk situation or incidents which he or she is aware of.” The reporting requirement In 2013, the work of improving data-gathering and consolidating environmental data continued, following regular exchanges with business unit representatives. Three new indicators were informed: training and employee information in the area of environmental protection, the purchase of plastics and acrylics used in the manufacture of products intended for sale, and purchases of paper for internal use. The creation of a new indicator (Total energy consumption) provides a global data. A stricter measure was adopted for water consumption. Paper purchases for office use were assessed as real data per entity. In fiscal year 2013, the work of the Auditors related to reported data in the Annual Report focused for the first time on several Universal Music Group sites located in Berlin and London and on GVT sites in Curitiba. This audit engagement was expanded within Canal+ Group to include the head office of Canal+ Overseas. In order to assist these three subsidiaries in the auditing process, briefing sessions were held by Vivendi’s CSR department and by the Auditors. (For further information, consult environemental data available in Vivendi’s Annual Report 2013 and online on www.vivendi.com) Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 43 Implementation of principles relating to Environment The Certification Process Committing to a certification process allows the Company to evaluate, improve and report on its environmental policy, and also to meet with its employees and its other stakeholders to discuss common objectives. Renewal of EMAS certificate for Vivendi’s headquarters Registration of Vivendi’s headquarters for the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS regulation) with the French Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy was maintained, in accordance with an annual follow-up audit. EMAS is a management tool for Vivendi’s headquarters. Decisions on initiatives to reduce impacts on the environment are made by the “Green Team” Committee, which meets twice a year. This committee, which is led by an EMAS coordinator, brings together approximately ten members from different departments: administrative services, computer support, human resources, finance, CSR communications, and internal auditing, as well as the service provider in charge of maintenance for the site. The strength of the Committee lies in the motivation and expertise of its members. The actions aimed at reducing the environmental impact of the reduction of energy have been carried out more noticeably in the area of information technology systems (virtualization of servers, data backup process changed from tapes to discs, set up of Telephony on IP, removal of equipment such as faxes, management of equipment at the end of its life cycle). Energy Star certification of UMG headquarters This year, for the seventh time, the headquarters of Universal Music Group in Santa Monica (USA) received the Energy Star certification issued by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This distinction is reserved for top-ranking businesses recognized for their energy performance at national level. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 44 Implementation of principles relating to Environment Improved Reporting on Energy Consumption In 2013, as a result of improved environmental reporting process, key indicators were developed that are better suited to the activities of the various business units. In order to control the forms of energy consumption that are the chief sources of the Group’s CO2 emissions, several measures were adopted, as described below:  Managing Facilities: special attention was paid to air-conditioning as a source of high electricity consumption. GVT and Maroc Telecom have therefore invested in natural ventilation (“free cooling”), which consumes less energy. The new site that gathers together all the free channels of Canal+ Group is BREEAM certified (BRE Environmental Assessment Method). This is the most widely used method of assessing the environmental performance of buildings. The site is equipped with “free cooling” generators that use air from outdoors to cool film sets and equipments, leading to energy savings of 13% a year, which is the equivalent of 100 tons of CO2.  Managing the Vehicle Pool: Canal+ in France has gradually replaced its car fleet with less polluting vehicles, which, over the past five years, has enabled it to reduce its CO2 emissions rate by 30 g/km per vehicle. Vivendi SA has introduced hybrid vehicles. UMG in Santa Monica (USA) has provided its employees with six locations for recharging electric cars.  Managing Electrical and Electronic Equipment: the initiatives taken by headquarters (virtualization of servers, switching to IP (Internet protocol) telephony, reducing equipment such as fax machines and managing equipment at the end of the life cycle) have helped to reduce the energy impact of computers. Rigorous management has enabled Canal+ in France to recover nearly 5,500 pieces of equipment (including PCs, monitors, servers and printers), leading to significant gains.  Controlling Upstream Impacts: As part of an effort to offset energy, Universal Music France has agreed to diversify its sources of electrical supply by purchasing EDF “Balance+” contracts. For EDF this means injecting electricity into the network from renewable sources, in a certain amount defined by contract. Other initiatives, like those carried out by GVT to encourage environmentally responsible purchasing, also reflect this desire to involve the value chain in this energy-saving policy. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 45 Implementation of principles relating to Environment Digital Challenges: the Environmental Issue The Group’s business units are offering their customers an everincreasing range of creative digital content and high-speed access services. Thus, in 2013, digital content accounted for more than 50% of total sales of recorded music by Universal Music Group (compared with 39% in 2011). Canal+ Group, which has also launched its offering to major Internet distribution platforms such as YouTube in France and Dailymotion in Canada, launched a new application, the MyCanal app, and Canalplay ranks among the leaders of VOD by subscription in France, with a subscriber base that has more than doubled in a year, and, in March 2014, reached 400,000 subscribers. GVT’s Pay-TV business, launched two years ago, has attracted 600,000 subscribers. In this context of increasing electronic exchange, with the accompanying explosion of new uses, a better grasp of the digital environment footprint is needed. The CSR department has set up a committee to deal with the topic of “Information and communication technologies (ICTs) energy consumptions”. Bringing together the legal and technical officers of Universal Music France, Canal+, SFR and Vivendi headquarters, as well as a sociologist and an expert from the Audiovisual and Telecommunications Institute in Europe (IDATE), this Committee has elicited a number of productive discussions. A working group should be set up to further explore this specific environmental issue, so far largely unexplored. Information Categories Vivendi, with regard to its businesses, has relatively little exposure to environmental risks. Within the framework of the preparation of the verification work by the Statutory Auditors, the following information categories (extracted from the French Grenelle II law) were deemed irrelevant:  Measures to Prevent Environmental Risks and Pollution;  Financial provisions (and guarantees) for environmental risks;  Prevention, reduction or remedying of emissions into the air, water and soil;  Land use;  Adaptation to climate change;  Measures taken to preserve or develop biodiversity. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 46 Implementation of principles relating to Anti-corruption Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 10 including extortion and bribery.  Vivendi works against corruption in all its forms,  The fight against corruption and the receipt from or grant to any including extortion and bribery, and makes sure this third party of an improper advantage of any kind for the purpose principle is respected by all its suppliers and providers in of obtaining preferential treatment is a clearly defined rule of all of the countries in which the Group operates. conduct set down in Vivendi’s Compliance Program. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 47 Implementation of principles relating to Anti-corruption Combating corruption as a rule of the Compliance Program The rules of conduct set down in the Compliance program cover employees’ rights, fairness and protection of information, prevention of conflicts of interest, business ethics, the protection of property and resources belonging to the Group, financial ethics, and respect for the environment. The Compliance Program sets rules of conduct based on general principles of international law (including those established by the OECD, ILO and EU law) as well as prevailing legislation in various countries (principally France and common law countries). The Compliance Program sets forth the general ethical rules applicable to all Group entities. These rules are applied downstream, in each operational business unit in all the countries in which Vivendi is present, adapted to address the specific features of a subsidiary’s business as well as those of national legislation. The Compliance Program has three major purposes:  to raise awareness for the Group’s employees and provide them with a reference tool to guide them in determining appropriate courses of action;  to reduce the risks of triggering civil and criminal liability for both the Group’s employees and companies; and  to discuss in depth a cross-disciplinary theme each year. For this purpose, over the past five years, the following topics have been addressed: conflicts of interest, protection of personal data, preservation of tangible and intangible data, anti-corruption measures and the proper use of digital media within social networks. The 2013 report surveys subsidiaries to measure the effectiveness of their codes of conduct. Financial Code of Ethics In 2004, the Board of Directors of Vivendi, upon recommendation of its Audit Committee, approved a Financial Code of Ethics. The Code applies to the senior executives of Vivendi SA, particularly those responsible for communications and financial and accounting reporting, which represents approximately 60 people. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 48 Implementation of principles relating to Anti-corruption Geographic Breakdown of the Group’s Revenues according to Corruption Risk For the first time in 2013, the Group published in its Annual Report the geographic breakdown of its revenue by country according to corruption index as defined by Transparency International. This geographic distribution of the Group’s business activity showed that 77% of its revenues come from countries with low exposure to corruption, according to the Transparency International index. Notwithstanding this result, the Group remains vigilant and has taken steps to prevent any risks in that area. (see Section 2.2.5. of Vivendi’s Annual Report 2013). Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 49 Implementation of principles relating to Anti-corruption At Canal+ Group Canal+ Group’s anti-corruption policy is reflected in an ethics charter that prohibits its employees from acting on the basis of personal interest while performing their duties, since this would prevent them from defending the Group’s interests as their primary concern. In particular, the Group prohibits payments or benefits of any kind, or any gift of a value not considered reasonable, from any third party with which the Group is in a business relationship, or from any employee to any third party in a business relationship with the Group. At UMG Universal Music Group has instituted a number of key policies governing the professional practices of the entire workforce, particularly in the area of combating passive and active corruption and the disclosure of events contrary to business ethics, and has created an anti-trust guide. UMG is committed to adopt a “zero tolerance” approach in relation to fraud and corruption, and to act professionally and with integrity wherever the company operates, in accordance with local regulations and the UK Bribery Act of 2010. At GVT GVT has a Code of Conduct which has one section specifically dedicated to anti-corruption and anti-fraud policies. The purchasing policy is also aimed at enhancing transparency and avoiding any situation of this type. Specific Process (UMG & GVT) UMG and GVT both have a whistleblowing process. A hotline available on a world-wide basis 24/7 that employees can call to report suspected fraud, bribery or other violations of the Code. Employees may choose to identify themselves or remain anonymous. Moreover, GVT’s employees have an ombudsman to receive reports on ethical or legal violations, provide guidance and deal with conflicts of interest. Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 50 Appendix Vivendi corporate website: www.vivendi.com  Annual Report 2013  CSR heading of the corporate website  Non-financial indicators handbook 2013  Cross-reference table 2013  Vivendi Compliance Program Culture(s) with Vivendi website Vivoice, Vivendi’s webradio Vive n d i – C ommuni c at i o n on progres s 2013 51
