SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 01 About Alliance arkitekter 02 About Global Compact 03 The Principles 04 Statement of Continued Support 05 Living the principles 06 Achievements in the report period 07 Sustainable design in our projects 08 Our Goals for the next year The scope of our work spans from case studies and In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural area planning to the development and completion office in Norway, we became members of the of various building projects. Our projects range UN’s Global Compact, where members commit from detailing a 50 m² boat house to developing to aligning their operations with ten principles 01 220 000 m² area plans. We primarily work with new concerning environment, anti-corruption, human About construction, but are also involved in renovation, rights and labour. restoring and extensions to existing structures. The majority of our commissions consist of residential OUR STATED VISION: Alliance arkitekter and commercial developments. WE MAKE Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ horizontal structure and we continuously seek ARCHITECTURE to collaborate with groups and individuals FOR A BETTER WORLD from other disciplines. We believe that such Alliance arkitekter AS is a Norwegian architectural collaboration contributes to a positive synergy studio established in June 2005, with headquarters effect as well as add inspiration and learning to Our involvement so far is mainly concerned with in Oslo and a local branch in Stavanger. The studio the work processes, resulting in creative methods environmental sustainability and labour standards. and original results. We carefully assemble Furthermore, we promote the role of architecture collaborates with various offices and disciplines, and teams with the necessary requested experience as a trigger in encouraging the public to participate we frequently participate in architectural competitions. in combination with innovative strategies. This on environmental and social issues. As architects represents the energy and an attitude that we aspire to encourage the discourse on our inspire us in our daily work. We also have a set of current and future urban development, where the values that we strive to implement in all we do: interests of private developers may diverge from CURIOUS, RESPONSIBLE and CHALLENGING. the needs of the society. 02 The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy This ever-increasing understanding is reflected initiative for businesses committed to aligning in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. With About their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. over 12.000 corporate participants and other stakeholders from over 145 countries, it is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility Global compact By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help markets, commerce, initiative in the world. technology and finance advance in ways that The Global Compact is a practical framework benefit economies and societies everywhere. for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and As social, political and economic issues — at practices. Offering participants a wide range home or in other regions — increasingly affect of work streams, management tools and business, many companies recognize the need resources, the framework is designed to help to collaborate and partner with governments, advance sustainable business models and civil society, labour and NGO’s like the UN markets. Global Compact. “Due to the type and small size of our business, our biggest impact is via our clients, various connections to collaborators and the media. We are committed to raise awareness around Global Compact and the ten principles, and proactively encourage them to take actions” Founder & Crative Director Harald M. Gjøvaag 03 The Principles ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should work against Alliance arkitekter is committed to work against Principle 6: Businesses should support Alliance arkitekter is committed to the protection corruption in all its forms, corruption in all its forms. and respect the protection of of international human rights within our sphere including extortion and bribery internationally proclaimed of influence. human rights; and Alliance arkitekter fulfills all its responsibilities Principle 7: make sure that they are not according to Norwegian law, including implementing complicit in human rights abuses a health and safety management system. The LABOUR company holds a third party certification as a “Sustainability lighthouse” (Miljøfyrtårn), with Principle 2: Businesses should uphold the Alliance arkitekter is committed to protecting obligations on healthand safety management freedom of association and the labour rights, including freedom of association, beyond the legislative minimum. Progress is effective recognition of the right to abolition of forcedand child labour, and the reported annually. collective bargaining; elimination of any type of discrimination. Principle 3: the elimination of all forms of Alliance arkitekter fulfills all its responsibilities ENVIRONMENT forced and compulsory labour; according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance arkitekter has Principle 8: Businesses should support a Alliance arkitekter is committed to the promotion Principle 4: the effective abolition of child appointed employee representatives in both precautionary approach to of greater environmental responsibility and labour; and office locations as counsil and neutral support for environmental challenges precautionary approaches to environmental employees on issues regarding salary negotiation challenges in our sphere of influence. Principle 5: the elimination of discrimination and contractual dispute. Principle 9: Undertake initiatives to promote in respect of employment and greater environmental responsibility We seek to involve users and stakeholders at occupation. Alliance arkitekter sees great value in geographical an early project stage. We design for a healthy and ethnic diversity among its work force. living-, workingand social environment, and believe this is key to a sustainable society. We make an effort to reduce our resourceand energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. Steinboligen, Finse Architecture, as a part of the building industry, knowledge on sustainable design, offering a is the single largest source of greenhouse gas broader range of services to our clients. This has led emissions worldwide. Every time we design a to a more environmentally sound project portfolio. building, we project its energy consumption and its greenhouse gas footprint for the next 50-100 We have implemented different internal measures years. This emphasizes why the building industry to improve our social impact. Furthermore, we and architecture is so critical, and why our have attended different network meetings and 04 membership in The Global Compact is a vital seminars on sustainable design. We participate and relevant tool for our practice. in the public debate concerning the architect’s Statement of social responsibility and role in society and strive Since the office was launched in June 2005, we for an innovative architecture. have been focusing on how to utilize the ten continued support principles within our sphere of influence and how to encourage other companies, partners and collaborators to act likewise. After five years We believe that the social and environmental components are crucial in the development of long term profits and competitive advantages, of Global Compact activities, it’s clear to us that and we plan to continue and further develop our even a small architectural office can make a commitment to the Global Compact principles. considerable contribution in our common efforts to improve the world. Additionally we continue to seek ways to develop our work and proficiency through workshops, During the last few years, our most successful courses, a wide range of interdisciplinary strategy towards the principles has been through collaborations, study trips, literature as well as changing our client’s attitude on environmental the constant exchange of ideas and experience. design. Parallel to this, we have increased our Oslo, May 2014 Harald Martin Gjøvaag Founder & Creative Director It is now more than seven years since Alliance The office has developed a fixed salary system took on board The Global Compact in our office. for the first eight years of practice, securing a Since the start, we have had a rapid growth in fair salary development in the initial years of 05 both project volume and staff, including setting practice, regardless of for instance gender, Living the up a second office in Stavanger. Following the parental leave or negotiation skills. G.C. principles, we have put a lot of effort into developing both a good work place and great The office plans a new competence mapping of principles projects. This has required both a constant our staff to ensure that the competence at hand process of defining and reaching for our goals, gets used and to develop new areas of expertise and to develop a framework of implementation. through a new education program. In terms of sustainable design, we are committed to raise Since the start up, the office has regularly used the bar both on the types and number of projects surveys to map staff priorities for the resources at with this approach and in terms of developing As architects we have a remarkable opportunity to hand. Now that we have settled in as a medium skills and our management framework. influence the building industry in areas considering size company with some years’ experience, we design, methods and materials. We take advantage of have managed to put more of the priorities of The office has chosen BREEAM as the preferred the staff into life, such as a shorter work week tool for environmental assessment in planning this opportunity as often as we can. and a better pension scheme. In addition we and building projects. We also work with other have put extra effort into health and safety environmental standards such as the passive issues such as optimizing the work space and house standard or area specific sustainable getting in place a good healt insurance for the programs. staff. Støperigaten, Stavanger HUMAN RIGHTS IN-HOUSE ANTI-CORRUPTION IN-HOUSE Goal Goal Use Fairtrade and organic products where this is Continue with a transparent economy and an alternative. company administration to all our employees. Result Result As part of being third party certified with We continue to involve the staff in decision the Norwegian standard Miljøfyrtårn, we making when it comes to economy and company hves established guidelines for all purchases administration. Every third week we hold office promoting fair trade, third party certified and meetings where important issues are stated and 06 organic products. Progress is reported on an discussed. annual basis. Achievements in the report period HUMAN RIGHTS IN BUILDING PROJECTS Goal ANTI-CORRUPTION IN BUILDING PROJECTS Goal Establish a partnership relation for a specific Continue to promote the principles by implementing project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO our ethical standard in contracts, in dialogue with working with human rights. our project groups and through our publications In 2013 we set specific goals for the principles for the and social media activities. next year. Our goals and achievements are described Result This goal is not yet achieved. Result in the following. We’ve published the sustainability report on our Goal web page to show our vision and opinion on these Recommend materials where human rights are important principles. Our contracts in building considered in the producing process. projects are fair and according to Norwegian law, and the staff is encouraged to update themselves Result on new standards and laws. The company continues to disseminate knowledge on sustainable and responsibly sourced materials within its staff and actively suggest such material alternatives in our projects, including awareness on recognized material certification. LABOUR IN-HOUSE knowledge more accessible, and also reduce LABOUR IN BUILDING PROJECTS ENVIRONMENT IN-HOUSE travelling. Goal Goal Goal Decrease the number of flights per year and Result Improve office environment by adjusting lights, Define at least one innovation factor in each new reduce our CO2 emissions /energy use by 5 %. We have tested the open line over a period of get professional evaluation of the physical project to promote learning. Implement innovation time, but have encountered some technical and workspace, introduce green plants, and arrange in our quality system. Result interactional issues that need be resolved to small exercise breaks through the day. For the report period we have reduced our achieve the effect we were hoping for. We will Result in house energy use with 7% and our CO2investigate this further in the next report period. Result For every project the team defines one or more emissions by 14% in our daily running of our An ergotherapist has gone through the individual topics of special focus. This encourages the business. Including the study trip in 2012, the Goal workplaces to prevent health risks. The office builder to consider new methods and solutions, reduction is 27,5 %. Uphold an international work environment with has installed new and improved lighting for the including increased focus on sustainable design. a good gender balance. workspaces and meeting areas. We hope to get This becomes a possibility for additional learning Goal in place green elements and further improve our for the project team. We hope to keep up this Make sure that most of our purchases are ecoResult work environment in the next report period. focus for the coming period. labelled products. At the time of report, 50 % of our employees is Goal of foreign origin and 76 % has worked or studied Goal Result Have presentations every other week to inspire abroad. Currently the office consists of 56 % Specify materials with certificate of origin and With a new catering solution for lunch, our direct and share knowledge between co-workers. female and 44 % male employees. encourage our clients and partners to choose purchases are limited to office material and some materials with certificate of origin for all main building additional items like coffe and fruit. We choose Result Goal components in projects. ecoand fair trade products where available. Peer sharing and awareness of colleague Further develop opportunities for study trip and knowledge is a strategic goal to get the most company assisted learning curricula. Result Goal out of each others competence. We have We always try to influence our clients by Reduce the amount of waste by 5 %. held a number of internal presentations on our Result recommending materials with certificate of projects, on topics like sustainable design or out Learning is a continuous process for our origin. A staff member keeps our material library Result of house presentations that contribute to raising entire staff to keep up to date with the latest up to date and arranges presentations about We have not reached this goal for the period, but staff competence. Through a number of small legislation, principles and technology and to various products. The increasing use of Breeam continue to work towards this goal for the next workshops we have involved the whole staff in expand our field of work. Every employee certification has made it easier to implement report period. Our general waste generation project startups to benefit from the experience received a fixed funding for free choice of certificate of origin policies in the projects. is abour 60% of the average in our business and creativity of the whole staff. We hope to external courses. For the next period we will category. increase such interaction on a more regular basis. look into a more comprehensive program for learning as part of our regular competence Goal mapping and individual development plans. Open a Skype-line between the Oslo and Our budget didn’t allow a study trip 2013, but Stavanger offices every weekday between 8:30 the office plans for a trip the coming year. and 16:30, to make communication and sharing Restaurant Onda, Oslo ENVIRONMENT IN BUILDING PROJECTS Result EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION We offer BREEAM certification in all contracts. We Goal Goal weren’t able to implement BREEAM certification Increase our focus on sustainable development in At least three articles or events on architectural in any new projects in 2013, but continued the area planningand building projects. issues related to the principles, and in particular certification process for earlier projects such as 2020 Park and have been able to use the on environmental sustainability, such as the Result architects role and responsibility in society for a principles in several projects without certification. We have developed a number of projects with a more sustainable community. sustainable focus Goal Result Goal Urban planning and development is among our major assignments, and we aim to contribute We have been given the chance to promote Reduce the the generated waste from our to an environmentally sound and sustainable issues related to the principles in the construction sites by challenging suppliers and transformation of an area at a level higher than following forums: contractors when it comes to material consumption and recycling. the individual project. We want to expand our project for the Ministry of the Environment where Website of the Norwegian Architecture association we have developed a 3D-model for Drammen for Sustainable model projects three projects Result municipality and FutureBuilt. This is a tool for a published. Goal more informed and publicly available platform to develop more sustainable cities. We aim at The lecture “Housing as the engine in sustainable Implement life circle analysis (LCA) in at least modelling at least three more cities. development” for the course “Sustainable housing” two projects. by the Norwegian Architecture Academy. Result Result The lecture “Design and planning process” for We have not yet achieved this goal. In 2013 we have done urban planning in four projects: the Area planning department at the Norwegian university of life sciences. Goal Bjørvika west, Oslo Facilitate an open network workshop on architecs’ Sustainable urban planning for increased usage The lecture “Universal design” for the Norwegian challenges in sustainable design and managein cooperation with heritage authorities. Architecture Academy. ment, and how we can overcome barriers together. Sandnes harbour Result Area outside Stavanger where there’s a develWe have not yet achieved this goal. opment potential for business and housing of 25 000 40 000 m2. Goal Promote Breeam-certification to all projects. Implement the scheme in 30% of new projects. 07 Sustainable design A major part of our projects consists of area planning, master plans and feasibility studies that lay down the framework for future For our building projects we have a growing portfolio where sustainable issues have been implemented. The majority of projects with in our projects buildings. Getting the regulatory framework right is key to optimizing the future buildings sustainable issues are in the range of offices, schools and housing. We strive towards a in terms of sustainable issues. We see a need broader range of sustainable projects and for a broader and more holistic approach issues and for more ambitious goals. to sustainable planning that includes management of the susstainable issues In the following is a short introduction to through the process. For this reason, we some of our planning and building projects have started to use BREEAM Commmunities and how we have implemented the Global as a tool in several of our planning projects. Compact principles in the work. FREDRIKSTAD innovation business park In the historical centre of Fredrikstad Norway, a master plan for a sustainable and innovative business park is in progress. Today the area attracts creative businesses through the Hydrogen factory an art studio and gallery. There is enormous potential for densifying with both offices and housing, and also further develop the site as a local centre for cultural activity. We focus on this area as a sustainable and innovative commercial park, where creative and industrial businesses can benefit from each other. The project is founded on BREEAM Communities to secure sustainable qualities at area plan level. TU SCHOOL a passive house star The school is shaped like a star, where the arms meet in an open common area connected to the canteen and library. One wing is lowered half a floor to reflect the sloping terrain, and provide the possibility for the stairs outside to flow through the building and form an amphi theatre on the inside. This creates a strong contact between inside and outside. Tu School is planned as a passive house building and houses a total of 350 pupils. LYSAKER-SKØYEN Densifying the cars away This study for the Agency for Planning and Building Services, Municipality of Oslo, illustrates the possibilities for densification to the point where new public rail transport can be introduced, reducing the car volume on the western corridor into Oslo by 50 %. Not only does this offer much needed building ground for densification within the city borders, but also improves the environmental footprint and the pollution load on the city immensely. 2020PARK BREEAM excellent 2020 Park is the first building of a larger area transformation from industry to mixed use housing and commerce. The building is close to completion and it’s asbuilt BREEAM certification. The goal and the preliminary design phase certificate level is BREEAM Excellent. Sustainable issues given particular attention are energy use, materials, ecological impact, indoor climate, transport, pollution and sustainable project management. TOU PARK low energy housing This transformation area is a central part of the urban development project, Urban Seafront in Stavanger. The area includes the Tou brewery which is heritage listed, and today the old brewery houses the cultural institution Tou Scene. Our area plan has sought to cultivate existing site qualities and adapt the area to its future surroundings. The project is universally designed and the buildings planned as low-energy standard with a compact shape, good insulation levels and a conscious insertion of glass. The buildings is connected to low carbon district heating. Tou Park is well connected to pedestrian and cycling networks and public transport to the centre of Stavanger. The environmenttal profile of the project is developed in collaboration with Enova, the Norwegian State Housing Bank and Future cities Stavanger. SANDNES INNER PORT NORTH Sustainable area planning The area planning project aims at transforming part of the harbor to an attractive extension of the city centre. The plan takes on board the framework of FutureCities Sandnes and BREEAM Communities to ensure sustainable qualities lies as a base for future building projects within the area plan. HARESTAD SCHOOL Healthy learning The 500 pupil school is planned with special focus on a healthy indoor climate, including energy use, hybrid ventilation strategies and provision of daylight. Space efficient and flexible plans provide a good platform for learning. BREEAM has been used as a guidance to good design practice through the design process. HUMAN RIGHTS In building projects Define at least one innovation factor in each In-house project to promote learning and quality Establish a partnership relation for a specific awareness. project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO working with human rights. ENVIRONMENT In building projects In-house Recommend materials where human rights are Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim considered in the producing process. 08 to reduce our CO2 emissions by 5 %. Goals for ANTI-CORRUPTION Make sure that most of our purchases are ecolabelled, organic or fair trade products. In-house the next report Continue with a transparent economy and Reduce the amount of waste by 5 %. company administration open to all employees. Use less electricity in the office by taking actions In building projects such as: using the stairs instead of the elevator, Continue to promote the principles by impleadjusting lights and heat according to climate, menting our ethical standard in contracts, in and turn off computers at the end of the day. dialogue with our project groups and through In order to track our progress on promoting the ten our publications and social media activities. In building projects principles, we have set specific goals for the coming Increase our focus on sustainable development in report period. LABOUR area planningand building projects. In-house Always offer BREEAM certification to our Improve our office environment by adding plants, projects. better facilities for model building and small workshops, and introduce small exercise breaks Reduce the amount of waste on construction site through the day. by challenging the suppliers and contractors when it comes to material consumption and recycling. Have presentations every other week to inspire and share knowledge between co-workers. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION Improve the video link between the Oslo and Stavanger offices, to make communication and Publish at least three articles or events on sharing knowledge more accessible, and also architectural issues related to the principles, and reduce travelling. in particular on environmental sustainability. This Communication of progress has been discussed, reviewed and approved by our board and all our employees. This report is published on the United Nations Global Compact website WWW.UNGLOBALCOMPACT.ORG and our own website WWW.ALLARK.NO PHOTO AND ILLUSTRATION CREDITS Terje Skåre: page 24-25 Espen Gees: page 1 Tove Laluten: page 18-19 Alliance arkitekter: page 9, 12-13, 32-47 KRISTIAN AUGUSTS GATE 13, 0164 OSLO +47 22 36 40 44 KVITSØYGATA 23, 4014 STAVANGER +47 45 03 62 18
