Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Airfasttickets reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Panayiotis Evangelatos Country manager Greece 1 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 INTRODUCTION A irfasttickets was established in Piraeus, Greece in 2009 by a young entrepreneur, Koklonis Nikolaos. Five years later, in 2014, Airfasttickets is a rapidly growing and successful online travel agency with offices in Greece, Frankfurt, London, New York, and Istanbul, counting 420 employees. Airfasttickets’ vision is to become the most widespread travel agency, turn out to be inspiration for travelers and create amazing experiences. Our company promises to conduct its business honestly and ethically wherever it operates around the world. We are committed to work with responsibility and conscience so to ensure that we offer excellent services to our customers, great working conditions to our employees, a profitable business to our shareholders and a countless contribution to our society at large. For Airfasttickets success is not simply about maximizing profitability as a firm. It is much broader than that, and it certainly includes being a responsible company. By this we mean that we must take care of those people and environments that we care about – our employees, our clients and the communities in which we work. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 PRINCIPLES YEAR 1ST 2 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 GALLERY 3 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES I n 2013 Airfasttickets signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define four major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • Our people and our workplace • Our clients and our suppliers • Our local communities • Our local and global environment In this connection we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages. The first stage would focus on implementing initiatives within the company to ensure that all members of staff understood UN's basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organization. The second stage would henceforth be directed at initiatives outside the company, first towards our members, and later toward society, locally and finally globally. For Airfasttickets CSR department covers a wide spectrum of activities and is responsible for choosing and implementing the initiatives within the two stages; the management of our relations with our employees, customers and community. Also, the management of our performance with respect to environment and society. All of the above are underpinned by adherence to upright conduct of business ethics that will maintain good communication with employees through our information and consultation procedures, thus will assist employees in realizing their potentials. 4 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 SOCIETY T he social part of our UN commitment includes company responsibility towards the employees and the society in general. It is based on our promise to make employees feel like family and support youth and children in priority. Airfasttickets is committed to carry on to provide a safe and healthy working environment to the employees, treat them with respect, integrity, no discrimination of any kind and make them feel like a family member. We are committed to continuously sponsor and donate to children in need both financial and in-kind, as well as support young people for educational purposes. Goals We wish to continue to find areas where we can support and give assistance. Monitoring and evaluating performances Constant dialogue with the employees is deemed as the best way of securing a good working environment and preventing stress. The management therefore has a responsibility of monitoring the employees’ well-being. The CSR department regularly informs the organization, which initiatives have been undertaken. 5 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 ENVIRONMENT A irfasttickets acknowledges the environmental impacts derived from its activities and services as well as the overall impact of the travel sector in the areas we operate. We believe a s a responsible travel agency that sustainable tourism is the future and we are willing to work towards it. We effort to improve environmental performance across all our business activities, and encourage our business partners and members of the wider community to join us in this effort. More particularly, we recognize our key environmental impacts to stand before the areas of: energy use, waste, emissions to air and water, water use, transport and indirect impacts which are related to our services and thus we try to manage and minimize these impacts regularly and in a systematic manner. Our environmental program is consisted of the following principles: • Comply with all environmental legislation, regulations and codes of practice related to our activities • Assess our organizational activities and identify areas where we can minimize impacts • Have in place an environmental management system to assess, plan and execute the environmental policy • Minimize waste, water and energy use through careful and efficient use of all materials and resources managed by the company • Minimize greenhouse gas emissions related to our operations and indirectly through our services • Train employees in good environmental practice and encourage employee involvement in environmental action • Reduce risks from environmental, health or safety hazards for employees and others in the sphere of our operations • Assist in developing solutions to environmental problems Goals Support sustainable tourism. Monitoring and evaluating performances According to our Environmental Management System, we regularly review environmental performance, our facilities’ objectives and targets in order to assess progress toward continual improvement. 6 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 ECONOMY A irfasttickets contributes to the development and progression of the societies in which it operates. We aim to provide innovative services to customers and therefore we create economic value to the countries we operate and the broader society. We comply with all laws and regulations relating our business activities and we commit to make all our business transactions with full integrity. Relations with customers Airfasttickets places customer needs and service offered as an uppermost priority. It operates with respect, preciseness and personalized customer service. We commit to treat every customer with respect in all trade situations. Relations with business partners/suppliers Based on our core values, we commit to make our business with full integrity and respect to our business partners. Goals Prevail reliability and respect. Monitoring and evaluating performances The CSR department regularly informs the organization, which initiatives have been undertaken. 7 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICS CODE W e support UNGC principles, so as a result we commit to work against corruption in all its forms including bribery & extortion and also create business procedures to prevent anti-corruption in every business behavior. Officers, directors and employees shall avoid gifts, gratuities, fees, bonuses or excessive entertainment, in order to attract or influence business activity. The ethical performance of this company is the sum of the ethics of the men and women who work here. Officers, directors, and employees of the company should never permit their personal interests to conflict, or appear to conflict, with the interests of the company, its clients or affiliates. Officers, directors and employees shall avoid using their company contacts to advance their private business or personal interests at the expense of the company, its clients or affiliates. Officers, directors and employees of Airfasttickets will often come into contact with, or have possession of, proprietary, confidential or businesssensitive information and always take appropriate steps to assure that such information is strictly safeguarded. This information – whether it is on behalf of our company or any of our clients or affiliates – could include strategic business plans, operating results, marketing strategies, customer lists, personnel records, upcoming acquisitions and divestitures, new investments, and manufacturing costs, processes and methods. Proprietary, confidential and sensitive business information about this company, other companies, individuals and entities should be treated with sensitivity and discretion and only be disseminated on a need-to-know basis. Officers, directors and employees will obey all Equal Employment Opportunity laws and act with respect and responsibility towards others in all of their dealings. Officers, directors and employees will remain personally balanced so that their personal life will not interfere with their ability to deliver quality products or services to the company and its clients. Officers, directors and employees agree to disclose unethical, dishonest, fraudulent and illegal behavior, or the violation of company policies and procedures, directly to management. “Good ethics is good business” 8 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 FUTURE INITIATIVES I n 2015 our focus will be directed towards employees, environment and the society in general. We are planning to: • Start a campaign to get our members to register within the global compact framework • Actively inspire our members to get more informed on Corporate Social Responsibility issues • Stimulate philanthropic motivation of employees • Generate potentials for much more pervasive social and environmental benefits 9 Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles In Airfasttickets 2014 THANK YOU! Ευχαριστούμε, Dankon, Merci, Danke schön, dōmo, Ahxéhee', Спасибо!, Gracias
