Wernerfelt COP 2014 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Wernerfelt A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During 2014, Wernerfelt has worked at making the Global Compact ten principles a part of our daily operations by adopting an approach that is based on corporate commitment, assessment of risks, implementing preventive and remedy measures and communicating to stakeholders. In the coming year we will continue to work with the ten principles throughout our value chain. Sincerely yours Lars Lauridsen Managing Director Human Rights and anti-corruption Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy, goals and assessment Wernefelt human rights policy clearly results, we revert with input in any areas states that compliance with the universal that we deem to be unacceptable. declaration of human rights is a must throughout all of our operations. Our antEmployees are informed of the corruption policy states clearly that importance of Wernefelt’s stand on corruption in all its forms including Human rights and anti-corruption. extortion and bribery is not tolerated. Moreover, all elements of Wernefelt’s activities are completely transparent We make it also clear that will not trade which reduces the element of corruption with suppliers that break the corruption greatly. principles and with any suppliers that do not comply with the universal declaration We inform our employees of their rights of human rights. and have a procedure in place to handle any grievances and or input. Assessment and Implementation We assess our suppliers through the Measurement of outcomes suppliers questionnaire we have Procedures in place for employee input, prepared that includes our policy on for example we hold a short meeting human rights and anti-corruption. The every morning where employees have questionnaire is sent to suppliers and it the opportunity to discuss all relevant must be filled in and signed. Regarding topics freely as well as management new suppliers, we discuss human rights meetings with each employee at least and anti-corruption issues and go once a year to discuss various workers through our questionnaire with them so conditions including salary negotiation. that we are sure that they understand it We have developed procedures that before signing compliance. We visit our inform our employees and our suppliers established suppliers periodically to of our stand and our requirements assess the conditions first hand. regarding human rights and antiWe also inform our suppliers of the corruption issues. We have also articles included in the universal developed rules regarding gifts and declaration of human rights and the core responsible business behaviour. conventions of the ILO concerning the Locally, Wernerfelt is actively engaged in rights of workers and children. the local community by supporting the Part of our implementation procedure is handicap sport association, by a yearly valuation of our supplier’s cooperating to provide practical situation regarding human rights and experience for unemployed people and anti-corruption and according to the by providing various textiles to a project involving school children that learn sewing. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy and goals third party standards and audits such as Our goal is to provide a pleasant work BSCI. environment and proper work conditions, Our suppliers questionnaire that includes which take into account both the physical labour requirements is sent to the and psychological needs of for our suppliers and it must be filled in and employees. signed. We also visit our suppliers We expect that our suppliers work with periodically to assess the working labour issues as specified in our code of conditions first hand. conduct. We expect as a minimum that they uphold the country’s rules and Measurement of outcomes legislation covering labour issues. A number of our suppliers are holding Assessment and Implementation BSCI standards and audits as well as SA Wernefelt conducts a yearly work 8000 and work environment system environment evaluation and prepares an OHSAS 8001 annual report upon which the We have introduced many different responsible persons together with measures throughout our offices and management draft the measures needed storage facilities, such ergonomic desks for the following year in order to improve and chairs, machines for lifting, flexible the working environment both physically time schedules and facilities for relaxing and psychologically. and eating. We work with our suppliers and inform of Our APV – Work environment evaluation our procedures with the aim of improving yearly report provides us with input that the working environment at our suppliers is essential to our work regarding our localities. We urge all suppliers to adopt work environment. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We also inform our suppliers about the benefits of the EU Ecolabel, EU and Policy and goals Danish legislation regarding prohibited Our aim is to reduce environmental substances, heavy metals and so on. damage resulting from our operations. This includes our internal operations that Regarding environmental issues at our are mainly administrative as well as our premises, we have worked with waste, supply chain, which includes the energy in particular more efficient production of raw materials and fabrics. lighting and resource management Our responsible buying policy includes We monitor the market for innovative the requirement that all suppliers must sustainable solutions suite to our to adhere to laws and regulations as a operations minimum. It also describes Wernerfelt’s specific requirements and expectations above regulations Measurement of outcomes We have an extensive environmental profile of our suppliers. Assessment and Implementation Assessment is carried out through our Our Indian suppliers hold certifications questionnaire that is accompanied by our and standards such as EU Ecolabel, GOTS, environmental requirements document. Nordic Swan, SA 8000, BSCI, ISO 14001, Suppliers are asked to read the ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 and Oekotex. requirements that cover such issues as Our Chinese suppliers are Oekotex chemical use, wastewater treatment as certified and focus will be placed on well as other areas of concern and providing information to try and convince consequently answer our questionnaire. them of the benefits of third party standards and certifications. The results are then evaluated according to a rating procedure. For example, if a We are presently in the process of and supplier holds an official accredited intend to apply for the EU Ecolabel. Ecolabel licence, than they are immediately listed as a rate A supplier. Internally, we have procedures in place We work closely with our suppliers for waste. We are monitoring and regarding Ecolabels and that is shown by implementing energy efficiency solutions the fact that one of our main suppliers is for our heat and light supply such as LEDs EU Ecolabel certified for a large number as well as Ecolabel product use. of products. We will conduct an evaluation of our CSR work at the beginning of 2015 and expect to formulate our action plan accordingly.
