General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: June 2014 To: June 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). We are really pleased to submit for the second year, eFM Communication on Progress Report in order to continue the valued cooperation with UN GLOBAL COMPACT and our willingness to continue our effort in improvement over social responsibility. eFM believes in its employees and our motto is “committed to results”. Results reached through a firmly belief in solutions that not only meet customers’ needs but that are absorbed in our company as flexible workplace, space optimization, quality, cooperation, knowledge sharing, continual education and obviously aimed to reduce waste in every activity and increase sustainability. As we stated in our first COP, “From here stems the importance of being an active member of the United Nations Global Compact”. We embraces the 10 UNGC principles and we integrated them in our company vision: human and labour rights, environmental stewardship and anti-corruption. Our Values: Integrity We accomplish our goals in an honest, fair and responsible manner, respecting ethical rules and principles required in compliance with professional rules. Excellence We are committed to continuous learning and we encourage creativity and innovation thinking. Equality We are against all kinds of discrimination; we respect genders, racial, religious, political, language, age and intellectual differences Transparency We firmly believe in transparency to manage all our activities, communications and contracts, and let our clients to make independent and conscious decisions. Human Respect We listen carefully and work on the improvement of relationship with each other and with our clients. Values Sharing The value of each individual is the guideline of our modus operandi: we apply the techniques of listening and dialogue as tools for continuous improvement of our relationship with all stakeholders. Responsible use of resources We use all resources carefully and promote activities based on resources optimization and waste reduction. Nicola Martinelli. Chairman eFM Examples (Please click on the links below for examples of statements) Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. In 2013, we continue our effort to understand human rights and their protection within the Company. We assessed what human rights are within the sphere of our influence and relevant to our business operations. The following human rights are identified: • Labour rights • Freedom of expression and opinion We presented the results of our assessment at the internal annual meeting. Through a one day meeting with all the employees, we had the opportunity to share company goals including the respect of human rights. The presentation, all the annual results and future objectives, were also uploaded on Yammer (our internal social network), a common sharing virtual space aimed to improve, also, continuous re-evaluation of possible risks pertaining to human rights in our sphere of influence. Examples • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights? • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. eFM has developed a Human Rights Statement, in line with international best practice eFM supports and respects human rights as a core ethical value. Through its high ethical conduct, eFM upholds that human rights protection is applied in every aspect of its business. Human rights and labor rights are closely related. The description below reflects eFM’s approach on the following areas of human rights: right to decent standard of living, right to education and training, right to family life (parenthood charter). The two Global Compact principles on human rights are included: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: …and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. eFM recognizes that human rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship and respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework’. eFM during 2013 integrated and upgraded the internal Human Rights Statement, in line with international best practice through a revision of existing policies and procedures against its requirements. The revision includes an undertaking to avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts and to address such impacts when they occur, and to seek to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts that are directly related to our operations, services and business relationships. We have also approved a statement outlining our position to protect and respect human rights through our operations and in our sphere of activity. This statement is aligned to the Guiding Principles as well as the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Guidelines for International Enterprises. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. During 2013, as per 2012, the Board of eFM has monitored continuously our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our organization and with whom we interact. The effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration are listed below: Regular stakeholder consultations in the area of human rights Internal awareness-raising and training on human rights for management and employees Claims reports, communication channels and other procedures for reporting concerns or seeking advice Inclusion of minimum human rights standards in contracts with suppliers and other relevant business partners System to monitor the effectiveness of human rights policies and implementation, including in the supply chain Leadership review of monitoring and improvement results Process to deal with incidents We made progress in the area of Human Rights hiring people with different backgrounds and cultures because we believes that in differences we can enrich our company, build a multicultural environment and let the company grow worldwide. As per the same reason, we open our borders to foreign markets and actually we are in LATAM, EAU, Turkey and Europe. Examples • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Sappiamo quanto sia importante per i nostri dipendenti a trovare un equilibrio tra il loro lavoro e vita personale, eFM do not use forced, compulsory or child labor. eFM supports freedom of association and, where quindi abbiamo fatto un serio impegno a flessibilità, che consente nei luoghi di lavoro applicable, recognizes the right to collective bargaining. eFM is a company that encourages and respects individuals: value recognized from our network. Our drive to create a global culture of diversity is fundamental to who we are, and critical to retaining our best people. We promote fair labor practices among our partners, employees, and suppliers, ensuring healthy working conditions and we encourage and respect individuality as one of our values embedded within our Code of Conduct. We know how important it is for our employees to strike a balance between their work and personal lives, so we have made a serious commitment to enable flexibility in the workplace. In 2013, till now, we have favored flexible work in a way that every employees including pregnant women are able to work from home or remotely in each part of the world. We also encourage female management, surely that more our Board is variegated, better solutions and ideas can be created. Last, but not least, In our Christmas meeting we launched a project with the aim to share all employees visions about how they imagine eFM in the future. We gained all the advices and shared them through our Examples internal social network Yammer. • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles • Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labor policies, reduce labor risks and respond to labor violations. Human Resources People ensure that every employee is able to work in compliance with local labor laws. We ensures that the laws are strictly followed by every employee and we take necessary disciplinary action against who does not respect the laws. Laws are distributed and explained to new employees. Any complain received by managers are processed by HR and dealt in real time. HR, if required, takes appropriate measures. The labor laws are effective and communicated to managers during their anticorruption training to ensure fair dealings among employees. Current and new employees sign the Code. HEALTH & SAFETY Health and safety are core business activities in eFM. We cannot operate successfully and deliver quality products without ensuring the health and wellbeing of our employees. We are committed to continuous improvements in health and safety. Our policy involves the appointment of an HSE supervisor in each business unit and health and safety training is offered to all employees across the Group. Promoting the health and safety of our employees is clearly aligned with our key business objectives – to deliver better health to the markets we serve. TRAINING eFM is committed to on-going training of all employees and consistent delivery of ’world class’ service. This quality can be achieved only through a proactive, managed training and development program. Our induction program for all staff regardless of grade covers the following key areas: • Health and safety training and procedures Examples • The quality program and their policies • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • HR issues – including discrimination, corruption and data security • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Customer service, sales, service delivery, insurance, etc • Whistle-blower system and grievance mechanism • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work • Consultation with employees and other stakeholders • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Employees’ right to free association and collective bargaining are recognized and respected. There is a clear and transparent process for receiving employee suggestions, requests and complaints. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and prompt. eFM helps to monitor the labor conditions of a client’s suppliers and the responsibility performance as compared to the company’s own Code of Conduct. The results were used as the basis for making further improvements in supplier behavior Examples • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e.g. SA 8000) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection eFM has an impact on the environment, both locally and globally. We are working towards limiting that impact by educating our staff and promoting eco-technologies. We are working on reducing carbon emissions and waste, particularly harmful waste. Integrating 7, 8 & 9 principles in our strategies and operations, means understanding and managing our own impact in the environment, while also working with stakeholders to respond to the environmental challenges facing the world. eFM promotes sustainable workplace policies and implements environmentally responsible initiatives, while encouraging their stakeholders to do the same and it is committed to make a positive impact on the environment and addressing local environmental challenges. eFM is investing in responsible energy use; educating and supporting our people in making sustainable decisions; working on environmental protection projects; and cooperating with clients, leadership groups and other businesses to address environmental impacts. In addition, eFM uses solutions “Green” to allow employees to reach the company by train, car sharing and car pooling. eFM is associated at Green Building Council, a non-profit organization dedicated to sustainable building design and construction. In 2013, till 2014, we have implemented strategies within the company to save energy, to reduce waste, and to move further steps towards sustainability (i.e. space optimization, waste differentiation, paper recycling, utilized paper reduction towards digitalized documents, etc) Examples • Assess the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents Actions taken to ensure the optimal results for eFM’s environmental policy include training employees on the environmental policies, periodic internal audits, management review meetings, environmental programs such as reducing hazardous and non hazardous waste. Future goals of eFM’s Environmental: 1. Integrate our environmental policy across the company; 2. Reduce our impact on climate change; 3. Comply with environmental legislation and regulation in each country we operate; 4. Strive for continuous improvement in our environmental protection; We are in the process to conduct all our activities in a responsible manner and to reduce our own negative impact on the environment: we are implementing and still improving the “printing consolidation project“ for the third consecutive year. In 2013, till 2014, eFM have reduced unnecessary printing and use of paper. During the year, and according to estimates, the use of paper is decreased by 20% compared to the previous years. Examples • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking them for environmental data on their products • Environmental management system with objectives and procedures for evaluating progress, minimizing negative impacts and transferring good practices • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance Employees received training for reducing waste and managing resources more effectively. It was introduced a system to better monitor and manage hazardous waste output. and the activity of recycle paper in line with the company’s commitment to rise consciousness about environmentally issues. We send alerts and reminders through yammer, our internal social network. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performance Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (For more information on the principles, click here). Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. eFM is strongly committed to the fight against bribery and corruption. This is consistent with our values, and our commitment to integrity, and lawful and ethical behavior. eFM does not tolerate corruption in any shape or form and has undertaken strict measures to ensure the compliance of all employees with these standards. eFM is committed to ensure all business dealings are conducted fairy. eFM has a zero tolerance policy to all forms of bribery and corruption. In 2013, we also implemented processes to let transparent the commercial activity. Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. Our target for 2014: • Analyze our clients for corruption-related risks. In the process. • Formulate an anti-bribery/corruption policy. In the process In 2013 we implemented a training opened to all employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.). In addition, this training is mandatory for each new employee. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within your company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. The Audit Committee, composed of manager and senior manager, is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of anti corruption activities Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery • Specific progress made in the area of anti‐corruption during the last reporting period • External audits of anti‐corruption programmes
