UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL MAS Group of Companies COMPACT Corporate Office 1-A Danepur Road, GOR-1, Lahore, Pakistan MAS’ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Contact: +92-42-36311881-3 15TH OF AUGUST 2014 www.masgroup.org shaukat@masgroup.org Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 13.05.2013 To: 11.08.2014 MAS Communication On Progress TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. CEO Statement of Continued Support……………………………………………………………………………………………………3 2. Our Vision, Mission and Corporate Values……………………………………………………………………………………………..4 3. About Us………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..4 4. Our Code of Conduct………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………5 5. We are a Socially Responsible Business………………………………………………………………………………………………….6 6. Our Employment Philosophy………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….6 7. UNGC Human Rights Principles……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….6 7.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals……………………………………………………………………………………………………….6 7.2. Implementation and Monitoring………………………………………………………………………………………………….7 7.3. Measurable Outcomes…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………8 8. UNGC Labor Principles…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..10 8.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals…………………………………………………………………………………..…………………10 8.2. Implementation and Monitoring…………………………………………………………………………………………………10 8.3. Measurable Outcomes……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….11 9. UNGC Environment Principles……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….12 9.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals……………………………………………………………………………………………………..12 9.2. Implementation and Monitoring………………………………………………………………………………………………..12 9.3. Measurable Outcomes……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….13 10. UNGC Anti-Corruption Principles…………………………………………………………………………………………………………14 10.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals…………………………………………………………………………………………………..14 10.2. Implementation and Monitoring………………………………………………………………………………………………14 10.3. Measurable Outcomes……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..15 11. Summary…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….15 2|Page MAS Communication On Progress 2. Our Vision “Delivering Products & Services for Client Satisfaction” Our Mission “Earning customer satisfaction through provision of quality services to our client system by employing state of the art technologies and processes and by investing in our stakeholders ” Our Corporate Values Respect – We value people Quality – We make you ask for us Integrity – We provide the real deal Collaboration – Collective effort for complete results Passion – Sky is not the limit Dedication – Committed in heart and mind Adaptable – Innovation is the key Solutions – We have ways Responsible – We value our community 3. About Us MAS Group of Companies has been actively involved in International Trading for more than 03 decades and is working in collaboration with a number of world renowned companies for supply of materials and services. With fully functional offices in the three major cities of Pakistan and group strength of over 500 dedicated staff members, we continuously strive for expanding our customer base and developing in house capabilities. Our guiding philosophy is to always do what is in the best interest of our employees and to be committed to their long-term success. This same philosophy guides our community involvement and corporate social responsibility. By helping to improve the quality of life for those around us, we believe that our own lives will be enriched in the process. We believe that fostering educational excellence is the greatest investment we can make in our communities. We enjoy an enviable reputation among our clients, an asset which we protect and promote with dedicated work, energy and focused systematic approach. 4|Page MAS Communication On Progress 4. Our Code of Conduct MAS’ code of conduct requires employees to make decisions according to the STAR method i.e. Stop, Think and Act Responsibly. All MAS employees are required to put MAS values and policies in their work without display of impropriety and violation of any laws, regulations, standards or procedures. Employee conduct standards imply that all employees must work safely according to safety regulations and must report for duty as being fit and healthy, on a daily basis. In case of ill health, you are supposed to get in prior contact with your supervisor. Workplace harassment and employee discrimination is considered as a serious offense at MAS. We boast of a violence free workplace with physical, mental and intellectual security for all employees. Company property is to be used in compliance with company policies so as not to inflict damage on them whether you are on or off duty. Information security standards must be upheld on all occasions which include no sharing of passwords, no use of unauthorized systems and no access to illegal or any inappropriate files. Social media outlets like Facebook, Twitter etc are not to be used for promoting or publishing any company related information which you are not designated to do so. You will be held accountable for any unauthorized publishing of personal MAS information on these outlets. On the other hand, if you personally use MAS property you should be aware that employee information is accessible to MAS even if you lock, delete or password protect it. Information regarding company and its customers is supposed to remain confidential on and off the job and must not be used by you for personal gain. At any given time, proper and timely maintenance of official records should be maintained so that MAS does not face any legal, financial or management lapse in fulfillment of their obligations. If you find certain official documents to be fake, illegal, wrong or simply counterfeit then instead of rectifying the problem yourself, you are required to immediately report it to HR manager or your supervisor. Records that need to be retained for a particular period of time should be maintained up till then and must be discarded promptly at the end of its time period. Personal expenses must be kept apart from company expenses while keeping the latter expenses reasonable with a prompt report via the travel and expense process. MAS’ company logo must only be used for company businesses, both internally and externally. We do not endorse or advertise any third party products or services in our personal records, newsletters or other catalogues. We strive to conform to social needs and try to give its input in community activities as well. Our employees are expected to volunteer for community activities, after permission from your supervisor or HR team. In case of any media related emergencies, you are not allowed to pass on any information as a third party or internal source. All such queries will be forwarded to the marketing department. You also may not provide an employment reference for a former employee on behalf of the company; all such queries must be forwarded to the HR team. If you are aware of or suspect any unethical or illegal conduct, you have a duty to report the issue or seek guidance from your manager or contact your Human Resources team. The Code of Conduct is the first resource that an employee turns to when he/she has questions about ethics and compliance. For detailed review of MAS’ code of conduct, refer to our Code of Conduct for Employees. 5|Page MAS Communication On Progress 5. We are a Socially Responsible Business We support the notion that no action is without a reaction and that no action of goodwill goes unnoticed. We give equal opportunity to our workforce to thrive in our environment as a socially responsible corporate citizen and making the desirable changes in their communities. Lastly, but not without much importance, we strive to uphold the 10 principals set out by our CSR partners, United Nations Global Compact, towards transparent and healthy CSR practices. 6. Our Employment Philosophy: It is part of MAS’ vision and policy to recruit and hire employees without discrimination of race, color, religion, sex, age, language, physical condition etc. and treat them equally with respect to compensation and opportunities for advancement and career growth, including promotions & transfer. Ours is a culture of zero tolerance against any such discrimination and with an open door policy for all old and new employees. 7. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals 7.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We are committed to UNGC Human Rights principles which are reflected within our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct has been designed and created to uphold the international Human Rights principles as a whole. The following policies stated within our Code show our compliance with the above mentioned principles. Clause 1 Personal Maintenance: Employer and employees shall collectively encourage the work environment where all of us can practice the organizational values and job goals both effectively and efficiently. Clause 2 Health & Safety: MAS works actively towards maintaining a safe and healthy environment to its employees. Employees are expected to be mentally and physically fit for work and remain fit while on duty. MAS policy maintains observation of its implemented safety rules and instructions along with imparting the use of safety equipment to all MAS employees. Knowledge sharing with employees along with real life safety trainings are part of MAS work policies. Clause 3 Anti-Bullying and Discrimination: MAS has a zero tolerance policy for any type of intimidating or offensive environment. MAS is committed to maintaining a non-discriminatory workplace, free of bullying. Acts or threats of intimidation, sabotage, physical or mental harm, terrorization and similar activities are not tolerated. 6|Page MAS Communication On Progress Clause 4 Sexual Harassment at Workplace: MAS practices Zero Tolerance for sexual harassment, physical or mental, that contributes to a sexually offensive environment for either male or female. Clause 5 Fraud, Deception, Dishonesty, Bribery & Corruption: MAS upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests. Clause 6 Whistleblowing Procedure: MAS respects the need to report any unfair, dishonest and corrupt practices by the employees. MAS has established disciplinary guidelines based on which a disciplinary committee has been formulated. We do not dismiss an employee for whistleblowing. Clause 7 We are a Socially Responsible Business: MAS upholds its value of treating everyone fairly, equally and also valuing diversity within the workplace while carefully practicing human rights. We are a socially responsible corporate citizen, providing opportunities to make desired changes within the community. MAS has robust policies and we try to make sure that our third party contractors or business partners reflect the same ethos in Human Rights principles as ours. We conduct businesses with entities that do not actively violate the International Human Rights standards. We deal with suppliers that uphold Human Rights and promote the same to them through our business operations with them. 7.2. Implementation and Monitoring: As reflected above, our Code of Conduct is our main source of communication and implementation of our policies that are reflective of Human Rights principles as promoted by UNGC as well as on an international level. Code of Conduct has been disseminated and circulated within each department. Code of Conduct: An expansive and detailed document of “Code of Conduct” has been designed and published in 2014 covering each aspect of Human Rights principles, from which our operating procedures have been derived. This Code promoted our compliance with international regulations, audit procedures and requirements, and corporate social responsibility. Knowledge Sharing: In order to make sure that each of our new and current employee is up to date of our Human Rights policies and Do’s and Don’ts, an Employee Handbook is provided to each new hire along with an orientation program to make sure that our policies are transmitted to them transparently and completely. We take it up as our responsibility to share all Code and ethics information with our employees. Sexual Harassment Act: As per PROTECTION AGAINST HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT THE WORKPLACE ACT 2010 in Pakistan, MAS has formulated a Sexual Harassment Act to curb all such actions and violations. The objective of this act is to clean the menace of sexual harassment at all levels. Individuals 7|Page MAS Communication On Progress involved in these acts shall be held accountable for their behavior through certain pre-designed professional appeals mechanisms. Corporate Social Responsibility: MAS has established CSR guidelines and policies that entails the inclusion of all our internal and external stakeholders for the benefit of community, preservation of environment through our processes, occupational health and safety and development of the employees on a regular basis. Our CSR Agenda is aimed towards development and progression of our company as well as our surrounding community. Sabra Hamida Trust: Ilmgah School, a project of Sabra Hamida Trust (SHT) which is a direct beneficiary for MAS Group, is the first of its kind CSR Project undertaken by the company due to sheer sincerity and commitment to the goal of community uplifting and helping the mankind. We are committed to meet the highest standard in early care and education, by catering to the needs of the underprivileged in terms of Education and Financial Aid. 7.3. Measurement of outcomes: In the past 12-18 months MAS has achieved measurable improvements in our processes, systems and culture. • Disciplinary Committee Formulation: During 2014, MAS was involved in the formulation of a Disciplinary Committee for management of whistleblowing and punitive actions taken or filed within our offices. The Audit and HR Departments jointly take over this responsibility. The purpose of formulation of this committee is to make sure that Human Rights of each employee are protected, maintained and upheld at all levels. This has been shared with employees through various mediums like Code of Conduct, Employee Handbook and through their reporting seniors. • Human Resource Department: One of the core responsibilities of our Human Resources Division is to manage employee grievances and complaints by upholding the highest standards of discipline and confidentiality. The division makes sure that apart from managing such concerns, employees are also regularly provided with trainings and developmental sessions that increase their knowledge and competency. • Grievance Handling: MAS has developed its own grievance handling mechanism. Employees with concerns and grievances are required to report such cases to their reporting seniors or to the Human Resources Division. All such cases are registered with the HR Division and resolved with the concerned individual and departmental head where necessary. In those cases where needed, the disciplinary committee sit down to resolve the matter on first priority. Throughout this procedure, the confidentiality and integrity is upheld by each player within the complete mechanism. The knowledge of this mechanism has been shared with each employee through the Code, Handbook and our operating procedures. 8|Page MAS Communication On Progress • Bi-Annual Management Reviews: As per our annual strategic review, our best practice entails bi-annual management review meetings for valuation of our operational procedures and development of each avenue within MAS. A mid annual and annual meeting consisting of the BOD and all departmental leads takes place for the regular review of all company operations and business growth. Regular meetings also take place among the management for similar purposes. • CSR Agenda 2014: Since March 2014, MAS has become actively involved in community CSR activities. During the month of March 2014, MAS Group took the first ever initiative of employee engagement for community service. We took the CSR Initiative of generating 500 Community Hours in the year 2014. For this humanitarian purpose, we partnered with The Citizen’s Foundation, a one of a kind not-for-profit organization with nearly 200 schools for the underprivileged throughout Pakistan. A selected team of volunteers was deployed to their assigned TCF schools in the summer heat for the pure purpose of bringing a positive change within the society. MAS successfully completed 140 CSR Hours during its first spell of achievement of the CSR agenda. • Ilmgah School: Since 2011, SHT’s community development project, Ilmgah School, is providing education to the children of Green Town, Lahore through our continued commitment towards education and has paved a brighter future for them. The main objective of Ilmgah is to develop these children into productive and useful members of the community, so they do not face the menace of poverty and illiteracy. (www.shtrust.org) • Helmet For All Campaign: In 2013, a Helmet for All campaign was implemented alongside Traffic Police Lahore with the objective of Creating awareness about benefit of wearing helmet among motor bike drivers. It was implemented through City Traffic Police Lahore Education Wing. Daily random 50 bike riders were given free helmets for one week. Company employees were involved 3-4 working hours daily for 7 days. • ZIC Say Thank You: Another Human Right/CSR Campaign took place in 2013 for creating awareness amongst commuters for saying thank you to the important people in their lives, mother, country, teacher and traffic sergeant. The procedure for customers was to buy ZIC and get free tissue box with thank you sticker inside, every ZIC customer who pasted sticker stood eligible for entering in lucky draw of grand prizes worth Rs. 2 million and 1300 cc car along other 68 prizes including LCDs, bikes mobile phones. 70%-75% success ratio as per the feedback of retailers. 70%-75% success ratio was observed as per the feedback of retailers. Approximately 500,000 commuters pasted thank you stickers demonstrating interest in say thank you campaign. 95 company employees were involved in this activity for 60 days daily. 9|Page MAS Communication On Progress 8. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: MAS is continually developing its employee workforce and protection measures through employee trainings and upgradation of our office premises. We believe in the safety and protection of our employees especially those employed on the field for providing oil and gas services. As well as our warehouse staff responsible for storage and maintenance of our products. Our Code of Conduct clearly states that MAS “promotes the right of education to each individual and to abolish child labor through our efforts.” MAS ensures the “provision of safe and proper working conditions to each of our employee regardless of their nature of work.” Our Code also states that “MAS provides equal opportunities of employment and performance on job to all employees. We value differences in backgrounds, skills, experience, ethnicity, nationality, and gender to become more effective and stronger.” Various occupational hazards are associated with the nature of the work that MAS is engaged in. We provide appropriate medical attention in the event of serious incidents and subsequent injuries to personnel. MAS follows best practice through the provision of medical insurance to employees and their families that covers medical issues, assets and business risk. 8.2. Implementation and Monitoring: Corporate Values: One of our Core Corporate Values is “Respect.” We maintain openness and respect for others just the way we want to be respected. We learn from others and we believe teamwork is the ultimate reflection of collaboration. We treat one another with respect and take pride in the significant contributions that come from the diversity of individuals and ideas. Our continued success requires us to provide the education and development needed to help our people grow. We are committed to openness and trust in all relationships. 10 | P a g e MAS Communication On Progress Grievance Policy: MAS has a clearly outlined Sexual Harassment and Grievance Policy which states the procedures that employees can undertake to ensure addressing and resolution of their complaints/grievances relating to their job. Instances of grievances are monitored by the Disciplinary Committee and Human Resources and through our regular Quality Management Reviews as well. Training and Development: MAS is committed to training, development and recognition of all employees equally along with its monitoring at all organizational levels. Employees are provided with equal opportunity to voice, with their reporting senior, any gaps that they may identify in their skills and job requirements against performance objectives. These discussions and setting of performance objectives is a part of Human Resources’ Performance Development & Management System. 8.3. Measurement of Outcomes: On a continual base, MAS is committed to achieve measurable improvements in our processes and systems with regard to UNGC Labor Principles. • Sabra Hamida Trust: Our company is directly involved in abolishing child labor through the provision of education to those children of Green Town area, Lahore who have no other means of acquiring education to score a bright future for themselves. Ilmgah School is involved in this community development project since 2011. • Grievance Handling: We have reviewed and updated our Harassment and Grievance policy procedures for fair and confidential resolution of all such related conflicts. As previously discussed, our Audit and Human Resources Divisions have joined hands to create a transparent and accountable system through Disciplinary Committee. The committee ensures fulfillment of all accountability requirements throughout their appeals procedures. We have also ensured that our employees are aware of these procedures and the routes they can take to get their complaints addressed and resolved. • Sexual Harassment Act: MAS has recently developed a comprehensive Sexual Harassment Act according to our national laws and we are in process of sharing these at all employee levels through various communication layers like Code of Conduct, Employee Handbook and engagement sessions. • Health & Safety Clause: MAS’ Code of Conduct consists of a detailed Health and Safety Clause including all Do’s and Don’ts for the employees and the employers. • Quality Management Reviews: Our regular QMR sessions provide an updated valuation of all our HR strategies and policies. These assessments are taken as the basis of further developing our systems and processes within HR and elsewhere in the company. 11 | P a g e MAS Communication On Progress 9. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 9.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals Within the scope of our business activities, MAS understands the value and worth of a sustainable environment. We are committed towards saving energy and using minimum resources for our activities to save national resources. We also believe in the health and safety of the external environment along with our internal one. Our environmental activities and following policy is reflective of our support towards UNGC environmental principles. Environmental Policy: Our Code of Conduct clearly states that “we actively make efforts to create and maintain a clean and sustainable green environment.” “Responsibility” is one of our core corporate values. It is defined below: Responsibility: We take responsibility for people and the environment. We are committed to the well being of our employees and to the care of our environment. We conduct business activities in a way that is safe for our employees, our contractors, visitors to our sites, the communities we operate in, and our environment. We protect the environment by preventing or minimizing the environmental impact of our activities and products through appropriate design, distribution and disposal practices. Our products are standardized so as to decrease their hazardous affect on the environment. Our products are certified as being environment friendly. In order to decrease pollution through our products, we also generate events to share the efficient use of our products with minimum environmental damage through our product professionals. 9.2. Implementation and Monitoring: In order to operationalize our environmental values, we have devised certain action plans that entail our involvement in the sustainability and protection of our external and internal environment. Green Team: Our CSR Policy entails the creation of a Green Team within our regional offices for which effective steps are being taken. Our company believes in a healthy and greener environment. Our company takes yearly steps to plant trees and plants in our vicinity to make our community a healthier 12 | P a g e MAS Communication On Progress place to live in for us and for others. We are also in process of decreasing our waste output and creating a pollution free environment through future initiatives of recycling and waste reduction. Safety Team: Further to our CSR initiative that we have started in 2014, increasing the safety of our internal work environment is a part of our action plan as well. Keeping this in mind trainings and knowledge sharing sessions have been and shall be provided to company employees to realize the importance of Safety First regulation within our offices. Charities & Community Knowledge Sharing Sessions: Our community is involved in the development of the Pakistani environment and community through our Sabra Hamida Trust fund. It is deployed for the upgradation of our school and the lower class community of Green Town within Lahore. Our company is also involved in community sessions and activities for sharing traffic education to the masses. 9.3. Measurement of Outcomes: MAS has established standardized processes for measurable improvements in our environmental processes, systems and culture. These procedures and policies lie at the core of our products and development. • Our Environment Friendly Products: Our brand provides ILSAC (International Lubricants Standardization and Approval Committee) approved lubricants which show Environment Friendly characteristics as mentioned below: 1. More fuel economy. 2. Low wear rate of engine metallic parts which can destroy the environment 3. Low SAPS (Sulphated Ash, Phosphorus and Sulphur) 4. Maximum emission control system (exhaust gas catalytic converters) protection 5. Compatible with CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) Laws 6. Low engine smoke generation • Spring Plantation Week: During March 2014, MAS also preserved the beauty of nature during Spring Plantation Week at its Corporate Offices and Warehouse within Lahore. The employees gathered to plant petunias and roses in the flowerbeds of our offices. All levels of employees took part in the celebrations. • Fire Safety Session: Fire safety training was conducted at Corporate Office and Lahore Warehouse on 11th & 12th April. The objective is to educate & simultaneously train staff in first response for various forms of fires and to become aware of first response wardens. The training workshop was conducted with practical exposure to fire and how to respond to it. MAS believes 13 | P a g e MAS Communication On Progress it is essential for all of our employees to remain well equipped with actions that should be taken for our environment’s protection. • Technical Seminars/Community Knowledge Sharing Sessions: The objective of these seminars is to spread awareness in the community regarding the safety of engine and environment. These seminars are intended towards Mechanics, Oil Changers, Transporters, Rent a cars, Heavy Duty Transport, Army Engineers and Institutional Transport. We have been proudly carrying out this initiative since 2003. City wise seminars are conducted throughout Pakistan imparting awareness of lubricants efficiency and knowledge to the external stakeholders. A post analysis is done at the end of all knowledge sharing sessions through the initiative of the speaker. Feedback is collected from the audience, and a dynamic Q & A session verifies the extent of impact generated. General awareness regarding environmental protection is provided to engine oil users and regular visits to various service centers ensure practical effectiveness of the knowledge shared through implementation at these service centers. FWO (Frontier Works Organization) provided us with a letter of appreciation in return for our hard work and efforts with them in this regard. • Waste Reduction & Recycling: As part of our future CSR action plan, we plan to decrease our waste production and hazardous site dumping through a third party contractor services. We shall achieve this through waste recycling measures and special collection services through our CSR business partner. It is hoped that we shall manage to create a measurable, percentage decrease in our waste output by 2015. 10. Anti-Corruption Principles: Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: Our Code of Conduct has a specific clause for “FRAUD, DECEPTION, DISHONESTY, BRIBERY & CORRUPTION” as detailed below” “MAS upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. Fraud basically means to deceive or to act dishonestly or to abuse your power or position to take advantage of an individual or the company assets. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests.” 10.2. Implementation and Monitoring: 14 | P a g e MAS Communication On Progress Code of Conduct: Details of our Anti-Corruption clause is stated within our Code of Conduct. Policies regarding our “Ethical Business Practices” including clauses relating to anti-bribery, anti-corruption, fairness of business operations and conflicts of interest are detailed within the Code. Our future action plan consists of deployment of Code through internal employee sessions in all our regional offices. Third Party Contacts: We do not engage with any third parties for supply or development of our operations/activities who indulge in corruption-related activities. 10.3. Measurement of Outcomes: According to UNGC Anti-Corruption Principle, MAS has been trying to achieve measurable improvements in our related processes and systems. • Code of Conduct Review: A complete Review of all our HR Policies and Code of Conduct was carried out during 2014 to update and develop them up to the par of international Code and HR standards. • Audit Department: We have an effective Anti-Corruption check and balance system in place through our Internal Audit and Planning Department. This system overviews all business operations and supply chain procedures to make sure that we are 100% in compliance with the ISO standards. • Inventory Transparency Check System: Our Market Audit and Procurement teams jointly follow a Transparency check procedure for gifts procurement from our inventory or external market. A trade scheme is announced firstly based on point value. Gifts are allocated based on those points (purchase bars of our product). A claim listing all gifts is forwarded to the market audit department who verify the list and offer the complete list of existing gifts within our inventory to the procurement department. Then these items are procured from within our inventory through the above mentioned transparency check procedure. 11. Summary: Through our various activities, sessions and implemented processes, we have started our journey towards the acceptance, implementation and development of the 10 UNGC Principles relating to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption within our operations. Our future outcome is related to furthering this developmental process and to publish our next Communication On Progress (COP) with a broader spectrum of initiatives with a more strengthened foothold within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. 15 | P a g e
