Warsaw, 31 December 2014 2014 EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 1 EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 2 Intro General overview 1. EDF Polska joined UN Global Compact 31.12.2013. This appropriate report, Communication on Progress, is first one. 2. CSR issues and top priorities of EDF Polska focused on in 2014: a. Social Academy a series of top level training sessions for Trade Union leaders. b. More focus on safety issues. c. Implementation and development of diversity and women network. d. Works on unification of medical health care plans and services for all employees of EDF Group in Poland. e. Implementation of workshops for newly employed managers. f. Actualizations of job descriptions, job evaluations. g. Meetings with subcontractors of the companies concerning increasing safety at work. h. Focusing on development programmes such as Development Course, Healthy EDF, Summer Training and Internal Trainers’ Academy. 3. Communication on CSR with employees: a. We have a special tab about CSR actions on the Intranet. b. Besides, we focus on social dialogue which was visible especially this year due to negotiations on employee benefit buyouts. c. An active role of representatives of TUs and different councils elected by them and by employees, ethics committees in range of promotion and following CSR rules. d. In the guidebook on adaptation for new employees there is a chapter concerning sustainable development. Such rules are communicated in some companies of EDF Group in Poland through guidebooks for people visiting these companies, so called cardinal rules in H&S and environment. e. Articles in internal magazine and on intranet, workshops on work-life balance organized. f. E-learnings. g. Work-life balance, healthy EDF workshops. h. Internal publications in EDF Oddzial Wybrzeże. i. Presentation during open employees’ meetings. j. Employee Information Boards. EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 3 Businesses should support and respect the Principle 1 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights In the scope of protection of human rights, all Companies being a part of EDF Group in Poland not only guide the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights but also actively take actions in order to adopt internal policies (i.e. Code of Ethics, Health and Safety Policy), that reflect international and national regulations. As the result, all our employees are aware of the importance of human right as well as the need of supporting and respecting such. Below we give you the possibility to become familiar with only some of actions carried by our Group in Poland in the scope of the first Principle of United Nations Global Compact. HEALTH AND SAFETY 1. In order to follow the EDF key principles – responsibility, stakeholders’ engagement, continuous improvement and sharing, all companies from our Group are focused on achieving excellence in Health and Safety. Therefore, each and every employee from EDF Group in Poland is responsible not only for own safety but also for safety of cooperatives. Furthermore, Health and Safety Policy adopted in our companies puts emphasis on the responsibility of managers for health and safety of employees, subcontractors and visitors staying at their sites. 2. The main priority for all our Companies is to continue the implementation of safety culture changes. The basic tool used in order to fulfil this is the organization of trainings and awareness programs that take place in EDF Group companies in Poland, including periodic safety trainings dedicated for specific groups of employees (i.e. office employees, engineers and technicians, workers, managers and OHS personnel). 3. In 2014, EU-OSHA (European Agency for Safety and Health at Work) Week was organized with lectures, e-learning and voluntary anti-stress massages for employees. Moreover, awareness program for drivers, scaffolding inspection training for technical inspectors and practical first aid training were conducted. Additionally, there were a lot of local activities organized such as OHS leader, the best team, safety challenge and champion program. 4. EDF Group in Poland does not restrict its actions to employees but also puts stress on depollution project with more than 4,000 contractors employees every day on the sites. Therefore, dedicated safety management system for deSOx and deNOx projects were launched including meetings with top management of main contractors and signing safety charter with them. Additionally, EDF Companies take the following actions in the scope of safety of its contractors’ employees: employment of additional safety supervisors for ongoing investment programs, safety seminars with contractors’ workers and managers and many more. EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 4 5. Moreover, in order to identify the top priorities that EDF Group in Poland faces, we are carrying out multi-scope risk audits involving employees of all levels including Occupational Health and Safety employees as well as contractors, launching dedicated safety management system for projects, organizing safety day on construction sites. 6. All the above results in the number of occupational incidents and accidents involving employees which is at the same low level for over last three years. HEALTHY EDF 1. EDF Group in Poland not only guides the provisions of labour law in the scope of occupational and preventive medicine but also engages its own actions that promote healthy living among all employees. 2. Therefore, in 2013 the internal initiative “Healthy EDF” was launched to promote worklife balance and healthy lifestyle. Each year, two big actions take place – Healthy Week in October and Healthy Spring that lasts for two months. During those actions all employees of our Group in Poland are offered among other things the following:  Workshops related to stress management;  Medical examinations on site (including blood pressure, glucose level, weight and body composition measurements);  Healthy diet related lectures. 3. This year a lecture regarding health of 40+ employees was carried during which employees had a chance to learn how to remain fit and avoid health problems that appear as the years go by. 4. Apart from the above, every month employees are provided with articles concerning healthy lifestyle and theme actions are organized. FIGHTING AGAINST DISCRIMINATION 1. All issues regarding discriminations in EDF Group in Poland are regulated in Work Regulations, Company’s Collective Labour Agreements (ZUZP) and Labour Code. 2. In accordance with internal procedures, all employees have the right to report any noticed discrimination to their supervisors, ethical correspondents and councils (e.g. in EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 5 EDF Polska S.A. Oddział Wybrzeże, EDF Toruń S.A. or Kogeneracja S.A.), Social Directors chosen by employees, Employee Ombundsman or by sending e-mails on specially dedicated address. 3. The companies of the EDF Group also undertake actions in order to support equal treatment at work. There is no sex discrimination in the recruitment process. Recruitment announcements are published and construed in such a way so as to address both women and men (i.e. male assistant/female assistant). During recruitment reviews questions regarding family life (i.e. number of children, general family plans) are not being asked. EDF Group Companies assess competences, knowledge, experience and skills suitable for a given position. 4. EDF Group in Poland also focuses on women's development equal chances. Therefore, Interp'elles Polska Women's Network was launched in 2014. The main objective of it is to promote and support women’s professional development, equal possibilities to obtain managerial positions in the organization as well as to educate managers about gender equality issues. During the inauguration of Women's Network the Management Board of EDF Polska S.A. signed the Declaration of supporting women's success. 5. What should be emphasized, during the Employees Engagement Surveys employees have been assessing the aspect of discrimination in the companies. Each year, the employees confirm that this aspect does not occur in EDF Group in Poland. 6. In October 2014 EDF Polska submitted for a special audit regarding the equal treatment of all employees in EDF. As a result EDF Group in Poland received Gender Equality European Standard label. DIVERSITY 1. EDF Group in Poland agrees that diversity is the door to new opportunities. Therefore the Group adopted a Diversity Guide for managers promoting equal opportunities for men and women. There are different chapters on recruitment, motivation, communication and annual assessment. The guide is a tool for managers that can be useful in everyday team management which support diversity. 2. EDF Group in Poland organized Diversity Day in order to promote diversity among our employees. During that action workshops were organized to raise diversity awareness in all companies. EMPLOYEES DEVELOPMENT 1. EDF Group in Poland being aware of the importance of development of its employees’ knowledge and skills, takes all necessary actions in order to create a friendly environment for improvement of personnel. EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 6 2. As it is provided in the Training Procedure, EDF Companies provide its employees both internal and external trainings as well as supplementary courses on all levels of education. 3. Apart from traditional trainings, EDF Group in Poland is familiar with modern methods of employees’ development. For last several years, EDF uses coaching as a tool dedicated to the development of EDF’s managers. It is used as a supplement to standard methods and allows for an individual approach and searching for solutions that fit our employees in the best way possible. 4. EDF Group in Poland offers its employees different programs and actions.  “Summer Academy of EDF” being organized during summer months is a group of training sessions during which employees have a chance to develop their “soft” skills, skills necessary for professional career as well as language courses. In 2014, 55 trainings were organized in all Companies of our Group.  During “Kierunek Rozwój” program, created for those employees on specialist positions who have a chance to be promoted, apart from traditional trainings, the participants have a chance to take part in business projects in scope of the program.  Furthermore, EDF in Poland not only emphasizes the development of current employees but also launches programs for students as potential, future candidates to work in our Companies. In 2014 two programs were introduced: “zaPROJEKTuj sobie przyszłość z EDF” and “Magisterka z EDF” for students from technical and engineering fields of studies. EDF in Poland was also present during academic job fairs organized by Tadeusz Kościuszko Cracow University of Technology, Economic University in Cracow and University of Science and Technology (AGH) during which students were invited to take part in our competitions for master’s thesis and energy projects. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Mechanisms put in place in 2014 to ensure the dissemination of EDF’s corporate values and Code of Ethics (human rights protection is essential) to our personnel 1. Group wide fraud awareness based upon the promotion of positive values. 2. Values communicated on the EDF Polska website and regularly in a magazine “Wspolna Energia”. 3. New ethical principles common to the entire Group defined by companies/branches of the EDF Group (jointly cooperating). The following regulations on ethics and frauds defined and officially implemented: Fraud Prevention Policy, Practical Guide to fraud EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 7 prevention, Code of Ethics (implemented in July 2013, covering 100% of employees on all organizational levels). 4. A centralized system of policies and procedures describing the control environment in EDF Group in Poland. 5. Numerous internal control mechanisms implemented at formal, process related, procedural and IT level. 6. Ethical Correspondents appointed in all entities of the EDF Group in Poland. 7. Training in the scope of values dedicated for managers of EDF Group in Poland. Company complies with basic statements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) in respect of freedom, conscience and religion, freedom to hold and manifest opinions, right to just and favorable conditions of work. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 1. EDF represents and respects the freedom of belonging to associations and freedom of assembly, guaranteed for employees and maintain an active dialogue with partners from the public. 2. In the Group, there are 23 trade unions which bring about 60% of the employees together. Each compound is self-governing and independent of the employer. Regular meetings with trade union representatives held in the framework of social dialogue. The social partners are regularly informed of any action that may affect the interests of workers, such as working conditions and employment, wages, welfare and others. 3. Trade unions and employees of EDF Group Poland are represented in EDF’s Employee Works Council, where freedom of association and assembly is monitored on an ongoing basis. Of course, the appropriate level of such activity, or cooperation of trade unions and employers is possible thanks to the Polish legislation, that guarantee right to freedom of association and freedom of assembly. 4. Company encourage employees to get involved in volunteering and community actions, e.g.: a. through intranet announcements b. social and environmental actions with participation of Management Board members, involvement in handi-sport (e.g. Memorial Zylewicza) c. posters d. e-bulletin: contains all announcements, received each Monday by managers who have to communicate to their teams e. collections of food and clothes before Christmas for vulnerable people and centre of lonely mother; cooperation with sociotherapy centre; . EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 8 f. blood donors’ clubs in the companies g. integration through CSR actions: renovation of orphanage, participation in “Szlachenta Paczka” action h. Organised sport events (also for handicapped) open for employees: EDF CUP, EDF Tour announced in intranet, internal magazine, posters i. Employees engaged in river cleaning j. “Pass on the Heat” internet campaign: all internet users can vote for an NGO which will receive financial sport from the company promoted on intranet k. Safety contests for employees: choice of NGO which will receive financial support l. Support for “Wioski dziecięce” charity organization based upon participation in My EDF employee survey. 5. For industrial relations and communication between employees and managers EDF uses the following channels: a. periodical meetings of CEO with personnel, meetings of departments, organizational sections and individual meetings with supervisor (cascading communication). There are seminars for people working on shifts during which the supervisors (and sometimes CEOs) give employees current information about the company and projects realized. During these meetings specialists from different sections discuss the parts of production process they are responsible for, which constitutes also an element of training for the others. b. At the level of EDF Polska there are also organized meeting with all trade unions, sometimes it is EDF Polska who invites the TUs, the sometimes TUs invite the Board of EDF Polska to the meeting. c. There are also preparatory meetings with EWC members and members of Supervisory Board elected by employees. d. The representatives of the trade unions meet usually cyclically with the representatives of management (usually once a month) to discuss all the current issues and projects or to negotiate. e. The exchanges take place according to predefined schedule, usually at least once a month (TUs + management). Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 1. EDF Polska is a part of conventions that are named in CSR agreement. This agreement promotes volunteering and we are obliged to comply with this agreement. These rules have partly been introduced to Work Regulations binding in all companies. Also HR procedures have been defined in such a way to exclude a possibility of taking actions that are not in accordance with international conventions, especially in children’s rights, compulsory work, women’s rights, fight with discrimination or freedom of associating. Eliminating of all forms of forced and compulsory labour: a. Employment contracts are on fair terms b. Employees can terminate contract at will EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 9 c. Recruitment process are voluntary d. Contracts are written and known before start of the job e. Work-time rules are respect f. Retirement age is respect (also early retirement for energy sector) 2. In all our companies we have implemented updated and simplified Code of Ethics of EDF Group. 3. We also promote 3 values: respect, solidarity and responsibility. We have also introduced declaration of respecting ethical rules which must be signed by each employee. 4. Monitoring of realization of these resolutions takes place through audits and selfcontrols whose aim is to check compliance with requirements resulting from obligations. 5. Ombundman's role is, among others, to counteract any acts of violation of employee rights, if reported. 6. CSR and security engagement in all contracts for subcontractors. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Abolition of child labour is a fundamental principle and objective of the most important declaration of human rights and relevant law provisions. EDF Polska S.A. does not employ any person under 18 years of age. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 1. Socially consulted in 2014 (but not yet formally implemented) procedure for the prevention of harassment, discrimination and harassment. This procedure defines the rules and conduct, which EDF Group Poland directed to prevent and counteract the phenomena of harassment and discrimination and harassment in the workplace. This procedure includes detailed instructions for the procedure, in which each employee who considers that he has been subjected to mobbing, harassment, unequal treatment and discrimination can occur with a written complaint with the behavior of the following steps: a. Step One: application to the superior, if not his issue b. Step Two: reporting the matter to the local Council or correspondent for ethics if the case involves a supervisor or if the supervisor was not able to solve it. List of data and contact details are available on the intranet c. Step Three: reporting the matter to the Ombudsman Employee d. Step Four: Employee Ombudsman if it considers the case requires it puts it forward to Anti-Mobbing Commission (the Commission is appointed to deal with complaints of employees in each of the Company EDF Poland) EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 10 2. The procedure referred to above also contains a description of conduct, rules to prevent mobbing, discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment and the effects of the proceedings. It defines the responsibilities and powers for employers (including the provision of training), managers, the Ombudsman, Employee Ethics Board Members / Correspondents and employees. 3. Other existing commitments, agreements or charters regarding all forms of discrimination: a. All issues regarding discriminations are regulated in Work Regulations, Company’s Collective Labour Agreements (ZUZP), Labour Code and the bill. b. EDF Polska continues to be the signatory of Diversity Charter in Poland. c. In October 2014 EDF Polska had a special audit – Gener Equality European Standard regarding the equal treatment of all employees in EDF. If the audit is positive and EDF Polska gained GEES label. d. Moreover, there is a set of ethical rules and HR documents. e. Code of Ethics and values: respect, solidarity and responsibility.1 f. The employees can report any noticed discrimination to their supervisors, ethical correspondents and councils (e.g. in EDFW, EDFT or Kogeneracja), Social Directors chosen by employees or to Employee Ombundsman. g. For the last 6 years during the Employees Engagement Survey the employees have been assessing the aspect of discrimination in the companies. Each year, the employees confirm that this aspect does not occur. h. Special e-mail address dedicated to ethics (etyka@edf.pl) prepared. i. Ombudsperson accessible to all employees. j. We prepared regulations for counteracting acts of mobbing, discrimination and harassment. They were consulted with Trade Unions, experts from Central Institute for Labour Protection and will be implemented in the near future. 4. Actions taken in 2014 to promote all forms of diversity (ethnic origin, skin colour, gender, religion, political opinion, nationality, social background, sexual orientation, etc.): a. In Poland we mostly focus on gender and age diversity as in our company we do not have issues with other aspects of diversity. b. We applied for GEES audit which was positive. c. We issued Diversity Guide for managers explaining how to manage diversity in teams and how to benefit from it. d. We introduced the special condition to the agreement with recruitment agencies that in the shortlists there should be at least 30% female candidates presented. 1 In the new Code of Ethics EDF Group commits itself to: ensure safety and health protection for all who are concerned by its activity as well as safety of devices and buildings, protect natural environment, develop employees’ competences as well as appreciate their input and care about quality of life at work, prevent and eliminate all injustice and discrimination as well as all cases of violence and mobbing, respect beliefs and opinions of all, also when it comes to politics and religion, counteract frauds and bribery, listen to stakeholders and pass them information as well as guarantee each employee a right to inform a dedicated person about any situation which is against values and ethical commitments EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 11 e. All materials regarding employer branding in universities and technical schools presents. f. In October 2014 we launched EDF Women’s Network to promote the development of women in EDF Group in Poland g. The members of MB signed the declaration of supporting women in their development. 5. New action taken in 2014 to promote jobs for people with disabilities (recruitment, integration, career support, adjustments if disabilities occur or evolve): a. In KOGENERACJA S.A. by participating in the project Wroclaw for all which aim is to change the perception of people with disabilities by the local community and to motivate people with disabilities to participate actively in social life and professional life. b. Integration picnic for employees and disabled people organized by EDF Polska O. nr 1 w Krakowie. c. The Voluntary Program for employees in Rybnik organized in cooperation with Para Olympic Games Poland – the common sports competition with disabled persons. d. Cooperation with the Workshops for disabled persons in Rybnik:  The action for collecting funds for a bus for disabled persons carried out on the site of the power plant,  Organizing bazaars for employees where disabled persons sell their handmade products. e. Cooperation with the Educational Centers for disabled persons in Rybnik. f. Programs executed by the EDF Polska Foundation in Rybnik. g. Nationwide integration sport competition for disabled:  EDF Cup Alpine Skiing Polish Championship for Disabled (February/March), 10th edition  EDF Tour Integrated Polish Championships in Road Cycling for Disabled (September), 5th edition h. Local sport competition for disabled:  Wrocław Cup International Tennis Tournament on Wheelchair  Memorial Żylewicza athletics event including competitions for disabled, EDF Polska O/Wybrzeże  Cooperation with Para – Olympic Games Organisation in Silesia  Cracovia Marathon 6. In some companies correspondent for disabled people is directly appointed. If not its function is held informally by Social Directors, or CEO sometimes. 7. In 2013 we constituted in EDF Group of Poland the function of the Employee Ombudsman who, among other things, is a disabled people integration supervisor in these employers of EDF Group in Poland, who had not constituted such function. EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 12 Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 approach to environmental challenges 1. EDF Polska has a direct and indirect impact on the environment through its production process. We are in a constant dialogue in the quality and environmental issues with our employees, subcontractors and clients. The main sources of our impact are: fuel combustion (emissions) consumption of natural resources chemical risks wastes produced during the production and maintenance processes 2. The company systematically implements new technologies and procedures in order to improve “cleanliness” of production and improves the quality of our processes to reduce their environmental burden. The main measures to develop energy production with a lower environmental impact were concerned with construction of Wet FGD installations and DeNOx installations in our subsidiaries, continuous improvement in efficiency of energy production, increasing share of cogeneration process and replacement of coal by natural gas and biomass. We highlight the positive impact on environment (depollution) and on security of supply. 3. Our plants also apply the best available techniques which ensure clean production and constant reduction of emissions, reduction of natural resources (such as water) consumption, sewage treatment, waste management and failure prevention. Monitoring systems and ISO Integrated Management System, implemented in each subsidiary, provide proper control of environmental impact. 4. Our company also expects the subcontractors care for the environment. The dialogue with our subcontractors is conducted in 3 ways:  During the tendering process: all commercial and technical issues are clarified, when it is required, site visits are organized to show subcontractors the installations in nature,  During executing the works: people who are responsible for contract management representing parties of contract solve the ongoing issues appearing during work execution to enhance good performance, before commencement of works subcontractor’s workers are familiarized with H&S rules and the risks which may occur at working place.  Periodical meetings with suppliers: these meetings concern H&S issues, commercial issues and foster to elaborate common approach to improve existing and future cooperation. 5. Moreover, the significant risk of climate change have been included into the risk assessment / management processes at the level of EDF Polska. EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 13 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 1. In accordance with sustainable development strategy adopted by our company building the environmental awareness in our employees is one of the main goals for the managers. That is why each year trainings in the environmental protection issues, climate change, biodiversity are carried on. 2. Open Days are also held within communication actions in all locations, where the principles of electricity and heat production are presented and the threats in using our assets are highlighted. Educational actions on the threats connected with electricity and direct use of household equipment and devices by the end customers are conducted to a limited extent, mainly through websites. Educational actions (Biodiversity Day, Picnic for Health, etc.) within the educational programs intended for employees, schools and institutions are constantly continued, the aim of which is to raise awareness on issues concerning energy efficiency and environmental responsibility. Cooperation was established in this respect with the local authorities and higher educational institutions as well as with Energy Conservation Agencies. These actions have enabled the achievement of the goals and targets that were set for new connections and increasing the interest of Clients, within the frames of environmental responsibility and sustainable development. 3. Every investment is analyzed in terms of improving environmental and safety conditions. Also, the companies have a legal requirements surveillance system, based on ISO internal procedures, which ensures identification of requirements applicable to companies and monitoring of changes of requirements and their implementation throughout companies. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 1. In consideration for natural environment, EDF Polska S.A. takes the following into account in planning its projects:  increasing energy efficiency of the production assets,  generation of electricity and heat in combination to improve production efficiency,  reducing their own consumption,  reducing emissions,  modernization of some production assets, EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 14  reducing losses of the district heating networks operated by EDF Polska’s subsidiaries 2. Our planned activities for 2015 are:  commissioning of currently constructed desulphurization and denitrification installations in order to meet the IED requirements that come into force in 2016  starting up construction of the Gas Turbine in EDF Toruń and EC Czechnica to replace the existing coal boilers in 2018  replacement of coal heat only boilers by gas-oil boilers in EDF Kraków and EC Gdynia CHP plants,  realization of the modernizations included in the National Investment Plan for increasing energy efficiency of the existing installations and reduction of CO2 emission,  continuation of the realization New Rybnik project – adaptation to IED requirements and lifetime extension  realization of project of ash valorization  increase of biomass co-combustion  reduction of environmental impact by minimization of the consumption of electricity and heat for our own use and minimization of the use of water. Principle Businesses should work against all forms of 10 corruption, including extortion and bribery 1. EDF Polska is executing its strategies on the basis of Enterprise Risk Management system, in which all key aspects of activities are identified, assessed and addressed. This includes all aspects and risks related to fraud, extortion or bribery. EDF Polska realizes a management plan to mitigate such risks on an ongoing basis. The plan focuses on strengthening the ethical environment in the company, building enhanced internal controls and assuring regular assessments of the system. Managerial attention includes key aspects of procurement, commercial or support processes. 2. Code of Ethics has been implemented in EDF Group in Poland, with strong and clear indication of the requirements related to everyday behavior of employees. The Code of Ethics contains a link to UN Global Compact and requires compliance in this respect. 3. EDF Group in Poland is functioning on the basis of an internal environment of procedures, which have been created taking into account the requirements of European and local regulations. The governance system is supported by an internal audit function, which performs regular risk based reviews of the control systems. EDF Polska Supervisory Board and Management Boards are informed on an ongoing basis about the results of work and progress related to internal controls in processes. EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 15 End Conclusions The purpose of this Report is to present EDF Polska’s activities in scope of UN Global Compact. Global Compact is respected and its all ten principles are applied. Realization of Global Compact principles is one of the most important goals of our CSR policy. We established a special team dedicated to Global Compact to which we invited young employees with high potential, experienced managers, as well as trade unions leaders. Participation in Global Compact initiatives significantly contributes to promoting CSR in each area of our business. On behalf of the team Krzysztof Olewnik Head of C&B and Employee Relations krzysztof.olewnik@edf.pl Warsaw, ul. Złota 59 + 48 691 721 888 Poland EDF Polska S.A. – Global Compact Report 2014 16
