Building Equity Sustainability Report 2013 The Sustainability Report of IDLC Finance Limited covers the period from January 2013 to December 2013, or the financial year 2013 as per the accounting guidelines in Bangladesh. This is the third such report by the Company and is an extrareporting initiative extending beyond the statutory guidelines prescribed on governance standards in Bangladesh. This report is mainly an instrument of communication regarding the Company’s philosophy, governance, management, policies and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, resulting in sustainable development for the environment and the community. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 “ “ The best work happens when you know that it’s not just work, but something that will improve other people’s lives. Satya Nadella CEO, Microsoft RATIONALE FOR PREPARING A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At IDLC, our overarching objective is to build equity by delivering the widest good to the largest number in the shortest possible time. We see ourselves as enablers of an improved quality of life to ensure that the fruits of economic evolution and progress do not just remain the prerogative of a few but the privilege of many. Our approach embraces greater responsibility towards the environment, greater sensitivity to meet the unmet needs of large segments of the society, and greater empathy towards all those who work with us and depend upon us. And this document serves as the tool to remain accountable to our broader stakeholder groups. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY POSITION STATEMENT IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value – value for our stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Statement of the CEO and Managing Director 3 Reporting Parameters 5 Key Impact Areas and Opportunities CHAPTER 1: OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 8 Business and Sustainability 11 Business Model Sustainability 11 Commitment to External Initiatives 12 IDLC’s Sustainability Focus 12 Key Agenda in 2013 13 CSR Investments CHAPTER 2: ABOUT IDLC 15 Profile 17 Our Brand – deeply Trusted and widely Recalled 17 Vision, Mission, Objectives and Core Values 18 Who we are and what we do 18 Key Milestones 18 Shareholding Structure 19 Our Organisational Chart (Organogram) 20 Our Service Offerings 21 Sectoral Exposure 21 Membership CHAPTER 3: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 23 Key Financial Indicators 25 Distribution of Value Addition 26 Creating a Balanced Portfolio 26 Managing Funds 26 Contribution to the Exchequer CHAPTER 4: GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 28 Corporate Governance 31 Board of Directors 34 Management Committee 36 Risk Management 37 Code of Conduct and Ethics 37 Anti-corruption Policies and Practices CHAPTER 5: ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 39 Environmental and Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 39 Green Banking 41 Environmental and Social Management System 42 Environmental Awareness Campaign in Schools 50 Enhancing the Green Cover 51 Sustainability through Technology SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 52 Resource Consumption 52 Reduce, Reuse CHAPTER 6: COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 56 Development through Partnership 57 Developing Skilled Resources for the RMG Sector 64 Model Village Project 73 Blanket Distribution 76 Access to Education and Healthcare for Underprivileged Children 78 Creating Jobs 81 Extended Responsibilities 81 Empowering Women CHAPTER 7: INCLUSIVE BUSINESS 86 Promoting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) 91 Access-to-Finance for Women Entrepreneurs 91 Infrastructure Projects 92 Green Finance 94 Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 94 Supporting Home Ownership 95 Customer Service and Client Engagement 96 Financial Inclusion CHAPTER 8: EMPLOYEE WELFARE 98 Major Indicators of HR Management 100 Core Philosophies of HR Management 103 HR and Compensation Committee 103 Work Environment 103 Hiring Practices 104 Capacity Development 105 Staff Management 106 Health and Safety 106 Flexibility 106 Employee Benefits 106 Staff Engagement CHAPTER 9: ACCOUNTABILITY THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 109 Stakeholder Engagement 111 CSR Progress Report 112 Beneficiaries of IDLC’s Sustainability Initiatives CHAPTER 10: COMPLIANCE 116 GRI Content Index 131 Committing to the MDGs 133 Awards and Recognitions ABBREVIATIONS ADB Asian Development Bank AML Anti Money Laundering Bn Billion CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CDM Clean Development Mechanism CEO Chief Executive Officer CRMS Customer Relationship Management System CSE Chittagong Stock Exchange CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DFID Department of International Development DFIM Department of Financial Institutions and Markets DO Development Organisation DSE Dhaka Stock Exchange DTE Directorate of Technical Education EEK Energy-Efficient Brick Kiln ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESMS Environmental and Social Management System ETP Effluent Treatment Plant FCUBS Flexcube Universal Banking Solution FDI Foreign Direct Investment FI Financial Institutions GB & CSR Green Banking and Corporate Social Responsibility GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Green House Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative GTSC Gazipur Technical School and College IDCOL Infrastructure Development Company Limited IDLC IL IDLC Investments Limited IDLC LF IDLC Ladies' Forum IDLC SL IDLC Securities Limited IFC International Finance Corporation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 IFG International Factoring Group IIDFC Industrial and Infrastructure Development Company Limited ILO International Labour Organisation IPFF Investment Promotion and Financing Facility IT Information Technology JICA Japan International Cooperation Agency LEADS Livelihood Education and Development Services LDC Least Developed Country ManCom Management Committee MIS Management Information System Mn Million MoU Memorandum of Understanding NBFI Non-Banking Financial Institution NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NPS Net Promoter Score NRB Non-Resident Bangladeshis OJT On-the-Job Training PBT Profit Before Tax PPP Public-Private Partnership REHAB Real Estate and Housing Association of Bangladesh RMG Ready-Made Garments RMF Risk Management Forum SBBN Small Business Banking Network SHS Solar Home System SME Small and Medium Enterprise SOP Standard Operating Procedure TVET Technical and Vocational Education and Training UNDP United Nations Development Programme VTS Vehicle Tracking Service WEL Women Entrepreneur Loan WIN Women In Business STATEMENT OF THE CEO AND MANAGING DIRECTOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STATEMENT OF THE CEO AND MANAGING DIRECTOR In 2013, our Sustainability efforts focused on three core aspects: skills development and livelihood generation for the underprivileged; women empowerment through both business and CSR initiatives; and improved environmental performance through awareness creation, enhancing “green” portfolio, and in-house environmental management. SELIM R. F. HUSSAIN CEO & Managing Director Dear fellow stakeholders, While there were many CSR projects in 2013, perhaps the most notable was the one that ‘developed and delivered’ At IDLC, we aim to be a 'good corporate citizen'. Our skilled resources to the RMG (Ready-Made Garments) objective is to ensure that the Company not only focuses sector. This Project took a group of individuals coming on financial performance to drive shareholder value, from the poorest regions of North Bengal, with few but also makes a positive impact in the environment livelihood opportunities, and trained them to become where we operate, in the communities where we have a Machine Operators in the RMG sector, on an average presence, and in the lives of those stakeholders core to earning up to Taka 10,000 per month. This public-private our success. partnership initiative brought together different partners In 2013, our Sustainability efforts focused on three core from the business, government, development and aspects: financial sectors, and helped change the lives of over 80, mostly female, individuals till date. We hope to expand ■ Skills development and livelihood generation for the this initiative well into 2015. underprivileged; Another notable project for 2013 was the Model Village ■ Women empowerment through both business and Project, where IDLC, through both financial and nonCSR initiatives; and financial interventions, helped bring positive changes in ■ Improved environmental performance through the Sadarpur Village of Rangpur, North Bengal. The project awareness creation, enhancing “green” portfolio, and has contributed to youth and community empowerment, in-house environmental management. provided access to basic healthcare facilities, educated 1 people on environmental management, helped develop the Dutch Development Bank, and external consultants. livelihood generation skills, and provided alternative IDLC’s Corporate and SME businesses are increasingly income-generating options to the community people. focusing on 'green' projects with particular focus on improving energy-efficiency in brick manufacturing, Both these projects focused on women empowerment – installation of Effluent Treatment Plants and waste/ equipping them with income-generating skills which, in water recycling plants, and promoting alternative and turn, helped them achieve economic freedom and raise renewable energy projects including solar home systems their social status within the family and the community. and biogas plants. Besides these initiatives, IDLC actively contributes to women empowerment also by: We are trying to ensure that our sustainability efforts are aligned with principles put forward by the UN Global ■ Offering access-to-finance to women entrepreneurs Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, through its 'Women Entrepreneur Loan' facility under Environment and Anti-corruption; by the UN Environment the SME Department, which recorded a 108 percent Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in terms of better disbursement growth in 2013 over the same period environmental management in financial institutions; last year; and and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) aimed ■ Empowering IDLC's female staff through various at poverty reduction, primary education, gender training programmes and career development equality and women empowerment, reduced child opportunities, and by addressing various workplace mortality, improved maternal health, combat diseases, issues by actively managing a 'Ladies’ Forum'; environmental sustainability, and global partnerships. In 2013, IDLC’s external environmental efforts mainly We are committed to improving Sustainability disclosure revolved around continuing the tree plantation initiative, in Bangladesh in the corporate sector and are pleased to which was begun a few years ago, and the launching of issue our third Sustainability Report, following the Global an environmental awareness campaign across different Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The 2013 Report schools. This initiative was aimed at educating children on continues to conform to the application level “B” under matters such as environmental pollution and mitigation; the GRI-G3.1 Guidelines, and in 2014, we plan to move up responsible consumption of natural resources; adoption to the GRI-G4 Guidelines and also seek external assurance of the 3R principle of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle to to add credibility to the disclosure. minimize wastage etc. In 2013, IDLC covered 11 schools We welcome your feedback and suggestions to help us and, having received very positive feedback from these continue improving our report to meet your expectations. schools, is continuing these sessions in 2014 as well. Happy reading! In 2013, IDLC adopted the Bangladesh Bank’s 'Green Banking Policy' in order to conduct its business and in-house operations in an even more structured and compliant manner. In 2014, we are also in the process of implementing a new Environmental and Social Selim R.F. Hussain Management System (ESMS) with support from FMO, CEO and Managing Director 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 REPORTING PARAMETERS Reporting period 1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013 Reporting cycle Annual Most recent previous report “Annual Sustainability Report 2012”, published in April 2013 Report application level “B” (Self-declared) Contact person Zurat Haque Head of CSR, IDLC Finance Limited Tel: +880-2-8834990, Ext 178; Cell: +880-1713-047-075 Email: zurat@idlc.com REPORT SCOPE For 2013, this has been done through a structured engagement process, both formal and informal, and has The Sustainability Report of IDLC Finance provides a involved identification of key stakeholders (employees, CSR perspective of who we fundamentally are, what we regulators, business partners and clients, public sector do, what we have done so far and where we need to entities, and the community at large) and subsequently improve. understanding major sustainability issues that remain the key focus of the current report. This report highlights our track record and statement of intent. It aims to disclose how we operate within a dynamic business environment and how we responsibly MATERIALITY address stakeholder interests. Our Sustainability Report has been designed around the subject of responsible citizenry. The key philosophies While the Company complies with the comprehensive and policies have been institutionalised and created requirements of financial reporting as stipulated by the by a dedicated internal CSR team with guidance and various regulatory bodies, we are taking transparency one suggestions from external stakeholders from time to step ahead through this Sustainability Report. Though time. The identification of our key stakeholders and issues this is not yet a statutory requirement in Bangladesh, material to each has been derived from this exercise. we have created this document voluntarily, out of our commitment to transparency, out of our role as thought ■ Economic: Ascertaining return on capital invested in leaders in our industry, and out of the hope that we a cyclical business with fluctuating costs; benchmark our practices in the interest of building an ■ Environment: Protecting the environment through equitable society. minimising our carbon footprint and conserving natural resources through awareness buildup, There are several benefits of such an initiative: prudent use, recycling and reuse; ■ Such a document makes it possible for our ■ Society: Creating a culture of safety among stakeholders as well as the larger public to know employees, customers, contractors and community what to expect of us. members, and providing robust infrastructure for ■ It reiterates the stakeholder confidence and the education, offering basic amenities and ensuring Company’s image, providing a compelling reason for good health. stakeholders to remain associated with us. ■ The disclosures can potentially trigger other REPORT COVERAGE companies to follow suit with similar initiatives, This report covers operations across the IDLC Group, thereby widening our circle of influence and ensuring explaining how our Company touches the lives of our widespread development of our country. stakeholders and the community at large. We must make an upfront mention that this document Relevantly, one of the principal thrust areas of this does not aim to eulogise the Company. On the contrary, report is the identification of the groups of stakeholders we are fully aware that this would only serve as a pointer considered relevant to the Company. Most sustainability to the huge gaps still uncovered. reports address three broad categories of stakeholders – shareholders, employees and the society. At IDLC, REPORT FOCUS we address a fourth – and key – section: our customers. To improve the sustainability management, monitoring Even though the report is relevant to all segments of and reporting process and progressively integrate stakeholders, we have highlighted specific activities sustainable development into the organisational performed throughout the year, focusing on each of framework, it is important to identify sustainability issues these segments. that are the most important for our stakeholders. 3 ■ Economic activities, discussing sustainable growth of (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines, a standard reporting format being our principal business – fund mobilisation and loan followed the world over. disbursement – and return to investors. The GRI is the most widely adopted reporting framework ■ Social activities, discussing the Company’s in the world. The guidelines have helped us communicate community welfare and environmental initiatives. our sustainability performance through transparency and accountability. It would also be pertinent to indicate that ■ HR activities, highlighting initiatives that discuss our most of the Company’s operations are covered under the human resource-centric practices and alignment of Report Scope. corporate goals with personal ambitions, and that promote the assurance of a promising career path for our employees. LIMITATIONS IDLC self-declares its Sustainability Report to be compliant ■ Commitment to customer value creation, discussing with the GRI Guidelines. The Company has not sought any operational seamlessness, process efficiencies, external assurance for its Sustainability Report to move to service competence and new business initiatives the ‘plus’ level of reporting. that enhance our standing as one of the pioneers of Bangladesh’s NBFI industry. However, IDLC will avail external assurance for its Sustainability Report going forward, adding further REPORT BOUNDARY credibility to our disclosures. The reporting period for this Sustainability Report is 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. With this report, we intend to progressively align our reporting standards with those as specified by the Global Reporting Initiative We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our internal and external stakeholders. Your suggestions are vital and will help us improve not only the quality of our reporting but also the quality of our products and services, and help us undertake more innovative CSR initiatives. Please email your suggestions/ views/ opinions to zurat@idlc.com 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 KEY IMPACT AREAS AND OPPORTUNITIES Our sustainability commitment is not a one-off response to sudden developments but an institutionalised approach that has existed from the time we went into business. The concept of sustainability is ingrained into the very personality of our organisation, influencing the way we think and act. It aptly encapsulates the very bottom line of our existence consistent enhancement of value for all our stakeholders. KEY IMPACT AREA: ECONOMIC KEY IMPACT AREA: ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY As we work to help meet our economy’s growing Economic sustainability represents the foundation of our need for finance and credit, we aim to reduce the viability. Undoubtedly, if our profits decline, our ability to environmental impact of our operations. Working provide enhanced stakeholder value would be impaired. with local communities and experts from leading environmental organisations helps us better understand In this context, it would be important to list some of the and address the challenges we face in running our initiatives that have reinforced our Company’s viability facilities. Working to reduce the environmental impact over the decades. of our operations takes rigorous planning. We focus on key areas including managing our carbon footprint ■ Emerged as Bangladesh’s largest NBFI with assets by reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions; using less under management of Taka 50,429 mn; energy, water, paper and other resources; conserving ■ Built a cherished brand recall that stands for biodiversity; addressing environmental issues in our ‘financing happiness’; lending activities; and creating mass awareness regarding these issues. We manage CO2 emissions through the ■ Created a wealth of experience through nearly 3 usage of more energy-efficient devices, technologies and decades of pioneering the financing business across processes across our areas of operations, and undertaking regions, political environments and trade cycles, tree plantation activities on a regular basis. We also ensure translating into a consistent industry-leading position that our facilities are well-designed, safely operated and in the country; properly maintained. ■ Established the largest branch network among NBFIs in the country with 26 branches and 2 booths (with KEY IMPACT AREA: EMPLOYEE plans to open 4 more branches in 2014); A company’s sustainability agenda is driven by its most ■ Derived robust cost competitive advantages from the valuable asset – its people. In view of this, we have benefits of economies-of-scale and distribution. As a extended the philosophy and demonstrated it in action. result, operating expense to turnover has stabilised The alignment between the Company’s core values and between 30-40 percent over the past five years; what our people intrinsically want to be has translated into a number of compelling realities. ■ Assembled a strong 10-member team to conduct periodic (daily to monthly to bi-monthly) physical IDLC employees recognise a strong consonance between audits to protect business integrity and transparency; their individual values and those of the Company. Also, the Company recognises employee contribution to The result is that our customised processes and systems business growth and extends a share of the benefits that are allowing timely recovery of a large percentage of our it receives through monetary incentives. loans, possibly the highest across all NBFIs in the country. Besides, the strength of this economic model was visibly Over the years, we have also enriched employees through endorsed during a challenging 2013. Even as the sectoral enhanced career development opportunities. growth was slower on account of economic and political Besides, the Company is a large recruiter of young uncertainty, we reported a 31.64 percent growth in talents, thus fulfilling a strong role in local economic topline. development. 5 KEY IMPACT AREA: CUSTOMERS Over the decades, IDLC has invested in skills development and livelihood generation, health, education, and socioIn a competitive business environment, customers economic and environmental needs of the society in a prefer to deal with companies that can be trusted. Over sustainable way with the objective of delivering recurring the years, IDLC has created a deep sense of trust and gains both through its business and CSR initiatives. customer-first approach through embracing the following initiatives: Our CSR investments have increased consistently over the past – from Taka 2.13 mn in 2011 to Taka 5.02 mn in 2012 ■ We focused on employee training to provide a to Taka 6.78 mn in 2013. standardised experience across various branches of our Company; KEY IMPACT AREA: PRODUCT ■ We accelerated the process of loan sanction and RESPONSIBILITY disbursement without compromising on regulatory IDLC keeps in mind applicable laws and regulations, requirements; specific customer needs and sensitivity, as well as ■ We heavily invest in customer relationship potential environmental and social impacts while management and collect customer feedback on a designing and offering customized products to its regular basis; client groups. We are cautious never to associate with projects that have potential harmful effects on the At present, IDLC’s portfolio of customers is around 30,000 environment and/ or the community. We are also extra across its different business segments. careful in neither violating the privacy of our customers nor disclosing sensitive customer information to any KEY IMPACT AREA: SOCIETY third-party. On the other hand, we make it a point to IDLC believes that a strong society ensures a strong proactively share with/ educate our clients on all relevant Company and vice versa. As a result, community support product and service features to help them take informed has always been central to its existence. decisions. It is to be noted that the CSR Department formally started operations from July 2011 It is to be noted that Taka 2 mn was donated in 2013 to the Prime Minister’s Relief and Welfare Fund for supporting the victims of Rana Plaza and increase preparedness of the relevant government bodies for such national-level disasters in future. 6 CHAPTER 1 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 7 BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY At IDLC, we follow a unique concept where our commitment towards our stakeholders, the environment and the community is reflected in our everyday decisions and operations. For us, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is not parallel to our core function; rather it is closely integrated with our business strategies to create the maximum value. Over the years, these initiatives have helped us create IDLC’s 3Ps of success: a more robust organisation in terms of assuming People – refers to the community in which we live and responsibility across all levels, embracing the right conduct our business. decisions and making the right choices, enabling us to achieve our desired impact. Planet – refers to the surrounding environment. Our cornerstone for such initiatives is integrating the 3Ps: Profit – refers to the economic profit generation, which is People, Planet and Profit, thus creating a sustainable vital for the long-term survival of an organisation. business. 3,448 person-hours invested in CSR activities in 2013 First and only member from Bangladesh to the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 13,867 direct beneficiaries of CSR activities over the last 3 years 8 IDLC | Creating Livelihoods We are focused on creating livelihoods, which we believe lead to happier and productive communities. Over the past three years, our CSR initiatives and programmes have led to direct employment generation of around 100 citizens representing the underprivileged and marginal section of the community. Moreover, we have employed 108 individuals in 2013 alone across different functions in our own organisation. CREATING LIVELIHOODS For 26-year-old Jahirul, there was no life outside his job as a daylabourer. Whatever time he could find, he would volunteer as a domestic cleaner. Not till he heard about IDLC’s project developing skilled operators for the RMG sector. According to him, participating in the training was the best thing that had ever happened to him. From a monthly income of Taka 2,000, today, he earns Taka 9,000 a month. The work is not only a source of income but also a source of cheer. After all, he can now afford his children’s education. Jahirul also bought a cow from his savings, supplementing his monthly income. 27-year-old Santona had to trudge along everyday with her husband to work as a day labourer, in order to support her 2 children and make ends meet. When she enrolled herself at the training programme, little did she know that it would expand her horizon beyond imagination. Today, her monthly income is Taka 13,500. She can finally afford 3 meals a day! Her children are also getting an education. Getting a chance to save, she also bought a cow to supplement her income. IDLC is happy to see a big smile on Santona’s face, as she drops her children to school everyday! We at IDLC are glad to be of assistance to people who are economically challenged, and hope that our small initiatives bring out big results! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY At IDLC, we proactively embed sustainability thinking and At IDLC, we always focus on delivering superior sustainable business practices at every organisational sustainable shareholder value by serving the needs of level. We believe that our most important contribution our customers through best-in-class, on-the-ground to sustainable development is to operate an effective operations. We will also work to connect other emerging and profitable financial institution. By providing access and developed markets to Bangladesh, applying our to credit and savings products, we enable individuals expertise across different sectors. to improve their quality of life and enhance their ■ We understand our customer and client needs and financial security; by providing finance to large and our strategy is in line with many of their growth and small businesses, we facilitate economic growth and entrepreneurial aspirations; job creation; and by financing key sectors crucial for our economic development, we help take Bangladesh to the ■ We have a successful track record in building world. businesses across some of the remotest corners of our country, thereby unlocking the value of ■ We are providing financial solutions to the renewable hinterland development; and other energy-efficiency projects, thereby taking our CSR agenda ahead; ■ As an economy that earns about 80 percent of foreign exchange (to the tune of USD 20-22 bn) every ■ The very nature of our business helps our customers year from textiles and garments exports, we possess and stakeholders manage social and environmental deep expertise in this industry; challenges and invest for the future, which in turn contributes to the viability and sustainable growth of ■ We have experience in providing financial services local markets and the national economy; to previously un-banked customers and have successfully extended this relationship for our other ■ The success of our customers, clients and financial products and services as well; stakeholders guarantees future business, which underpins our sustainability; ■ We are dedicated to achieving all-round customer service and operational excellence, leading to At IDLC, we aspire to build a leading Bangladeshi financial favourable recall and repeat customer transactions; services organisation leveraging all our competitive advantages to the fullest. The essence of this is also Our key differentiator is our human resource who are encapsulated in our vision statement. passionate about our strategy and aligned with our vision and goals. They are also our brand ambassadors and the ■ Our heritage and deeply-entrenched footprint put us most visible face of our business to our customers and in a strong position to capitalise on the opportunities other stakeholders. of a developing country, reporting a GDP growth of more than 6 percent per year over the past few years; ■ We employ people who are excited about our ■ Our comprehensive engagement with our customers, prospects; with a wide basket of financing and capital market ■ We have a unified and experienced leadership team products and solutions, provides us with exceptional committed to executing our strategy; opportunities to capitalise on the growing business, ■ We are guided by a Board that brings with it a wealth finance and trade flows between our country and the of experience, navigating us through business cycles; world; COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES At IDLC, we are committed to going the extra mile to ensure the creation of a responsible and sustainable business model. From 2010 onwards, we voluntarily adopted a number of global initiatives and principles and benchmarked our commitment with internationally-acceptable standards. Although adoption of these initiatives and principles are voluntary in nature, once adopted, we need to remain compliant in order to ensure continued membership and association. 11 Global Initiatives promoting Sustainability Global Initiatives Guiding Principles IDLC’s Status United Nations Global Compact Promotes 10 principles to guide IDLC is one of over 50 members to (UNGC), and sustainable business practices in the areas UNGC from Bangladesh of Human Rights, Labour, Environment CSR Centre*, the local network of and Anti-corruption (these principles UNGC in Bangladesh have been described below) United Nations Environment Regulates environmental standards in IDLC is the first and only member to Programme Finance Initiative operations, financing and investment UNEP FI from Bangladesh (UNEP FI) decisions of banks and FIs worldwide Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Globally acceptable guidelines for IDLC is the first and only organisation preparation of reports, conforming to the in the financial sector of Bangladesh UNGC principles to publish an independent Sustainability Report following the GRI Guidelines Millennium Development Goals MDGs of the United Nations in the areas IDLC conforms to the MDGs through (MDGs) of poverty, primary education, gender various projects and initiatives equality and women empowerment, (detailed in “Committing to the child mortality, improved maternal health, MDGs in page 131) preventing breakout of major diseases, environmental sustainability, and global partnerships * IDLC has representation in the core governance body of the CSR Centre UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Labour Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of environmental friendly technologies association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Anti-corruption Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in compulsory labour all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour IDLC has integrated these principles in its everyday operations and strategies. IDLC'S SUSTAINABILITY KEY AGENDA FOCUS IN 2013 Human Rights In 2013, IDLC’s emphasis on sustainability was positioned on five broad strategies: Health and Safety; Non-discrimination; Equal Opportunity ■ Stakeholder engagement Community ■ Community involvement and empowerment Skills Development; Livelihood Generation; Education; Health ■ Improved economic alternatives for the marginalised Anti-corruption ■ Women empowerment by raising their social and economic status Corporate Governance; Ethical Standards; Transparency ■ Embracing a proactive stance towards climate Environment change Awareness Creation; Environmental Management; Green Technologies 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CSR INVESTMENTS Though CSR investments in environmental initiatives reflect a reduction in 2013 over 2012, this is mainly on account of major environment-focused initiatives like adoption of Green Banking Policy, implementation of ESMS, adoption of environment-friendly technology, and focus on green financing activities that are not carried out from the Company’s CSR budget. It must be mentioned that a significant increase in investment has been made for community empowerment projects such as skills development and livelihood generation for the marginal, Model Village Project in North Bengal, and investments in education and healthcare for the underprivileged children. Going forward, IDLC will continue with these efforts and also focus on vocational training for children. IDLC has significantly reduced its philanthropic contributions, mainly through donations in 2013, which demonstrates its shifting focus on projects delivering long-term benefits. * Taka 2 mn was also donated additionally in 2013 to the Prime Minister’s Relief and Welfare Fund to assist victims of national disasters like the Rana Plaza tragedy. 13 CHAPTER 2 ABOUT IDLC 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 At IDLC, the heart of our sustainability initiative is derived from the integrated nature of our business model. Headquartered at Dhaka (Bangladesh), IDLC – a public limited company, is the country’s premier NBFI (non-banking financial institution) with a loan book of Taka 40,941 mn (as on 31 December 2013) and reporting one of the fastest compounded annual growth rates of 29 percent over the past five years ending 2013, across economic and political cycles. OPERATIONS 9 28 Presence across Branches and Bangladesh Booths across Districts Bangladesh ASSETS AND REVENUES 50,429 40,941 29,064 Corporate Assets Loans and Total Deposits (in Taka mn) Advances (in Taka mn) (in Taka mn) 61 25.32% Average Average rise in Disbursement every Revenue per day in 2013 Branch in 2013 (in Taka mn) WORKFORCE 642 14% 4.30 Total Employees Percentage of Average Revenue (including Women in the total per Employee subsidiaries) Employee Pool (in Taka mn) 15 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 160,875,000 78.36% 10,119 Common Held by Sponsors and Market Shares (diluted) Institutional investors Capitalisation outstanding (as of 31 [63.82% and 14.54% (in Taka mn) December 2013) respectively] CLIENTS AND CUSTOMERS 29,976 7,728 7,203 Total number of Corporate and SME Retail Clients Clients (including Relationships Subsidiaries) 2 days Turnaround Time 52% (application-toPercentage of its 2013 disbursement cycle), Turnover contributed one of the fastest in by Repeat Customer the country Relationships 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR BRAND – DEEPLY TRUSTED AND WIDELY RECALLED The IDLC brand stands for trust, transparency and customer-centricity. Our tagline of financing happiness resonates with our entrenched philosophy of touching the lives of our stakeholders in a positive and constructive manner, thus creating a favourable brand recall. VISION We will be the best financial brand in the country MISSION We will focus on quality growth, superior customer experience and sustainable business practices STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES ■ Grow and develop our talent pool ■ Fully leverage the new core banking platform ■ Optimise distribution points ■ Grow and diversify funding sources ■ Grow sales and service capabilities in the Consumer segment DIVISION-WISE OBJECTIVES ■ Aggressively grow the SME portfolio ■ Focus on top-tier clients in the Corporate segment ■ Consolidate capital market operations and enhance capacities and capabilities ■ Embrace internationally-accepted corporate governance norms and sustainable business practices CORE VALUES ■ Integrity ■ Customer Focus ■ Trust and Respect ■ Equal Opportunity ■ Eco-friendly ■ Passion ■ Simplicity 17 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO – OUR LEGACY BUILT ON STRONG FOUNDATIONS IDLC Finance Limited was incorporated in Dhaka as Bangladesh’s pioneering leasing company in 1985. The Company was constituted through the collaboration of International Finance Corporation (IFC), German Investment and Development Company (DEG), Kookmin Bank, Korea Development Financing Corporation, The Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development, The City Bank Limited, IPDC of Bangladesh Limited and Sadharan Bima Corporation. Over the years, the shareholding structure has evolved into IDLC emerging as a 100 percent locally-owned enterprise. Today, IDLC is a pioneering multi-product NBFI in Bangladesh with 26 branches and 2 booths, and over 642 permanent staff members. The Company offers a wide range of products and solutions comprising loans, deposit and capital market products and services to Corporate, Consumer and SME clients. IDLC also operates two wholly-owned subsidiaries in the capital markets through IDLC Investments Limited (providing Merchant Banking services) and IDLC Securities Limited (providing Brokerage services). KEY MILESTONES 23 May 1985 Incorporation of the Company 22 Feb 1986 Commencement of leasing business 20 Mar 1993 Listed with the Dhaka Stock Exchange Limited 7 Feb 1995 Licensed as a Non-Banking Financial Institution (NBFI) under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993 25 Nov 1996 Listed with the Chittagong Stock Exchange Limited 27 May 1997 Commencement of Home Finance and Short Term Finance operations 22 Jan 1998 Licensed as a Merchant Banker by the Securities and Exchange Commission 15 Jan 1999 Commencement of Corporate Finance and Merchant Banking operations 29 Jan 2004 Opening of the first retail-focused branch at Dhanmondi 22 Nov 2004 Launched Investment Management Services, ‘Cap Invest’ 2 Jan 2006 Opening of the first SME-focused branch at Bogra 1 Jul 2006 Relocation of the Company's Registered and Corporate Head Office to own premises at 57, Gulshan Avenue 18 Sep 2006 Commencement of operations of IDLC Securities Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDLC 14 Mar 2007 Launching of Discretionary Portfolio Management Services under ‘Managed Cap Invest’ Company name changed to ‘IDLC Finance Limited’ from Industrial Development Leasing 5 Aug 2007 Company of Bangladesh Limited 16 Aug 2011 Commencement of operations of IDLC Investments Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDLC 11 Mar 2012 Rebranding initiative undertaken for IDLC SHAREHOLDING % % STRUCTURE As of 31 December 2013, IDLC had a cumulative 160,875,000 shares outstanding, with the following ownership status (in percentage): % 18 OUR ORGANISATIONAL CHART (ORGANOGRAM) Board of Directors Audit CommiƩee ǆĞĐƵƟǀĞŽŵŵŝƩĞĞ CEO & Managing Director Credit EvaluaƟon CommiƩee Human Resource Corporate SME DMD & CFO Supplier & Distributor Internal Control & Compliance 2 Branches Finance Finance Statutory ReporƟng & Credit Risk Management Structured Finance 9 Branches Corporate Aīairs Special Asset Management Consumer 2 Booths Treasury InformaƟon Technology 6 Branches AdministraƟon Corporate Social IDLC SecuriƟes Limited OperaƟons Responsibility MarkeƟng CommunicaƟon 9 Branches Credit AdministraƟon IDLC Investments Limited Service Delivery 8 Branches 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR SERVICE OFFERINGS – CATERING TO A HOLISTIC RANGE OF NEEDS AND REQUIREMENTS Corporate Finance ■ Structured loan ■ Commercial vehicle loan ■ Term loan ■ Revolving short-term loan ■ Lease finance ■ SME Sachal loan ■ Working capital finance ■ SME Surakha (Life Insurance Coverage) ■ Project finance ■ Factoring ■ Refinancing and special funds ■ Corporate advisory services Consumer Finance ■ Deposit schemes Structured Finance Solutions ■ Cumulative term deposit | monthly/ quarterly/ annual ■ Fund-raising: Loan/ lease/ private placement of earner deposit | double/ triple money deposit | Shortequity/ preference shares/ bond/ foreign currency term deposit loan/ refinancing of special funds ■ Home loan ■ Project/ infrastructure finance ■ Car loan ■ Advisory services ■ Personal loan ■ Securitisation of assets Capital Markets ■ Structured solutions ■ Portfolio management Small and Medium Enterprise ■ Discretionary portfolio management (MAXCAP) ■ SME loan ■ Margin lending (Cap Invest) ■ SME lease ■ Investment banking (IPO, RPO, bond issuance, rights ■ Working capital finance shares offering and corporate advisory, among others) ■ Abashan loan ■ Research ■ SME Seasonal loan ■ Brokerage services ■ Agriculture loan ■ Women entrepreneur loan NO OF CUSTOMERS IDLC’s customer base across different functions, as of 2013: 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SECTORAL EXPOSURE The following chart represents sector-wise exposure of IDLC’s business activities, as of 31 December 2013. MEMBERSHIP ASSOCIATIONS Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association | Asian Financial Services Association | Bangladesh Merchant Bankers Association | Bangladesh Association of Publicly Listed Companies | International Factors Group (IFG) INSTITUTE The Institute of Bankers, Bangladesh CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY International Chamber of Commerce – Bangladesh | Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Bangladesh German Chamber of Commerce and Industry In addition, IDLC is also a member of the UNGC, UNEP FI and CSR Centre in Bangladesh for its sustainability initiatives (page 12), and the Small Business Banking Network (SBBN) for its SME business (page 88). 21 CHAPTER 3 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 23 (including stock dividends) 18% 8% 54% 33.33 22.94 24.74 29.17 14.88 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDITION Value addition is the wealth created by IDLC through its financing activities across different business segments. It shows the total worth created and its subsequent distribution to meet certain obligations, and the portion retained for the continued operation and expansion of the Company. The distribution takes place in the form of remuneration for the employees, taxes paid to the Government, stock dividends paid to the shareholders, and amounts reinvested for business growth and expansion. Value Addition (in Taka mn) Value addition (in %) Value Addition per Employee (in Taka mn) Value addition per employee in 2013 registered a 19.75 percent growth over 2012. 25 CREATING A BALANCED PORTFOLIO Loans and Advances as a percentage of total customer assets portfolio 27.24% 38.22% % % % 34.54% 2009 2013 In 2013, deposits contributed 77 percent and Bangladesh MANAGING FUNDS Bank’s refinance schemes contributed 10 percent to IDLC’s total funding portfolio. Bank borrowings stood At IDLC, over the last few years, deposits have continued at only 1 percent of the total funding basket, thereby to remain the prime funding source. Expanding retail enabling optimisation of cost of funds. market visibility, growing brand equity and awareness, and an extensive product basket have come together to Moreover, in 2013, IDLC also successfully issued zeroconsistently boost deposit growth. As of 31 December coupon bonds of Taka 1,500 mn and initiated funding 2013, IDLC’s cumulative term deposit amounted to from a foreign multilateral agency, which will further Taka 29,064 mn. During the year under review, the ensure a low-cost long-term funding source for the deposit basket grew by Taka 7,056 mn and posted a Company. 32.06 percent year-on-year growth, a considerable achievement in a challenging market environment. REFINANCING FACILITIES OF THE Moreover, IDLC continued to reduce its dependence BANGLADESH BANK on costlier intermediary funds including conventional IDLC actively participates in Small and Medium Enterprise bank borrowings and maximised mobilisation under the (SME) refinancing schemes, Women Entrepreneur various refinancing schemes of the Bangladesh Bank, as refinancing schemes and agro-refinancing schemes of shown below. the Bangladesh Bank. In 2013, the Company received Taka 2,100 mn worth of long-term refinancing from the Bangladesh Bank with the result that the outstanding refinancing balance stood at Taka 3,980 mn, significantly contributing to the lowering of the asset-liability mismatch and the diversification of the funding pool. CONTRIBUTION TO THE EXCHEQUER In 2013, IDLC contributed Taka 464.65 mn as Corporate Income Tax to the exchequer. Moreover, Taka 396.77 mn was also deposited as Withholding Tax and VAT, registering a growth of 38 percent over the amount deposited in 2012. 26 CHAPTER 4 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sustaining effective Corporate Governance practices remains a key priority of IDLC’s Board. To ensure clarity about responsibilities of the Directors towards stakeholders, Corporate Governance has to be dynamic and business-focused on the one hand and rooted in a culture of transparency and accountability on the other. As such, clear structures and processes supported by well-documented policies and practices have been instituted and regularly updated to guide the overall management of the organisation. IDLC highlights six important areas that revolve around its effective Corporate Governance strategy as shown in the diagram. IDLC ensures that its Corporate Governance practices comply with all aspects of the Notification No. SEC/ CMRRCD/2006-158/134/Admin/44 dated 7 August 2012, issued by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and those of the DFIM Circular No. 7 dated 25 September 2007, of the Bangladesh Bank. Moreover, independent roles of the Board of Directors, separate and independent roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, distinct roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and different Committees of the Board allows IDLC to create a culture of excellence around its Corporate Governance practices. 28 IDLC | Fortifying Governance, Ethics and Transparency Our Code of Conduct guides us in everything we do. Our policies and practices are clearly enshrined in our Code, and each and every member of our Group understands this, and signs to having understood and complied with the essence of our Code. This helps us in upholding the highest standards of Corporate Governance and promotes a deep sense of ethics and transparency that is visible in our day-to-day operations. FORTIFYING GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) team of IDLC, Jessore Branch, visited Tisha Enterprise, a concern engaged in the fruit trading business, in May 2013. The enterprise had earlier been provided with a Commercial Vehicle Loan of Taka 1.5 mn under SME Financing, for the purchase of a truck to be used in the transport of goods, and the ICC team visited the facility as part of its branch audit to maintain accountability and transparency in the pre and post disbursement phases. The ICC team interacted with the proprietor, Mr. Sayed Lutfar Rahman, who was all-praise about IDLC and his experience with the Company over the years. Like Mr. Rahman, it is our mission to give an impetus to those people who take our country forward and make us proud! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of IDLC comprises 11 Non-Executive Directors, including two Independent Directors, and one Executive Director, i.e. the CEO & Managing Director of IDLC. ANWARUL HUQ RUBEL AZIZ FAROOQ SOBHAN AZIZ AL KAISER Chairman of the Board Director & Chairman, Independent Director & Director (Nominated by Reliance Executive Committee Chairman, Audit Committee (Nominated by The City Bank Insurance Limited) (Nominated by The City Bank Limited) Limited) MEHERUN HAQUE HOSSAIN MEHMOOD K. MAHMOOD SATTAR MD. KAMRUL HASSAN, FCA Director Director Director Director (Nominated by The City Bank (Nominated by The City Bank (Nominated by The City Bank (Nominated by Transcom Group Limited) Limited) Limited) of Companies) MD. REZAUL KARIM ALHAJ AKRAM HUSSAIN SYED ABU NASER BUKHTEAR SELIM R. F. HUSSAIN Director (HUMAYUN) AHMED Ex-Officio (Nominated by Sadharan Bima Director Independent Director Corporation) (Nominated by Mercantile Bank Limited) 31 All Non-Executive Directors, other than the Independent Directors, are nominated by their respective organisations. The elected Directors nominate two Independent Directors for the Board. The Directors are then appointed by the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting (AGM). The CEO & Managing Director of IDLC is also appointed by the Board, subject to the shareholders’ consent at the AGM. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors Stakeholders Responsibilities reserved to the Board Shareholders Approval of business strategy and vision in line with efforts to drive shareholder value creation. Approval of business plans, assuring that sufficient resources are available to implement and monitor strategy. Approval and monitoring of major investments or divestitures and strategic commitments. Determination of the capital structure and dividend policy. Approval and monitoring of financial reporting. Oversight of risk management, internal control and compliance systems as per the Bangladesh Bank’s ‘Core Risk Guideline’. Recommendation for appointment or removal of external auditors and determination of the remuneration and terms of appointment of the auditors. Oversight of shareholder reporting and communication. Approval of annual budgets including major capital expenditure proposals. Regular review of financial performance and overdue situations. Monitoring the adequacy, appropriateness and operations of internal controls. Ensuring that technology and information systems are sufficient to operate the organisation effectively and sustain competitiveness. Customers Benchmarking value creation for customers, clients and partners. Reinforcement of the corporate culture and core values and remaining an employer of choice. Employees Review and approval of the CEO and Executive Management Team’s contractual arrangements, remuneration and benefits. Oversight of succession planning for the CEO, Executive Management Team and such other executives as the Board may determine. Community Oversight of the management of social, economic and environmental concerns consistent with the delivery of sustainable outcomes for stakeholders and achievement of the Company’s vision for an environment free of any injury and/or negative incidents. Reinforcement of reputation, brand and community relations. Directors Directors’ nomination, selection, removal, succession planning and remuneration. Review of the size and composition of the Board. Review of the Board’s performance. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Qualification of the Board Members of the financial year. The business and financial targets are evaluated each quarter by the Board against actual IDLC’s Board members possess extensive knowledge achievements. The non-financial achievements are also and experience in the areas of finance, economy, reviewed by the Board in each quarter. Moreover, a yearly management, business administration, marketing and law assessment and evaluation of the achievements of preto ensure formulation of the right policies and strategies agreed targets are made at the close of the year along for business expansion and sustainable development with deviations and reasons for deviations. and also the implementation of management audits in a balanced form. Appraisal of the Management Committee The CEO and Evaluation Committee conduct a detailed Selection and Appointment of New review of the performance of senior executives against Directors these goals on an annual basis at the end of each year. The Directors are appointed by the shareholders in the The CEO is responsible for setting financial targets as well Annual General Meeting (AGM). Casual vacancies, if any, as operational and management goals for the members are filled by the Board in accordance with the stipulations of the ManCom. Both short-term and long-term goals of the Companies Act, 1994, and the Articles of the form part of the performance management of all Senior Company. The CEO & Managing Director is appointed by Executives. Short-term goals are generally directly related the Board subject to the consent of the shareholders in to the objectives of the Company, whereas long-term the AGM and approval of the Bangladesh Bank. goals are directly linked to the vision of the Company. In relation to the selection and appointment of new Remuneration Directors, the existing Board of Directors has the following duties and responsibilities: Directors’ Remuneration ■ Regularly review the size and composition of the The Directors are not entitled to any remuneration other Board and the mix of expertise, skills, experience and than attending meetings of the Board and its Committees, perspectives that may be desirable to permit the as per the DFIM Circular No. 03 dated 24 February 2010. Board to execute its functions. Remuneration of Senior Executives ■ Identify any competencies not adequately Remuneration of all Senior Executives is based on their represented and agree to the process necessary performance measured against financial and individual to be assured that a candidate nominated by the targets. shareholders with those competencies is selected. Independent Decision Making Any change in the members of the Board requires intimation to the Bangladesh Bank, all scheduled banks Any Director may seek external, independent or and FIs, Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission professional advice at the Company’s expense. The (BSEC) and the stock exchanges. policy of the Board is that external advice will be made available to all Directors unless the Chairman of the Performance Evaluation Board determines otherwise. It is expected that a Director Appraisal of the Board will consult with the Chairman of the Board, Managing Director or Company Secretary before obtaining external Both the new and existing Directors are provided advice. with the Code of Conduct for the Board members on general aspects of the Directorship and industry-specific Conflicts of Interest matters. Moreover, the Board is immediately informed Each Board member endeavours to avoid any conflict of any new rules, regulations and/ or changes in existing of his/ her personal interests with the interests of the regulations. The Board is also always kept updated on any organisation while performing his/ her respective duties development and changes in the business environment, and responsibilities objectively and effectively. risk and industry outlook to assist it in carrying out its They need to avoid receiving or allowing immediate duties as Directors. family members to receive improper personal benefits Evaluation of the Board’s performance is conducted by from the Company. Also, each Board member has to analysing the performance of the projects and proposals make a full disclosure to the entire Board regarding approved by it. A quarterly review of classified and nonany transaction or relationship that could raise any conflict of interest with the Company and accordingly performing loans is always made by the Board to find out seek the Board’s authorisation for such transactions or deviations and to embrace course corrections, if any. relationships. Appraisal of the CEO & Managing Director Board Meetings At the beginning of each year, the Board engages in Meeting of the Board of Directors is mandated to be extensive discussions with the CEO & Managing Director held at least once every three (3) months. The rest of the and sets financial and non-financial goals for that year. Committees hold meetings as and when required. The annual financial budget and job objectives are discussed, reviewed and finalised by the Board at the start 33 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Committee (ManCom) is a group elected among the management staff to take responsibility of the governance and strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management Committee is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its constitution under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993. Standing from left Asif Saad Bin Shams Irteza A. Khan M. Ataur Rahman Chowdhury Zahid Ibne Hai Head of Credit & Collection Head of Consumer Division Head of Operations Head of SME Division Sitting from left Bilquis Jahan Selim R. F. Hussain Head of Human Resources CEO & Managing Director 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing operations of IDLC, keeping an eye on the bigger picture; monitoring the strategic plan and whether the goals are being met; and ensuring that current events are in accordance with IDLC’s policies and objectives within the overall budget. Md. Saifuddin Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA Mir Tariquzzaman Mustaq Ahammed, FCA Managing Director, IDLC SL Managing Director, IDLC IL Chief Technology Officer Head of ICC H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA M. Jamal Uddin Deputy Managing Director & CFO Head of Corporate Division 35 RISK MANAGEMENT IDLC defines ‘risk’ as the level of potential losses or ■ Highlight risks in portfolios and deficiencies of the profits foregone due to internal or external factors. Risk Company on a timely manner and report the analysis is an integral part of the financing business and risk to the Managing Director as well as the Board of management entails our adoption of several measures Directors with specific recommendations and to strengthen our ability to cope with the dynamics of a suggestions complex business environment in which we operate. ■ Review market conditions, identify external threats IDLC’s approach to risk is grounded on the strong and provide commensurate recommendations for practices of Corporate Governance, intended to precautionary measures strengthen IDLC’s enterprise risk management framework ■ Develop overall information system/ MIS to support and position the Company to manage the changing the risk management functions of the Company regulatory environment in an effective and efficient manner. Our comprehensive risk management framework MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN 2013 enables us to monitor, evaluate and manage the risks we In 2013, we continued to make significant investments in assume in conducting our day-to-day activities, namely: our infrastructure, processes, methodologies and human ■ Credit Risk resources to ensure that our risk framework is sufficiently robust to support our business aspirations and risk ■ Market Risk appetite. ■ Liquidity Risk In 2013, we have made significant progress in terms of: ■ Operational Risk ■ Business Volume Risk ■ Improving risk management approaches and methodologies To introduce proactive risk management procedures in line with international best practices framework, IDLC’s ■ Refining our understanding of the risks faced by us Risk Management Forum (RMF) was constituted on 15 and their scale against capital allocation April 2013 in accordance with the Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular no. 01 dated 7 April 2013. The RMF is headed by ■ Working towards compliance with the Green Banking the Deputy Managing Director of IDLC, and consists of the Policy and Environmental Risk Management (ERM) respective Heads of the Internal Control and Compliance, Guidelines issued by the Bangladesh Bank Credit and Collection, Operations, Treasury, Finance, ■ Establishing new and enhancing existing policies Statutory Reporting and Corporate Affairs, Special Assets Management, Information Technology, and Human ■ Working towards compliance with BASEL-II Resources Departments. ■ Improving the quality of data, including forwardMAJOR FUNCTIONS OF RMF (RISK MANAGEMENT looking measures FORUM) ■ Reinforcing our stress-testing capabilities and ■ Design overall risk management strategy embedding them across the Group ■ Communicate views of the Board and Senior ■ Enhancing staff skills by providing training on an Management regarding the risk management culture ongoing basis and risk appetite across the Company ■ Prepare risk management policies and procedures IDLC’S RISK EXPOSURE ■ Monitor the prescribed/ threshold limits of risk Based on our own operational assessment and market appetite set by the regulator and/ or by the Company perception, we estimate our risk exposure to be as itself follows: ■ Develop and observe the use of models to measure and monitor risks Risk Type Risk Rating ■ Develop and oversee implementation of stress Credit risk Moderate testing Market risk Moderate ■ Oversee the capital management functions in accordance with the risk-based capital adequacy Liquidity risk Moderate measurement accord i.e. BASEL-II/ III Operational risk Low ■ Determine the most cost-effective way to minimise risks Business volume risk Low 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS At IDLC, our Code of Conduct (the ‘Codes’) is a general e. Responsibilities of the supervisors guideline on ethical standards and business conduct. In f. Expression of opinion a dynamic and fast-evolving business environment, it is difficult to comprehend every situation an individual g. Use of social media is likely to encounter and document the codes that Code V: Relationship with and responsibilities towards address such situations. Hence, these Codes do not our customers substitute our responsibility to exercise our judgment and Code VI: Protecting business assets and information obtain suggestions/ guidance from seniors, peers and Code VII: Respecting others subordinates alike on proper business conduct. Code VIII: Misconduct IDLC recently revised the Codes to reflect a larger bouquet of issues that are more relevant with the Code IX: Insider trading: changing business environment. In general, the new a. Insider information Codes include the following: b. Trade restrictions on senior management Code I: Upholding the organisation’s vision, mission and c. Restrictions on tipping core values Code II: Adhering to the highest ethical standards d. Employee investment Code III: Complying with laws and regulations both in e. Business opportunities letter and spirit Code X: Control Code IV: Relationship with and responsibilities towards IDLC: IDLC employees have an obligation to know and a. Company interest above personal interest understand not only the guidance contained in these Codes but also the spirit in which they are documented. b. Disclosure of conflicts of interest Therefore, just knowing and understanding the Codes are c. Disclosure of additional employment not enough; our employees are also impelled to comply arrangement with the letter and spirit of the Codes and help others do d. Disclosure of additional compensation the same as well. arrangement ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PRACTICES At IDLC, we believe that the foundations of sustainable within the organisation; businesses are built on and around compliance. To ■ Engagement of guest auditors for extraordinary ensure compliance across the Group (through both situations; audit and non-audit services), the ICC (Internal Control ■ Use of departmental control function checklists; and Compliance) Department was instituted as part of a ■ Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for each regulatory directive, with direct reporting to the CEO & department and function; Managing Director and the Audit Committee of the Board of IDLC. ■ Formation of a Risk Management Forum; ■ Select client visits to ensure that funds are utilised as The three principal aspects managed by the ICC include: per the agreed terms and conditions; ■ Risk Management ■ Compliance STRATEGIES GOING FORWARD ■ Audit ■ Creation of UN-sanctioned database in our system; For managing these, IDLC is focused on: ■ Implementation of 'goAML' software in collaboration with the Bangladesh Bank; ■ A zero-tolerance policy to respond to incidences of ■ Roll-out of integrity committee functionalities; corruption or malpractice; ■ Adoption of green banking checklists in our audit ■ Risk-based auditing for stronger risk control and programme; management across branches and departments; ■ Appointment of an IT auditor for ICT audits; ■ Prevention of money-laundering and terrorist financing activities and the introduction of branch■ Continued engagement of a guest auditor, wise quarterly AML self-assessments; appointed from within our internal pool; ■ Whistle-blowing mechanism, providing a formal ■ Creation of an operational loss event database; channel for employees to disclose malpractices ■ Continued roll-out of AML training. 37 CHAPTER 5 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Over the recent years, there has been an increasing focus on the implications of environmental issues that challenge developmental efforts. Rising pressure on natural resources, especially in developing countries, can have severe consequences on self-sufficiency, income distribution and future growth potential. Ironically, the poorest developing countries face the threats of global warming and climate change the most, although they contribute little in causing these problems. Although environmental costs associated with various economic activities are being argued, most development economists agree that environmental considerations should represent the significant core of policy development. Thus, achieving environmentally-sustainable growth is synonymous with the very concept of development. ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Due to its geographic location, Bangladesh is one of the remain as major constraints to regular business activities most vulnerable regions to the effects of climate change. in climate-vulnerable areas. At IDLC, as part of our CSR Moreover, unplanned urbanisation and industrialisation; initiatives, we are actively engaged in contributing lack of compliance to environmental rules and to minimise the impacts of these natural upheavals. regulations; low awareness levels; and mindless misuse Such initiatives include post-disaster relief, housing of natural resources are some of the basic reasons behind and rehabilitation, skills development and alternative large-scale environmental destruction. livelihood generation, and enhancing disasterpreparedness, among others. As a financial institution, IDLC is also susceptible to the effects of environmental and climate change risks, both Moreover, awareness creation among stakeholder groups directly (as a result of its own operations) and indirectly and activities such as tree plantation also help address (as a result of its clients’ operations). However, the climate change issues while concurrently providing Company effectively views these challenges as a potential IDLC the opportunity to contribute to environmental opportunity for enhancing future performance in terms of sustainability and community upliftment. its businesses and CSR activities. Some of the significant environmental initiatives of 2013 An ever-expanding gamut of environmental rules and include: regulations and stronger focus on adopting ‘green’ and environment-friendly projects are compelling lenders ■ Green Banking to ensure higher compliance in terms of conventional ■ Awareness creation on environmental issues lending. At IDLC, we view this as a new window of opportunity to establish a ‘green’ portfolio and launch ■ Tree plantation new and innovative products that actively address ■ Environment-friendly technologies environmental and climate change issues. ■ Green Finance (page 92) Bangladesh is prone to natural calamities such as cyclones, floods and draughts and these continue to GREEN BANKING Environmental pollution and climate change leading to situation can only be improved through coordinated global warming are among the most-discussed issues efforts between the government, the private sector and worldwide. Mostly caused by rampant and irresponsible individuals. Importantly, banks and FIs are well-positioned human activities, these issues not only affect our and best-placed to mobilise support and supplement economy and living standards but challenge our very these efforts aimed at creating a greener and cleaner existence. Hence the efficient management of these environment. issues is the critical need of the hour. ‘Green Banking’ refers to the financial sector operating Bangladesh’s geographic location makes it one of the with an undiluted focus on the environmental, ecological most climate-vulnerable regions of the world. Lack of and social fabrics, targeting the conservation of nature awareness, poor environmental education and largeand natural resources. The term broadly encompasses scale non-compliance and negligence on the part of awareness-creation, promotion of environment-friendly the businesses and the public at large are also resulting projects and practices, and overall carbon footprint in steady environmental deterioration. This alarming reduction from both its financing and in-house 39 operations. Through Green Banking, banks and FIs are not manner. Such efforts not only augment assured only required to improve their own standards but play an environmental benefits but also help enhance awareness active role in demanding environmental improvements among our clientele. New and innovative product from their stakeholders as well. offerings inherent in environmental and social benefits will also be designed following international best AREAS COVERED practices to target the specific needs of our clients. IDLC’s Green Banking Policy has been prepared in light A separate product committee will also be formed with of the ‘Policy Guidelines for Green Banking’ issued by the representation from different business and support units. Green Banking and CSR (GB&CSR) Department of the Bangladesh Bank (GBCSRD Circular No 4) dated 11 August CLIMATE RISK FUND 2013. The objective of this policy is to institutionalise A ‘Climate Risk Fund (CR Fund)’ will be allocated every 'Green Banking' across the Company by focusing on the year to conduct various economic and CSR activities in following major aspects: the climate-vulnerable areas of Bangladesh prone to GREEN BANKING UNIT flooding, cyclones and draughts. IDLC established a Green Banking Unit (GBU) with These activities will include post-disaster rehabilitation, representation from relevant departments. The GBU is skills and alternative livelihood development, climate responsible for: adaptability and climate-resilient housing facilities, among others. This fund will be mobilized both in the capacity ■ Design, implementation and evaluation of relevant of CSR investments and business operations without green banking issues within the stipulated timeframe charging additional risk premium. across the organisation. GREEN OFFICE GUIDELINE ■ Periodic reporting to the GB&CSR Department of the Bangladesh Bank. IDLC has prepared a ‘Green Office Guideline (GOG)’ GREEN FINANCE comprising a set of general instructions to be followed across the organisation. The principal objective of the IDLC expects to progressively increase the share of ‘green’ GOG is to facilitate better management of in-house financing in its overall portfolio by maintaining a fixed environmental issues including the responsible utilisation disbursement target every year for various green projects of electricity, water, paper and energy, and maintenance and sectors. Environmental infrastructure projects include of a cleaner and more hygienic office environment. renewable energy and/ or energy-efficient projects, clean Regular awareness campaigns will be conducted water-supply projects, establishment of effluent and/ or throughout the year to ensure compliance by both waste water treatment plants, solid and hazardous waste existing and new employees of IDLC. disposal plants, bio-gas plants and bio-fertiliser plants, among others, and these will be given priority for green GREEN BRANCHES financing. To make its existing and new branches ‘green’, IDLC will E&S RISK MANAGEMENT IN CREDIT APPRAISAL PROCESS focus on two major areas: At IDLC, environmental, social and climate change risks a) Source reduction and waste minimisation for are an integral part of the overall credit risk methodology resources like electricity, water, paper and energy to assess a prospective borrower from both credit as (petrol/ gas/ octane/ diesel) well as E&S risk perspectives. The Company already b) Adoption of the 3R principle – Reduce, Reuse and complies with the ‘Environmental Risk Management Recycle (ERM) Guidelines for Banks and Financial Institutions in Bangladesh’ dated January, 2011, and will also comply Utilising more sunlight/ natural light during daytime, with all subsequent circulars, regulations and/ or installing energy-efficient devices and spring taps/ guidelines issued by the Bangladesh Bank and other sensory taps and greater use of recycled paper are some relevant regulatory bodies from time to time. of the areas IDLC will consider going forward. In addition to national laws and regulations, IDLC has also GREEN TECHNOLOGIES voluntarily embraced the principles and guidelines of the IDLC is already equipped with ‘green’ technologies United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the United aimed at process improvements and reduced electricity Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative and paper consumption. Server virtualisation; state-of(UNEP FI). the-art branch connectivity systems; online operational, GREEN PRODUCTS AND MARKETING approval and payment systems; e-statement generation for employees and clients; process automation; and video Green marketing refers to the marketing and promotion conferencing to avoid physical travel are some of the of products and services that are environment-friendly noteworthy achievements of IDLC’s IT team. or positioned and marketed in an environment-friendly 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE UTILISATION E&S issues by clients and other stakeholder groups and minimising the negative environmental impacts of IDLC’s IDLC will rollout a campaign across all branches to reduce own operations. electricity, water, paper and energy consumption. Branchspecific per capita annual reduction targets will also be GOVERNANCE set at the beginning of every year. This will facilitate the branches to embrace our ‘green’ philosophy. There should be a separate Committee, consisting of selected Directors from IDLC’s Board, that will be TRAINING AND AWARENESS responsible for overseeing the Company’s policies, Continuous employee training and awareness on green strategies, programmes and initiatives related to Green banking and various other environmental and social Banking and environmental management. issues will become an integral part of IDLC’s human resource development process. These will also be covered IMPLEMENTATION TIMELINE in the orientation sessions for new recruits. All activities required under the Green Banking Policy have IDLC will also arrange and/ or associate with seminars, to be implemented in three phases, not exceeding 30 workshops and events aimed at improving awareness of June 2015. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: IMPLEMENTATION IN 2014 IDLC is availing a credit line of USD 20 mn from the FMO, IDLC personnel responsible for E&S issues, reporting a Dutch Development Bank, for onward lending to its SME responsibilities and methods of communicating E&S clients. As part of this facility, IDLC is required to have in issues with all stakeholders, and specifications related to place an Environmental and Social Management System ESMS regular reviews. Such an ESMS will ensure that IDLC: (ESMS). (i) Supports environmentally and socially sustainable To implement ESMS, the Consultant will assist IDLC development; in establishing a culture of environmental and social (ii) Improves E&S performance of its customers by responsibility, and developing and implementing making them comply, at least with environmental, environmental and social risk management and health and safety, and labour standards of assessment procedures that are: Bangladesh; ■ Appropriate for the characteristics and capabilities (iii) Avoids supporting enterprises causing significant of IDLC, and its business activities and products, for environmental and social harm and at the same example, SME lending and lease financing, and time supports enterprises which have sound labour practices; ■ Responsive to IDLC's obligations to its regulatory authority such as the Bangladesh Bank and This is increasingly important in view of the recent tragic development partners such as the FMO. events in Bangladesh (Rana Plaza building collapse, Tazreen Fashion Factory fire etc.) which has brought The overall goal of the E&S procedures is to help IDLC unwanted international attention effecting Bangladesh’s identify customers with potentially high environmental export sectors such as garment manufacturing. The and social risks; enable them to evaluate the E&S improved ESMS is expected to reduce IDLC’s exposure to performance of such customers through its due diligence environmentally and socially derived risks and liabilities, and credit appraisal process; and make those customers, promote good environmental and human resource especially those who are not complying with local E&S management practices both within IDLC and its clients, regulations, behave more responsibly through the use of and improve IDLC’s CSR achievements. environmental or social covenants in facility agreements, loan or leasing agreements. The Consultant will assist IDLC to develop sufficient content of ESMS. The ESMS will consist of E&S Policy, E&S Procedures, Nomination and Job Description of key 41 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN IN SCHOOLS Environmental challenges in developing countries The campaign comprises half-day sessions covering revolve around such issues as lack of access to clean presentations, workshops and team-based activities water and sanitation, air pollution (both indoor and with groups of 50 children. The activities are designed outdoor), deforestation, unhygienic waste disposal, and to help them reflect upon their learning and come up irresponsible use and exploitation of natural resources. with solutions that are feasible and easily implementable While poorer households lack a credible alternative to in everyday life. To create a cascading effect of these such an unsustainable and unhealthy way of life, the more learnings, the students are assigned specific tasks, under fortunate cannot deny their responsibilities in improving supervision of their Class Teacher(s), to share their learning the overall situation. with their classmates and their families and relatives. Also, stickers with responsible messages and tri-colour bins for IDLC believes that awareness is the first step towards source-separation of waste materials are also provided responsible personal behavior and the most effective with environmental messages for use in the school. way to create awareness is through children, who are receptive to new ideas and thoughts, unleashing the Schools Reached 11 power of change at the grassroots. Sessions Conducted 12 It is with this conviction that IDLC joined hands with LEADS (a social organisation of TRK Consultancy Services) Students Covered 610 in 2013, towards conducting environmental awareness campaigns across various schools. The initiative has Till date, IDLC and LEADS have jointly conducted sessions brought to light issues such as environmental pollution in Udayan Higher Secondary School, Viqarunnisa Noon and mitigation measures; responsible consumption of School and College, Bangladesh International School natural resources; and the adoption of the 3R principle of and College, Agrani Girls’ High School, Dhaka Residential Reduce, Reuse and Recycle to minimise wastage, among Model College, St. Joseph School and College, Jhigatola others, enabling students to comprehend these issues Government High School, University Laboratory School, better and also seek sustainable solutions. Azampur Government Primary School, RAJUK Uttara Model College and Adamjee Cantonment Public School and College. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 43 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 45 46 IDLC | Awakening ‘Green Consciousness’ We believe that taking care of the environment today will help in its preservation for centuries to come. Therefore, awakening green and environmental consciousness is the most pressing need of the hour. Our commitment to environmental sustainability is reflected in the fact that we are not only engaged extensively in creating environmental awareness among the masses, but are also keen on managing our own carbon footprint and refraining from financing projects that are potentially harmful for the environment. Till date, number of direct beneficiaries under our various environmental initiatives has reached around 4,000. AWAKENING ‘GREEN CONSCIOUSNESS’ The depletion of natural resources is common in today’s fast-moving world. We at IDLC believe that the idea of conservation should be planted right at the beginning of a child’s education, and this has been exemplified in the children of LEADS, who not only take small steps towards optimum resource utilisation, but are also an example to the society in which they live. A shining example is 10-year-old Lamia of Jhigatola Model Government Primary School, who has taken it to heart that the more you save on resources, the more it gets available for the future. Simple steps like switching off the lights and fans when not in use, turning off the gas when not cooking, and closing the taps after use, have contributed manifold in the proper use of available resources in her house and have enabled her family to save money in terms of utility bills. A small feather in her cap all her friends and even her parents now follow her policy of 0 wastage! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CHALLENGES ENCOUNTERED AND MITIGATION MEASURES The year 2013 was marred by continuing political unrest across the country which significantly affected every aspect of our daily life. The education system came almost to a stand-still, since schools remained mostly closed throughout the year. Hence getting the schedules from the school authorities for conducting the sessions became a major challenge. STRATEGIES IN 2014 Prior to starting the campaign across schools in 2014, IDLC and LEADS conducted a workshop titled 'Environment: Our Resource' on 22 March 2014. Over 40 teachers from 20 different schools in Dhaka participated in the workshop. The objective of the workshop was to share our activities with the teachers, get their suggestions to make the sessions more interactive and enjoyable for the children, and prepare a year-round calendar to conduct multiple sessions in each school. The concept was much appreciated by all those present in the session, and dates were given for conducting sessions in each school. Moreover, the teachers were also of the opinion to: ■ Start their own “Environment Club” to carry forward our message to every student; and ■ Inform each subject teacher to spend at least 10-15 minutes each week with their classes discussing issues like responsible resource consumption; minimizing environmental pollution; and innovative ways to reduce, reuse and recycle. Mr. Selim R.F. Hussain, CEO and Managing Director of IDLC, and Ms. Romina Dewan, Executive Director, LEADS, represented their respective organisations in the workshop. In 2014, IDLC plans to conduct multiple sessions in each school, covering more students. Moreover, IDLC will also ensure participation by its staff in these sessions and thus engage them in the process of creating awareness among the children. 49 ENHANCING THE GREEN COVER IDLC sponsored the plantation of 1,000 saplings at Mirpur DOHS (Defense Officers’ Housing Society) in 2013. This is a part of IDLC’s ongoing campaign covering initiatives like regular plantation activities, environmental awareness creation among various stakeholder groups, and increasing focus on green financing opportunities with the central objective of reducing our carbon footprint and contributing to a greener and cleaner environment. The sponsorship amount was handed over at a formal ceremony arranged at IDLC on 31 July 2013. Brig. General Sohail S. Sabir, NDC (Retd.), President of the Mirpur DOHS Porishod, and Mr. Selim R.F. Hussain, CEO and Managing Director, IDLC, represented their respective organisations in the event. Mirpur DOHS is the newest and largest DOHS area in Bangladesh and IDLC is the first private sector organisation to have partnered with DOHS in such environmental initiatives. IDLC had conducted a plantation activity at Mirpur DOHS in September 2012 as well. IDLC regularly undertakes tree plantation activities as part of its responsibility to fight the effects of climate change. Till date, IDLC has planted over 10,000 saplings across different parts of Bangladesh and plans to continue this effort in 2014 as well. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH TECHNOLOGY Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is CONNECTIVITY fast-becoming indispensable for financial institutions to ensure smooth operations and efficient service delivery. VIDEO CONFERENCING IDLC is one of the few organisations in Bangladesh to IDLC’s video conferencing facilities connect five have recognised this need and embraced ICT as a primary major branches with the corporate head office, on an tool to achieve excellence in various aspects of everyday average saving 45,800 km of traveling and 8.71 tons of operations. CO2 emissions per year. We are now in the process of Consequently, the new core banking system Oracle connecting all branches across the country under this Flexcube Universal Banking Solution (FCUBS) became technology. operational in January 2012, a direct result of significant LYNC efforts invested by a team of professionals from all IDLC departments throughout the previous year. This system As part of its strategic technology plan for 2013, IDLC has enabled the creation of a number of satellite systems implemented the usage of Microsoft LYNC, a cuttingto further enhance our operational efficiency and MIS edge communications solution increasing IDLC’s capacity generation capabilities. The success of FCUBS is reflected to innovate at lower costs. The system has been wellin the fact that we have completed yet another year of adopted by IDLC personnel as a result of a strong focus efficient operations on this platform. on pre-rollout training. With the objective of maximising capacity, strengthening Since LYNC was implemented in early 2013, IDLC cost efficiency and reducing our carbon footprint, benefited from the system throughout the year. Over 200 green computing has always remained a key priority at online meetings are now conducted everyday using LYNC the IDLC Group. Initiatives such as server virtualization audio/ video conferencing facilities throughout IDLC and consolidation, video conferencing, adoption of branches, thus saving traveling time and costs and also technologies aiming to reduce paper and other resource reducing carbon emissions. consumption, and such similar initiatives are playing a major role on this front. Collaboration facilities within the system allow employees to work together on presentations and reports. As IDLC has invested a total of Taka 27.55 mn during 2012 a result, the necessity of printing multiple copies of and 2013 for upgrading IT infrastructure across the such documents has been removed with a significant organisation. reduction in paper usage. SERVER VIRTUALIZATION Most of the voice calls are also made using LYNC, which has reduced mobile phone usage and IDLC employees Leveraging its far-sightedness, IDLC initiated the server are thus less exposed to radiation emanating out of virtualization process in 2010 with the result that today, mobile phones. not only the capacity and efficiency of the data centres has increased, but also the Company boasts of several PAPERLESS OFFICE environmental benefits accruing out of this initiative such as reduced electricity consumption and CO2 emissions, Through embracing cutting-edge technology and thereby significantly optimising capital expenditure. engaging in continual process improvements, IDLC is fastmoving towards a paperless office. The following table summarises these achievements over the past years: Being a financial institution, a zero-paper environment is not quite possible, considering various regulatory Particulars 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014* issues, audit requirements and maintenance of sensitive No. of physical servers 28 27 23 20 18 customer information. However, IDLC uses the term No. of virtual servers 2 11 29 43 47 ‘paperless’ to connote an environment where paper (after consolidation) usage is minimised and used only when absolutely necessary. Reduction in power 14,000 77,000 203,000 301,000 329,000 consumption (in kWh) Besides awareness creation among IDLC staff, some of the Reduction in CO2 8 44 116 172 188 major initiatives undertaken till date and planned for 2014 emission (in tons) include: *Target ■ Automating project approval processes, thereby Note: Every server virtualized saves 7,000 kWh of electricity and 4 tons of CO2 circumventing the need for printed versions of emissions per year reports, memos and supporting documents; 51 ■ Using concise and compact reporting and ■ Customer Relationship Management System (CRMS) application formats, resulting in lower number of that automates marketing, sales and services, thus printouts; increasing the efficiency of our sales force in terms of lead generation, tracking, information management ■ Putting both-side (obverse and reverse) printing as a and collaboration default option in printers; ■ Process automation using SharePoint ■ Significantly reducing the number of printers across all our branches; ■ Chaser module for customer follow-ups that will help in documenting such activities and generate the ■ Collaboration facilities within the system allowing necessary MIS employees to work together on presentations and reports, thus minimising the requirement of multiple ■ Automation of salary and commission processing for printed copies of such documents; our sales team ■ Limiting the printing of diaries, calendars and ■ Comprehensive software solutions for IDLC SL, greeting cards, thereby significantly reducing paper integrating with multiple exchanges such as the DSE consumption; and CSE, among others Going forward, to reinforce our focus on moving towards ■ Enhanced integration of i-Trade into the portal, a paperless office environment, we will set specific providing customers access to MIS and other reduction targets per employee for each branch. notifications in addition to processing orders ■ Build a private cloud for leveraging such cloud-based TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS GOING services as files and applications, among others FORWARD ■ An automated credit scoring model across IDLC ■ Automation of the HR appraisal process integrated with the HR management system software RESOURCE CONSUMPTION The following chart shows IDLC’s resource consumption pattern throughout 2013 across all branches. Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Electricity consumption (in kWh) 222,286 304,385 329,526 270,796 1,126,993 Electricity consumption (in Taka Mn) 2.1 2.9 3.2 3.2 11.4 Fuel consumption (in Litres) 17,890 18,100 17,170 9,468 62,628 Fuel consumption (in Taka Mn) 1.8 1.8 1.7 0.5 5.8 Water consumption (in Taka Mn)* 0.16 0.83 0.52 0.3 1.81 Paper consumption (in Rims) 950 1,020 916 950 3,836 Paper consumption (in Taka Mn) 0.34 0.37 0.33 0.34 1.38 * Water consumption is difficult to quantify since the billing process is related to the office floor space REDUCE, REUSE The nature of IDLC’s operations results in major waste ■ Provided to schools/ colleges in rural areas, as part of materials in the form of waste paper and IT equipments. IDLC's CSR initiative; IDLC regularly upgrades its IT infrastructure, a significant To reduce paper usage, IDLC has already initiated a part of which involves upgrading the PCs and laptops number of ways such as reducing printers and using used by its staff. Every year, 2-3 percent of PCs and laptops both-side printing options, among others. Besides, IDLC are replaced with upgraded ones. also encourages the use of draft papers for internal documentation purposes to promote the concepts of The replaced equipments are usually disposed off in the ‘Reduce’ and ‘Reuse’. following manner: ■ Offered to office attendants, drivers and/ or cleaners free of cost for their personal use; 52 IDLC | Banking on Green We realise that 'Green Banking' is synonymous with banking on green. Our efforts over the years have helped us make significant progress in terms of creating a green and sustainable office environment equipped with environment-friendly technologies saving electricity and paper; actively increasing the 'green' share in our portfolio; streamlining our operations to be more environmentally sustainable; and educating our staff on the ‘green way of living’. To minimize our carbon footprint, we have planted over 10,000 saplings in the last three years in various parts of the country. BANKING ON GREEN Saher joined IDLC as a Management Trainee in 2013. Prior to joining IDLC, her understanding of CSR was limited to initiatives addressing issues related to the environment and the community external to the organisation. However, she now understands that the words 'Green Banking' mean a lot more than just projects addressing external issues. They mean a complete change in the very philosophy of the organisation starting from environmentfriendly products, processes and technologies, to the core values and behaviour of its staff. She now sincerely practices turning off the overhead light and computer monitor while leaving the office, using draft papers for internal uses, and using water only as much as is necessary. Saher now understands that the 'green way of living' is not confined to the office only, but also extends to her personal life where she can play a responsible role in contributing to preserving and nurturing the environment. Mehbub joined IDLC in February 2014 as the focal point of the Green Banking Desk newly formed by IDLC to take forward its Green Banking agenda. Mehbub is now actively working with the business units to design and develop products that are 'green' and environment-friendly, and bringing in projects adopting energyefficient technologies to increase IDLC's share of 'green' portfolio, and make its operations more responsible and sustainable. CHAPTER 6 COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 55 DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PARTNERSHIP At IDLC, we refer to ‘development’ as a physical reality as b) Leveraging skills and perspectives not available in well as a state of mind that combines the three aspects the organisation: of economic, social and institutional processes, leading to a better lifestyle. The three objectives of development Such partnerships actively help create a platform for include: sharing ideas and expertise, thus enriching resources and maximising capacity utilisation. ■ Increasing availability and widening distribution of basic life-sustaining resources such as food, shelter, c) Building respect and credibility: health and protection; When a partnership between entities representing public, ■ Raising living standards, which include higher income private and/ or development sectors deliver the desired levels, provision for more jobs, better education and tangible results, it improves the image and credibility of all greater attention to human and cultural values; the concerned organisations. ■ Expanding the range of economic and social choices d) Providing independent validation: available to individuals; Partnerships with NGOs and/ or development With this in mind, our 2013 development focus was organisations can provide an independent ‘third-party’ aimed at skills development and livelihood generation/ validation of a company’s claim of delivering projectenhancement opportunities for the marginalised, better specific environmental and social benefits. education and healthcare facilities for the underprivileged e) Helping achieve a long-term vision: children, and supporting the cause of ‘Development’ through necessary interventions. Partnerships addressing long-term issues accelerate momentum to achieve the best possible results. Moreover, for large-scale projects, IDLC also embraced a ‘multi-stakeholder partnership approach’ in 2013 with Some of the significant community empowerment a number of entities including business houses and initiatives undertaken in 2013 include: development organisations, NGOs and public entities. ■ Developing skilled manpower for the RMG sector INTRINSIC BENEFITS OF PARTNERSHIP ■ Model Village Project a) Creating business value and social and ■ Community partnerships for enhanced education environmental benefits: and healthcare benefits for the underprivileged ■ Blanket distribution among the poor Such partnerships possess the potential to deliver measurable business, social and environmental ■ Empowering women benefits, resulting in reduced cost and risk, positive ■ Philanthropic contributions impact on employee and community health and wellbeing, reduced environmental impacts, creation of new markets, and enhanced brand value across the Company’s products and operations. This creates a strong competitive advantage for all the partners. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 DEVELOPING SKILLED RESOURCES FOR THE RMG SECTOR In a country burdened with overpopulation, it is nothing IDLC organised a discussion session under the banner of short of an irony that lack of skilled manpower is one of ‘Partnership for Sustainable Development’ in September the major challenges faced by businesses and industries 2012, bringing together stakeholders from both public today. IDLC believes that in addition to focusing on skills and private sectors, as well as representatives from development and capacity building, new avenues for different RMG (Ready-Made Garment) companies in employment should also be created to attract individuals IDLC’s client portfolio. The broad objective of this kind into a larger number of non-traditional means of of platform was to address various issues in devising a livelihood earning. A coordinated effort from both public “Sustainable Model” for skills development and livelihood and private sectors is the need of the hour and is crucial generation, ultimately contributing to community to address this issue. empowerment. With a view to shrink the skills demand–supply gap, Following this session, IDLC partnered with the following IDLC is actively exploring and identifying sustainable organisations last year for skills development of the measures for skills development and alternative livelihood marginal and the underprivileged, with the intent of opportunities, leading to community empowerment. placement in the RMG industry as machine operators. Project Stakeholders and their Responsibilities Stakeholders Responsibilities Fareast Knitting and Dyeing  Sponsoring 80 percent of the project cost, including fabric support during Industries Limited training programmes;  Facilitating industry visits by trainees and on-the-job training; (Industry Partner and Co-sponsor)  Facilitating training on non-technical aspects;  Conducting necessary medical tests to determine age of the trainees;*  Assessment of competency levels achieved; TVET Reform Project, ILO  Providing training venue through arrangement with the Directorate of Bangladesh Technical Education (DTE), Government of Bangladesh;  Training of the trainers; (Technical Consultant)  Training module development;  Arranging training machineries worth over Taka 3.28 mn, with funding from the European Union;  Regular visit to training centre to discuss and resolve various issues to improve efficiency of the training programme; Gazipur Technical School and  Providing institutional training; College  Arranging accommodation and other facilities for the trainees, with funding from Fareast and IDLC; (Training Provider)  Arranging industry visits for the trainees;  Regular follow-up with the trainees during OJT and employment;  Joint competency assessment of the trainees with Fareast officials; CARE Bangladesh, with support  Sourcing trainees from North Bengal; from Shiree  Collecting required documents like birth certificate and National ID card; (Community Partner)  Initial orientation and counseling before sending them to Gazipur;  Periodic visits to GTSC to have sessions with the trainees; IDLC Finance Limited  Project concept development and partner identification;  Sponsoring 20 percent of the project cost; (Concept adoption, Co-sponsor, responsible for monitoring and  Acting as the common contact point for all stakeholders; documentation, and common  Monitoring; contact point and coordinator  Management of project expenses and documentation; across Stakeholders)  Regular visit to GTSC and Fareast to have discussions with the trainees and management;  Preparation of project completion reports for all stakeholder groups; * Minimum age requirement is 18 57 Project Phases Phase 2: Institutional Training at Gazipur Phase 1: Trainee Selection and Orientation in North During Phase 2, trainees undergo a two-month Bengal institutional training at Gazipur Technical School and College (GTSC). The training module has been developed Sourcing by the TVET Reform Project of ILO and they are also Trainees are sourced from the most impoverished regions responsible for training the trainers at GTSC to enable of North Bengal by CARE Bangladesh. This region has them to conduct the programme in the right way. been selected due to a lack of industrialisation creating Moreover, the required training machineries have been unavailability of formal job opportunities. provided by ILO with funding from the European Union. Male-Female Ratio Minimum Training Hours Female trainees are preferred considering the worker The trainees receive six-hours of training everyday for demographics of the RMG sector in Bangladesh, as well six days a week, to meet the minimum criteria of ILO as to ensure larger and more active participation in and thus make them eligible for receiving a completion the region’s overall economic and social development. certificate at the end of the training programme. Moreover, in consideration of the recent unrest in the Stipends and Accommodation RMG sector, most of the employers are now in favour of The trainees receive a fixed stipend and are provided with hiring female workers. accommodation during their training at GTSC, funded by The female participation ratio was gradually raised during Fareast and IDLC.1 the 1st and 2nd batches; however, the 3rd and 4th Association of Fareast during Institutional Training batches (currently running) consists of all-female trainees. In addition to co-sponsoring the training sessions, Fareast Selection Criteria also extends its support in the following areas during the Besides geographic area, the selection criteria for trainees institutional training: also include their age, educational background and  Providing cut fabrics for the training programmes; demographic aspects. Detailed background checks are undertaken to understand the level of education and  Periodic visits by HR and Compliance officials of family profile of the candidates and preference is given to Fareast to GTSC to orient trainees on various nonthose who have completed at least some years of formal technical issues like workplace rules and regulations, schooling and are probably the only major/ potential factory environment, worker rights, wage policy, bread-earners of the family. However, as part of our health and safety standards, fire and earthquake learning experience from the first two batches, we are not policy etc., among others; preferring trainees who have completed SSC/ HSC level  Providing technical persons to judge competency education, since they do not intend to work as machine levels attained; operators after completion of the training and often tend  Accommodating the trainees during industry visits; to go for higher education. Industry visits Also they have to be from an age group between 18-30 Trainees are taken on industry visits to the Fareast factory years. It is to be noted that to determine actual age of twice during the institutional training for them to get a the trainees, a medical check-up is conducted at Fareast real life feel of the factory environment. factory prior to starting the technical training at Gazipur. Orientation Phase 3: On-the-Job Training (OJT) at Fareast Factory Trainees undergo a mandatory orientation programme After successful completion of institutional training, and counseling organised by CARE Bangladesh before trainees are moved to the Fareast factory for a one-month they are relocated to Gazipur. This programme is critical On-the-Job Training (OJT). This training is necessary to for them on account of the following reasons: familiarise the trainees with the industrial set-up and to expose them to the production lines, industry work-pace  To actively prepare them for the socio-cultural and functioning and collaborating with co-workers. change they will face during training and subsequent Stipends and Accommodation employment away from their homes and families;  To understand their commitment levels to not only The trainees receive a fixed stipend during the OJT as well, complete their training, but continue working at the and are provided with accommodation facilities near the Fareast factory; Fareast factory, with funding from Fareast and IDLC.  To remove any doubts they may have regarding their future earning capabilities, work environment, and 1 In addition to the stipends and accommodation facilities, costs health and safety standards in the factory. related to orientation programmes at North Bengal; transportation costs of the trainees; remuneration to GTSC officials; purchase of Expenses related to these sessions are reimbursed by training materials other than fabrics; costs related to industry visits Fareast and IDLC. and other associated expenses are also taken care of by Fareast and IDLC. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Phase 4: Assessment, Certification and Recruitment with appointment letters to join at various grades of machine operators at Fareast, as per the competence After completion of the OJT training, the trainees are levels achieved. jointly assessed by GTSC and Fareast officials, and subject to satisfactory assessment, are provided with a certificate After recruitment, CARE and GTSC keep in touch with the commemorating successful completion of the skills trainees for at least two months to ensure they work with training programme. Concurrently, they are also provided Fareast. come out of poverty and no stone should be left unturned to try and achieve this. Imagine 160 million skilled resources available to power not only this nation but also other countries that do not have this resource. This is only possible by educating and/ or technically training as many resources as possible. In our own humble way, we are trying to do just that. Bringing in unskilled persons from the poorest parts of the country and training them to be international-standard workers. I wish to see this programme work successfully and would seek the continued participation, assistance and involvement of all parties “I am delighted to see the participation of concerned. Fareast Knitting and Dyeing Industries in the garment worker training programme Let's work together to create as many initiated jointly by IDLC and TVET, ILO. skilled persons as possible in Bangladesh.” It has always been my dream to see the -Asif Moyeen heavily burdened population base of Managing Director Bangladesh turn into a powerhouse of Fareast Knitting and Dyeing Industries Limited trained resources. This can help the nation PROJECT MANAGEMENT ■ Formal orientation and better awareness of factory rules and regulations among the trained recruits A Management Committee meeting is arranged at least once every two months, with participation of all ■ Enhanced commitment of workers towards their stakeholder groups, to resolve various issues related to the employers training programme to improve efficiency and manage ■ Workers climbing the value chain to join directly as costs. operators instead of first enrolling as helpers and At the same time, regular sessions are arranged with the then working their way up trainees to keep their morale high to lower dropout rates. PROJECT OUTCOME AND FUTURE PLAN PROJECT RATIONALE ■ 47 persons employed from the 1st and 2nd batches; ■ Socio-economic transformation of the ■ 41 persons undergoing training in the 3rd and 4th underprivileged, especially women batches; ■ Availability of skilled manpower to progressively ■ Each trainee drawing, on an average, salaries of Taka encourage industries to relocate to other belts 7,000 10,000 per month; ■ Goodwill creation for the industry among foreign A total of 12 batches will be completed till 2015, as per buyers MoU dated 30 May 2013 signed by all stakeholders. ■ Skilled workers justifying higher salaries (the minimum basic salary in the RMG sector has been raised to Taka 5,300 from 1 December 2013) 59 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 61 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Addressing Challenges Challenges encountered Addressing these challenges Coordination among multiple IDLC serves as the one-point contact among all stakeholders to enhance accountability stakeholders responsible for and ensure efficient flow of information across all concerned different activities and located across different geographic regions During training, many unforeseen The 1st batch practically served as a learning ground for all stakeholders and such cost costs/ situations arose that were items and situations were accounted for in the subsequent batches not earlier anticipated Continued resistance among some The following orientation and counseling technique is being conducted from the 2nd trainees regarding relocation batch onwards: ■ Initial orientation and counseling by CARE Bangladesh in North Bengal; ■ Continued orientation and motivation by GTSC and IDLC officials during institutional training; ■ Inspirational examples and motivation provided by the Management, HR and factory officials of Fareast during the OJT training; and ■ Sharing sessions with previous trainees now successfully employed in the RMG sector; Family issues of some of the It has been decided that those facing family problems would be given a 7-day leave trainees, hindering the progress of to go back and solve the issue. If not solved, that person will be temporarily dismissed the training programme from the training (to avoid disruption for others) and if interested, will be considered for the subsequent batch Unrest in the RMG sector Such an occurrence is completely unpredictable and beyond the control of anyone. Hence the disruption of the training programme during such situations is unavoidable 63 STRATEGIES GOING FORWARD ■ Tapping geographic areas other than North Bengal and focusing on climate-vulnerable regions ■ Templatise and replicate similar models across other geographic regions, engaging technical schools and ■ Exploring the potential for starting a common colleges elsewhere training facility for the RMG sector, catering to the needs of many industry players ■ Securing industry partners like Fareast to take more batches under their wings following the same model ■ Seek funds from development organisations and/ or foreign buyers for large-scale replication of the project MODEL VILLAGE PROJECT In partnership with VSO Bangladesh, IDLC has adopted ■ Assuring quality of the programme and other a ‘Model Village’ approach targeting the Sadarpur interventions; village in Mithapukur, Rangpur. The approach is based on three basic strategies: capacity building, knowledge SPECIFIC PROJECT ACTIVITIES management, and resource mobilisation and institutional Major activities initiated in 2013 at Sadarpur include: linkages. ■ Capacity building of the Youth Club and the Citizen Capacity building: To raise awareness among volunteerCommunity; based organisations on community-led development, ■ Health camp for community members; skills development and resource mobilisation for project implementation. ■ Imparting training to Youth Club members on basic accounting practices by the IDLC staff; Knowledge management: To ensure active participation ■ Establishing an IT centre and practice for general IT of local volunteers in monitoring and evaluation of use; projects and to develop ways to disseminate lessons and best practices assimilated on the Model Village approach. ■ Homestead tree plantation; ■ Training on set-up and operations of biogas plants; Resource mobilisation and institutional linkages: To enable local volunteers link with government service ■ Preparation and use of compost fertilisers for providers for sustainable development and mobilise local vegetable cultivation; and resources to optimise results under the model village ■ Installation of bins in local markets; approach. CAPACITY BUILDING OF YOUTH CLUB VSO (Voluntary Service Overseas) is a UK-based AND CITIZEN COMMUNITY development organisation working to create an enabling environment for the poor and the marginalised, Developing know-how of the youth and senior volunteers especially women, adolescent girls and boys, adibashis, was one of the priority areas under this project. In unemployed youth, Dalits, PLWHA and/ or disabled 2013, most of the Youth Club and Citizen Committee people. The organisation helps them benefit from members participated in sessions focused on leadership economic growth and social development. In this regard, development, IT training, English language coaching and VSO Bangladesh has adopted a number of villages in training on basic accounting theories and practices. the northern, southwestern and Chittagong Hill Tracts These sessions helped develop leadership qualities and regions, conducting development activities through the communication capabilities among the youth and citizens placement of international volunteers and mobilising alike. In turn, they successfully organised a number of local Youth Club members and community residents. events for better healthcare and capacity development of the community members. GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF THE MODEL Moreover, the Youth Club, referred to as the Bazlur VILLAGE PROJECT Rahman Youth Club, has also received land as donation for the construction of the Youth Club office in Sadarpur ■ Affirming gender equality; village. ■ Ensuring meaningful participation of the youth and promote youth-adult partnership opportunities; ■ Engaging a broad spectrum of stakeholders through HEALTH CAMP family and community involvement in the model A health camp was organised at Sadarpur on 24 May 2013 villages; for the local community members, especially those who ■ Adopting a multi-sectoral approach; do not have access to basic healthcare services. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The health camp focused on the following two aspects: Besides international and local volunteers, the event was ■ Blood typing facilitated by the staff members of VSO Bangladesh and PJKUS (Pairaband Jubo Kollan Unnayan Shangastha), a ■ Consultation on primary healthcare issues local NGO responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of the project. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE HEALTH CAMP Health specialists Doctors and technicians from the Rangpur Medical College and Mithapukur Health Complex International volunteers  Ms. Diane Wood, Midwife Advisor [United Kingdom]  Mr. Phillip Humphreys, Management Advisor [United Kingdom]  Mr. Gamini Thevarapperuma, Livelihood Advisor (Sri Lanka)  Ms. Iulia Tencariu, Community Mobilisation Advisor (Romania) National volunteers 10 members of the Sadarpur Youth Club Beneficiaries Around 150 community members from the Sadarpur village Outcome (i) Blood typing for 100 individuals:  Male: 52  Female: 38  Children: 10 (ii) Consultation on primary healthcare for 45 individuals:  Male: 15  Female: 20  Children: 10 Overall male-female ratio Male: 54 percent Female: 46 percent 65 TRAINING YOUTH CLUB MEMBERS ON BASIC ACCOUNTING PRACTICES “The initiative was very good. All A one-day orientation session on basic accounting the village people, VSO personnel practices was conducted on 28 June 2013 with the active participation of 32 volunteers from the Bazlur Rahman and other concerned persons, Youth Club. The materials were prepared and the session especially the training participants, was conducted by IDLC staff from the Finance and SME Departments while logistic support was provided by were very much responsive, comembers of the club, VSO and PJKUS. operative and friendly. It was an The main objective of the session was to enable the Youth excellent opportunity for me to Club members to record daily transactions related to their work with them. I tried my best various activities. Following the session, the Youth Club accumulated a fund to open a bank account. to share my knowledge with the Youth Club members, and I believe they will be able to utilise the lesson in future. I felt proud on being a part of this programme. It was an excellent experience for me.” – Md. Asaduzzaman Khan Manager, Finance Department IDLC Finance Limited 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 IDLC | Developing Skills, Empowering Communities Skills development is perhaps the single-most important tool that can generate livelihoods, thus enabling the creation of not just progressive but productive societies. Leveraging our core knowledge and expertise, we have actively engaged in various skills development programmes, covering over 200 beneficiaries representing the underprivileged and marginal section of the society. 67 DEVELOPING SKILLS, EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES The modern world is run by technology. From the smallest work to the biggest jobs, we are dependent on computers. Keeping this in mind, IDLC worked closely with partner organisations VSO Bangladesh and PJKUS to enhance capacity and skills of the youth in the Sadarpur Model Village in Rangpur, by providing them training on basic computer literacy, English language, and basic accounting systems under IDLC's Model Village Project. Apart from providing financial support, IDLC also donated five desktop computers to implement the project through the Bozlur Rahman Youth Club at Sadarpur. Along with 24 other youths, 20-year-old Moushumi also participated in the computer training programme. She was delighted to get her hands on the machines, as the poverty-stricken area has little or no electricity, let alone computers. With guidance from the international volunteer groups placed at Sadarpur, she is now learning MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint which is helping her prepare her resume, write job applications and make calculations. We hope that through this youth building initiative, the life of Moushumi and the others will become better, and this initiative will contribute to the economic and social upliftment of the youth group, as well as that of the community. 35-year-old Roshida Begum is all smiles now. Her latest plantings of red amaranth, gourd, papaya and bean have just blossomed. With the support of IDLC, VSO and PJKUS, Roshida received training on making compost and was initially given 5 kg of seeds of different vegetables to grow. Today, not only does she sell some of the compost she produces, but also sells the vegetables she grows in her small yard. Over the years, this has helped her meet her family’s food requirements and has also given her an opportunity to earn. We are proud of her, as her efforts have borne fruit, and she can now afford to send her two children to school. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 69 ESTABLISHMENT OF AN IT CENTRE AND PRACTICE ON GENERAL IT USE IDLC provided five desktop computers to the Youth Club to set-up an IT centre at Sadarpur village. In addition, IDLC also provided a bouquet of training modules to facilitate learning. This initiative has opened a new avenue for the youth at Sadarpur, especially girls, by giving them the opportunity to develop their IT skills. A team of IT training facilitators including VSO International and local volunteers and PJKUS members facilitated general training on the use of IT for 50 Youth Club members in two sessions. The session focused on preliminary operations of MS Word, Excel and Power Point with which they can do basic calculations and develop their CVs to apply for jobs. Being from an area with intermittent availability of electricity, this experience was a matter of much surprise and joy for them. The IT centre has been set-up temporarily in a vacant room at the BRM Girls’ High School at Sadarpur. It will later be transferred to the Bazlur Rahman Youth Club office, which is currently under construction. HOMESTEAD TREE PLANTATION One thousand saplings were distributed among 57 marginal households of the village. Besides increasing awareness regarding the benefits of tree plantation, this initiative has also added to the livelihood stream by selling fruits (local varieties including mango, guava, olive and jackfruit) or timber of the full-grown trees (varieties including mahogany and akash moni). 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TRAINING ON SET-UP OF BIOGAS PLANTS A training programme was arranged for the Youth Club members on the establishment, operation and maintenance of biogas plants. Grameen Shakti will conduct the training sessions after setting-up the biogas plants by Q2 of 2014. Site selection and placement of construction materials have already been completed. 71 practical orientation session for 50 farmers in two batches at Sadarpur. The orientation focused on developing skills of the farmers for organic fertiliser preparation and providing them with useful information for better use of fertilisers for vegetable and crop cultivation. The training has enhanced farmer awareness on the health and nutritional benefits of using organic fertilisers. They have also received and cultivated vegetable seeds including red amaranth, papaya, bean and bottle gourd at the farmhouse levels, which is meeting the needs of their families, as well as allowing them to earn by selling vegetables. WASTE BINS IN THE LOCAL MARKETS To raise awareness for a clean and green environment within the community, four permanent waste bins have been installed at the local markets of Khordomuradpur and Sadarpur model villages. Youth club volunteers are raising awareness among the locals to use the bins and keep the marketplace clean and hygienic. VALUE CREATION Human capital enhancement through: ■ Improved healthcare facilities for the poor and vulnerable communities; ■ Enhanced community capacity building through skills training on alternative livelihoods, especially for women and girls; ■ Enhanced ability to cope with different socioeconomic challenges, climate-change and disaster; ■ Continued experience sharing, thus embedding innovative developmental activities; ■ Committed adoption of better environmental practices through tree plantation, utilisation of biogas plants, and responsible waste disposal and management; Financial capital enhancement through: ■ Access to additional and alternative income generation opportunities; ■ Enhanced savings practices, especially from secondary income sources, thereby enabling families to plan for the long-term; The Youth Club members are already working to raise Social capital enhancement through: awareness among community residents to increase the use of biogas for daily cooking. Three families have been ■ Greater trust, cohesion, team-spirit and respect for selected from the village to demonstrate the benefits of others among the community members; this model. ■ Awareness of the benefits of a self-help society PREPARATION AND USE OF COMPOST solving its own challenges and problems; FERTILISERS FOR VEGETABLE CULTIVATION ■ Greater participation of women in communitybased organisations, decision-making and The Sub-Assistant Agriculture Officer (SAAO) from the income-generating activities, leading to women Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE) facilitated a empowerment; 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 BLANKET DISTRIBUTION Winter is the coldest season in Bangladesh. During the RANGPUR three months of December, January and February, the country faces a series of cold waves and the temperature With the assistance of Practical Action Bangladesh, IDLC drops to as low as 3O°C in some regions. People at the distributed 400 blankets in Rangpur. The distribution bottom of the income pyramid suffer the most and many process was conducted at Jaldhaka, a remote region in die as a result of cold-related illnesses. Rangpur where a majority of the population is extremely poor. IDLC officials, along with members of Practical To stand by these individuals and demonstrate its Action and Jhanjira Samaj Kallyan Sangstha (a local NGO) commitment to the society, IDLC distributes blankets and and the Union Parishad Chairman, members and local warm clothes every year in areas most affected by the distinguished guests, participated in the distribution extreme cold. In 2013 as well, the Company distributed programme. 2,650 blankets among the worst-hit communities in various areas of North Bengal, Jessore and Chittagong. NILPHAMARI AND LALMONIRHAT IDLC distributed 750 blankets each in Nilphamari and NORTH BENGAL Lalmonirhat in association with Care Bangladesh. The Due to their geographic location, the districts of areas in Nilphamari included Kakina, Chawra, Laxmichap Bangladesh’s northern region are the most susceptible and Khoksabari Union Parishads, while in Lalmonirhat, the to extreme cold. Consequently, North Bengal was IDLC’s distribution points were at Sarpukur, Saptibari, Polashi and prime focus in terms of blanket distribution. The Company Chalbala Union Parishads. distributed 2,000 blankets in four districts of North Bengal – Kurigram, Nilphamari, Rangpur and Lalmonirhat with JESSORE the assistance of different local NGOs and Shiree, a DFID Jessore is another of IDLC’s focus areas for blanket project working for the extreme poor. distribution. In 2013, the Company distributed 500 KURIGRAM blankets among the marginalised across different locations of Jessore Sadar. Kurigram is one of the coldest areas by virtue of its location in the northern-most corner of the country. IDLC IDLC officials, together with its SME customers from distributed 850 blankets in different areas of Kurigram Jessore region, participated in identification of the including Gunaigach, Tabokpur, Poschim Kaludanga and beneficiaries and distribution of blankets. This was the Doldolia in Ulipur and Belgacha in Kurigram Sadar. Company’s active initiative to engage its stakeholders in its community assistance programmes. The distribution was conducted jointly with Mahideb Jubo Somaj Kallayan Somity (MJSKS), a local NGO working CHITTAGONG for the marginalised. The Director of MJSKS, UNOKurigram Sadar and the respective UP Chairman and In Chittagong, 150 blankets were distributed to street members were present at the distribution programme at dwellers. The distribution was jointly conducted by Belgacha. In Gunaigach, Deputy Director-MJSKS, UNOIDLC staff in Chittagong and Youth’s Voice, a city-based Ulipur, Upazila Chairman-Ulipur and the respective UP volunteering organisation. Chairman and members were present. The respective UP Chairman, UP members and other distinguished guests were also present at the programme at Doldolia, Tabokpur and Poschim Kaludanga. 73 North Bengal 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Jessore Chittagong 75 ACCESS TO EDUCATION AND HEALTHCARE FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILDREN Education and health represent the basic objectives of educational facilities to underprivileged children. The development. While education is essential to develop principal agenda of LEADS comprises increasing primary capacity for self-sustaining growth and development education enrollment and to ensure that children leading to a satisfying and rewarding life, health is central complete their education by giving them the muchto well-being and enhanced productivity. Hence, both needed after-school tuition support. Based in Dhanmondi, education and health are fundamental to expanding Dhaka, the organisation currently looks after 52 children human capabilities and reflect the true meaning of from various government primary schools. development. And IDLC believes that children, especially the underprivileged group, should be given equal access IDLC is supporting LEADS’ efforts by sponsoring 15 to basic education and healthcare benefits. children which includes bearing expenses for their education, healthcare and therapy needs and skills Hence IDLC has partnered with the following development activities. organisations working with the underprivileged children’s group, and supports their cause on a regular basis. Besides these, IDLC had also sponsored various educational materials for the children, and provided firstSEID TRUST aid kits and water filters to their families in the past. IDLC has been a partner of SEID Trust for the past PLAN FOR 2014 eight years. SEID Trust is one of the largest voluntary non-government organisations in Bangladesh for Besides sponsoring education of the LEADS children, IDLC underprivileged children with physical and mental plans to provide them access to earn their living as well, disabilities, including autism. It works for the rights and at the end of their educational life. IDLC believes that social mainstreaming and inclusion of these children and primary education followed by vocational training is the provides them with the necessary education, healthcare right measure for a country like Bangladesh with a large facilities and vocational training. The Trust currently number of ‘educated but unemployed’ youth. operates four centers across Dhaka with over 400 children. Hence we have plans to provide vocational training to those children of LEADS who are not willing to go for higher education after completion of Class Eight, and are interested to earn a living for their families or start a business of their own. IDLC is already negotiating with a number of such organisations offering vocational training facilities to such adolescent groups, and also placing them as apprentices in different organisations or providing them the seed money to start their own business. In 2013, IDLC extended its assistance by embracing FAMILIES FOR CHILDREN responsibility for education, healthcare and other needs 'Families for Children' is an orphanage based in Uttara, of 15 children for yet another year. Dhaka. It houses over 150 children of varying ages, and provides them the much-needed education and other LEADS opportunities to help them become established in their lives. Livelihood Education and Development Services (LEADS) is a social organisation working for providing better 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 77 IDLC’s engagement with this organisation was through a day-long event during which members of our CREATING JOBS Management Committee and our colleagues from the IDLC accelerates economic growth through the creation Consumer Division spent an entire day with the children. of jobs, both directly and indirectly. IDLC gave them various games and sporting items as well as general knowledge and story books. We plan to remain As of 31 December 2013, there was a total of 1,000 staff, engaged with the organisation over the long-run as well both permanent and contractual, and IDLC paid Taka 593 to provide them the much-needed support to offer better mn as salaries and allowances in 2013 alone, and created facilities to these children. new jobs for 108 people across the organisation. STRATEGIES GOING FORWARD Moreover, IDLC facilitates indirect employment generation by offering financing to its Corporate and SME IDLC plans to engage a larger number of staff members clients, thus accelerating their growth and expansion, and in working with these organisations for enhancing subsequent recruitment, as well as through CSR projects employee commitment to the community and increase targeting Community Empowerment, as detailed above. the levels of engagement. Moreover, IDLC plans to Through the CSR projects, till date, IDLC has created engage with a number of student bodies that will also permanent employment for 47 people. provide us the much-needed volunteer support to replicate such initiatives on a larger scale. 78 IDLC | Focused on Education We believe that education is the bedrock of the society. Just the way a seed has the potential to grow into a mighty oak, a well-nurtured mind also represents the seed of societal progress and development. Our efforts have led us to provide education for over 80 children, boys and girls combined, over the past three years. FOCUSED ON EDUCATION 12-year-old Shima had always seen the four corners of the house in which she worked as a help. Life beyond home, let alone education, was far from imagination. Today, as a LEADS student receiving financial support from IDLC, Shima does not only go to school but loves to study as well. Enrolling with LEADS from the first grade, she has learnt a lot over the years. Not only has she excelled in education, but has also been a good overall student, with polite manners and a helpful nature. LEADS also provides Shima with healthcare facilities. We are proud to be of assistance to her and many other such students who make the most of the opportunities they get! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EXTENDED RESPONSIBILITIES In addition to long-term projects, IDLC also engages in various philanthropic activities throughout the year. Supporting the Bangladesh Thalassaemia Hospital IDLC regularly arranges blood donation programmes across different branches, in participation of its staff and other stakeholders and in partnership with Bangladesh Thalassaemia Hospital. Supporting the victims of Rana Plaza In February 2013, a donation event was arranged at IDLC’s IDLC staff donated a day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s Chittagong branch, while in March 2014, 24 bags of blood Relief and Welfare Fund to help the victims of the Rana were collected through a similar event at IDLC’s Dilkusha Plaza incident, the biggest such tragedy in the history of branch. This year, IDLC has plans to arrange two more Bangladesh’s RMG sector. collection programmes in its Gulshan and Bogra branches. Donations IDLC contributed Taka 2,000,000 to the Prime Minister’s Relief and Welfare Fund in May 2013. The purpose of the contribution was to strengthen the capacity of the fund to effectively respond during times of natural and national calamities. IDLC donated Taka 100,000 to the Sandhani Bangladesh Medical College Unit for enhancing their blood refrigeration capacity. IDLC provided financial assistance for the treatment of a cancer patient. EMPOWERING WOMEN Globally, women tend to be less privileged than men, being more deprived in terms of education, health, livelihood opportunities and freedom in all its forms. Also, women are primarily responsible for child rearing and statistics from around the developing world have proved that mothers tend to spend a significantly higher portion of their income for the benefit of their children than fathers do. Thus, they provide them much more than just the basic necessities to sustain. Hence, the biggest impact on development can only be achieved if a society actively invests in and empowers its women. IDLC addresses women empowerment from a fourpronged perspective: ■ Providing the much-needed access-to-finance for the development of women in business; IDLC also contributed Taka 100,000 to the Hospital, assisting them in accumulating funds for purchasing an ■ Capacity development of existing and upcoming ambulance to facilitate the blood collection process. women entrepreneurs; 81 ■ Sustainable livelihood generation through skills largely excluded from activities that lead to economic development of underprivileged women; development and their financial independence. ■ Empowerment of IDLC's female staff across the Therefore, IDLC’s major focus is aimed at skills organisation; development and sustainable livelihood generation for female groups from marginal segments of the society. ACCESS-TO-FINANCE Details have been provided under chapters titled With its SME businesses, IDLC actively supports the ‘Developing Skilled Resources for the RMG Sector’ and development of women entrepreneurs with the much‘Model Village Project’ on pages 57 and 64 respectively. needed access-to-finance, otherwise limited under the EMPOWERING IDLC’S FEMALE STAFF formal banking network. Our Women Entrepreneur Loans, combined with the refinancing facilities availed from the At IDLC, we are committed to the development of our Bangladesh Bank, provides us the unique opportunity to female staff and this philosophy is visible in everything play an active role in providing women entrepreneurs a we do across the organisation. We fundamentally boost in their businesses and careers. believe that women are torchbearers of the society and initiatives directed at their capacity-building and holistic More information on this initiative has been detailed in development have a strong trickle-down effect with the section 'Access-to-Finance for Women Entrepreneurs’ benefits percolating across the community. We organised (page 91). several activities and programmes that help our women CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT staff not only realise their goals, ambitions and potentials but enhance their quality of life as well. Besides offering financing facilities, IDLC is firmly committed to capacity creation and enhancement for LADIES FORUM women entrepreneurs, offering them various services With a growing number of female employees in our and consultations in terms of skills development, market workforce, it is becoming increasingly important to linkages, networking and promotional opportunities, address various issues and deal with special concerns among others. related to them in an effective and efficient manner. In 2013, IDLC also participated in a Women Entrepreneur With this in mind, IDLC launched an exclusive 'IDLC Ladies Fair organised by the Bangladesh Bank, highlighting the Forum (IDLCLF)' whose members include all female products of one of our women entrepreneur clients. employees of the Company. IDLCLF’s composition/ Continuing with this trend, IDLC will arrange and hierarchy is mentioned below: participate in multiple workshops, seminars and fairs to promote women leadership in businesses across the ■ President: Ms. Bilquis Jahan, Head of Human country. Resources At present, we are in discussion with IFC to develop ■ Executive Committee: Comprising 12 female a ‘Women in Business (WIN)’ segment. This initiative employees representing different divisions and encompasses a six-month project whereby IFC will assist branches of the Group IDLC in improving its gender portfolio by training women in business. This activity is oriented to demonstrate ■ Secretary: Ms. Zurat Haque, Head of CSR that providing loans to women-owned SMEs can be a ■ Members: All female employees of the Group profitable business. IDLCLF provides female employees the opportunity to IFC's WIN programme aims at strengthening private network within their peer groups and offers a common sector development by focusing on the role of women as platform to share and raise various issues and problems business leaders, entrepreneurs, employees, consumers including discrimination, harassment, negative attitude/ and economic stakeholders. Progressively, this will enable biases and any other concerns that may affect them women-owned enterprises to increase their capacity to within the organisation. These insights will enable the access financial services from IDLC. This component will Group Management to better understand and address also facilitate IDLC in developing value propositions and these issues and develop strategies accordingly. financial solutions for women entrepreneurs. Moreover, the forum also arranges special sessions SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD GENERATION focusing on issues affecting performance of working A healthy and balanced economic development requires women, work-life balance, child care and female active participation from both male and female members healthcare, among other issues. Two sessions were of the community. Unfortunately, as in most developing arranged in 2013: countries, this is not true in Bangladesh as women are 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ‘Career opportunities and work-life balance for female employees’, conducted by Ms. Syeda Rizwana Hasan, Advocate, Supreme Court of Bangladesh and renowned environmentalist and Chief Executive of the Bangladesh Environmental Lawyers’ Association (BELA). ‘Health benefits of breastfeeding for new mothers and newborn babies’, conducted by Dr. Rukhsana Haider, Chairperson, TAHN Foundation. 83 84 CHAPTER 7 INCLUSIVE BUSINESS 85 PROMOTING SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES (SMEs) Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) represent the growth drivers of an economy. However, considering the different nature and requirements of these businesses, financing these have largely been avoided or restricted by the financial sector in the past. Then again, with changing economic trends, banks and FIs are now increasing their focus on this particular segment considering their immense growth potential and prospects. Customised products and services are being effectively designed to meet the dynamic needs of SME clients. Researchers estimate the presence of approximately six million SMEs in Bangladesh, making up 75 percent of the domestic economy, while accounting for 80 percent of industrial employment and 25 percent of the total workforce. IDLC established its SME unit in 2006 through conventional term loans, lease and working capital facilities. However, progressive success gave the Company an impetus to diversify the SME product basket and eventually allowed it to enjoy an aggressive growth phase over the past seven years, making it among the top five financial service providers to SMEs in Bangladesh. Performance highlights of IDLC’s SME Segment: ■ Segment status within company: Largest ■ Portfolio: Financing products to a large bouquet of SMEs ■ Disbursements over the past five years (2009-13): Taka 26,845 mn ■ Loan book as on 31 December 2013: Taka 14,334 mn ■ Growth in loan book over 2012: 40.83 percent ■ Percentage of the overall loan book as on 31 December 2013: 38.22 percent ■ Turnover (gross) in 2013: Taka 2,347.71 mn ■ Contribution to Company turnover (gross) in 2013: SUCCESS FACTORS 35.03 percent One area where we have continuously focused on is ■ Contribution to Company PBT in 2013: 30.48 percent developing innovative and customised financial products ■ Total number of relationships: 6,638 clients; 7,041 and solutions for our clients, prioritising their unique accounts needs and requirements. For customisation, our four priority considerations have been seasonality, geographic ■ Asset growth: CAGR of 49.40 percent in the last five location, business opportunity and gender sensitivity. years the fastest in the industry For this, our modus operandi has mainly been demand 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 assessment of SMEs, research on market and economic FACTORS AFFECTING THE INDUSTRY indicators, discussion with prospective clients and adherence to the local laws and regulations. SECTORAL DRIVING FORCES Drivers of Success ■ Stable GDP growth of the Bangladesh economy in the past few years resulting in growing consumer (i) Quick turnaround time demand and leading to the emergence and growth (ii) Careful customer selection of different enterprises (iii) Strong internal processes and MIS ■ Booming private sector driving demand for mediumterm financing (iv) Customised repayment schemes ■ Sector-specific incentives offered by the government (v) Dedicated relationship managers for medium and other multilateral agencies segment clients and direct sales executives for small segment clients ■ Refinancing schemes offered by the Bangladesh Bank and other development-oriented organisations (vi) One-stop solutions for all client needs ■ Reduced dependence on imports due to higher local Considering the seasonality of certain businesses and production and corresponding higher demand for their consequent liquidity, one of our major initiatives has credit been the customisation of repayment solutions for our clients. Hence, we replaced the conventional EMI (Equal MAJOR TRENDS Monthly Installment) practice with structured repayment ■ Political instability schedules and introduced the innovative SME seasonal ■ Lack of adequate infrastructural development loans. ■ Seasonal demand-supply patterns Yet again, our market intelligence helped us identify ■ Monetary policies of the government impacting the a crucial need of many booming industrial belts of cost of funds Bangladesh – that of inadequate accommodation and lodging facilities for those who drive these industries. To ■ Perception of foreign buyers towards Bangladeshi address this issue, we came up with the ‘Abashan’ loan exporters scheme, a specialised facility offered to local landowners for the construction of residential and commercial KEY STRATEGIES OF IDLC complexes for rental purposes. The primary goal of IDLC in terms of its SME operations is We have also devised the revolving short-term loan facility to maintain the overall portfolio quality, which is among that allows SMEs to avail financing as and when required. the best in the country today. Key strategic interventions This product enables them to manage their cash flows in this area of operation include the following: more efficiently and make the most out of their business ■ Considering frequent political unrest in the opportunities, thus generating higher profitability. country significantly impacting small and medium Moreover, we promote women empowerment by enterprises, a more conservative approach will be offering the much-needed access-to-finance to adopted if the situation does not stabilise over the prospective and existing women entrepreneurs. Our coming days. ‘Women Entrepreneur Loan’ facility offers the most ■ IDLC will continue to focus on designing innovative attractive terms and conditions for women to grow and products and processes and enhance its distribution advance their business. We also avail refinancing facility network in the face of rising competition from banks of the Bangladesh Bank to offer term loans to women and FIs entering this business. As one of the market entrepreneurs at reduced market rates. Cumulative leaders and pioneers in SME financing in Bangladesh, refinancing received till date amount to Taka 2,103.70 we enjoy an advantage over others. Moreover, mn, making IDLC one of the largest participants in such in 2014, we are planning to establish four more refinancing facilities of the Bangladesh Bank and other SME branches in the country’s major districts and low-cost fund providers. We are also working with introduce a ‘Customer Relationship Management’ multilateral agencies such as the DFID, UKAID Bangladesh, software to enhance our service delivery capacity. and IFC to develop capacities of women entrepreneurs and increase their access to appropriate and market■ IDLC extensively utilises the refinancing schemes based SME services. offered by the Bangladesh Bank and other development organisations including the ADB Fund, 87 EGBMP (IDA) Fund and JICA TSL Fund, among others. Moreover, we regularly participate in webinars to gain One of our key goals is to ensure seamless continuity valuable knowledge and expertise on a wide variety of of our operations even without the presence of such SME related issues. Some of the top performers in our facilities. SME team have also attended advanced training courses offered by SBBN. ■ IDLC has adopted a proactive approach towards delinquency management. We have introduced INTERNATIONAL FACTORING GROUP a new wing christened 'Central Collection and Monitoring Cell (CCMC)', comprising a dedicated IDLC is the only member of the International Factoring team for bringing on board a more proactive Group (IFG) from Bangladesh, which allows us to gain approach towards collection. Moreover, our SME knowledge and expertise on international best practices team is also implementing a credit scoring model for in terms of factoring operations. more effective loan appraisal. ‘BUSINESS FINANCE FOR THE POOR IN BANGLADESH’ ■ IDLC expects to continue its focus on capacity PROGRAMME building and enhanced access-to-finance for women DFID/ UKAID, Bangladesh, has initiated the ‘Business entrepreneurs. Finance for the Poor in Bangladesh (BFP-B)’ programme, specifically targeting micro and small enterprises (MSEs) ■ IDLC has always focused on the retention of highthat are currently not served by the formal financial sector performing personnel. Our HR policies and culture but are credible potential borrowers with solid business are directed at keeping our employees motivated ideas and activities. IDLC is negotiating with DFID to and happy. increase access to appropriate market–based business services for SMEs and enhance product offering, delivery DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES FOR SMES channels and business model innovation. In 2013, our major emphasis has been on customer BUSINESS GROWTH IN THE PLASTIC INDUSTRY engagement, capacity enhancement and improving our service capabilities. We organised several roundtable IDLC is working with the SME Foundation, Bangladesh, meetings with different entrepreneur groups, thus to stimulate growth of SME businesses in the plastic facilitating the creation of backward and forward industry. Our specific target comprises strict compliance linkages for their supply chains. We have also introduced by plastic manufacturers in terms of waste disposal more customer-friendly processes that include lesser methods. documentation, easy processing and expert advisory PUBLICATION OF CREATIVE AND KNOWLEDGE-BASED services. Moreover, training on basic accounting practices COLLATERAL was also conducted across different business clusters. IDLC, along with two other banks, disbursed start-off loans In addition, some of our major initiatives in collaboration to publishers for bringing forth creative and knowledgewith local and global networks and development based documents under the refinance scheme of the agencies have been provided below. Bangladesh Bank. A total of Taka 8.4 mn was disbursed to SMALL BUSINESS BANKING NETWORK six entrepreneurs, of which IDLC alone disbursed Taka 6.5 mn to two entrepreneurs. IDLC is a member of the Small Business Banking Network (SBBN), a global industry-building initiative to enhance capacity, competency and willingness of financial institutions to serve small and growing businesses in under-served communities. Besides IDLC, two other banks from Bangladesh are also part of this network. In 2012, SBBN conducted an analysis of IDLC’s SME operations, highlighting the current state of development of small business banking practices of IDLC and subsequently identifying future opportunities. In most of the 35 parameters, IDLC scored higher than average. Currently, we are in the process of availing relevant An inauguration ceremony of these books was arranged services from SBBN for capacity development and higher by the Bangladesh Gyan O Srijonshil Prokashok Shomity efficiency for our SME operations. on 19 February 2014, and Dr. Atiar Rahman, Governor, Bangladesh Bank, was present as the Chief Guest. 88 IDLC | Promoting SME Development SMEs (Small and Medium Enterprises) represent an integral part of the country’s national economy. We not only enable them to access cost-effective capital, but also create platforms to help them take their business ahead. Disbursement under our SME segment in the last five years has reached Taka 26,845 mn, while assets managed have witnessed a CAGR of 49.40 percent over the past five years the fastest in the industry. PROMOTING SME DEVELOPMENT Nababpur is Dhaka’s busiest machine-tools trading centre. Rostum Ali, the proprietor of family-run 'Famous Hardware and Central Hardware and Tools', was wondering what to do with his business, which was suffering from declining sales, fierce competition from Chinese manufacturers and shrinking profits. Owing to the small size of his business, he could not bargain effectively with his local suppliers to earn a good margin on the products that he was selling and could not offer his customers a competitive price. To his dismay, importers of similar products from China were slowly eating away his market share. He had only one way of resolving the impending business crisis: expansion by importing directly from China. The big question: How would he fund his expansion? The simple answer: IDLC! With the first round of financing of around Taka 2.5 mn from IDLC, Rostum expanded his inventory base to a significant level and started offering newer products to his clients. He began importing directly from Chinese manufacturers and with business gaining momentum, he made good profit margins. Within a year, with the help of another round of financing amounting to Taka 5 mn from IDLC, he opened a third outlet, Unique Trading. His businesses today generate a cumulative annual sales of Taka 80 mn. This exponential growth from a humble turnover of Taka 4.3 mn was made possible due to the financing support of IDLC. With about 25 percent of his inventory being imported, IDLC’s financing enables him to avoid inventory piling at ports and therefore minimises the additional cost burden. Rostum is now a happy and successful businessman with 22 people working under him. A proud owner of three trading outlets, he is the perfect epitome of IDLC’s ‘financing happiness’ philosophy! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ACCESS-TO-FINANCE FOR WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS Since introducing the ‘Women Entrepreneur Loan’ facility in 2008, the number of such customers has reached a significant 587 with total disbursements amounting to Taka 701.92 mn in 2013, representing a solid 108 percent disbursement growth as compared with the last year. IDLC also subscribes to the refinancing schemes offered by the Bangladesh Bank for women entrepreneurs. As such, we have been able to finance women entrepreneurs at low interest rates. Till date, total refinancing availed under WEL facility amounted to Taka 84.14 mn since 2009, representing 6.42 percent of the total disbursement amount under this facility over the corresponding period. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS Bangladesh’s socio-economic environment is one of the In 2013, IDLC raised a cumulative Taka 15.28 bn for the key factors that drives business in the country. Despite hospitality and construction sectors comprising such being one of the members of the LDC Group, remarkably, projects as: the country’s GDP growth remains consistent even in the face of an unstable political environment, corruption and ■ Establishment of a five-star hotel under the reputed Corporate Governance issues, among others. However, Le Meridien brand by Best Holdings Limited, a being an emerging economy, Bangladesh is continuing concern of the Metro Group, and under management on its growth trajectory and hence, industrial and large contract of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide project financing has become one of the key drivers of Inc.; this national transition. ■ Establishment of a billet casting plant by BSRM With growing urbanisation in recent decades, demand for Steel Mills Limited, the largest and most respected large infrastructure projects – transport, communications, industrial conglomerate in the country’s steel sector; water and energy, among others – is increasing rapidly. ■ Establishment of an automated brick project under Large-scale financing is required for such projects, Tradexcel Auto Bricks Limited by Aftab Group creating opportunities for IDLC both in terms of fundLimited, one of the largest local conglomerates of raising and direct financing, thus enabling us to actively Bangladesh; participate in the country’s economic growth and business development. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Moreover, IDLC’s Investment Banking team acted as projects also play a vital role in driving demand for the Issue Manager for the IPOs of Paramount Textile syndicated finance for large infrastructure projects. Limited and Matin Spinning Mills Limited from the RMG sector, amounting to Taka 840 mn and Taka 1,261 mn, As a Participating Financial Institution (PFI) offering respectively. It also conducted road shows for the IPO of specialised facilities (like IPFF), paired with our strong Energypac Power Generation Limited under the bookrapport with foreign currency lenders such as the World building method and completed private placement of Bank Group, Asian Development Bank (ADB), DEG, FMO equity, amounting to Taka 1,205 mn and Taka 60 mn and KfW, among others, we are in a unique position to respectively for Energypac Power Generation Limited structure diversified and specialised financing modules and Tosrifa Industries Limited, representing the power suitable to such large-scale projects. generation and RMG sectors of Bangladesh. Over the years, our prime focus for such projects has been In addition, IDLC also provided corporate advisory services in the spaces of energy, construction, hospitality and to Runner Automobiles Limited for raising Taka 1,050 mn public utility, among others. through FDI (Foreign Direct Investment). 91 GREEN FINANCE As a responsible corporate, it is critical for us to remain projects adopting green technologies. The workshop engaged with projects that are environment-friendly and was arranged by the CASE (Clean Air and Sustainable non-polluting, and that support sustainable livelihood Environment) project of the World Bank, under opportunities. Within our various business segments, implementation of the Department of Environment we actively scout for financing opportunities for such (DOE). Clean Energy Alternatives Inc., Xian Research and ‘green’ projects that enable us to enhance our pride Design Institute, and Bangladesh Brick Manufacturing of association as well as strengthen the prestige of our Owners Association were also among the organisers. Over brand. 60 brick field owners attended the workshop. As a Company that prides in being environmentally and socially responsible, IDLC’s major focus areas in this respect include, among others, improving energyefficiency in brick manufacturing; installation of ETPs and waste/ water recycling plants; and promoting alternative and renewable energy projects, including solar home systems and biogas plants. Moreover, we are also focusing on actively increasing awareness among our client groups regarding such green projects and the various environmental and social concerns related to their business. Some of IDLC’s major projects in this regard have been detailed below. ENERGY-EFFICIENCY IN BRICK MANUFACTURING Traditional brick projects are the largest contributors of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) in the country, accounting for 38 percent of total air pollution or around 9.81 mn tonnes of CO2 emission per annum. The Government of Bangladesh, DOs and other multilateral agencies strongly endorse restructuring Bangladesh’s brick sector through the promotion of newer and more energy-efficient brick kiln (EEKs) technologies. IDLC is increasingly focusing on promoting green and energy-efficient technologies in brick manufacturing, among other sectors. The Company has embraced an integrated approach of creating awareness among brick kiln owners regarding the benefits of adopting energyefficient technologies and, as a step further, arranging the necessary funds for this purpose for eligible projects. Thanks to several initiatives of the Bangladesh Bank and JICA, we are also in a position to offer low-cost financing to traditional brick kilns wanting to convert to energyefficient technologies. WORKSHOP WITH BRICK-FIELD OWNERS IDLC participated in a workshop titled ‘Increasing capacity and awareness of brick-field owners on environmentfriendly and energy-efficient brick manufacturing’, on 15 June 2013, at Mirzapur, Tangail. Besides sharing the latest and best technologies to increase efficiency and environmental benefits for the brick fields, IDLC also elaborated on its various financing activities and highlighted its role in extending support towards 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 To rope in technical expertise for such projects, IDLC has also signed a MoU with Clean Energy Alternatives Inc. (CEA) in March 2013. CEA is a US-based organisation offering consultancy services for the adoption of clean and new environment-friendly technologies in different sectors, with particular focus on brick manufacturing. FINANCING ENERGY-EFFICIENCY IN BRICK MANUFACTURING IDLC arranged a syndicated loan facility of Taka 291.67 mn for Tradexcel Auto Bricks Limited, an Aftab Group concern, to set-up an energy-efficient automatic tunnel In addition to enjoying the serene countryside, other kiln brick project in Gazipur. The project has the capacity major attractions will be bicycle rides, guided tours across to manufacture 30 mn pieces of bricks per annum. In local archaeological sites and the Sundarbans (the largest addition to raising funds from a number of banks and FIs, mangrove forest in the world), indoor and outdoor sports, IDLC’s own participation amount was Taka 100 mn. swimming, fishing, farming, cooking, pottery classes, and yoga and meditation, among others. The project is sponsored by renowned corporate houses of Bangladesh including, among others, the A.K. Khan Group, Bay Development Limited and Alliance Group. The hotel will be operated for the first two years by La Paz Group, a globally renowned hospitality advisor for developing and managing similar resorts worldwide. Besides arranging the syndicated loan facility, IDLC is also one of the project financiers. SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS IDLC joined hands with IDCOL, a market leader in the private sector energy and infrastructure financing space in Bangladesh, with the objective of increasing access to finance for businesses that offer alternative energy The tunnel kiln technology is one of the most efficient solutions, specifically solar projects. An MoU was signed technologies available in the sector, ensuring low carbon between the two parties in this regard on 24 July 2013. emissions and thus qualifying the project for carbon credits. IDLC is also exploring the possibility of registering this project under the CDM (Clean Development Mechanism). IDLC also extended finance of Taka 15.21 mn to a modern and environment-friendly brick manufacturing concern in Natore. The factory has a production capacity of around 60,000 bricks per day and the project cost is around Taka 130 mn. The client has also signed an Emission Reduction Transfer Agreement with IIDFC (a Financial Institution in Under this arrangement, IDLC will receive advisory Bangladesh) for selling carbon credits via the UNDP. services from IDCOL to design and launch specialised PANIGRAM RESORT LIMITED financial products for equipment suppliers to participating organisations (POs) under IDCOL’s SHS IDLC is arranging a syndicated term loan and working (Solar Home System) programme, thus capitalising on its capital facility of Taka 450 mn for Panigram Resort expertise of being positioned as one of the pioneers in Limited (PRL), an environment-friendly and sociallythe Supplier Finance Services in Bangladesh. responsible boutique eco-resort and spa, the first of its kind in Bangladesh. Located over 40 bighas (13 acres) at IDCOL’s SHS programme is one of the largest and most Hakimpur village in Jessore district, Panigram offers statesuccessful renewable energy programmes in the world. In of-the-art facilities showcasing the bounteous nature and Bangladesh, IDCOL has covered 6 percent of the country’s the rich cultural heritage of Bangladesh. entire population with SHS and expects to finance 4 mn such systems by 2015. 93 GREEN FINANCE DESK To actively pursue green and environment-friendly SUPPORTING HOME projects, IDLC has recently formed a dedicated Green Finance Desk. The Green Finance Desk will be responsible OWNERSHIP for identifying prospective sectors to take forward the Home Ownership is an important indicator of a stable Company’s green finance agenda, maintain liaison with and prosperous community. At IDLC, we offer borrowers the Bangladesh Bank and other DOs and multilateral (including NRBs) a diverse range of facilities, enabling agencies to channel low-cost funds to clients for them to realise their dreams of owning a home. IDLC is implementing such green projects, ensure compliance among the market leaders in the country’s home loan with all applicable environmental rules and regulations sector with its January 2014 disbursements surpassing for existing as well as new projects, and coordinate with that of all major market players. all departments to ensure timely implementation of the In 2013, total Home Loan disbursements amounted to activities detailed in IDLC’s Green Banking Policy, as per Taka 4,421 mn, registering a growth of 61.61 percent over requirements of the Bangladesh Bank. the same period last year, and contributing 87.70 percent to the total 2013 disbursement of the Consumer Division. ENVIRONMENTAL Also, the home loan asset size reached Taka 11,308 mn in 2013, registering a growth of 35 percent over the same period last year. AND SOCIAL IMPACT With this, in 2013 alone, IDLC enabled over 1,500 families own their life’s most important asset – a home. ASSESSMENT Prior to engaging in large-scale infrastructure and manufacturing projects, IDLC’s Structured Finance Department, with the help of external consultants, conducts a comprehensive Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA). The ESIA focuses on identifying possible adverse impacts on the environment and surrounding communities resulting from project activities and formulates feasible mitigation measures that are part of the project cost. ESIAs are generally required for investments involving greenfield projects or significant expansion or modification programmes of an existing facility, before the authorisation of the proposed development. It may also require consultation with those groups that are expected to be affected by the project and prescribe procedures for notifications, public disclosure of the draft ESIA and public review and comments. RIO PRINCIPLES This is in line with Article 15 of the Rio Principles that states that in order to protect the environment, the ‘Precautionary Approach’ has Performance Highlights of 2013 to be widely applied, comprising a full-fledged scientific research or such measures should ■ Participation in the four-day REHAB Summer Fair, 2013, which provided an ideal platform for IDLC to be employed which may describe the harmful showcase its wide range of products, especially home effects on the public or the environment. loan facilities, to target customers. This event also Where there are threats of serious or irreversible helped reinforce the Company’s robust presence in damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not the home loan market of Bangladesh. be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation ■ Product and service communication sessions with real estate developers, including Quantum Properties, and in case of any damage, the concerned group Rupali Garden Grihayan Limited, Sarker Builders and will be held liable. Developers Limited, and Assure Builders Limited. 94 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ■ Distribution of ‘Registraloan’ e-brochures among for Future Limited, leading real estate companies of 908 developers across Bangladesh. Registraloan is Bangladesh. the first-of-a-kind loan product in Bangladesh that facilitates apartment buyers in meeting property ■ Training sessions for staff under the banner of registration costs. ‘Bangladesh Bank Guidelines and our requirements for Real Estate Finance’. ■ Sessions arranged on home loan services for the top management and officials of the BTI and Building CUSTOMER SERVICE AND CLIENT ENGAGEMENT IDLC’s Structured Finance Department arranged a seminar Placement of complaint/ suggestion boxes across all titled ‘Syndication Financing in Bangladesh – Past, branches for customers to share their feedback and Present & Beyond’ in February 2014, in participation of key suggestions to improve IDLC's service delivery standards, stakeholders related to Syndication Financing, including and to lodge complaints, if faced with any dissatisfaction. banks and FIs acting as lead arrangers and Participating Financial Institutions, as well as sponsors and regulators. Seminar on cancer and spinal diseases with Parkway Pantai (Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore), arranged by the Consumer Division for the platinum clients of IDLC and their spouses. Renowned senior consultants of oncology, neurology and urology from Parkway and Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore, attended the session and shared important information with those present. Distribution of seasonal fruits to high net-worth clients of the Consumer Division. Film shows for valued clients of the Consumer Division. The seminar aimed to bring the relevant stakeholders in a single forum to discuss various prospects, challenges and SMS greetings on Bengali New Year sent to all Consumer opportunities related to loan syndication in Bangladesh, division customers. and agree on individual and joint action plans to improve delivery of the syndication deals. In addition to NPS SURVEY a presentation by IDLC, a roundtable discussion was also In 2013, IDLC’s SME and Consumer Divisions carried out conducted with the participants. the ‘Net Promoter Score (NPS ) Survey’ among 4,550 In keeping with its pledge to offer innovative financial of its clients. NPS, developed by Fred Reichheld, Bain & services to its customers, IDLC recently introduced an Company and Satmetrix, is a tool to measure ‘Customer ‘SME Welcome Pack’ for its new SME customers. Loyalty’, and is globally recognized to measure the Company’s share of ‘Promoters’ over its ‘Detractors’. Against a global industry average of +24 for financial services, IDLC’s SME-SEF has scored an NPS of +59, while the Liability and Asset segments of the Consumer Division have earned NPSs of +61 and +56 respectively. IDLC will leverage on this significant achievement and will Mr. Sukamal Sinha Chowdhury, former General Manager, SME and Special Programmes Department of the Bangladesh Bank, attended the launching ceremony along with other senior officials of the Bangladesh Bank and IDLC. Introduction of the SME loan application forms aimed at making SME loan applications simple and more customerfriendly. continue to use NPS as a measure of customer experience and satisfaction over its products and services. The Launching of 'Customer Relationship Management' confidence thus gained will help IDLC achieve its vision to guidelines for the Consumer Division and subsequent ‘be the best financial brand in the country’. training to relevant members. 95 FINANCIAL INCLUSION For IDLC, ‘Financial Inclusion’ refers to our contribution, ‘lease financing’ with which we started operations 29 both through our business activities and CSR initiatives, to years back, and we now have a diversified basket of improve the ability of an individual, household or group products and services across all the business segments – to access appropriate financial services or products at Corporate, SME, Consumer and Capital Markets. Moreover, affordable costs. maintaining customer privacy remains our top priority. Our Financial Inclusion programmes focus on the Consumer Financial Inclusion, whereby we share with following areas: them product information and help them understand which products and services are best suited to their Access, whereby we facilitate access of our target groups needs. IDLC’s Business Units regularly conduct sessions, to affordable and appropriate financial products and as well as participate in various events throughout the services. Our network of 26 branches and 2 booths in year, to create awareness among both existing and all major locations across the country serves this very potential client groups regarding products and service purpose. Moreover, in 2014, we have plans to open 4 offerings appropriate for them. Moreover, from the CSR more branches in different regions outside Dhaka. Department, training sessions are conducted across Affordability, whereby we ensure availability of financial underprivileged youth groups on both financial and nonproducts and services at affordable costs that are in line financial issues to help them in their future job fields. with our target groups’ ability to pay back. Refinancing Innovation and Diversification, whereby we are actively facilities availed from the Bangladesh Bank for our investing time and resources to not only come up with SME clients, especially women entrepreneurs, as well innovative and diversified product solutions, but also to as low-cost funds availed from different multilateral improve efficiency and provide the best possible services organisations, are examples of our commitment in this to our clients at all times. regard. Quality, whereby we focus on all the above issues, as well Appropriateness, whereby we customize our products as service delivery capacity of each and every member of and service offerings to meet unique needs of our IDLC to ensure the best customer experience at all times. diverse client groups. We have come a long way from 96 CHAPTER 8 EMPLOYEE WELFARE 97 MAJOR INDICATORS OF HR MANAGEMENT Staff Strength Female Participation in Workforce 98 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Development and Productivity Recruitment Status 99 CORE PHILOSOPHIES OF HR MANAGEMENT The core philosophies of IDLC’s HR management policies NON-DISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL and practices rest on three broad aspects: OPPORTUNITY The concept of non-discrimination and equal opportunity or meritocracy refers to the act of awarding important jobs and/ or roles to those ‘most qualified’ for the task without any prejudice in terms of age, gender, race, religion and ethnicity or any other physical or characteristic attributes. With this view in mind, we prioritise selection and recruitment of the best-suited candidates for different roles across the organisation. Non-discrimination at all levels of human resource management has been integrated in IDLC’s core values and is a part of the employee Code of Conduct. We consider meritocracy and performance as the most important criteria during recruitment and evaluation. In addition to avoiding individual characteristics which may trigger potential discrimination, IDLC is also opposed to any tradition, policy, idea or practice that may lead to any form of discrimination, whether actual or perceived. GENDER NEUTRALITY To live up to our commitment of non-discrimination DIVERSITY and equal opportunity, IDLC’s major focus continues The management of diversity is a core element of IDLC’s to be centered around gender neutrality. Towards this long-term strategy. Not only is this exercised in terms of end, we strive to achieve a better balance between male age, gender, religion and ethnicity, it is also propagated and female staff across our organisation, particularly via the inclusion of different educational and professional at the managerial and decision-making levels, with a backgrounds to add new dimensions and perspectives strong commitment of the Board and the Management in our culture and practices. This directly adds to our Committee in this regard. We are particularly keen on marketplace competitiveness. We also believe that developing female colleagues within the organisation managing a diverse workforce is the key to respond to the for better gender balance, rather than external hiring. varying needs of our diversified customer base. We also strive to continue to eradicate unconscious and unintentional biases that may be directed at female Owing to the geographic limitation of our operations, our employees. diversity management policies are focused on the people of Bangladesh only. However, we continue to prioritise However, we do not resort to any preferential system such recruitment from our respective places of operations, as the ‘Quota’ system or the ‘Affirmative Action’ policy thus promoting cultural diversity and inclusion across to increase female participation across the workforce. the organisation while providing equal access to job Ensuring staff quality remains our top priority and female opportunities to individuals from multiple backgrounds participation is encouraged without compromising on and geographic regions. this core aspect or without engaging in any practice that may be perceived as ‘Reverse Discrimination’ in itself. 100 IDLC | Empowering Women We strongly believe that women represent a ‘value-added multiplier’ of the society. Empowering women is equivalent to empowering a family, which in turn is equivalent to empowering a community and a nation. As a step towards women empowerment, we have created a unique ‘Women Entrepreneur Loan’ facility to encourage and support women in business; and funds disbursed under this segment reached Taka 701.92 mn in 2013, registering a growth of 108 percent over the same period last year. EMPOWERING WOMEN Fahima Akhter’s story is the story of guts, will and determination. Fahima is the owner of Hridoy Enterprise, a plastic toy manufacturing company. Established in 2006 as a small-scale enterprise with a capital of Taka 0.5 mn, in a small corner of her house, a handmachine and a handful of labourers were her only associates. With sheer grit, she ensured that her toys found a way into the market. But to be a step ahead of competition, she realised that she had to manufacture better quality products at reasonable prices. In 2010, Fahima came to know about IDLC’s SME loans and applied for a lease finance of Taka 0.6 mn to establish an injection moulding machine. The loan was approved immediately and with the incorporation of the equipment, her annual sales almost doubled. Seeing an increase in demand for her toys, Fahima then applied for another lease finance loan in 2012, which amounted to Taka 1.2 mn, to purchase another injection moulding machine. This augmented her annual sales by 60 percent. To maximise production and capacity utilisation, she thereafter took a loan of Taka 1.5 mn as working capital, at the end of 2013. Today, with 12 labourers working in her factory, her company’s yearly sale is in excess of Taka 25 mn! IDLC’s relationship with Hridoy Enterprise extends over four years. The capital injected in 2006 has today crossed over Taka 10 mn. IDLC is proud to be associated with Fahima and looks forward to strengthen its ties further with her as also with many other women entrepreneurs it supports. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 “IDLC has grown exponentially over the years. To sustain this momentum, the Company is putting everincreasing focus on the expansion of its core business functions. And this can only be gained with strong teams across all segments of Corporate, SME, Consumer and Capital Market operations. As such, for the past few years, IDLC has resorted to recruitment of only frontline staff, compared to the support units, and further improve the current tooth-to-tail ratio of 2.7:1 (for every 3 (approx.) business persons, there is 1 in the support unit). However, during recruitment, most female candidates opt for a position in the support unit, as they do not want to cope with the immense pressures of business target achievements and regular visits outside the office. As a result, although the Board and Management of IDLC have the intention of growing our female pool, it is facing a gradual decline without any conscious bias imposed by IDLC. At the same time, it is to be noted that our primary focus is always on the quality of our human resources, regardless of their gender, and we do not resort to any quota system to increase female participation at the expense of the quality of our HR pool.” Bilquis Jahan Head of Human Resources IDLC Finance Limited offer challenging prospects to young and competent HR AND COMPENSATION professionals, seek to make career development opportunities widely available, and encourage employees COMMITTEE to attain both professional and personal goals. Simply put, IDLC’s HR and Compensation Committee is a forum for we strive to continue being a company that attracts the discussing various HR-related issues. The committee’s best people who want to work with us. principal role and function is to assist the HR Department in developing and administering a fair and transparent procedure for setting a policy on the overall human HIRING PRACTICES resource strategy of the Company. Our diversity commitment includes multiple aspects such as gender, age, religion, ethnicity, background and The responsibility of the Committee is to ensure equal cultural orientation, and physical characteristics including opportunity and transparency in terms of: disability. IDLC does not believe in quota systems or ■ Suitable recruitments special preferences to fulfill its ambition of having a diverse workforce and increasing female participation, ■ Compensation on the basis of merit, qualification and since quality of our human resources remains at the core competence of our business. Moreover, we prefer local hiring to fill ■ Adequate training and development facilities in important positions across the Company’s different branches; however, such recruitment is subject to proper ■ Performance appraisal and promotion based on assessment of the candidate following standard hiring individual performance and contribution procedures. In 2013, IDLC Group paid Taka 593 mn as salaries and We do not fulfill our commitment to a diverse workforce allowances to its staff. by simply increasing the head-count; rather we work closely with our external head hunting agencies, helping WORK ENVIRONMENT them understand our diversity priorities and ensuring access to the widest possible pool of talent. Rather than At IDLC, we strive to promote a workplace environment just expanding minority representation in our workforce, where diversity is embraced, where employee evaluation we strive to foster an organisational culture with shared is based on merit and performance, and where values and beliefs. colleagues treat each other with respect and dignity. We 103 CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT TRAINING PROGRAMMES The training sessions focused on a wide variety of topics, including general training on basic banking operations, IDLC actively invests in the growth and development of professional salesmanship, business etiquette and its most important asset – its employees. We organise professional excellence, Flexcube product development, training programmes and workshops throughout the product application processes, credit risk management year, suiting specific needs of our employees for both and customer relationship management, among others, their personal and professional development. In 2013, we as well as advanced and specialised training that address invested Taka 23.02 mn in organising different training critical efficiency and performance-related issues. programmes and workshops, participated by 1,592 employees. IDLC also conducted a session with all its pool-car drivers on basic road safety issues in 2013. 104 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 JOB ROTATION IDLC strongly encourages job rotation among its STAFF MANAGEMENT employees across the organisation, especially those PERFORMANCE EVALUATION in the managerial category. This thought process has been formalised across the Group, and all Management An effective performance management process with Trainees are subject to a rotation period of at least six non-discrimination and equal opportunity is critical to our months. long-term success. In addition to end results involving target achievement/ INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES completion of job objectives, the entire process of IDLC offers extensive internship programmes to fresh achieving targets is also equally important for us to graduates from the country’s leading public and private evaluate staff on the basis of competency, and moral and universities. Interns undergo a three-month training ethical standards. Comprehensive feedback is provided programme with different business and support units to each employee regarding their expectations on pay and are eligible to apply for a permanent position in and promotion while also highlighting each individual’s the Company at the end of the period and subject to strengths and areas on which they need to work. available vacancies. Starting from 2013, IDLC has switched to job objectiveSuch programmes provide them the opportunity to based performance appraisal system for all employees in familiarise themselves with the corporate culture and managerial positions and gradually, the same appraisal work environment while developing competitive skills for method will become applicable across the entire future careers. organisation. Moreover, towards ensuring stronger transparency and efficiency, the Company is in the SUCCESSION PLANNING process of automating the entire appraisal system, requiring supervisors to complete the process online. IDLC has a strong succession planning structure to This will help in proper record maintenance and MIS ensure leadership continuity, as well as to avoid extended generation, as and when required. vacancies in key decision-making and operational roles due to resignations, new career opportunities and/ or demise. Suitable candidates are identified for key positions through careful selection and appraisal methods and are progressively groomed, helping them perform their responsibilities in line with the organisation’s mission, goals and strategies. 105 GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT AND COUNSELING FLEXIBILITY IDLC focuses on prompt and impartial resolution of WORK-LIFE BALANCE employee grievances, resulting from any discrimination IDLC is keen to help its employees strike the balance and/ or deprivation. The Company always makes it a between their personal and professional lives. Although point to reassure employees that they will be treated working from home is not a suitable option considering fairly at all times and if faced with an unwanted the nature of our operations that involves dealing with situation not corresponding to the core values of sensitive customer information on a regular basis, IDLC the organisation, employees are always at liberty to employees enjoy favourable and reasonable working inform the management, as mandated in the relevant hours so that they can ensure a balance between their policies. Employees are assured that their complaints are professional and personal life and interests. The IDLC addressed without delay and judiciously by ManCom management hosts a flexible approach towards the members. overall working hours and leave facilities availed by our Our whistle-blower policy is one such notable attempt staff. by IDLC to handle employee grievances more effectively. Moreover, proper counseling is also offered to employees PLACEMENT in the event of such grievances. While placing its staff across departments, IDLC not only considers their preferred roles, but also their preferred HEALTH AND SAFETY location of operation across different branches. IDLC is also flexible in terms of inter-department and/ or interbranch transfer of its staff, as per their needs and suiting WORKPLACE SAFETY the requirements of the position. The nature of our activities exposes our employees to the minimum occupational health and safety risks. However, we maintain a safe, healthy and hygienic EMPLOYEE BENEFITS work environment at all branches of the IDLC Group. At IDLC, major facilities covered by our benefit schemes Sufficient lighting and other utilities, air-conditioning include performance bonus, insurance coverage, welfare and separate toilet facilities are ensured. All our branches fund and loan facilities (such as housing loan, transport are adequately equipped with fire-fighting equipments, loan and personal loan). Company contributions include and fire drills and fire safety training are held at regular transport maintenance support scheme, furniture and intervals to prepare employees in the event of any fire household equipment allowance, education support hazard. Moreover, we also provide medical check-up scheme and annual recognition scheme. facilities every two weeks at our major branches. To encourage greater participation by all female MATERNITY BENEFITS employees, we provide such facilities as flexible working hours, maternity benefits and transportation facilities to IDLC’s female staff is entitled to maternity benefits and home after late working hours, among others. paid leave facilities, which has been extended to six months from four months earlier. Moreover, the Company is exploring the possibility of offering daycare centre facilities to employees with newborn babies and/ or STAFF ENGAGEMENT pre-school aged children. Till date, the retention rate following maternity leave has been 100 percent across LIFE AT IDLC the Company. IDLC is focused on its employees as well as on the business and overall social environment. Throughout the EMPLOYEE HEALTH MANAGEMENT year, we arrange different events including employee birthday celebrations, family days, picnics, celebrations IDLC provides comprehensive life and hospitalisation on the birth of a child, iftar party, barbeque party and insurance coverage to its employees. Moreover, health sports events that help create strong bonding among awareness sessions are also organised with third-party employees. service providers on a regular basis. We also arrange team building sessions and off-sites IDLC conducts vaccination programmes against Hepatitis that enhance employee commitment and sense of B and Cervical Cancer for its employees and their family belongingness towards the Company. Additionally, members. Regular awareness sessions are also arranged IDLC also fulfills its Corporate Social Responsibility for for our staff members. community and societal uplift by engaging its staff. 106 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EMPLOYEE EVENTS IN 2013 An SME sales conference was arranged in September 2013 to recognise and reward outstanding individuals The ‘Sales Night’ for the Consumer Division was arranged and the collective performance of the IDLC SME team. in 2013 for the second time, which saw participation of This was an ideal platform to share achievements of the IDLC’s management committee members, Consumer top performers and the success mantra of various teams. team and other stakeholders, along with their spouses. Marked with various performances by our staff, this event was a good opportunity to strengthen bonds with both our internal and external stakeholders. ORIENTATION All new recruits at IDLC undergo a thorough orientation session to comprehensively understand our core business and support functions. Usually, this session is conducted IDLC conducted a number of sales campaigns throughout after two to three months of their working with IDLC 2013, including ‘Fortune Earner Campaign’, ‘CD Champs’ and this helps them relate closely with our functions, and ‘Mission: Invincible’. The best performers were strategies and objectives. rewarded through formal events. MOTIVATION To ensure continued performance and high morale among our employees, IDLC uses rewards and activities such as spot awards, team-building programmes, and corporate and family events such as picnic, family day and corporate night, among others. COMMUNICATION Our employee engagement mechanism includes internal communication and employee volunteering initiatives. In addition to rewarding the best performers, IDLC also Emails are circulated on a regular basis, updating launched a new sales campaign in February 2014. employees of IDLC’s recent initiatives/ achievements, Bangladesh Bank regulations, and changing money VTS WITH GRAMEENPHONE LIMITED markets, among others. A soft copy of the MBR (Monthly IDLC has partnered with Grameenphone Limited, the Business Review), IDLC’s monthly publication, is also largest telecom operator in Bangladesh, to offer Vehicle circulated among all employees. Tracking Services (VTS), a value-added service to all customers and employees of the IDLC Group at a special VOLUNTEERING price. Subsequent training was also provided to IDLC As part of employee volunteering initiatives, IDLC employees on the use of the VTS service. employees are involved in the arrangement of various events across the Group as well as engaging with different CSR activities through idea sharing and/ or active participation. 107 CHAPTER 9 ACCOUNTABILITY THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 108 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IDLC has faced several challenges in designing and implementing practical and need-based CSR initiatives. Some of these include: ■ Lack of awareness among majority of the people regarding the true essence of CSR; ■ Limited CSR budget, acting as a constraint in undertaking large-scale projects; ■ Limited expertise and networking in various field-level activities; Towards actively addressing these issues, IDLC engaged with the following stakeholder groups in 2013: Stakeholder Groups Rationale for Selection Regulators  Receive guidance on CSR strategies and project ideas  Share innovative projects with other banks and FIs  Gain mileage among other banks and FIs Core Management  Integrate CSR and Sustainability issues in policies and strategies across all functions and departments  Trickle the impact and commitment down the ladder, across the execution team Employees  Create staff awareness on CSR issues (‘walk the talk’)  Generate new and diverse ideas  Leverage staff expertise in community-based projects and knowledge-sharing  Create greater motivation among the workforce Clients  Overcome budget constraints by adopting a cost-sharing approach for projects jointly undertaken with clients  Benefit from client’s specialised knowledge and expertise  Gain better mileage, trust and respect among client groups DOs/ NGOs  Leverage on the expertise of the DOs/ NGOs  Implement tried-and-tested and successful project models, instead of formulating new ones Community  Tap the potential of the underprivileged sections of the community  Actively engage in women empowerment  Contribute to the economic and social freedom of the underprivileged APPROACHES FOR ENGAGEMENT: 2013 plans. This allows sharing of management perceptions and suggestions, devising measures to overcome AND BEYOND constraints and challenges, and approving necessary REGULATORS funds for undertaking various CSR initiatives. Moreover, this provides the scope to actively integrate CSR and IDLC is accountable to the Green Banking and CSR Sustainability considerations in formulating departmentDepartment (GB&CSRD) of the Bangladesh Bank for its specific strategies and activities, thus rolling out CSR activities under Green Banking and CSR. IDLC maintains a across the whole organisation. good rapport with its officials. Their guidance and advice plays a significant role in shaping our green banking and In 2014, a major management decision has been the CSR strategies and activities. rollout of Green Banking and ESMS across IDLC, which will enhance greater environmental and social compliance Going forward, IDLC will continue to enhance across IDLC’s core operations. engagement levels with Bangladesh Bank officials and invite them in major CSR programmes and events for EMPLOYEES them to share their valuable feedback. Employee awareness and engagement remains a top CORE MANAGEMENT priority for IDLC. In 2013, the Company embraced a number of strategies to ensure greater staff awareness The CSR Department provides monthly updates to and participation in its CSR events. the Management Committee on the implementation status of existing CSR projects, outcome and challenges ■ CSR sessions conducted in orientation programmes encountered, status of budget utilisation, and future for new recruits 109 ■ Two-day CSR attachment for Management Trainees expertise of the partners involved. This allowed IDLC to during their rotation period outsource certain activities to those with proven expertise, including short-listing geographic areas, selecting ■ Regular updates of CSR activities shared with IDLC beneficiary groups, identifying areas of intervention, and staff through emails field-level monitoring and coordination on a daily basis, ■ Higher staff participation to conduct communityamong others. based CSR programmes Moreover, IDLC implemented some projects following In 2014, IDLC has undertaken the additional step to established and successful models, instead of reinventing engage staff from different branches for its various CSR the wheel. events and engage them for communicating updates IDLC also attended various workshops, seminars and with their colleagues in their respective branches. multi-party dialogues arranged by these DOs/NGOs. CLIENTS COMMUNITY In 2013, IDLC focused on a ‘Partnership Approach’ with IDLC responded to its community commitment by one of its major corporate clients. The collaboration addressing two major aspects: skills development and focused on adopting projects beneficial to the client’s sustainable/ alternative livelihood generation. Two core business and also aligned with IDLC’s CSR of IDLC’s major projects in 2013 revolved around this commitment. Details of the project have been provided approach: skills development of underprivileged citizens in the section titled ‘Developing Skilled Resources for the from North Bengal and subsequent employment in the RMG Sector’ (page 57). RMG sector, and the Model Village Project targeting Considering the successful outcome of this initiative, capacity building among the youth groups and IDLC intends to embrace a similar approach in 2014 as community residents. Details of these projects have been well. This measure has the potential to help the Company provided in the sections ‘Developing Skilled Resources for overcome budget constraints, benefit from the partner’s the RMG Sector’ and ‘Model Village Project’ in pages 57 specialised expertise and strengthen the community and 64 respectively. brand equity. IDLC will continue activities under these two projects DOs/ NGOs in 2014 as well, and will also initiate a number of new projects focused on vocational training for the In 2013, IDLC focused on a “Partnership Approach” with underprivileged children groups. various DOs and NGOs, bringing on board specialised TOPICS RAISED THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Issues that were prioritised throughout IDLC’s engagement with its stakeholder groups include the following: Priority Issues Relevant Stakeholder Groups Projects addressing these Issues Skills Development Clients; DOs/ NGOs Developing Skilled Manpower for the RMG Sector; and Livelihood Generation DOs/ NGOs; Community Model Village Project Enhanced Opportunities for Regulators; Employees; Developing Skilled Manpower for the RMG Sector; Model Underprivileged Group DOs/ NGOs Village Project; liaison with organisations like SEID Trust and LEADS; and Blanket Distribution Awareness Buildup Regulators; Core Employee awareness sessions on CSR and Sustainability; Management staff engagement in various CSR projects; Environmental Awareness sessions across schools; IDLC Ladies’ Forum Multi-party Approach Core Management; DOs/ Developing Skilled Manpower for the RMG Sector; Model NGOs Village Project; Environmental Awareness sessions across schools; Blanket Distribution Improved E&S Performance Regulators; DOs; Core Adopting the Green Banking Policy of the Bangladesh Management Bank; ESMS implementation across IDLC Policy Level Changes Regulators Adopting the Green Banking Policy of the Bangladesh Bank Reporting* Core Management; Publication of a standalone Sustainability Report; Regulators submission of quarterly Green Banking Report and halfyearly CSR Statement to the Bangladesh Bank Note: IDLC Management is also considering External Assurance for its Sustainability Report in future, adding to its credibility and acceptability in the international arena 110 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CSR PROGRESS REPORT Progress in 2013 vis-à-vis previous years. Particulars Current Status Future Plan Dialogue session in September 2012 with Initiation of training programme on 12 batches to be completed till the RMG sector, NGOs and DOs and the 1 June 2013; and completion of two 2015; public sector regarding skills development batches and sustainable livelihood generation for The 3rd and 4th batches are now the underprivileged undergoing training (page 57); Initiation of Environmental Awareness 11 schools have been covered till date; 20 initial and 20 follow-up Campaign for school students, jointly with A workshop has also been arranged on sessions targeted in 2014; LEADS, in October 2012 22 March 2014, participated by school teachers to formally bring the schools on board and coordinate sessions in their respective schools in a structured manner (page 42); Regular plantation activities across areas Plantation of 1,000 saplings at Mirpur Homestead and roadside including University of Dhaka; Satchari, DOHS in 2013 (page 50); plantation programmes planned Sylhet; Mirpur DOHS and different in Mymensingh and Chittagong educational institutions in 2014; Streamlining environmental management Development of Green Banking Policy Implementation of activities across IDLC by conducting carbon footprint for IDLC (page 39); required under the Green analysis of three branches on a pilot basis Banking Policy, to be completed Formation of Green Banking Unit, in 2012 by June 2015; development of a dedicated Green Banking Desk, and rollout of Green Introduction of Environmental Risk Banking activities (page 40); Management (ERM) guidelines in our Implementation of Environmental and Credit Assessment Process and voluntary Social Management System (ESMS), adoption of a checklist based on UNGC starting from March 2014 (page 41); Principles in 2012 Environment-friendly technologies Continuous upgrade of the IT Continuous investment in IT such as server virtualisation and video infrastructure through process infrastructure and operational conferencing, reducing both power automation, improved connectivity, and processes; consumption and CO2 emission. lower paper requirement (page 51); Partnership with LEADS and SEID Trust Sponsoring 15 children each from SEID Continuing partnerships with for providing better opportunities to the Trust and LEADS (page 76); SEID Trust and LEADS; underprivileged children Sponsoring vocational training Day-long event with 'Families for Children', an orphanage based in Uttara, facilities for children of these Dhaka (page 76); organisations; Blood donation programme for the Programmes arranged at IDLC’s 2 more blood donation Bangladesh Thalassaemia Hospital Chittagong and Dilkusha branches programmes planned in 2014; (page 81); Distribution of blankets and warm clothes Distribution of 2,650 blankets and warm Similar arrangements will be to the marginalised clothes in various areas of North Bengal, made in 2014 as well; however, Jessore and Chittagong (page 73); the beneficiary groups will change; Distribution of computers to three schools Computers provided to the Youth Club A policy will be formed to donate in Jessore of Sadarpur Village, Rangpur, to set old PCs from IDLC to different up an IT centre to facilitate computer schools for the underprivileged lessons by the Youth Club members children; (page 70); 111 Particulars Current Status Future Plan Employee vaccination 2nd batch completed in February 2014 3rd batch will start in 2014, along (page 106); with an awareness session; Staff awareness and engagement in CSR  Management Trainees working Engaging IDLC staff in different activities with the CSR department for two CSR events days during their rotation period;  CSR orientation sessions for new recruits at IDLC;  CSR sessions with sales team members of the Consumer Division; BENEFICIARIES OF IDLC'S SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Since 2011, IDLC, through its CSR activities focusing on community engagement and environmental development, has directly benefited more than 13,000 people. Projects Direct Beneficiaries Developing Skilled Resources for the RMG Sector (2012 till date) 88 Model Village Project (2012 till date) Primary Healthcare Awareness 145 IT training for Youth Club members 50 Accounting training for Youth Club members 32 Training on the preparation of organic fertilizers 50 Homestead tree plantation 228 Community plantation at Satchari in 2012 (750 households, and a minimum of 4 members per 3,000 household) School Programmes (2012 till date) 610 SEID Trust (beneficiaries since 2011) 50 LEADS: Providing educational and healthcare materials (35 children and their family members) 140 Sponsorship (in 2013) 15 Shishu Bikash Chhaya (in 2012) 17 Day-long event at Families for Children (in 2013) 150 Blanket distribution in North Bengal, Jessore and Chittagong (2011 till date) 9,100 Blood donation programme (2011 till date) 190 One-on-one contributions 2 Total no of Direct Beneficiaries 13,867 It is to be noted that through its business operations, IDLC has helped start new businesses/ expand existing ones, and thus indirectly contributed in creating thousands of jobs over the past three decades. 112 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 IDLC | Contributing to a Healthy Nation Bangladesh is an impoverished country and it is our responsibility to make a meaningful difference in terms of envisioning a society that has access to the basic healthcare facilities. Towards achieving this goal, we support initiatives that are focused on the health, hygiene and well-being of the underprivileged group, especially children; arrange regular blood donation campaigns; and have also organized several health check-up camps in the rural areas with limited availability of healthcare facilities covering over 500 beneficiaries. In addition, we invest heavily in providing healthcare benefits and insurance coverage to our staff and their families for their continued well-being. 113 CONTRIBUTING TO A HEALTHY NATION We believe that health is the first stepping stone towards a productive and prosperous life. The children at LEADS, IDLC's long-term community partner, and their families, are provided with basic healthcare amenities to sustain their livelihoods and protect them from diseases and illnesses. 13-year-old Kakoli of Jhigatola was one of the many recipients of a medical kit and a water-purifier provided by IDLC. Not having to boil water everyday, Kakoli’s mother is now tension free, because filtered water is available at the click of a button! The medical kit has also helped little Kakoli and her neighbours, who turn to her for Savlon for cuts and sores. A proud result of our small efforts, there has been lesser complaints of water-borne illnesses! 114 CHAPTER 10 COMPLIANCE 115 GRI CONTENT INDEX This document has been prepared following the Global Reporting Initiatives (G3.1) Indicator Protocols and its Financial Sector Supplement. IDLC has self-declared this Report to be conforming to Application Level “B”. For attaining Application Level “B”, i.e. the second level of GRI Reporting, we have reported our progress against specific performance indicators detailed below, while making Management Disclosure against each mentioned category. Status of Compliance against Performance Indicators Coverage Performance Indicators Addressed Not Addressed NA Economic Performance Indicators 8 2 0 Environmental Performance Indicators 12 10 11 Social Performance Indicators – Labor Practice and Decent Work 9 2 4 Social Performance Indicators – Human Rights 4 8 0 Social Performance Indicators – Society 10 2 0 Social Performance Indicators – Product Responsibility 7 1 2 FS Supplement – Product and Service Impact 4 3 0 Compliance Status 54 28 17 *Including Financial Sector (FS) Supplements The compliance status has been presented using the following indicators: Addressed Not Addressed NA Not Applicable for IDLC 116 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Detailed compliance status has been provided in the GRI Content Index below. GRI Content Index Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionStatement of the CEO and Managing maker of the organisation (example CEO, Director Chair, or equivalent senior position) about the 1 relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and Statement of the CEO and Managing 1 opportunities. Director Key Impact Areas and Opportunities 5 Risk Management 36 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation IDLC Finance Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Our Service Offerings 20 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Our Organisational Chart (Organogram) 19 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation Bangladesh operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Public Limited Company 2.7 Markets served Branch Network 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation IDLC Profile 15 Shareholding Structure 18 Key Financial Indicators 23 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Reporting Parameters 3 period in terms of size, structure and ownership Shareholding Structure 18 Key Financial Indicators 23 Major Indicators of HR Management 98 Branch Network 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Awards and Recognitions 133 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report April 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point regarding the report or its Zurat Haque contents Head of CSR IDLC Finance Limited Tel: +880-2-8834990, Ext 178; Cell: +880-1713-047075 Email: zurat@idlc.com 3.5 Process for defining report content Reporting Parameters 3 3.6 Boundary of the report Reporting Parameters 3 3.7 Any specific limitation on the scope of the Reporting Parameters 3 report 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries that may Reporting Parameters 3 affect comparability from period-to-period 117 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis All data has been collected from respective of calculations, including assumptions and departments and/ or stakeholders, along with techniques underlying estimations applied to supporting documents. The data has been the compilation of the indicators and other compiled either based on actual information, or information in the report. Explain any decisions based on estimations, the basis of which has been not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, provided along with each data/ information. the GRI Indicator Protocols. IDLC has followed the GRI Guidelines throughout this report, as is required for conforming to application level “B”. 3.10 Explanation in terms of any restatement of No such restatement has been made. information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Reporting Parameters periods in terms of scope, boundary or 3 measurement methods applied in this report 3.12 GRI Content Index: Table identifying location of GRI Content Index 116 Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to IDLC has not sought any external assurance for seeking external assurance for the report. its sustainability reports till date. It is currently If not included in the assurance report self-declaring the Application Levels of the accompanying the sustainability report, explain Sustainability Report, as per the GRI Application the scope and basis of any external assurance Level Criteria. provided. Also explain the relationship However, IDLC Management is keen on availing between the reporting organisation and the external assurance for its Sustainability Report external assurance provider(s). going forward, adding value to the quality of the report. Governance, Commitment and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, Chapter 4: Governance and Compliance including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific 27 tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 If the Chair of the highest governance body is Board of Directors 31 also an executive officer 4.3 For unitary board structure, the number of Board of Directors members of the highest governance body 31 that are independent and/ or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders or employees Board Meetings and Annual General Meetings to provide recommendations to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members Performance Evaluation of the highest governance body, senior 33 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s Remuneration performance (including social and 33 environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Conflicts of Interest body to ensure conflicts of interest are 33 avoided. 118 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Qualification of the Board Members and expertise of the members of the 33 highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, Selection and Appointment of New Directors 33 environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Sustainability Position Statement or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their Our Brand – deeply trusted and widely implementation. recalled 17 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Corporate Governance for overseeing the organisation’s identification 28 and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 32 risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed Independent Decision-making standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 33 Include frequency with which the highest governance body assesses sustainability Governance (Green Banking) performance. 41 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Performance Evaluation governance body’s own performance, 33 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitment to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Risk Management precautionary approach or principle is 36 addressed by the organisation (Article 15 of Green Banking 39 the Rio Principles introduced the precautionary approach. A response to 4.11 could address the Environmental and Social Management 41 organisation’s approach to risk management in System operational planning or the development and Environmental and Social Impact 94 introduction of new products). Assessment 4.12 Externally developed economic, Principles of UNGC and UNEP FI environmental, and social charters, principles, Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) or other initiatives to which the organisation Green Banking Policy of Bangladesh Bank subscribes or endorses. ERM Guidelines of Bangladesh Bank Small Business Banking Network (SBBN) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Global Initiatives promoting Sustainability associations) and/ or national/ international 12 advocacy organisations in which the organisation: Memberships 21  Has positions in governance bodies  Participates in projects or committees Small Business Banking Network (SBBN) 88  Provides substantive funding beyond International Factoring Group routine membership dues, or 88  Views membership as strategic 119 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder Engagement organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of the stakeholder groups 109 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and stakeholder group. NPS Survey 95 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Topics raised through Stakeholder through stakeholder engagement, and how Engagement the organisation has responded to those key 110 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach Economic Performance Key Impact Areas and Opportunities Environmental Performance Labour Practice and Decent Work Human Rights 5 Society Product Responsibility (including Product and Service Impact Disclosure) PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance Indicators Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and Key Financial Indicators distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 23 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC1-FS: Commentary added to the value CSR Investments generated by the organisation’s community 13 investment programmes and breakdown of community investment by theme. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Environmental and Climate-change Risks 39 opportunities for the organisation’s activities and Opportunities due to climate change. Green Banking 39 Green Finance 92 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit Employee Benefits plan obligations. 106 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Refinancing Facilities of the Bangladesh Bank 26 government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by IDLC’s entry level wages are in line with the gender compared to local minimum wage at industry best practices significant locations of operation. 120 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Hiring Practices 103 of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant Placement 106 operations. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Infrastructure Projects investments and services provided primarily for 91 public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight and volume NA EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled NA input materials Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Resource Consumption 52 source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Green Branches 40 efficiency improvements Green Technologies 40 Sustainability through Technologies 51 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Green Products and Marketing 40 or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy Green Finance requirements as a result of these initiatives 92 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source NA EN9 Water sources significantly affected by NA withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled NA and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, No such areas are under ownership/ lease/ managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas management of IDLC and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 121 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, In 2012, IDLC had conducted a products, and services on biodiversity in homestead plantation programme, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity planting 7,500 saplings across 750 value outside protected areas households in and around the protected forest areas of Satchari, Habiganj, Sylhet. The plantation was conducted with the objective of reducing direct and indirect dependence of the households on the protected forest resources for everyday living and to earn their livelihood. EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national IDLC poses no such operational risks either directly conservation list species with habitats in areas or indirectly affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, Effluents and Wastes EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Resource Consumption emissions by weight EN16-FS: Commentary added to invite 52 reporting on greenhouse gas emissions relating to business travel. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Green Branches 40 and reductions achieved Green Technologies 40 Enhancing the Green Cover 50 Sustainability through Technology 51 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and NA destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Reduce, Reuse method EN22-FS: Commentary added to specify 52 primary types of waste streams being paper and waste IT for financial institutions EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills NA EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, NA and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats NA significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff 122 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Green Products and Marketing 40 of products and services, and extent of impact Green Finance 92 mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by NA category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total IDLC has never been subject to any such charges. number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and NA materials used for the organisation’s operations Significant environmental impacts of transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures CSR Investments 13 and investments by type Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Major indicators of HR Management employment contract and region, broken 98 down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires Major indicators of HR Management and employee turnover by age group, gender 98 and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Employee Benefits are not provided to temporary or part-time 106 employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Only maternity leave is provided at IDLC, and the parental leave, by gender. retention rate is 100 percent. Labour/ Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective NA bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Minimum notice period of one month, mentioned operational changes, including whether it is in employee contracts. specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – worker health and safety committees that help monitor NA and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related NA fatalities by region. 123 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, Employee Health Management and risk control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, 106 or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal NA agreements with trade unions. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100 percent of our staff performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screenings, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination No such incidence has been recorded/ reported and corrective actions taken. yet. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. 124 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained Security Personnel at IDLC are generally in the organisation’s policies or procedures outsourced and they do not receive any such concerning aspects of human rights that are training. relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations No such incident has taken place as a direct and/ involving rights of indigenous people and or indirect result of IDLC’s operations. actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ or impact assessment. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights Grievance Management and Counseling filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 106 It is to be noted that no major grievance has been reported yet to the concerned authority. Social: Society Performance Indicators Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations implemented Developing Skilled Manpower for the 57 with local community engagement, impact RMG Sector assessments, and development programs. Model Village Project 64 FS13: Access points in low-populated or Branch Network economically disadvantaged areas by type FS14: Initiatives to improve access to financial Climate Risk Fund 40 services for disadvantaged people. Developing Skilled Manpower for the 57 RMG Sector Model Village Project 64 Branch expansion to help more people access our financial services. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures This issue is usually addressed for large-scale implemented in operations with significant projects through Environmental and Social Impact potential or actual negative impacts on local Assessment by appointing third-party consultants. communities. However, detailed recommendations from such reports have not been covered in this report. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Anti-corruption Policies and Practices analysed for risks related to corruption. 37 125 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the Anti-corruption Policies and Practices organisation’s anti-corruption policies and 37 procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of IDLC follows “Zero-Tolerance” policy in case of corruption. charges of corruption. Such incidents may lead to immediate termination of the accused staff, if found responsible. Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind No such contributions have been made by IDLC contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiNo such issue/ lawsuit has been faced by IDLC till competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly date practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total IDLC has not been charged with any such fines/ number of non-monetary sanctions for nonnon-monetary sanctions till date compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant NA products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance IDLC has not been party to any such nonwith regulations and voluntary codes compliance concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of NA significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance IDLC has not been involved in any such nonwith regulations and voluntary codes compliance concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of customers. 126 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Customer Service and Client Engagement including results of surveys measuring 95 customer satisfaction. FS16: Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by Customised training programmes for 104 type of beneficiary. IDLC staff Training to Youth Club members on basic 66 Accounting Practices Financial Inclusion 96 Marketing Communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing, communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance IDLC has not been party to any such nonwith regulations and voluntary codes compliance till date. concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints No such complaint has been made against IDLC regarding breaches of customer privacy and till date losses of customer data. Moreover, IDLC has also placed complaint/ suggestion boxes across all branches for customers to share their feedback and suggestions to improve our service delivery standards, as well as to lodge any complaints against IDLC’s conduct of operations. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonIDLC has not been party to any such noncompliance with laws and regulations compliance till date. concerning the provision and use of products and services. Product and Service Impact Performance Indicators (FS Supplement) Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines Sectoral Exposure 21 by specific region, size (example micro/ SME/ Creating a balanced Portfolio large) and by sector. 26 127 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page FS7 Monetary value of products and services Key Financial Indicators (Disbursement designed to deliver a specific social benefit for – Lease and Term Loan; Disbursement – 23 each business line broken down by purpose. Consumer Division) Promoting Small and Medium Enterprises 86 Access-to-Finance for Women 91 Entrepreneurs Infrastructure Projects 91 Supporting Home Ownership 94 FS8 Monetary value of products and services Green Finance designed to deliver a specific environmental 92 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Compliance to the ERM (Environmental Risk implementation of environmental and social Management) Guidelines of the Bangladesh Bank, policies and risk assessment procedures. incorporated in our credit appraisal process, is examined during our regular audit activities. Moreover, going forward, there will be audit components in terms of implementation of the Green Banking Policy and ESMS, both by internal and external auditors. Active Ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. 128 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 IDLC | Caring for the Underprivileged We strive to create an equitable society where underprivileged children are nurtured, nourished and educated so that they can be potentially channeled into the mainstream. We have partnered with a number of organizations in this regard, namely SEID Trust, LEADS, Shishu Bikash Chhaya and Families for Children reaching over 350 children with the benefits of better education and healthcare facilities. 129 CARING FOR THE UNDERPRIVILEGED At IDLC, we are of strong belief that any disability can be overcome, that acceptability and inclusion can create wonders. SEID Trust, one of IDLC's long-term community partners, provides holistic education, treatment and care to children with disabilities. 11-year-old Sumona of Dhaka has been our protégé over the years. The Trust, with financial support from IDLC, has provided for her preprimary and special education, vocational training, physiotherapy, counselling and conveyance. She was also sent for a hearing test and was provided with a hearing aid. Having been assessed with multiple disabilities including speech and hearing impairment along with intellectual disability, today, Sumona can read, write, draw and dance; and has been enrolled into a mainstream school in 2014. Her vocational training included candle-making and sewing, and now she has become financially independent by earning from her skills. Sumona made us proud when one of her drawings found her way to the Prime Minister’s office and garnered much appreciation from the Prime Minister herself! 130 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 COMMITTING TO THE MDGs IDLC, in its own capacity, contributes to the achievement of seven of the eight MDGs through its various CSR and Sustainability initiatives. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Relevant Projects/ Initiatives of IDLC Developing Skilled Resources for the RMG 1 Sector (page 57); The first of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals is to eradicate poverty and hunger. Extreme poverty, absolute poverty, or abject poverty is stated as ‘a condition characterised by severe deprivation of basic human needs, including food, safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, health, shelter, education and information.’ Access to Education and Healthcare for 2 Underprivileged Children: LEADS (page 76); The second goal is to ‘ensure that by 2015, children everywhere, boys and girls alike will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling.’ Currently, there are more than 75 mn children around the world of primary school age who are not in school. In Bangladesh, that number is 5.6 mn, as per a recent survey by the UNICEF and UNESCO. Empowering Women (page 81); 3 Access-to-Finance for Women Entrepreneurs (page 91); Developing Skilled Resources for the RMG Sector (page 57); Gender equality refers to the view that men and women should receive equal treatment and should not be discriminated against based on gender. The Goal seeks to create equality in law and in social situations such as in democratic activities and securing equal pay for equal work. Empowerment of women refers to increasing their economic, political, social, educational, gender and spiritual strength. 131 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Relevant Projects/ Initiatives of IDLC NA 4 Child mortality refers to the death of infants and children under the age of five. In 2012, 6.6 mn children under the age of 5 died, as compared with 6.9 mn children in 2011. Many deaths in the third world go unnoticed since many poor families cannot afford to register their babies in the government registry. The fourth Goal encompasses reduction of child mortality. Maternity Benefits (page 106); 5 IDLC Ladies' Forum (page 82); Maternal health is the health of women during pregnancy, childbirth and the postpartum period. It encompasses the healthcare dimensions of family planning, preconception, prenatal and postnatal care in order to reduce maternal morbidity and mortality. It also includes education, health promotion, screening and other interventions among women of reproductive age to reduce risk factors that might affect future pregnancies. Employee Health Management (page 106); 6 [IDLC prioritises health concerns relevant for Bangladesh, and hence major focus is given on the prevention of Hepatitis B and Cervical Cancer through both awareness sessions and vaccinations.] Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection/ Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/ AIDS) is a disease of the human immune system caused by infection with HIV. Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease transmitted via a bite from an infected female Anopheles mosquito. The sixth Goal deals with the eradication of these diseases. 132 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Relevant Projects/ Initiatives of IDLC Green Banking (page 39); 7 Sustainability through Technology (page 51); Enhancing the Green Cover (page 50); Environmental Awareness Campaign in Schools (page 42); Green Finance (page 92); Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (page 94); The seventh Goal is concerned with environmental sustainability. Environmental and Social Management System Sustainability requires the reconciliation of environmental, social (page 41); equity and economic demands, which are also collectively referred to as the three pillars of sustainability or the 3Es. Membership with UNGC, UNEP FI and SBBN – 8 global partnership for Sustainable Development (page 12); Developing Skilled Resources for the RMG Sector – multi-party partnership (page 57); Model Village Project – partnership with VSO Bangladesh (page 64); The last Goal deals with communal, economic and cultural harmony, which fosters global cooperation for a sustainable future. Access to education and healthcare for underprivileged Children – partnership with LEADS and SEID Trust (page 76); [Focusing on the benefits of partnership – both local and global] AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Achievements, 2013 SAFA (South Asian Federation of Accountants) Best Presented Accounts Awards  ‘DHL-Daily Star Best Financial Institution Award for 2012’, on 31 May 2013; IDLC received the SAFA Best Presented Accounts Award for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010 and 2011  First position under the category of ‘Financial Service Sector’ and second position under the category of ICAB (The Institute of Chartered Accountants of ‘SAARC Anniversary Award for Corporate Governance’ Bangladesh) National Awards in the 13th ICAB National Awards for ‘Best Presented IDLC received the ICAB National Award for the best Annual Reports 2012’, on 21 December 2013; published Annual Accounts and Reports for 2004, 2006,  ICMAB Award for the ‘Best Corporate in the Non2007, 2009, 2010 and 2011 Banking Financial Institution’, on 12 January 2013; ICMAB (The Institute of Cost and Management  SAFA Award 2011 as ‘Winner in Financial Services Accountants of Bangladesh) Awards Sector’ and ‘Overall Winner’ in all sectors of SAARC ICMAB Best Corporate Award 2010 | ICMAB Best countries, on 22 March 2013; Corporate Performance Award 2008 | ICMAB National Best Corporate Award 2007 ‘COMMWARD Excellence in Communication 2009’ and ‘Superbrands’ recognition in 2009 133 Location of the Corporate Head Office and branches of the IDLC Group
