ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 1 PROFILE GRI 2.1 | 2.2 | 2.3 | 2.4 | 2.5 | 2.6 | 2.7 | 2.8 | 2.9 | 3.8 Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. (BICBANCO) traces its origin back to Cooperativa de Crédito do Joazeiro (state of Ceará), founded in 1938. Today its shares are traded at Corporate Governance Level 1 on the São Paulo Stock, Commodities and Futures Exchange (BM&FBovespa), placing it among The group consists of BICBANCO, Sul Financeira, BIC Brazil’s principal financial institutions. A Leasing, BIC Administradora de Cartões, BIC DTVM multiple bank*, BICBANCO is headquarand BIC Informática, which are the subjects of this tered in the city of São Paulo (state of São report. And it also has an interest in Brasilfactors, Paulo). It has a presence in every region of a joint venture with FIMBank and the International the country through a network of 37 service Finance Corporation (IFC). Brasilfactors is under outlets, as well as a branch on Grand Cayshared management, but with no controlling interman that provides support to operations in est; as a result, the information regarding this comthe international market. pany does not fall within the scope of the indicators mentioned in this report. During 2013, there were no It specializes in corporate loans, primaportfolio acquisitions or business discontinuations. rily to middle market companies with annual revenues between BRL50 million Recognized as one of Brazil’s most traditional banks, and BRL500 million. The group’s main proBICBANCO fosters the sustainability and perpetuity ducts and services comprise credit operaof its business thanks to its initiatives involving cortions, foreign exchange and trade finance porate governance practices, business ethics and risk operations for companies, in addition to management. As a result of its operational speed and payroll-deductible loans for individuals. corporate management responsibility, the Bank makes Funding comes from time deposits, funds decisions at every level in accordance with its values and financial bills, in addition to internaand sustainability principles. The policies and practitional funding via bonds and on-lending. ces underlying this positioning are described in this report and constantly adjusted in accordance with sectoral indicators. * As regulated by the National Monetary Council (CMN), a multiple bank has more than one of the following portfolios: commercial; investment and/or development; real estate financing; leasing and credit; and finance and investment. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2 On October 31, 2013, the controlling shareholders entered into a purchase and sale agreement for the transfer of all their shares to China Construction Bank (CCB), one of the world’s largest publicly quoted banks, with total assets of USD2.5 trillion*. CCB has been operating for nearly 60 years, and its main business lines include corporate and personal banking services and treasury operations. It is among China’s market leaders in various products and services, including infrastructure loans, real estate financing and credit cards. It has a broad customer base, a network of 14 thousand branches and 350 thousand employees. The closing of this deal is conditional on obtaining the necessary approvals, in particular from the Central Bank of Brazil (Bacen), the federal government (by means of a Presidential Decree), the appropriate Chinese regulatory authorities and the Cayman Islands banking authorities. * Source: SNL financial | Closing data as of September 30, 2013, compiled on December 12, 2013. BICBANCO IN THE BACEN CREDIT OPERATIONS RANKING 9 largest private th domestic institution 13 18 on the list of private foreign and th overall among domestic and th domestic banks foreign public and private banks ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 3 TIMELINE 1968–1977 Banco do Juazeiro merges 1958–1967 with Banco de Cariri in 1972 to create Banco In an era of new Industrial do Cariri (BIC). 1948–1957 business growth, Two years later, the the Bank begins Institution takes over The Bezerra operating as an de Menezes Banco dos Proprietários. 1938–1947 investment agent for This decade also sees Group becomes trade and industry José Bezerra de the controlling the transfer of its throughout the headquarters to Fortaleza Menezes and several shareholder of Banco entire Cariri region (CE), and the change of leading local figures do Joazeiro. Thus (southern state the Bank’s name to Banco found Cooperativa de Maria Amélia Bezerra of Ceará). Crédito de Juazeiro. de Menezes becomes Industrial do Ceará (BIC). Its customer base the first woman in includes producers in Brazil to be president the southern region of a bank. of the state of Ceará. Six years later, it changes its name to 2008–2011 Banco do Juazeiro. In 2008, the 1998–2007 Bank launches its sustainability In 2002, the Bank trademark Movimento 1988–1997 opens its first overseas Azul, (“Blue branch, and in the Movement”), reflecting The BICBANCO brand following year creates its commitment to 1978–1987 is born in 1992, holding companies to ethical and responsible strengthening the centralize shareholder management. The In 1981, the Institution Institution’s profile changes its name to control. With its growth following year it and reflecting in operations, in 2004 acquires Sul Financeira Banco Industrial e its modern and Comercial S.A. (BIC) the Bank exceeds S.A. – Crédito, dynamic approach. the BRL100 million Financiamento e and opens its first The Bank increases branch outside Ceará, mark in net income. Investimentos. In 2010, its client portfolio The following year it becomes a member in the city of São Paulo and channels its (SP). This expansion it is acknowledged of BM&FBovespa’s operations to the by Fundação Getulio Corporate results in a new cycle middle market. In of strong growth. For Vargas (FGV) as Brazil’s Sustainability Index 1995, the Bank moves best middle market (ISE), having been two consecutive years, its headquarters Exame magazine bank. In 2007 BICBANCO ranked investment to São Paulo (SP), goes public and its grade by Moody’s. In acknowledges the Bank where it sets up as the best performer shares are admitted for 2011, Brasilfactors its international trading on Level 1 of the is founded as a joint among the commercial department. banks in the Brazilian then São Paulo Stock venture of BICBANCO, financial system. Exchange (Bovespa). FIMBank and the IFC. HIGHLIGHTS GRI 2.9 | 2.10 BICBANCO received the Top Granted an A Sustainability Rating Employers certification for the by M&E, taking into account the third consecutive year (2012, 2013 organization’s management and 2014). This award is based on quality, including corporate a study that identifies companies governance and compliance, with the best performance in strategy, past performance and the areas of human resources, human capital leadership and strategy Recognized as One of the one of the 150 Best companies listed Companies in People on BM&FBovespa’s Management by the Corporate Gestão & RH magazine Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year For the second consecutive year, it ranked third in the M&E LatinFinance Brazil Stars Index, the only mediumsized bank to figure on this select list. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI 2.1 | 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 3.9 | 3.10 | 3.11 | 3.13 In this Annual and Sustainability Report, BICBANCO presents its policies and guidelines, its business impacts and its 2013 economic, social and environmental results. This publication, now in its eighth edition, is intended for all of the Institution’s stakeholders, whose opinions were taken into account when determining the content (for more information, see the chapter on Relationships/Engagement). This document has been aligned with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) international guidelines since its second edition, and is in accordance with good corporate governance standards by disseminating information clearly and concisely, in a balanced and transparent manner. As of last year’s edition (published in 2013 with respect to operations in 2012), the report meets the GRI 3.1 version, with a B+ application level. All information in this report refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, except where other periods are mentioned, and includes all units in Brazil and overseas, as well as the subsidiaries BIC Leasing, BIC Cartões, BIC Informática, BIC Distribuidora de Valores, Sul Financeira and the Credit Receivables Investment Funds (FIDCs). The content was provided by different departments of BICBANCO and verified by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), which also audited the social balance sheet (according to the methodology proposals and the requirements of the Brazilian Accounting Standard NBCT 15). 08. This document shows no significant changes when compared to the report for 2012 (which enables Governance and content comparison). The financial statements management and the balance sheet form an integral part of this 29. Sustainable document. Measurement techniques, calculations and any adjustments to the information are described throughout the text. performance Message from the Chief Executive Officer 07 Limited assurance report 70 Ibase 73 GRI Index 78 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER GRI 1.1 for BICBANCO to continue on its trajectory of progress, contributing to Brazil’s growth without abandoning its The outlook in Brazil was optimistic in 2013, motivated vocation as a pioneer. by the major events drawing nearer and the expectation of significant investments in infrastructure. But And so, after three generations of successful leaderthe reality proved very different, and we were faced ship, the Bezerra de Menezes family decided to transfer with low growth in the economy, inflationary pressushareholder control of the Institution. China Construcres, companies in difficulties and continuing volatility tion Bank, one of the largest banks in the world, proved in global markets. to be the most responsible choice and the one most in line with our values. Its entry into the Brazilian market We kept to our conservative strategy, concentrating will provide continuity for the business that BICBANCO mainly on liquidity and sustainable management, whihas built up, and its size and economies of scale will be ch will bringbetter results in the medium and long term. combined with our team’s knowledge of the local marOur response to the difficulties was to run our business ket. This alliance will create added value, to the benefit with caution and exercise strict control over expenses. of the Brazilian market in general and of our clients in We maintained business volumes at a level that alloparticular, as well as opening up business opportuniwed us to improve the quality of the loan portfolio, and ties for trade between Brazil and China. we thus achieved an improvement in performance indicators during the second half of the year. Government approval of CCB’s operations in Brazil will make BICBANCO one of a select group of banks that Once again, this was a year when optimistic expectacan offer a global business platform as one of their leations proved unfounded in the face of an adverse reality. ding advantages. In spite of this, we did not neglect our commitment to We remain confident that in 2014 the economic scenasustainability and to the principles of corporate goverrio will see a change. We hope that growth in Brazil will nance. We invested substantial amounts in strengthereturn to a level that is more compatible with our caning our risk management and internal controls. pacity as entrepreneurs, and that the country will once more be a magnet for business, for local companies This constant care brought us important recognition: for and for the world. the fourth year running we were listed on BM&FBovespa’s Corporate Sustainability Index, thanks to every staff I would like to take the opportunity to give special member who made the continuity of the Institution and thanks to our shareholders, the members of the Board positive social and environmental interaction a priority; of Officers, staff, clients and suppliers for their confiand once again we were granted the TOP EMPLOYERS Indence and collaboration, which has helped us to realize ternational Certification, which proves that our human a dream and to build a quality financial institution over resources management policy is in line with the practithe years. ces of major companies in Brazil and overseas. José Bezerra de Menezes (Binho) – When times change, we have to change with them. LoChief Executive Officer yalty to our fundamental principles has required us to find new answers. An opportunity arose during the year ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 Governance and management Transparency, fairness and social responsibility are the essential guidelines for BICBANCO’s management Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 8 VALUES AND TRANSPARENCY In order to align the Institution with ethical and legal precepts and with its mission, vision and values, policies and procedures are in place to guide the day-to-day activities of the employees. The Board of Directors and the Board of Officers define these guidelines under advice from the Governance Committee and the specialist committees. Mission, Vision and Values GRI 4.8 | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 7 AND 8 Vision As a corollary to fulfilling its mission, BICBANCO’s Institutional Mission ambition is for its staff to be recognized by the clients and To develop financial activities which, at the the market as the best team same time and in an integrated manner, of professionals in financial maximize shareholder return, ensure products and services intended BICBANCO’s consistent and sound growth for the Middle Market. while valuing the community of which it is a part. Corporate Values • Respect for our staff • Acceptance of internal rules • Performance recognition • Encouraging teamwork • Fostering transparency • Emphasis on the integrity of our actions • Social responsibility to the community ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 Code of Ethics GRI DMA SO – UNFAIR COMPETITION | 4.6 | SO7 | SO8 | FS15 | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLE 10 The Code of Ethics, which is approved by senior manageThe fact that there were no lawsuits against ment, establishes the principles and values that must unBICBANCO in 2013 involving unfair competition, derpin the actions of every employee, as well as the Bank’s cartel or monopoly practices, or for breach expectations regarding workplace behavior and engageof laws or regulations relating to accounting ment with stakeholders, above all in minimizing conflicts fraud or corruption, indicates that the applicaof interest. tion of this Code is effective. Employees are advised to avoid such situations but, if they occur, they have to inform their immediate superior so that Brand and image HR5 the appropriate measures can be taken. Where an employThe value of the BICBANCO brand is a reflecee believes that notifying their manager may cause them tion not only of institutional communication embarrassment of a personal nature, they must bring the and advertising, but also primarily of the rematter to the notice of the Ethics Committee through the lationship between the Bank’s employees Committee Channel or “Talk to HR”, in either case with the and its stakeholders. That is why alignment guarantee of anonymity. with the Values and the Code of Ethics is fundamental for creating a positive image of the Bank, while adding value to the brand. CODE OF ETHICS PILLARS Consideration for others Compliance with Upright conduct, absence of laws and regulations discrimination, mutual respect and Obedience to legislation honorable treatment and internal rules Commitment to Corporate social transparency responsibility Clear and visible criteria Strategies and policies aimed at for all decisions and actions strengthening the sector and creating value for stakeholders Access BICBANCO’s Code of Ethics at www.bicbanco.com.br (Corporate Governance > Ethics Code). Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 10 A wide range of information is disclosed through the corporate communication channels, with an emphasis on transparency and prompt accountability, and on compliance of marketing actions with the requirements of the Brazilian Advertising SUSTAINABILITY Self-Regulatory Code of the National Council for POLICY PILLARS Advertising Self-Regulation (Conar). These procedures involve interaction between departments so that communication is integrated and reinforces the trust of partners, suppliers, clients and shareholders. Internally, communications play a strategic role in reinforcing the concepts of the institutional brand, values and business objectives. Continuing business Adoption of responsible principles for understanding and monitoring value In 2013, the Bank published its Marketing and Communications Policy, including guidelines for chain performance and for seeking communications, products and services, and remedium and long-term business. lationships. It also outlines responsibilities, details the tools to be used and reinforces the Brand Use Policy. There is no specific policy governing Corporate social the minimum period of advance notice to be given in the event of operational changes, but this type responsibility entails of notification is given to stakeholders at the apMaintenance of the bonds of trust propriate time, as required by the guidelines for and mutual respect with stakeholders transparency and equity. and business partnerships, leading to lasting relationships and an ethical and transparent attitude. Sustainability Policy GRI 1.2 | FS1 The Institution’s guidelines for sustainability Respect for the are formally established in a policy dating from 2008. The document includes recommendations environment for fostering sustainable development both inEnvironmental impact management of ternally and throughout the value chain, as well itsoperations and products, internally as for the detection of risks and opportunities and in the value chain, thus having a arising from socio-environmental impacts. The positive influence on stakeholders. sustainability guidelines are based on three pillars (see table), and their efficacy is monitored by the Sustainability Committee Movimento Azul (“Blue Committee”). Access BICBANCO’s Sustainability Policy at In addition, BICBANCO adheres to an Exclusion www.bicbanco.com.br/ir List of types of company activities that it does not (Sustainability). finance via multilateral institutions. This list was published in 2013. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 Policy for Prevention of Illegal Acts GRI DMA HR – CHILD LABOR | DMA HR – PREVENTION OF FORThe Bank recorded no instances during the year CED AND COMPULSORY LABOR | DMA SO – CORRUPTION | DMA of employees being dismissed or of contracts – INVESTMENT PRACTICES AND PURCHASE PROCEDURES | HR1 with business partners not being renewed on | HR2 | HR3 | HR6 | HR7 | HR10 | HR11 | SO2 | SO3 | SO4 | GLOBAL account of corruption-related infringements. COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 | PACT FOR THE ERADICATION OF SLAVE LABOR – PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 6, 8, 9, 10 In 2013, the Illegal Acts Prevention DepartCorporate policies based on current legislation miniment arranged the internal circulation of mize the risk that products or services might be used the new requirements of Laws 9613/98 and in illegal practices such as corruption, money launder12683/12, and of the corresponding Central ing, the financing of terrorism, tax evasion or piracy Bank regulations. Particular attention was throughout its value chain. All clients and business drawn to Bacen Circular No. 3654/13, which units undergo an assessment of these risks by Anti­ deals with the prevention of corruption, Money Laundering and Illegal Acts Prevention Commoney laundering and the financing of termittees operating in Brazil and in the Cayman Islands. rorism, and adapts the authority’s rules to Management of these risks was enhanced in 2013 with the legal changes applicable to financial inthe inclusion of an assessment of corruption risk in the stitutions in Brazil. No complaints were reapproval of new products and services. ceived of human rights violations, by either Customer Service (SAC) or the Ombudsman. Management flow for risks related to corruption, money laundering and the financing of terrorism The Illegal Acts The Commercial Prevention area area is asked for is constantly explanations on the lookout when a possible for evidence of risk is identified. The matter is The event and the possible direct analyzed and a evidence for it are or indirect report submitted recorded in the relationships with to the Anti-Money client monitoring persons involved Laundering system and the in corruption. and Illegal Acts client files. Prevention Committee. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 12 Human rights Strict management of human rights-related risks inAll contracts with clients and suppliers involves a series of measures. Apart from not permitclude contractual clauses that ensure compliting indications of child labor or forced labor in its staff, ance with internal guidelines regarding proBICBANCO does not work with companies that do not tection of human rights. The client portfolio is respect proper working conditions, and that appear on continuously monitored for incidents of nonlists published by the Ministry of Employment and Labor, compliance. Every client assessment includes thus contributing to the eradication of these practices in an analysis of risks related to human rights. its business chain. Internal areas interact constantly, permitting any risks to be identified and minimized. Management flow of human rights-related risks The systems The Commercial issue a specific area asks alert if a human the client for rights violation is clarification suspected. and submits an The event and the The Sustainability internal report. evidence for it are area analyzes recorded in the the event and client monitoring submits an system and remain opinion to the Blue in the client’s Committee, which file for future in turn informs consultation. the Governance Committee. All contracts with clients and suppliers include clauses that ensure protection of human rights Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE GRI 2.3 | DMA EC – MARKET PRESENCE In order to properly consolidate their equity interests, Within 30 days of the date of completion the controlling shareholders created three organizaof the operation, CCB will submit to the tions: Gemini Holding, which centralizes the shares Brazilian Securities Commission (CVM) representing BICBANCO’s shareholding control, and an application to register a public ofPrimus Holding, which holds the shares representing fer for the compulsory acquisition of the the shareholding control of BIC Corretora de Câmbio e shares held by minority shareholders of Valores S.A. BIC Corretora, which in turn has the sole the Company, due to the transfer of confunction of enabling Primus Holding’s interest in the trol of the Company, in accordance with BICBANCO Group, and does not carry out operationArticles 4 and 254-A of the Corporate al activities. As of December 31, 2013, total capital Law. stock consisted of 160,206,833 common shares and 92,696,736 preferred shares. The future controlling shareholders will assess in due course the possibility of the The equity interest of the holding companies and of BIC Company going private and being delCorretora, added to the shares held directly by the conisted from Corporate Governance Level trolling group, correspond to 72% of shares to which 1 of BM&FBovespa. A decision on these the purchase and sale agreement with CCB refers. The issues will be made when all the regushareholding structure will be significantly altered latory approvals for the operation have when the transfer of control is authorized. been obtained. Additionally, the terms and conditions of the public offerings described above are subject to the approval of the CVM, and will be published at the appropriate time. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 14 Controlling group – Treasury Free-float Bezerra de Menezes Others * shares shares 100% Gemini Primus BIC Holding Holding Corretora 100% ON 34.71% 46.48% 17.06% 1.75% PN 22.82% 2.51% 1.32% 0.09% 7.23% 66.03% Total 30.34% 30.37% 11.29% 0.04% 2.65% 2.31% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 40% Sul BIC BIC BIC Leasing BIC Cartões BrasilFactors Financeira Distribuidora Informática * Refers to Board members and managers not connected to the controlling group. Subsidiaries GRI 2.3 | DMA EC – MARKET PRESENCE BIC Arrendamento Mercantil S.A. (BIC Leasing) | Is a pubSul Financeira S.A. Crédito, Financiamento licly-held company that has been operating for 19 years. e Investimentos | Has been operating for over It focuses on leasing operations for legal entities and 50 years with individual clients, providing them deals involving chattels and property, especially vehiwith payroll-deductible loans and personal cles, machinery and equipment. loans, vehicle finance and direct consumer credit (CDC). The Bank acquired Sul Financeira BIC Administradora de Cartões de Crédito S/C Ltda. in 2010 as part of its strategy to expand busi(BIC Cartões) | Issues and administers the Bank’s credit ness in the retail and small company segments. cards and pre-paid cards with the Visa logo. This company also leases its Bank Identification Number (BIN) to Brasilfactors | Is a joint venture specializing other private companies. in providing factoring and forfaiting services. Factoring services offer support for small and BIC Informática | Is a wholly-owned subsidiary of medium-sized companies to purchase credit BICBANCO. It provides data processing services and rights arising from commercial purchases. technical support for the group’s activities. Forfaiting services, in turn, refer to trade finance operations in which the exporter obBIC Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários | Has tains terms and conditions for financing its been responsible for BICBANCO’s securities operations international buyers. BICBANCO holds a 40% since 1993. equity interest in this subsidiary and shares its management with FIMBank PLC (40%) and the IFC (20%). Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI 4.1 BICBANCO’s corporate governance model is in line with the highest excellence standards. Its primary aim is to create value for shareholders based on sustainable development. Corporate governance consists of a set of responsible management tools that must be addressed in a proactive manner, with the aim of continually integrating stakeholders, according to the principles of transparency, equity, accountability and social responsibility. BICBANCO has a structure of committees that combine technical and decision-making areas, enabling exchange of experience and preparation of consistent solutions to develop an environment that provides for business sustainability, preservation of BICBANCO’s image and risk management. The Audit Committee periodically reviews the main reports and meets with the managers to obtain a comprehensive view of the main risks and controls. One of the improvements achieved is in relation to the succession plan, which has been expanded to cover the main strategic areas. Corporate General Governance Meeting Structure Internal Audit Board of Fiscal Council Directors Compensation Committee Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee Credit Committee Legal Department Officers Committee Treasury Committee Executive Vice President Executive Vice President and International and Investor General Vice President Division Officer Relations Officer Chief Administrative Controllership Chief Commercial and Human Resources Officer Officer Officer Governance Committee Ombudsman Anti-Money Laundering Committee Ethics Committee Operations Committee Anti-Money Laundering Committee – Sustainability Internal Controls Cayman Branch Committee Committee Credit Process Assessment Committee Risk Committee Information Security Committee Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 16 General Meetings GRI 4.4 Board of Directors The General Meeting usually convenes within four GRI 4.2 | 4.3 | 4.7 | 4.9 | 4.10 | GLOBAL COMPACT – months of the end of each year and, on an extraordinary PRINCIPLES 7 AND 8 basis, whenever corporate interests so require, in comWith strategic and supervisory functions, the pliance with the legal provisions that govern this matter. Board of Directors defines policies, budgets and business plans and verifies compliance All shareholders may participate in General Meetings. with its guidelines. Matters related to sustainThe bylaws establish that preferred shares carry no votability, such as strategies and contractual relaing rights at General Meetings and that the holders of tionships, are discussed at Board level. these shares are assured the advantages provided for in Article 6, letters a, b and c, as well as under Brazilian The Board is currently made up of three repCorporation Law. resentatives of the controlling group and two independent directors. The Bank’s Chief ExecuAll documents to be reviewed or discussed at General tive Officer is a member of the Board, but does Meetings, whether annual or extraordinary, are made not hold the position of chairman of this body. available to shareholders on the BM&FBovespa website Under the bylaws, there are no specific require(www.bovespa.com.br) and are filed at the Bank’s headments or qualifications for electing the memquarters for consultation from the date of publication of bers of the Board of Directors. the first call notice. It is up to the chairman of the Board of Directors In 2013, an Annual General Meeting (AGM) and an Exto assess the performance of all its members, traordinary General Meeting (EGM) were held, both at taking into account economic aspects, ethical the Bank’s headquarters. The other holding group comconduct and good governance practices. The panies also held separate General Meetings. Compensation Policy specifies that each member’s share of variable remuneration is to be deAll shareholders are allowed to participate in the meetfined throughout the period that coincides with ings, where they may make recommendations to the the civil calendar based on individual perforBoard of Directors. mance, the business area linked to the member and the consolidated performance of BICBANCO, taking into consideration the risks assumed and whether the achievements comply with ethical and sustainable development principles. More information on this body and the qualifications of its members is available at www.bicbanco.com.br/ir. Participation in General Meetings allows all shareholders to make recommendations to the highest governance body Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 Committees of the Board of Directors Fiscal Council The Audit Committee, a permanent statutory body, asIn 2013, BICBANCO set up a Fiscal Council sists the Board of Directors with matters related to the made up of three full members and two accounting practices adopted, the internal control and substitute members. The role of this body risk management system and independent auditors. is to supervise management’s activities, This Committee, which is governed by its own internal review the financial statements and subregulations, bylaws and the applicable national legislamit its findings to the shareholders. tion, is made up of three members with a one-year term of office, renewable for up to five years, and chaired by a Board of Officers member of the Board of Directors. The Board of Officers is currently made up of the Chief Executive Officer, the General The Compensation Committee, which is also a permaVice President, the Operational Vice Presinent statutory body, is responsible for taking the necdent, the International Vice President, the essary steps to enforce compliance with the fixed and Commercial Executive Officer, the Adminisvariable Compensation Policy, special recruiting and distration Executive Officer and the Controllermissal programs for statutory officers. It reports directly ship Executive Officer. The Board of Officers to the Board of Directors. is in charge of all daily business and of implementing the policies and guidelines established by the Board of Directors, among other responsibilities. More information on the Board of Officers is available at www. bicbanco.com.br/ir (Management). EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES The Officers Committee (CDE) | Establishes stratThe Governance Committee | Assesses matters egies to guide the Bank’s activities and structure in submitted by Technical Committees (Operations, line with its values. It convenes on a monthly basis Internal Controls, Risk, Information Security, Susand is made up of all the officers appointed as per tainability, Ethics and Credit Process Assessment the bylaws. Committees) and provides a well-grounded and strategic view of risks. The Treasury Committee | Convenes weekly and is responsible for assessing macroeconomic and The Credit Committee | Assesses the operations political scenarios and their effects on market of the commercial, rural credit, on-lending and variables (interest, spreads, exchange rates and consumer portfolios. Its more important responmarket indices) and for defining exposure to these sibilities include managing the granting of credit variables. This committee monitors financial through the service network and proposing guideschedule execution, defining maximum amounts lines on this matter; managing bank spreads and for maturity or currency mismatches, setting up fees in a manner that allows for the maximization minimum reserves to cover future cash flows of financial margins and business revenues; and and generating funding for budget and investallocating funds to financing by using the netment policy compliance as well as investment of work’s maximum operating potential. the funds. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 18 The Technical Technical Committees GRI 4.1 | EC2 Committees BICBANCO has nine Technical enable exchange Committees that submit important matters to of information and be decided on by senior experiences that management through the serve as the basis Governance Committee. for decisions 1. Ethics Committee 2. Sustainability Committee 3. Credit Process Assessment Committee In this report, the Ethics and Blue Committees 4. Information Security Committee are given special prominence. 5. Operations Committee 6. Internal Controls Committee The Ethics Committee monitors enforcement and compliance with the Code of Ethics, issuing 7. Risk Committee assessments on matters involving ethical and 8. Anti-Money Laundering and Crime disciplinary principles, discussing aspects that Prevention Committee are not consistent with the Code’s guidelines 9. Anti-Money Laundering and Crime and impartially investigating any reports of its Prevention Committee – Cayman violations. It is the responsibility of the Ethics Branch Committee to handle situations not foreseen by the Code and propose revisions or improvements to this document. The Blue Committee, which was established seven years ago by the Board of Directors, creates mechanisms to incorporate sustainability into the Bank’s management process and in its relationships with stakeholders. This committee assesses and issues opinions on processes for which adverse social and environmental impacts have been identified and provides strategic social and environmental guidance, adding value for all stakeholders. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 This body, which may be contacted at the email address At the end of the year, the Sul Financeira Suscomite.azul@bicbanco.com.br, is made up of representatainability Group (GSS), which is subordinate tives from the Corporate Governance, Human Resources, to the Blue Committee, was established. The Commercial, Marketing and Communication, Internal aim of this group is to increase the number Controls, Sustainability, Credit, Services and Infrastrucof sustainability practices adopted in Sul Fiture and Legal areas. It is also supported by two multidisnanceira. In 2013, the Eco-efficiency Program ciplinary groups on specific subjects. was implemented to incorporate this issue throughout the Bank. Among the matters that In 2013, the Bank established the Climate Change Group, the group is going to address in 2014 is the inwhich is linked to the Blue Committee, with the purpose of clusion of more social and environmental restudying and proposing actions concerning this issue and quirements in products and services and the disseminating knowledge to all business areas. Although expansion of eco­-efficiency practices. this Group has not yet estimated the financial impacts of climate change on a quantitative basis, it has already More information is available at conducted studies on potential risks and opportunities www.bicbanco.com.br/ir (Corporate related to this phenomenon. As a multidisciplinary forum, Governance/Committees). it has already proposed actions whose feasibility and implementation studies are forecast for 2014. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Management Management remuneration GRI 4.5 | 4.9 | 4.10 | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 7 AND 8 The guidelines on management remuManagers’ maximum remuneration, as well as their profneration are described in the Manageit sharing for the year, is determined by the AGM. Once ment Compensation Policy and their shareholders are assured payment of minimum diviapplication is the responsibility of the dends of 25%, the Board of Officers variable remuneraCompensation Committee. Among the tion is calculated based on achievement of half­­-yearly principles that govern this process are targets and limited to 10% of net income. It is the Board mitigation of short-, mediumand longof Directors’ responsibility to establish the individual term risks, retention of managers and amounts payable to the members of the Board of Officorrelation between the Bank’s perforcers by assessing aspects such as responsibilities, skills, mance and long-term remuneration and time devoted to the exercise of duties and each execucommitment, with a view to fulfilling the tive’s contribution to the Bank’s results. Since 2012, this shareholders’ interests. process has included social and environmental criteria. Management Remuneration Body Type of remuneration Board of Directors Fixed, monthly and exclusively in the form of fees. and Audit Committee In certain circumstances a bonus tied to results is paid. Fixed (fees) and variable Board of Officers (profit sharing bonus). Risk Management GRI 1.2 | FS9 | DMA AUDIT | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 7 AND 8 In line with the guidelines established Risk exposure is defined based on the philosophy, culby the Bacen and applicable to all the ture and style of operational management and defined companies that comprise the BICBANCO strategies, aligning the necessary processes, people and Group, the Risk Management Policy adinfrastructure for effective monitoring and responses. dresses the appetite for risk and the proper conduct and procedures for asThe goal established by the Bank for implementation of sessing, monitoring, controlling and automation tools and databases to manage and model reporting on risks. Risk management, risks based on historical data has not been concluded which undergoes continuous improvedue to the fact that, since March 2013, the Bank has been ment, is an integrated process that algiving priority to projects with greater return. For the lows for a global view of exposure, more next two years, the established goal is integration of the efficient controls and faster strategic Treasury processes into a single system. decision-making. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 Assessment of the related risks involves the Board of Directors, the Board of Officers and the Governance Committee through collective decisions supported by the other committees. Dedicated teams from the Corporate Social and Environmental Risk Governance area manage social and environmental, marGRI DMA PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ket, credit, operational, liquidity and capital management ACTIVE OWNERSHIP | 1.2 | EC2 | FS1 | FS2 | FS3 | risks and provide support for the Risk, Internal Controls, FS5 | FS10 Operations, Sustainability, Governance and Treasury ExManagement of social and environmenecutive Committees, which define strategies and actions in tal risks aims primarily at identifying ditheir respective fields of operation. rect and indirect social and environmental impacts arising from operations and The Internal Audit area annually checks the effectivebusiness. In order to do this, the Bank ness of the formal documents that govern operations, includes guidelines in its Sustainability such as existing policies, rules and systems existing in Policy and social and environmental risk all departments and units. In 2013, this process did not manuals, as part of a structured risk asidentify critical points of action. It is also this area’s resessment process. sponsibility to take actions to prevent and combat fraud. In 2013, 100% of the branches and 91.89% of the adminNineteen sectors with the greatest poistrative areas were audited. tential for social and environmental impacts or the greatest influence on the credit portfolio were the highlights in a sectorial directive covering aspects reLearn more about BICBANCO’s risk lated to climate change and its potential management in the financial statements impacts on production, risk-prone enviand Risk Management Report at ronments and sector results, as well as www.bicbanco.com.br/ir. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 22 examples of good practices that can be Additionally, the Bank imposes restrictions on and perreplicated. Some of the industries with forms stricter assessments of operations involving cerspecific guidelines are agribusiness, civil tain industries, such as tobacco, fishing, asbestos, alconstruction, heavy construction, transcoholic beverages and arms and ammunition. For these portation and logistics, power generation industries, credit limits granted are monitored and, (fossil and renewable sources), power whenever necessary, the Blue Committee reviews them transmission and distribution, steeland decides on credit access. The Bank’s agreement temmaking and mining, pulp and paper, oil plates contain clauses addressing restrictions on operaand petrochemicals. tions with certain industries in the portfolio, and, when necessary, specific clauses are added to contracts with This more detailed sector analysis helps companies in industries subject to special assessment. to increase understanding of the risks In addition to the previously described criteria, for funds related to each active client and capitalobtained from multilateral agencies, the Bank refers to a ize on potential business opportunities. list of excluded sectors. Likewise, although the Bank has not yet estimated the financial consequences of BICBANCO monitors potential social and environmental climate change in a quantitative manner, risks in all the stages of its relationships with clients and it has already conducted studies on posuppliers. Irregularities are clarified and, if necessary, tential risks and opportunities related to technical visits are scheduled. The policies and procethis phenomenon. dures relating to social and environmental risks are audited annually, and the internal auditors are trained in these matters by exchanging information with the Sustainability/Social and Environmental Risk area and participating in training programs and external events. The analysis of borrowing and depositing clients and of suppliers required 6,367 social and environmental asThe Sustainability sessments in 2013. In the same period, the Blue Committee issued 430 opinions, all of which were ratified by the Policy and social and Governance Committee and disclosed in a specific system environmental risk to be available for consultation by all individuals involved in social and environmental assessment processes. manuals establish Automation of controls is at the project stage, and its guidelines for completion was postponed from 2013 to 2015. However, during the year, the period for reviewing the receivables all stages of the portfolio decreased to one week thanks to systems used, allowing for increased agility in potential credit recovery. relationships with clients Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 Analysis of social and environmental risks in operations and FIRST STAGE business activities Initially the name of the client or the names of its partners are checked against the TEI (Forced and Compulsory Labor and Child Labor) List, and if there is no involvement in such practices, the client fills out a SECOND STAGE Every two years all clients of the Bank are assigned a social Declaration of Sustainability for and environmental rating, which may be high, medium or its specific sector of activity. low. This classification is based on a consultation of public The analysis of this document information available from federal and state environmental makes it possible to identify agencies, such as the Brazilian Institute of Environment and the social and environmental Renewable Natural Resources (Ibama), the Department of management practices Federal Revenue, the National Environmental Rural Register adopted by the Company and System, the Federal Public Prosecutor’s Office and Brazil’s to check whether its sector National Environmental Council. appears in the exclusion or restriction lists, which act as a Those companies with a high social and environmental base for continued evaluation risk are assessed by the Blue Committee, whose opinions and for requesting specific are taken into account when granting credit and when documentation during the giving approval for operations to proceed. This committee following stages. is also responsible for restricting or banning those clients who create significant negative social and environmental impacts, and it is the responsibility of the Governance Committee to ratify these positions. THIRD STAGE For companies with credit risk above BRL18 million, an in-depth analysis is made of their social and environmental practices, based on questionnaires that include questions on these policies and practices and on training and awareness actions among their employees, management of business activities, relationships with society, defense of human rights, labor practices and management of suppliers. These questionnaires are updated every three years. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 24 Progress in integrating social Market Risk and environmental risks into the GRI DMA SO – CONFORMITY Institution’s processes The market risk resulting from the Bank’s commercial and treasury activities is managed on a continuous basis and Review of the Collateral Acceptance Polin an integrated manner by a specific department that is icy, which led to social and environmental independent of the business teams. It is also responsible aspects being included in the real estate for ensuring that risk exposure levels are in accordance collateral assessment process. Since July, with the limits set by the Treasury Executive Committee real estate collateral has been subject to and for observing and recommending capitalization levthis assessment. In one case, the Bank reels that are appropriate and compatible with those risks. quired improvements to one property beThere are four main tools that support this process: fore collateral was accepted, and in another case, the collateral offered was rejected. • Sensitivity analysis shows the impact that changes in a given risk factor have on the Institution’s portfolio. Inclusion of social and environmental • Value at Risk (VaR) represents the maximum potential questions in sales visits to clients: one loss expected for a given confidence level over a given pilot project in two branches of the Bank period of time. has developed the relationships with • Back testing is a method that evaluates the VaR model clients and made it possible to include used by the Bank, comparing the forecast results with social and environmental requirements the actual results obtained. and opportunities. This initiative takes • Limits ensure that exposure to risk is in accordance the form of social and environmental with the appetite for risk defined by the Bank. questions in the visit questionnaire used by account managers, who interact conOver the course of 2013, from a global viewpoint risk, levstantly with the Sustainability and Social els remained within the defined limits, with no significant and Environmental Risk areas. changes in relation to the previous year. A similar picture was observed in relation to risk related to shareholders’ equity, which remained at a low level. As of December 31, Visits are made to 2013, the main risk factors from derivatives traded by the Bank included dollar coupons, exchange rates, fixed rates clients to assess in BRL, shares, indices and inflation. the social and environmental risk of their activities and of the collateral for their operations Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 Credit Risk Monte Carlo Simulation GRI FS15 This actuarial methodology calculates losses The Bank’s credit risk is managed using a specific strucin terms of face values and the recovery rate ture independent of the credit approval areas, in line determined in advance by the Institution, with the market’s best governance practices and with based on past experience, and takes into acBacen’s rules, set forth in Resolution 3721. count the fact that short-term contracts are more vulnerable than long-term ones. VaR is an important risk management tool that is used within the Bank to evaluate credit as well as to calculate This model determines the non-recovered regulatory capital. It measures the maximum potential loss portions – in other words, the effective exexpected for a given confidence level over a given period posure to credit risk – and correctly identifies of time (holding period). The guidelines used in calculating this component. The way that the simulation VaR may vary according to the profile of the positions that is applied is shown below: are being analyzed. • The credit events are simulated under Credit Value at Risk (Credit VaR) gives a confidence level different scenarios in a computer enviof 99.9% (the standard adopted by the Bank), a result ronment, thus producing loss values for that indicates the maximum expected loss that the porteach occurrence. folio can sustain in 99.9% of cases. To study and analyze • The results are stored and statistically credit risk under different scenarios, the Bank uses the grouped together, indicating the risk values Monte Carlo Simulation (which is shown in the sidebar). for each confidence level. Losses resulting from default are managed by observing • Each company is analyzed using a numerithe recovery of loans in default, taking into account not cal risk scale that goes from 1 (lowest risk) only the revenues and expenses (including indirect ones) to 22 (highest risk). After the companies associated with this process but also their timing. have been grouped into homogeneous risk classes, the associated probability of default is established, thus providing an objective measurement of the degree of risk. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 26 Operational Risk GRI 4.11 The Governance Department is responsible for managThe BCP is structured around three modules. ing operational risk, according to the level of risk tolThe Crisis Management Plan (PAC) detererance defined by the Risk and Internal Controls Commines how the teams should behave before, mittees. This structure is separate from those that deal during and after unexpected adverse situawith market and credit risks, thus creating an effective tions and the procedures to be observed durinternal control system and minimizing human error ing the period of return to normality, in order and irregularities in processes, products and systems. to ensure administrative efficiency in dealing Exposure to operational risk is measured every month with these occurrences. The Operational Conand adjusted according to BICBANCO’s operational strattinuity Plan (PCO) sets out all the procedures egy and appetite for risk. These risks are reviewed every that must be followed in the case of restricsix months. tion on assets that support each stage of the business process. Its goal is to reduce downThe Business Continuity Plan (BCP) includes the mantime, thereby reducing potential direct or inagement of operational risks. It is a set of preventive direct impacts on the business. This structure and recovery measures designed to minimize losses and is rounded off by the Disaster Recovery Plan ensure BICBANCO’s operational capacity – particularly of (PRD), which is aimed at the continuity of the key activities and processes – in the case of drastic inBank’s operations at an alternative site and terruption of business activities (such as natural disasis designed to reestablish the original conditers, epidemics or acts of terrorism). tions and environment as quickly as possible. The PRD lists the actions to be taken for each business process. In 2013, 2 PRD tests were carried out, with an audited efficiency index of 100%, as well as 30 partial stoppages. Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 Liquidity Risk Capital Management Risk The management of liquidity risk consists GRI DMA SO – COMPLIANCE of procedures that ensure that all contracAll the companies in the BICBANCO group use the critetual financial obligations along with any ria of the Brazilian Financial System Chart of Accounts eventual obligations that may arise during (Cosif) to ascertain their Reference Equity. This involves market cycles and stress periods are met, taking the sum of the two tiers required under Brazilian by means of the identification, assesslegislation in order to calculate regulatory capital: tier 1, ment, monitoring and control of exposure comprising share capital and retained earnings, and tier to liquidity risk over different timeframes. 2, which consists of long-term subordinated debt securities. The Bank has a specific policy regarding this matter, In other words, liquidity risk arises out of and an officer is designated to monitor the process, with a difficulty or inability to meet cash rethe aim of ensuring compliance in terms of capital manquirements – or putting it another way, agement. In October 2013, the Central Bank published new from the occurrence of mismatches in firules for determining capital. nancial flows between asset and liability transactions and the results caused by Infrastructure and technology the Institution’s lack of financial resourcThe technological updates and improvements to manes to meet its obligations. agement required to maintain an efficient structure that is compatible with BICBANCO’s current and growth In order to identify, evaluate, monitor and needs are part of the strategic IT plan, which was estabcontrol exposure to liquidity risk, the Bank lished in 2011 and scheduled to run until 2015. Among the uses an analysis based on supplementavarious advances achieved in 2013 within the scope of ry models and methodologies, both backthis plan, the following deserve to be highlighted: ward-looking and forward-looking: that is, analysis of past volumes of securities • The setting up of the Architecture Management Group settled by clients and analysis of the pro(GGA), which discusses topics for improving developjected portfolio. The two methods proment of systems and defines priorities posed are complementary, given that the • Inclusion of sustainability criteria in project portfolio first reflects what has actually occurred management in order to minimize risks and identify while the second looks to the future, besocial and environmental opportunities ing based on the current portfolios and • Consolidation of improvements to IT processes and on specific stress scenarios. conclusion of the technological updating process that was initiated in 2012 • A 56% increase in the maturity level of IT processes, to be shown by an internal audit, in particular by implementation of a user certification environment and the adoption of data management tools that ensure BICBANCO uses models greater security for the confidentiality of information • Expansion of the systemic IT infrastructure upgrading and methodologies to include SulFinanceira • Tier 3 level certification of the data center by an interto analyze shortand nationally recognized independent company, covering long-term liquidity risk the project, installation, assembly and execution phases along with security and access control aspects exposure Governance and management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 28 Sustainable Performance Responsible management of the business includes a strict approach to expenditure of resources, care for people and preservation of the environment Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 ECONOMIC SCENARIO AND PERFORMANCE Economic activity in Brazil was very simiLoans as a proportion of GDP rose to 56.5% in December lar in 2013 to that observed in 2012, with 2013, against 53.9% at the end of the previous year. Even a modest 2.3% growth in Gross Domestic so, default ratios showed a downward trend. According to Product (GDP), higher than the 0.9% registhe Brazilian Central Bank figures, default of more than 90 tered the year before. Official inflation, as days on personal loans dropped from 5.6% to 4.4%, when measured by the Consumer Price Inflation we compare the figures at the end of 2013 with those at the Index (IPCA), rose to 5.9%, slightly higher end of the previous year. A decrease was also observed in than 2012’s 5.8% and close to the target the ratio for companies, which fell from 2.2% to 1.8%. ceiling of 6.5%. In light of the inflationary pressures, in April the Brazilian Central Economic Performance Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (CoGRI DMA EC – ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE pom) initiated a cycle of increases in the As in the previous two years, BICBANCO continued to basic interest rate (Selic), which went make efforts to improve the quality of its credit portfolio. from 7.25% at the start of 2013 to 10.5% at The default level in excess of 60 days was around 2% in the meeting held on January 15, 2014. 2013. This can be regarded as satisfactory for the type of risks that the Bank manages and in the current economic Continued weakness in the global scenaenvironment. Maintaining this level will lead to lower prorio had an impact on Brazil’s trade surplus, vision expenses and better results. which produced its worst result for the last 13 years, of US$2.5 billion (as a result Assets of a 0.2% drop in exports and 7.4% growth On As of December 31, 2013, total assets amounted to in imports). Brazil’s currency depreciaBRL15,506.2 million, which represented a 15.1% drop over ted against the dollar, closing the year at the 12-month period. This drop reflects the scaling back BRL2.36 to US$1. of credit and treasury operations during the year. In 2013 default ratios showed a downward trajectory Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 30 18,262 Credit operations 15,506 GRI DMA EC – MARKET PRESENCE | DMA OS – PRODUCT PORTFOLIO | FS6 Credit operations at BICBANCO in 2013 fell to BRL10,590.6 Assets million, 16.8% less than at the end of 2012. Despite this re(BRL million) duction, the portfolio showed significant improvements in quality. Installments more than 14 days overdue totaled BRL166.8 million, a decrease of 47.2% over the year. Provisions for doubtful accounts amounted to BRL419.0 million, 251.2% higher than the figure for installments more than 14 2012 2013 days overdue. Corporate credit, which is BICBANCO’s main business activity, represented 90.8% of total operations, while payroll-deductible loans and vehicle financing for individuals, 12,727 mainly originated by Sul Financeira, accounted for the re10,591 maining 9.2%. There is only limited exposure to sectors with high social and environmental risk, given that the peCredit trochemicals, alcoholic beverages and tobacco industries operations account for 0.01%, 0.65%, 0.009% and 0.45% of the Bank’s (BRL million) credit operations, respectively. The armaments sector is not included in the portfolio. BICBANCO’s credit portfolio is spread across all geographical regions, with no concentration in terms of sector, economic activity or risk per client. 2012 2013 As in previous years, the Bank has not discontinued any business activities or products. Regional distribution of credit operations (%) 1 11 15 21 47 Cayman Islands 5 Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 31 Principal types of activity Credit portfolio by in the credit portfolio (%) economic segment (%) Commerce Supermarkets and wholesalers 3.1 Vehicle showrooms and dealerships 2.0 Trading of electrical and electronic goods 1.9 Others 6.20 40.5 Industry Services 30.7 Other services Companies – holding companies in general 5.8 13.1 Trade Technical and professional services 4.1 9.8 Individuals Passenger and cargo transportation 3.8 Medical and dental services 3.1 2.4 Agribusiness Rental services in general 2.9 Financial 1.2 intermediaries Energy distribution 1.0 2.3 Public sector Others 9.9 Industry Civil construction – contractors 8.0 Sugar and alcohol plants 6.4 Property developers 4.4 Credit portfolio by Production of vehicles, truck 2.1 type of operation (%) bodies and other items Chemicals and petrochemicals industry 2.1 Metallurgical and mechanical production 1.9 Flour, pasta, cake and cookie production 1.4 Slaughter of animals and the meat industry 1.4 Production of pipes and iron goods 1.3 54.3 Working capital Construction materials industry 1.2 18.3 Trade finance Production of compost, fertilizers 1.1 and insecticides 9.2 Payroll deductible/ Personal loans Paper and pulp production 1.0 7.3 Overdraft accounts Others 8.3 5.0 Other credits Individuals 9.8 3.2 Leasing operations Agribusiness 2.4 1.4 Agricultural Public sector 2.2 financing Financial intermediaries 1.2 Financing of Total 100.0 1.3 machines and heavy vehicles Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 32 Working capital | The Bank’s main product meets the ved in foreign trade and spread the credit cash needs of companies, usually for periods of less portfolio risks. With a balance 34.2% lothan one year. In 2013 the balance of working capital was wer than in the previous year, these opeBRL5,752.5 million, which represents 54.3% of the total rations amounted to BRL1,937.3 million at credit portfolio. This denotes a 17.2% decrease in compathe end of 2013, which is equal to 18.3% of rison with the previous year. the total credit portfolio. Overdraft accounts | These are credits linked to corporaLeasing operations | This product’s perforte bank accounts, to promptly meet their working capital mance reflected that of the industrial segneeds. Accounting for 7.3% of the total credit portfolio at ment. Leasing operations showed a 12.1% the end of 2013, it amounted to BRL776.8 million, which is decrease in the year, ending the fiscal year 16.2% less than that observed at the end of 2012. with a portfolio of BRL336.9 million at present value. The distribution of this portfolio Retail | Sul Financeira’s area of activity, this covers a large by type of asset was 48% machinery and part of the payroll-deductible, vehicle financing and credit equipment, 25% heavy vehicles, 15% aircraft card operations. At the end of 2013, it accounted for 9.2% and 12% real estate. of the total credit portfolio and totaled BRL974.2 million, representing a 25.4% increase in relation to 2012. Agricultural financing | With a substantial part of these credit lines consisting of Trade finance (financing for imports and exports) | directed loans, agricultural financing toConsisting of advances on foreign exchange contracts taled BRL145.3 million at the end of 2013, (ACC and ACE), import and export financing and securirepresenting 1.4% of the total credit portties receivable in foreign currency, these operations folio, and a 19.6% drop in comparison with have strategic importance as they increase the supply the figure reported in 2012. of products, ensure the loyalty of clients who are involSustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 33 Financing of machines and heavy vehiter quarter, the Bank’s reports have begun to include incles | An instrument for promoting busiformation regarding the expanded credit portfolio, which ness via the acquisition of durable goods, includes guarantees and sureties. At the end of 2013, these this credit alternative posted a figure of operations totaled BRL2,145.4 million, which represents a BRL137.0 million in the portfolio at the end 28.9% increase in comparison with the previous year. of the fiscal year, which was 19.6% lower than the amount registered in 2012 and Liquid Assets equal to 1.3% of the total credit portfolio. Liquid assets totaled BRL2,212.7 million, down by 21.6% The distribution of this portfolio by type in relation to 2012. However, this sum is regarded as saof asset was 47.3% heavy vehicles, 47.1% tisfactory by BICBANCO, being in the cash band between machinery and 5.6% others. BRL1.5 billion and BRL2.5 billion, based on the maturity flow from asset and liability operations. Other credits | These mainly consist of Corporate Check instruments, Resolution No Loan default and 2770 loans, “Compror” and “Vendor” credit provision for loan losses facilities and debt for asset purchases. TheThe credit portfolio’s quality indicators registered a marse credits added up to a total of BRL530.6 ked improvement, reaching levels that have virtually not million, which is equal to 5.0% of operabeen seen in the last three years. Among the factors that tions, and represents a 35.0% increase over contributed to this, particularly notable is the adoption, the previous year. since 2011, of more rigorous policies and practices in relation to the management of credit risks. Therefore, expenGuarantees and Sureties ses for the provision for doubtful debts were equal to less In line with Resolution No. 2682, guaranthan half the amount registered in 2012. tees and sureties are not included in credit operations, although they are taken into account when calculating the Basel Index. With an upward performance quarter afActive management of the credit portfolio made it possible in 2013 to reduce provisions for losses to less than half the level observed the year before Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 34 Funding Funding The total volume of funds raised in 2013 (BRL million) totaled BRL12,562.9 million, down 17.3% against 2012, in line with the reduction 15,190 in the volume of credits originated. The 12,563 Bank continued with its funding strategy, which consisted of maintaining its funding stock with longer maturities than in its credit portfolio. At year-end, funding with a maturity of less than three months accounted for 20.8% of total funding, while 53.0% had a matu2012 2013 rity of more than one year. Total funding duration in 2013 was 768 days, which is more than twice the 362day duration of credit operations. This favorable structure in terms of maturities of assets and liabilities provides Funding Sources (%) comfort and stability, particularly in situations of greater volatility. Domestic Funding Time Deposits | These totaled BRL6,264.7 million at the end of 2013, down 10.3% by comparison with 2012, with a duration of 67.6 Domestic Market 517 days. Out of this amount, BRL3,004.5 32.4 International Market million related to deposits with a special guarantee from the Credit Guarantee Fund – DPGE 1. The Bank did not make issues from deposits in the DPGE 2 class, which has a utilization limit of BRL2 billion. Concentration of time deposits (%) 2013 2012 Largest Depositor 3.8 2.1 10 Largest Depositors 15.2 12.2 20 Largest Depositors 22.2 19.1 50 Largest Depositors 32.2 30.3 100 Largest Depositors 44.9 42.0 Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 35 Time Deposits Other deposits | Cash deposits, savings accouby Maturity(%) nts and interbank deposits totaled BRL783.8 million, which is a 25.2% decrease in relation to the previous year. LCAs, LCIs e LFs | BICBANCO has diversified its mix of financial products by means of Agribusiness Credit Bills (LCAs), Financial Bills (LFs) and Real Estate Credit Bills (LCIs). Together these resources totaled BRL861.9 million as at December 31, 2013, a 21.7% growth in 12 months, which corresponds to 6.9% of the total amount of funding. LCAs serve as backing for 60.6 From 1 to 3 years loan operations carried out by clients ope22.5 From 3 to 12 months rating in the agribusiness sector; they have 15.0 Up to 3 months contributed to improved client loyalty and of1.9 Above 3 years fer favorable funding costs. LCAs totaled BRL 401.0 million in 2013. At the end of 2013, the balance in terms of LFs was BRL271.2 million, while the LCIs, which are fixed income securities aimed at individuals with real estate credit as collateral, posted a figure of BRL189.7 Time Deposits by million at the end of the period. This product, Type of Depositor (%) which first began to be issued in April 2013, represents the fragmentation of clients and the lengthening of terms as it only has liquidity at the moment of maturity. FIDCs and Debentures | Funding through the subscription of senior units in Receivables Securitization Funds (FIDCs) totaled BRL199.7 million, which is a 46.9% drop from the previous year, as a result of the amortization of the units from the closed funds 56.7 Corporations and the fact that there were no significant 37.7 Institutional investors investments during the year. Simple non-­ convertible debentures, issued through the 5.1 Individuals Bank’s subsidiary BIC Arrendamento Mer0.5 Financial institutions cantil, showed a residual balance of BRL2.1 million after the liquidation of the greater part of the issue during 2013. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 36 Subordinated debt | At the end of 2013, total subordinated debt issued by both Foreign Funding foreign and domestic funding represenGRI DMA EC – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT | EC9 ted 7.5% of total funding, and amounted In 2013 foreign funding accounted for 32.4% of total funto BRL945.9 million. There are three isding, and added up to BRL4,069.2 million, down 27.7% sues with subordinated debt characterisagainst 2012. This decrease is linked to the lower volume tics: subordinated bank deposit certificaof trade finance operations and the settlement of senior tes (BDCs) for BRL200 million, issued in debt to the tune of US$514 million and €20 million. 2009 and maturing in 2019; subordinated Eurobonds for US$300 million, issued in Foreign funding includes funding for trade finance, 2010 and maturing in 2020; and a suborraised with international banks that provide funds for dinated loan for US$32 million, issued in foreign trade asset operations. Also included in foreign 2010 and maturing in 2017. 90% of the funding are funds raised by means of syndicated loans amount of subordinated debt was taken from multilateral bodies (Inter-American Development into account in the calculation of Tier 2 Bank, IFC, Inter-American Investment Corporation, InCapital for the Basel Index. vestment and Promotions Company for Economic Cooperation [PROPARCO] and DEG), issue of securities, onlending and subordinated debt, which provide funding for credit operations with longer maturity terms. Funds raised abroad with international banks and multilateral bodies came to a total of BRL883.0 million. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 37 Loans in the education and health sectors using these resources generated indirect economic impacts. In the health area for example, more than 3,483 hospital beds and 11,100 doctors and professionals from 331 clients benefited because of these resources during 2013. In the The funding structure education sector, the resources helped support 42 institutions whose balance in December 2013 stood at roughly relies on favorable BRL90 million, particularly in municipalities that have loliquidity gaps in wer tax revenues. relation to the credit portfolio The fluctuations in the US currency did not represent additional risks for the Institution. The funding for trade finance operations acts as a natural hedge for asset operations. The funding structure contains longer maturities than those in the credit portfolio. To compare credit operations and funding, both maturing within 90 days, the respective amounts are BRL3,927.4 million and BRL2,608.1 million. Result from financial intermediation GRI EC1 Maturity of foreign funding (million) In 2013, the result from financial intermediation before the provision for doubtful 2014* US$208.6 and €16.1 debts came to a total of BRL259.5 million, 2015 US$394.7 and €1.2 which is a decrease of 9.3% due to the re2016 US$20.7 and €1.2 duction in treasury gains resulting from 2017 US$45.2 and €0.6 financial investments. Average liquid as2018 US$5.7 sets carried in 2013 totaled 35.0%, lower 2019 US$5.7 than the sum seen in 2012 (BRL2,035.1 mil2020 US$276.6 lion as opposed to BRL3,131.4 million). 2021 US$5.7 The most pronounced aspect of the imTotal US$962.9 and €19.1 provement in the financial intermediation * Out of the US$208.6 million of commitments for 2014, US$56.8 million was paid in February 2014, as per the scheduled maturity dates of the issues. result is linked to the lower amount provisioned for credit losses, with an impact on the improvement in the quality of operations. In 12 months, net provisions dropped from BRL548.2 million in 2012 to BRL259.7 million in 2013. Over the course of the fiscal year, credits recovered came to a total of BRL94.5 million in comparison with the BRL60.5 million result seen in 2012. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 38 Added Value Statement (BRL thousands) 2013 2012 1. Revenues 2,033,047 2,111,394 Financial intermediation 2,276,920 2,651,144 Provision of services 97,048 73,177 Provision for doubtful debts – reversal/(establishment) (259,691) (548,244) Others (81,230) (64,683) 2. Financial intermediation expenses 1,500,289 1,425,851 3. Inputs acquired from third parties 106,239 170,081 Materials, energy and others 39,382 41,493 Third party services 88,826 90,598 Losses on (recovery of) asset values (21,969) (37,990) 4. Gross added value (1-2-3) 426,519 515,462 5. Depreciation, amortization and depletion 36,401 28,704 6. Net added value produced by the entity (5-4) 390,118 486,758 7. Added value received in transfer 439 110 Equity pick-up Others 439 110 8. Added value for distribution (7-6) 390,557 486,868 9. Distribution of added value 390,557 486,868 Personnel 183,417 191,607 Direct remuneration 149,413 158,391 Benefits 20,190 20,645 Employee retirement fund (FGTS) 13,814 12,571 Taxes, fees and contributions 113,629 153,215 Federal 96,810 136,640 State 1,217 1,028 Municipal 15,602 15,547 Remuneration of third party capital 32,255 31,515 Rents 32,255 31,515 Remuneration of own capital 61,256 110,531 Interest on shareholders’ equity 52,000 104,000 Dividends 15,500 Retained earnings/losses 9,256 (8,969) Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 39 Net Interest Margin At the close of 2013, the net interest margin was 8.0%, surpassing the 5.4% obtained in 2012. This performance reflects the changing situation, since 2012 featured lower levels of interest rates and spread and a greater proportion of highly liquid assets that produce lower returns. During 2013, the rising trend in interest rates led to a slight increase in spreads. Net Income Net income for the year 2013 was BRL61.3 million, down by 44.6% against a year earlier. In 2012, the Bank began adopting the accounting procedure of marking to market the derivatives underlying the funding raised by issuing bonds overseas. In 2013, this produced a negative result of BRL85.3 million. Thus, if we focus on the operational aspects and disregard this amount, net income would have been BRL146.6 million. The year reflected a period of transition and adjustments made by the Bank, especially in the first semester of 2013. The loan portfolio and the volume of funding both declined against a background of economic uncertainty, with priority being given to the liquidity, quality and security of the business. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 40 Economic Value Added (EVA) Shareholders’ Equity GRI 2.8 BICBANCO calculates EVA, which is equivalent to the ecoAt the close of 2013, shareholders’ equity nomic income less capital costs. The economic income totaled BRL1,952.2 million, which was stacorresponds to the adjusted net income. Capital cost is ble against the previous year. obtained from the sum of third party capital cost and shareholders’ capital cost. In the case of financial institutions, Basel Index GRI 2.8 shareholders’ capital cost can represent risk capital, whiAs of October 1, 2013, the set of rules imch is here interpreted according to the Basel definition plementing the recommendations of the (Required Reference Equity). EVA totaled BRL(352.6) milBasel Committee of Banking Supervision lion in 2012 and BRL(663.5) million in 2013. The economic for the capital structure of financial insincome used in these calculations was BRL2,053 million titutions, known as Basel III, came into and BRL1,650.88 in 2012 and 2013 respectively. effect in Brazil. The new rules were published as Resolutions and Circulars and establish the procedures for calculating the minimum requirements for banks’ Tier 1 Core Capital and Regulatory Capital Requirements (PR). There are now 3 independent requirements for each concept of capital (Core Capital, Tier 1 and Regulatory Capital) and additional variable amounts. The minimum PR remained at 11% in October, but this will change as from FORECAST January 2016. FOR 2014 At the end of 2013, the Basel Index calculated in accordance with current criteria (Basel III) stood at 19.07%. The reduction in • The risk scenario will tend loan operations had a favorable impact on to restrict growth of the the index. However, the weighting of buloan portfolio. siness loans at 85% (previously 75%) and • Annual PLL expenses are not the 10% reduction in the Tier II subordinaexpected to outweigh the amount ted debt had the opposite effect. registered in 2013. • Cash and cash equivalents will be held at a comfortable level (between BRL1,500 million and 19.07 BRL2,500 million). 17.48 • Adjusted income is likely to grow; impacts of marking to market are close to exhaustion. Basel Index • Approval of the change in the (%) control of the Institution will substantially alter growth and income prospects. 2012 2013 Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 41 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE GRI 4.14 | 4.15 | 4.16 BICBANCO has identified the list of its main stakeholders based on interviews and meetings with its managers and executives of all mapped processes. These stakeholders are currently organized into 13 groups: shareholders, investors, market analysts, regulatory authorities, clients, local communities, government and society, the environment, the market, the media/press, employees and unions. BANK Clients Local Communities Market Suppliers Employees Shareholders Unions and Investors Government Environment Society Regulatory Authorities Relationships with all stakeholders are aimed at creating opportunities for engagement and mutual value. In the case of Main engagement priority stakeholders, minimum engagechannels ment frequency has been set. These engagement events serve to validate and up• Disclosure of results and information date the materiality matrix that identifies on sustainability performance, the most important topics to be reported including the Annual and Sustainability on and managed by the Institution. Report, notices and alerts • Institutional and investor In 2013, BICBANCO published its Engagerelations websites ment Policy, which seeks to align the con• Intranet cepts and expectations of stakeholders with the Institution’s strategy. The docu• Visits and meetings ment is based on the premises of transpar• Participation in discussion forums ency, agreement regarding its operation, and professional associations shared value, reputation, awareness and mobilization of the stakeholders in favor • Distribution of leaflets and bulletins of sustainable development, risk manage• Meetings with specific groups ment and innovation. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 42 Materiality Test GRI 3.5 | 4.16 | 4.17 Moving ahead with the materiality matrix based on management indicators. Consultations with defined in 2012, BANCO has improved its the Board of Officers also improved and, through a pilot engagement process for identifying releproject, now include a questionnaire that is more convant topics. For the Bank, this movement textualized, with a scale to rank the importance of the goes beyond prioritization to reporting, sustainability management topics. and influences the improvement in the day-to-day sustainability management. The weighting of the responses by stakeholder groups is now compiled according to their influence with and deThe methodology adopted in 2013 folpendence on BICBANCO. lowed the GRI guidelines and, to reinforce the principle of inclusion, the Bank beThe BICBANCO materiality matrix is created by cross-­ gan consulting financial market players, referencing the simple average of responses from stakeprofessional bodies and competitors. holders against the average responses weighted by the The interviews were conducted by email groups consulted. The materiality test indicated that the and by telephone, following two models topics highlighted in the following table were considered of questionnaires that were drawn up important. PRIORITY ISSUES FOR REPORTING • Information on economic performance, • Initiatives to prevent activities involving risks and business opportunities harmful or exploitative forms of forced • Environmental and social policies apor child labor plied to products and services • Actions and initiatives to analyze risks of • Assessment of product and service human rights violations in the Bank’s inportfolios based on social and environternal operations and with active clients mental criteria • Actions and initiatives in financial edu• Preventive action to manage risk arising cation for employees from corrupt practices • Procedures adopted by BICBANCO to • Employee training on social and enviassess and monitor clients’ social and ronmental policies environmental risks • Career management programs • Occupational health and safety conditions • Quality of information available on pro• Actions and initiatives for preserving ducts and services the environment and future plans for managing these actions and initiatives Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 43 Clients The relationships with clients are based on transparIn terms of technology, periodic tests are ency, promptness and agility, thanks to professionals carried out on internal and external syswho understand the specific requirements of each busitems, such as simulated local and internet­­ ness, segment and region. Good management practices based invasions, wireless network security are also employed to enhance information security, acand remote access blocking. The practices cessibility of service outlets and the effectiveness of the adopted to ensure the integrity, confidenticommunication and customer service channels. Aware ality, security, secrecy and legitimacy of the of its role as a driving force, the Bank makes available operations are formalized in policies, rules products and services using social and environmental and procedures, including the corporate criteria that favor business development and sustainCode of Ethics. able operations. Monitoring and control mechanisms comClient privacy plete this structure of information security and information security management. The information system logs GRI DMA PR – CLIENT PRIVACY | PR8 any changes made by employees, and these People, technology and processes are the three pillars logs are monitored by the Internal Audit deon which information security depends. When hired, partment. The Bank also uses tools that enemployees are given instructions on existing policies, able it to detect failures and take corrective rules and procedures, and told how to protect themmeasures quickly, in addition to monitorselves against possible attacks seeking to obtain coning content published on the internet in its fidential information. In addition, all employees renew name. In 2013, as in the previous year, there a Functional Responsibility Deed once a year and atwere no complaints regarding the violation tend awareness lectures. Contractors sign a Non­­­­­­­­ of privacy or loss of client data. Disclosure Agreement prior to having access to any restricted information. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 44 Service outlets GRI DMA EC – MARKET PRESENCE | FS14 BICBANCO’s service outlets are located in strategic comAttention is also paid – in other commumercial areas. The Brazilian units give the Bank a physinication instruments such as contracts cal presence in all regions of the country. The Institution – to the recommendations and rules esalso has a branch in the Cayman Islands, to support its tablished by Bacen, the Brazilian Bank international operations. The service outlets are suppleFederation (FEBRABAN), the Consumer mented by a network throughout Brazil for delivering Guidance and Protection Program (Propayment slips to payers, receiving payments and sendcon) and other regulatory bodies for ing letters of protest. the sector. In line with this approach, BICBANCO does not market products or The Bank only assesses the indirect impact of its operaservices that are controversial or protions and activities from the time a branch opens to the hibited in specific markets. Furthermore, time it is closed. Its direct impact is not relevant bearing it repudiates any type of discriminatory in mind that the nature of its business is intended for midcommunication that incites violence, exsize and large companies and that its loan operations acploits fear or superstition, takes advancount for around 0.5% of the total domestic market. tage of children’s lack of discernment and experience, disrespects environmental Staff receives training in special needs and branches values or is capable of inducing consumare accessible, with access ramps and specially adapted ers to behave in a manner prejudicial or booths and counters. harmful to their health and safety. Communication The effectiveness of this model can be GRI DMA PR – COMMUNICATION | DMA PR – LABELING OF PROverified by the absence of cases of non­ DUCTS | DMA PR – COMPLIANCE | PR3 | PR4 | PR6 | PR7 | FS15 | compliance with the regulations and DMA COMPLIANCE codes for communication, marketing and The Communication and Marketing Policy approved in product labeling in 2013. 2013 includes directives on institutional communication about products and services and on relationship matters. The formalization of this document provides guidance and ensures that all interactions between the Bank and its stakeholders are coherent, aligning the many different areas involved. To comply with legal and market requisites, events, campaigns and sponsorships observe The new the stipulations in the Code of Advertising Self-Regulation of the National Council on Advertising Self-RegulaCommunication and tion (Conar). This compliance is evaluated for each action launched or relaunched, and was fully effective in 2013. Marketing Policy contributes to a coherent institutional approach to relationships with all stakeholders Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 45 Customer Service GRI PR5 | PR8 The customer service The main communication and customer service channels are BICBANCO Customer Service, Customteams consist of er Service for Payroll-deductible loan holders (SAC professionals trained CDC), Customer Service for Sul Financeira clients, the Ombudsman, the websites and the direct comto handle queries and to log criticisms munication lines like Fale Conosco (Talk to Us). The Bank has revised its Customer Service Policy. Customer service management interacts with the and suggestions Marketing area, so that there is internal alignment with clients’ needs. Furthermore, in 2013 employees took part in e-learning about checking accounts and customer service. The legal teams support this process to ensure compliance with the rules regarding the products and services offered. The main reasons for and origins of complaints are monitored, and when a source of complaint is identified in a given location, a personal visit is made to discuss the matter with Procon, clarifying the Company’s practices and the SAC characteristics of its products. IN FIGURES There is also a direct channel available to clients of banks that are signatories to FEBRABAN’s Banking BICBANCO’s Customer Service employs teams Self-Regulation System, referred to as Conte Aqui that are qualified to answer queries, receive (Tell Us Here). Conte Aqui receives queries and comsuggestions and register complaints or plaints and forwards them directly to the banks, criticism. In 2013, 66 requests were dealt with, which have up to ten days to respond. One of the of which 80.3% were resolved within 5 days. improvements in 2014 will be the implementation of a formal customer satisfaction survey on the interactive voice response system. Staff members working in the Customer Service Units for payroll-deductible loan holders and clients of Sul Financeira, who specialize in personal banking products, responded by telephone to and forwarded to internal departments 86,527 requests, of which 94.61% were resolved within 5 days. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 46 Ombudsman GRI PR8 Through the Ombudsman, stakeholders have a direct line of communication to senior management for submitting matters not resolved through the primary customer serProducts and services vice channels, such as the SAC. All complaints received with additional social and are monitored and resolved. environmental features GRI DMA FS – PRODUCTS AND SERVICES | Available via electronic means, by letter or in person, the DMA EC – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT | EC9 Ombudsman responded to 1,247 requests during the year, | FS5 | FS7 | FS15 of which 854 were substantive. Of these, 257 were reBICBANCO has various product areas solved within 5 business days and only 18 exceeded the that analyze market demands and opregulatory term of 15 days (Central Bank Resolution No. portunities. These professionals moni3.849, Article 2, item III). Cases dealt with by the Central tor the results of operations daily and Bank totaled 3,914 in 2013. forward the results to the commercial teams. Monitoring product performance and profitability provides input for developing new solutions and for updating market practices. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 47 The process of designing and launchHighlights 2013 ing new products involves various areas Guarantees across the Bank. The New Products Group A specialized team and digital features contribute to (GNP) analyzes each new product to engreater speed in addition to stimulating operations in sure that it is in line with clients’ profiles the area of guarantees. and the Institution’s values. GNP also considers the need for technological, huSocio-environmental aspects are present in guarantees, man or structural investment, as well as although indirectly, given that requests for guarantees estimated return and pricing, on the bavia the website and their digital signature help reduce sis of fixed criteria that include economic the physical load. Also, inclusion of socio-environmental and socio-environmental risks. If they provisions in all bank guarantee agreements promotes pass this test, new product rollout is imclients’ engagement with sustainable development. plemented by the Products area, which is responsible for negotiation, documentaForeign Exchange tion, accounting, tax, implementation, inBICBANCO adopted a distinct approach in the market by ternal marketing, external marketing and including foreign exchange activities (receipt/export/ follow-up. import payments and financial transactions, among other services) in the socio-environmental analyses Although this year it has not met the tarconducted for all its clients. Those presenting high soget of designing a socio-environmental cio-environmental risks will depend on the Blue Comproduct, BICBANCO has set up a new area mittee’s approval to carry out these transactions, even if dedicated to structured products, has dethey do not involve credit risk. veloped new products and has improved guarantee operations. Structured Transactions Created in May 2013, the Structured Transactions area attends to clients planning to expand their business, by advising them on their financial and guarantee structure. This work may involve any portfolio product or service and comprises the regular monitoring of all transactions. Reporting directly to senior management, this Social and team acts in line with the Credit area’s established criteria, and submits all clients and guarantees to socioenvironmental environmental risk analysis. analysis of all As of the end of the year, three transactions were reclients adds value corded, with total investment of over BRL300 million shared with the market. As a result of the Blue Committo results tee’s assessment, one of them had to be restructured. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 48 Progredir (“Progress”) Program (Petrobras) GRI DMA EC – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT | EC9 Since 2012, BICBANCO has been collaborating with the Operating in municipalities with up to Progredir Program, a business portal that facilitates the 50,000 inhabitants nationwide, through arrangement of loans for Petrobras’ suppliers, making the intermediary of the Housing Departlarge volumes of credit available on competitive terms. ment of the Ministry of Cities, the Bank Since it started making advances against invoices on transferred BRL2.8 million to the agents the portal, the Bank has attained 41.8% of the total voluin charge of the PSH program, while me of this business, with disbursements of BRL1 billion. BRL23.8 million was transferred to comAdded to operations involving advances on contracts panies for the PMCMV program. During backed by Petrobras receivables, the total portfolio figure 2013, 1,585 homes were handed over to is BRL494.1 million, representing 8.6% of all working capithe program’s beneficiaries. tal operations. Unified Healthcare System Mutual Inove (“Innovate”) Program (Vale) Fund (Mútuo SUS) GRI DMA EC – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT | EC9 GRI DMA EC – ECONOMIC IMPACT At the end of 2013, the Bank signed up for Vale’s Supplier INDIRECT | EC9 Development Program Vale (Inove), which aims to develop The Unified Healthcare System Mutual local suppliers through training, financial solutions and suFund is a special line of credit intended pport for business deals. This is a joint program with profesto strengthen and expand healthcare inisional associations, government bodies and financial and tiatives by benefiting service providers educational institutions. The facilities offered are intended in the Unified Healthcare System, such for operations against receivables and for working capital. as hospitals, clinics and outpatient facilities. This facility amounted to BRL234 Social Housing Program and “Minha Casa, million in 2013, corresponding to 3% of Minha Vida” Program the Bank’s credit portfolio operations, GRI DMA EC – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT | EC9 against BRL437.9 million in 2012. The reBICBANCO is an agent of the Social Housing Program duction in relation to 2012 is due to the (PSH) and the Minha Casa Minha Vida (“My Home, My creation of incentive programs through Life”) Program (PMCMV), on-lending funds to assist federal banks offering more attractive home purchase by the low-income population. Conconditions, in terms of amounts and time struction work is monitored by a specialist company limits, to healthcare institutions. and priority is given to hiring local labor. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 49 Investors Investor remuneration BICBANCO does not have a formal dividends policy. Its Investor relations practice of remunerating shareholders is based on the GRI 4.4 Brazilian Corporation Law and on its bylaws. The Board A specific area coordinates BICBANCO’s of Directors may approve the dividends distributions relationships with its investors. These and/or interest on equity (JCP) based on annual or sixare guided by responsible management, monthly financial statements. The amount of any distriequal treatment in terms of availability butions will depend on several factors, such as the operof information and assistance to invesating income, financial condition, funding requirements, tors, and ethical and transparent prinoutlook and other aspects that the Board of Directors ciples for disclosure and accountability. and the shareholders deem to be relevant. The Bank’s engagement initiatives include the preparation of specific pubThe minimum mandatory dividend is fixed in the bylaws lications, organization of meetings for in an amount of 25% or more of the annual adjusted net the presentation of quarterly and annual income, in accordance with the Brazilian Corporation results (some being held jointly with the Law. Payments for 2013 amounted to BRL52 million, with Brazilian Association of Capital Market two equal payments of JCP of BRL26 million (correspondAnalysts and Professionals) and confering to BRL0.105680734 per share) in the first semester ence calls, access to the Bank’s investor of 2013. relations website (www.bicbanco.com. br/ir), updated information on corporate governance, sustainability news releases and technical reports. At the end of 2013, the Bank had 2,177 shareholders. MARKET INDICATORS BICBANCO is included in some market inCorporate Governance Index (IGC) | dicators of companies with outstanding Measures the performance of a theoretical management: securities portfolio of companies with good Corporate Sustainability Index | Combines levels of corporate governance. 40 companies from 18 sectors with outstandSpecial Tag Along Stock Index (ITAG) | ing corporate governance and sustainability Measures the performance of a theoretipractices that serve as a market reference for cal securities portfolio of companies that socially responsible investments. The Bank offer minority shareholders better condihas been listed in this portfolio for four years. tions in situations where there is a change in shareholder control. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 50 Employees GRI DMA LA – EMPLOYMENT AND RELATIONSHIP WITH GOVERNANCE Managing human capital effectively and in line with or action plans and 10 were filed for later its values ensures BICBANCO’s consistent and healthy evaluation. There were 33 complaints in togrowth with highly qualified professionals recognized tal, of which 27 were resolved and 5 are being by the financial market. These assumptions underpin monitored. Only 1 was not forwarded due to the Corporate Human Resources Policy, revised in 2013 lack of information. The other 13 messages to formalize practices and enhance employee managewere compliments. ment. The document also provides for the appreciation of diversity, forbidding discriminatory behavior (with Top Employers International regard to beliefs, race, gender or sexual orientation) Certification and respecting the labor legislation and the relevant BICBANCO was awarded the Top Employers collective agreements. As a supplementary directive, Brasil award in early 2014 for the third conthe Bank also issued a policy for managing labor risks secutive time. The evaluation process is auduring the year. dited and takes into account HR policies and practices, such as benefits, working condiEmployees can communicate with the Bank through RH tions, training arrangements, careers and orcom VOCÊ! (“HR with YOU!”), which deals with matters in ganizational culture. This certification is only a secret and confidential manner. In 2013, 137 messages awarded to companies with at least 60% of were forwarded through this channel, all of which were the maximum score obtained by participants. responded to. Of these, 55 were queries, primarily concerning benefits, labor practices and training courses. In 2013, the Bank was also ranked among the A further 36 were suggestions, of which 12 were taken best 150 companies in people management up, while 6 were not considered viable because of legal practices, with a special mention in quality­ impediments and external factors, 8 became projects of-life practices, by Gestão & RH magazine. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 51 BICBANCO continued working with its six RHoje (HR Today) brands that group its people management initiatives by topic: We aim to facilitate the adaptation of new staff, to integrate them and to enable greater interaction between people and teams. The intention is that they should feel that they are an integral part of the business, understand the rules and directives and identify with the organization’s mission, vision and values. The objective is to enhance performance throughout the entire organization. To do so we monitor the achievement of results and the attainment of both team and individual targets. These actions highlight progress, provide guidance and identify talent and opportunities for improvement. We believe that good relations between the Institution and its employees transcend the professional aspect, both when employees are involved with the organization’s objectives and when the Company is present at important moments in their lives. Commemoration thus strengthens the relationships and the bonds of trust. We give employees support to allow them to get on with their professional and personal lives in a balanced manner and to focus on their activities, producing more and better. We aim to provide a healthy environment, well-being at work and employee satisfaction. We reward the Institution’s satisfaction with the productivity and quality of both individual and collective work with actions that stress the importance of people in achieving objectives and their commitment to continuous achievement. We believe that knowledge is the basis of good relations between the organization’s professionals and we work to encourage, develop, train and qualify them, enhancing their ability and skills. The Institution invests in people so as to have a professional, qualified staff and to foster opportunities for professional advancement. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 52 DIVERSITY MAP GRI DMA HR – N0N-DISCRIMINATION | DMA LA – DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY | SO8 | LA1 | LA13 | HR4 / GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 3 AND 6 To promote the inclusion of people with A socially and culturally diverse working environment disabilities in its headcount, the Bank is is one of the priorities of people management. Diversity part of the FEBRABAN Program for Proamong professionals and opportunities is a fertile terfessional Training and Inclusion of Perritory for development and improved performance. The sons with Disabilities. Bank’s Code of Ethics makes clear its focus on promoting diversity and on not tolerating any type of discriminaAt the end of 2013, BICBANCO had 8,798 tion. The absence of cases of discrimination in 2013, as staff members on open-ended employwell as in the previous year, is a testimony to the disment contracts (under the Brazilian Consemination of these values. solidated Labor Laws [CLT]) and 149 service providers, 60 of them women and Two important developments have reinforced the Bank’s 89 men, working outside the Institution’s commitment to diversity. The first consists of expanding core business. Of the total full-time emlabor benefits to same-sex relationships under a formal ployees, 42% were women. 33 employpolicy. The second highlight is the partnership with the ees were working a 6-hour day, 23 of Zumbi dos Palmares teaching institution to encourage them women and 10 men, and the others the inclusion of young black people in the labor market were working an 8-hour day. through internship opportunities. Total employees by region 5 3 67 75 14 25 263 365 8 39 21 62 142 628 41 Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 53 Diversity in Diversity breakdown, governance bodies (%) excluding governance members (%) Ethnicity Raça 0 94 0 82 6 0 4 2 0 12 Education level (Schooling) Education level (Schooling) 0 Elementary school 0 Elementary school 0 Secondary school 8 Secondary school 0 Incomplete 20 Incomplete higher education higher education 94 Higher education 44 Higher education 6 Masters/ 27 Masters/ graduate degree graduate degree Age group Age group 0 16 to 24 years 8 16 to 24 years 0 25 to 35 years 32 25 to 35 years 0 36 to 46 years 30 36 to 46 years 31 46 to 55 years 24 46 to 55 years 69 56 years or older 6 56 years or older Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 54 Internships and Teen Apprentices GRI LA12 The internship Program provides training for young univerIn 12 months, there was a 17.9% reduction in sity students, who are directly monitored by their superiors the number of employees, reflecting the lowand the Human Resources area. Of the 37 interns in 2013, er volume of business. The turnover rate was 23 took part in bimonthly meetings to monitor and formally 27.9%, against 14.7% in 2012. evaluate their performance. Of the 28 interns who worked in 2012, 11 were hired as employees – 9 of them in the central Except in cases of dismissal due to a specific administration and 2 in branches. cause, the Bank assists departing professionals by financing retraining courses and Young people between the ages of 14 and 24 can join via the paying additional compensation according to Teen Apprentice Program. With 6 hours a week in the classtheir time of service, in addition to fulfilling room and 24 hours of on-the-job training, the program inall obligations contemplated under the CLT volved 18 young people in 2013. and keeping a record of former employees, which enables them to be re-hired in the fuTurnover ture by the Bank. GRI LA2 | LA11 | LA15 | EC7 In 2013, BICBANCO hired 86 employees while 245 left the 30 employees, 23 women and 7 men, went on Bank. The selection processes were conducted at locamaternity or paternity leave in 2013. tions where opportunities were available, respecting the principles of ethics and minimum requisites for filling In 2012, of the 26 employees who enjoyed this positions. All newly engaged staff members live in the benefit, 13 (7 women and 6 men) were still same regions as the units, which benefits local commuwith the Bank 12 months later. nities. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 55 Total Turnover indicators Hired Rate (%) Fired Rate (%) employees By gender Male 509 42 8.3 144 28.3 Female 370 44 11.9 101 37.4 By age group 16 to 24 years 68 24 35.3 15 22.1 25 to 35 years 285 35 12.3 97 34.0 36 to 45 years 268 17 6.3 69 25.7 46 to 55 years 209 8 3.8 50 23.9 56 or older 49 2 4.1 14 28.6 By region North 8 0 0.0 3 37.5 Midwest 39 1 2.6 9 19.1 Southeast 628 80 12.7 183 29.2 Northeast 142 4 2.8 31 23.1 South 62 1 1.6 19 30.2 Total 879 86 9.8 245 27.9 Remuneration GRI DMA LA – DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY | LA14 | EC5 Employee remuneration is in line with the market, inRemuneration breakdown (%) cluding the fixed salary, benefits package and variable remuneration, with no distinction in terms of compensation between men and women holding the same position. To this end, the Bank continually monitors the market through monthly FEBRABAN surveys and other sectorial surveys, and sets the salary brackets and promotion cri48.3 Compensation teria based on each employee’s technical performance 38.5 Benefits and conduct, thus reinforcing meritocracy. This goes 13.2 Variable compensation hand-in-hand with efforts to maintain a variable Compensation Policy based on goals and results unrelated to the mandatory profit sharing scheme. At the end of 2013, the minimum salary paid to employees was BRL1,648.12 per month. This was for staff working 6 hours a day, and corresponds to 2.4 times the national minimum wage. The lowest salary for staff working 8 hours a day was BRL2,229.05, or 3 times the minimum wage. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 56 Performance assessment GRI LA12 Employees are formally assessed on their holders. In 2013, 347 employees, 247 of them men and 100 performance. Assessment involves their women, were assessed under this system. immediate managers and the Human Resources area. Frequency varies according New employees are assessed, irrespective of function or to the area where the employee works. seniority. In 2013, 78 employees who completed their triThe assessment considers to what extent alperiod were assessed, 43 of them men and 35 women. goals were reached and rates skills on criAnother practice is the assessment of staff in temporary teria including social and environmental positions, which looks at aspects such as personal charissues (except for employees of the Comacteristics, discipline, potential and productivity. Of the 5 mercial area). The assessment of branch employees who were assessed while in temporary posisupervisors also includes questions intions (2 men and 3 women) in 2013, one was promoted. In volving training needs, aiming to improve total, 49% of the employees – 68% of the men and 32% performance and the consequent impact of the women – were assessed in 2013. on the relationships with external stakeFREQUENCY OF PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTS BY CATEGORY Credit Area, managers, supervisors and executives Commercial Area SEMI-ANNUAL QUARTERLY Performance assessments consider results attained, in addition to alignment with the ethical, social and environmental values of the Institution Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 57 Training and development GRI DMA LA – TRAINING AND EDUCATION | FS4 | LA10 | LA11 Training initiatives are structured on two axes: technical In the Bank as a whole, in-house trainactivities of the area and significant issues for the Bank, ing totaled 4,609 hours, with 3,086 inincluding sustainability, information security and prestances of participation. Externally, 2,091 vention of money laundering, corruption and illegal acts, hours of training were given in wellamong others. known institutions of the financial sector, to 101 employees from the various areas Technical learning programs take four main approaches: and from branches. • Training: this is based on a diagnosis of the needs of managers of the areas, and seeks to identify and meet the Average hours of specific needs of the teams through internal and/or extertraining by gender (hours) nal courses of short to medium duration. Male 7.8 • Integration: the business, benefits, rights and duties Female 7.3 are introduced to new members of the staff and basic aspects of behavior that are important for anyone joining a new organization are also covered. Average of training hours per • Technical and refresher courses: their purpose is to functional category (hours) enhance the technical skills of the staff. They can be Analyst 7.0 held in-house or externally. Commercial 9.9 • Educational incentives: the Bank offers subsidies of 50% Coordinator 5.0 to 80% for staff who wish to take undergraduate, graduate or MBA courses, specialist studies or language courses. Management 8.2 Average hours of 7.6 training per employee In a pilot project intended to improve management and develop talents, a professional inventory of the Information Technology area was taken, as part of the area’s strategic planning. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 58 Benefits GRI LA3 The benefits program is offered to all employees, with advantages that exceed legal requirements. EDUCATION Specific groups also receive additional benefits: those who work the night shift receive help with PROGRAM FOR transport, thus helping to ensure their safety; women are entitled to six months’ maternity SUSTAINABILITY leave, and allowed two half-hour absences per day, or one of one hour, for breastfeeding children This program involves campaigns up to six months old. Assistance is also provided and training aimed at developing towards the cost of a day nursery or nanny. employees’ knowledge and skills with regard to sustainable development. Benefits offered • Optional healthcare and dental plans, also covering dependents, including In 2013: those in stable same-sex relationships • All branches received specific • Meal vouchers training on social and environmental • Grocery vouchers (and an extra vourisk designed by the Credit and cher with the 13th salary payment) Sustainability areas. 139 employees took part, of which 98 were • Assistance for mentally or physically from branches and 41 from disabled children corporate areas. • Assistance with funeral expenses and a funeral expenses plan • All employees received training on • Supplementary sick pay in addition to legal requirements and their role in the prevention of risks of illegal social security and standard governpractices (such as corruption). ment-mandated sick pay 4,464.5 hours of training in human • Housing benefits rights issues of relevance to the • Special conditions for property and car operation were given, involving 100% loans and insurance, as well as for creof the staff. dit card and overdraft facilities • 27 employees of SulFinanceira • Group life insurance, life and disability received training on fraud prevention. insurance for above-average amounts, and life insurance for executives • The whole conglomerate participated in training on good • Education insurance practices in customer service as • Bonuses to employees in charge of prescribed in the Banking Selfcheck clearance Regulation System. • Time off given for good attendance records • Agreements with drugstore chains (for deductions from payroll) and partnerships with language schools, restaurants, gymnasiums etc Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 59 Social participation reinforces the Bank’s Values and its positioning in the debate on policies and rules Relationships with unions GRI DMA HR – FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING | LA4 | HR5 | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 1, 2 AND 3 The Health Promotion Program acts preBICBANCO guarantees all its staff the right to free asventively through campaigns and events sociation and observes the collective bargaining agreefor vaccination, breast and prostate canments, which apply to all staff members. It also provides cer prevention, problems with stress and an opportunity for dialogue with unions and activities of smoking, healthy eating habits, fitness, and unions. Union leaders are allowed access to the Bank’s posture checks, as well as assessments. premises to communicate matters of interest to the staff. The Bank also allows the unions to recruit members, proHealth and security-related practices vides suitable space for these events, and notifies staff were intensified with the formalization about them. No operations were identified in which the of the Internal Accident Prevention Comright to freedom of association and collective bargaining mission (CIPA), the Environmental Hazard was at significant risk, and so it has not been necessary to Prevention Program (PPRA) and the Octake specific measures to support this right. cupational Health Medical Control Program (PCMSO). Health and quality of life at work GRI DMA LA – HEALTH AND SAFETY | LA6 | LA8 | LA9 | GLOBAL All employees are formally represented by COMPACT – PRINCIPLE 3 CIPA, which is responsible for arranging the There is a series of initiatives aims at offering a balanced Internal Occupational Accident Prevention and healthy working environment and keeping employWeek (Sipat) and for coordinating awareness ees’ satisfaction rating at a high level. campaigns about health and quality of life. Among them are campaigns for AIDS preBICBANCO inaugurated ConviveRH in its headquarters, vention, the extension of healthcare plans a social area for employees to use that offers them the to staff leaving the Bank, a professional reopportunity for integration and quality of life within the training program and joint committees covwork environment. ering Bank Security and Equal Opportunities. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 60 The Human Resources area gives priority ried out. The proportion of employees exercising at work to the promotion of health and well-being. reached 90% in 2013 and exceeded the turnout in previous Work was done during the year to raise years, which confirms the importance of the Health Proawareness about disease prevention and motion Program. health promotion, prioritizing changes in people’s style and quality of life. Regular The formation of a Working Group on Ergonomics is also exams aiming at the welfare and healthscheduled, to determine the quality of the materials to care of these professionals were carbe purchased, besides having other functions. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH INDICATORS GRI LA7 2013 2012 Number Rate2 Number Rate2 Injuries 0 0 5 2.41 Occupational illnesses 0 0 8 4 Days missed1 0 0 1,044 505 1. Taking into account only days missed for occupational accidents and health treatment for periods exceeding 15 days. There were no days missed due to injuries on the job or on the way to work in 2013, or due to occupational illnesses; days missed were due to other factors. As in 2012, occupational illnesses were not directly related to work. 2. The rates are calculated per million person-hours. Suppliers GRI | HR2 | EC6 | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 1 AND 2 | NATIONAL AGREEMENT NO ERRADICATE SLAVE LABOUR IN BRAZIL – PRINCIPLE 1 The social and environmental evaluation All agreements with suppliers include human rights, soof suppliers is done according to the same cial and environmental clauses, under which the comcriteria as applied to clients (described in pany agrees to not get involved in any activities involvthe Social and Environmental Risk item ing harmful or exploitative forms of forced or child labor, of the Corporate Governance chapter). In and to respect all environmental and labor laws. In 2013, the preliminary assessment and regisno violations of these clauses were registered. tration of companies that seek to supply materials and services, it is mandatory to The Bank excludes or suspends registration of suppliers complete the Sustainability Declaration, involved in practices such as money laundering; piracy, which includes corporate registration counterfeiting or product copying; tax evasion; theft details and issues related to social and of raw material, equipment or goods; environmental environmental performance. crimes; forced or child labor; use of labor without a legal employment relationship; bribery to obtain contracts; or conflicts of interest with the Institution. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 61 CRITERIA TO SELECT MATERIALS AND SERVICES SUPPLIERS • Recognition in the market for legal and tax-related soundness • Compliance with the ethical and sustainability principles committed to • Payment of suppliers and employees punctually and correctly, as well as obligations to the Federal Revenue Department, social security and other tax obligations • Compliance with the legal apprentice quota • Compliance with the quota of the Program for Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in the labor market • International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications, such as ISO 9000, ISO 14000, ISO 26000 and ISO 27000, or OHSAS 18000 • A commercial relationship with BICBANCO • A location in the locality or region where the product or service will be used Society GRI 4.12 | 4.13 | DMA SO – PUBLIC POLICIES | SO5 | GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES 7, 8 AND 10 Involvement with representative entities In 2013, the Bank took part in forums, committees and permits exchange of experiences, and ofsub­-­committees of the FEBRABAN on compliance, corfers the opportunity to explain and influporate credit, sustainability, issues affecting small and ence policies and standards to disseminate medium-sized banks, rural credit, audit and human reBICBANCO’s values. This is permanent insources – and of the Brazilian Bank Association (ABBC) on volvement aimed at improving the Bank’s legal issues, accounting and tax issues, risk management, relationship with society. As a way of reccorporate governance and compliance, human resources, ognizing and stimulating employees’ partechnology and shared services, treasury and funding isticipation, engagement in the sector and in sues, foreign exchange and payroll-deductible loans. The public policies is regarded as positive in the sustainability and human resources forums deal with periodic performance assessment. matters related to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor and its impact on the sector. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 62 Highlights of the way in which BICBANCO takes part are: • Meetings regularly organized by the Brazilian Corporate Governance Institute (IBGC) and the Brazilian Institute of United Nations Environment Programme Financial Executives (Ibef) – Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI) | This part• Participation in the committees of connership between the global financial secsumer defense bodies, in line with the tor and the United Nations Environment principles of the Financial Institutions’ Programme (PNUMA) facilitates the idenSelf-regulation Code tification, promotion and adoption of best practices in the banking industry. ApproxiAnother type of engagement with society is mately 200 signatories around the world the adoption of national and international have three objectives in common: engageprograms and pacts, reinforcing the Bank’s ment for sustainable development, suspublic commitment to the best sustainabiltainability management in the activities ity practices. The goal for next year is to inof the institution and in its value chain, volve clients and suppliers in the initiatives and awareness and communication of the that the Bank endorses. principles adopted. Learn more at: www.unepfi.org. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 63 Global Compact | This aims at mobilizing the international Banking Self-regulation System | This business community to adopt fundamental values in the is an initiative of FEBRABAN in conjuncareas of human rights, work relationships, the environment tion with the banks. It establishes conand anti-corruption, reflected in ten principles. BICBANCO duct of undertakings that, together with formally became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2013. other regulatory standards, contribute to the efficient and transparent operation of the market. By the end of 2013, 18 Learn more at: organizations had endorsed the comwww.pactoglobal.org.br mitment voluntarily, thus exceeding the legal requirements. Conte Aqui, the Call Center of the Banking Self-regulation System, allows clients to report situations that indicate non-compliance with any banking self-regulation standard. Learn more at: www.autorregulacaobancaria.com.br. National Pact for the Elimination of Forced or Compulsory Labor in Brazil | This pact defines principles to abolish forced and compulsory labor and to promote decent Green Protocol | These voluntary guidelines are work. The Bank became a signatory to this pact in 2013, signed by FEBRABAN and the Ministry of Envireinforcing its commitment to forbid forced or compulronment, and also by the banks individually, to sory labor in its production chain. link credit operations to principles of social and environmental responsibility. Learn more at: www.pactonacional.com.br. The adoption of national and international programs and pacts reinforces the Bank’s public commitment to the best sustainability practices Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 64 Community GRI EC4 | EC8 | DMA SO – COMMUNITY | SO6 In 2013, three projects received investments totaling The Bank’s diversified social investment BRL405.9 thousand, of which BRL133.9 thousand came supports projects that provide universal from incentives under the Rouanet Law, and BRL272 access to artistic, educational and sportthousand from the Bank’s own resources, including doing events. Accordingly, it contributes nations to the Casa do Ancião (Home for the Elderly). In to social inclusion and citizenship, disaddition, BRL4.8 thousand was applied for the maintesemination of knowledge and culture and nance of a square in Uberlândia (state of Minas Gerais). improvement in the quality of life in the Although these amounts are lower than those of 2012, communities where it operates. they were provided for initiatives that the Institution has partnered on since their creation. During the year, BICBANCO received no financial help from the government and made no donations to political parties. PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT POLICY In fulfillment of the goal established for 2013, the Bank published its Private Social Investment Policy, which determines the criteria, procedures and resources to be employed by the companies of the conglomerate in these activities. The document covers every stage from the criteria for selection and prioritization of projects (through a joint committee) to the monitoring of the results achieved. Major projects conducted in 2013 Ensaiando um País Melhor (Rehearsing for Educare Project | This project was integrated with Proa Better Country) | Supported by BICBANCO fessor Clodomiro Teófilo School (city of Eusébio, state of for seven years, this project includes workCeará), of which the Bank was already a supporter. Educashops on theater and the formation of audire is an educational initiative, with the objective of trainences, and it has already involved 17,294 chiling children to be agents of change in their families and dren and youngsters from the suburbs of the communities, and a focus on values and principles. It incity of São Paulo and 1,187 teachers of 127 includes music classes, capoeira classes and social and culstitutions in the São Paulo public school systural walks promoted by the school to provide all-around tem. The initiative has grown since its impledevelopment for the students. mentation, and in 2013 the Compact Module was created. This module can be replicated in other locations, as has happened in Diadema, Caraguatatuba, Osasco and Guarulhos, which have already started pilot classes. Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 65 Bento Quirino Nursery | In the city of Campinas (state of ance. Psychological guidance is also given São Paulo), the Institution continued its support for Soto their families. In 2013, the team remained ciedade Feminina de Assistência à Infância – Creche Benin the first division, in 7th place, and had five to Quirino. By means of teaching and education, the nursof its athletes drafted into the Wheelchair ery encourages a responsible view of life on the part of Basketball Team of the city of São Paulo. the children and teens who benefit from this program; it deals with issues such as respect for differences, conserCasa do Idoso | In 2013, BICBANCO supvation of the planet, identity, autonomy and self-esteem, ported the Associação Assistencial José teamwork, dialogue, generosity and love. Bezerra de Menezes. The institution, which was granted the state and national public Magic Wheels | For the tenth year, BICBANCO sponsored utility seal, has 18 employees and serves training and preparation for the Magic Wheels youth wheel69 elderly people, who receive meals and chair basketball team, contributing to the educational depersonal care and participate in social intevelopment and professional inclusion of the athletes. The gration events. In addition, the Association project is run by the Associação Desportiva para Deficioffers internships to healthcare students in entes (Sporting Association for the Disabled), and currently partnership with local colleges. supports 30 athletes, providing them with technical and nutritional, physical and psychological supervision and guidSustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 66 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Eco-efficiency practices and policies incluEmployees adopted the concepts of responsible purchade efficiency in the use of resources, waste sing, conscious use and careful disposal. This campaign management and greenhouse gas emissions gained momentum through cleaning staff training and an (GEE). The processes, controls and proceduextensive awareness campaign among employees. res implemented adopt strategies for preservation of natural resources, conscious energy Total consumption was reduced by 22% to 29.7 tons of paconsumption and pollution prevention. per, all with Forest Stewordship Council certification. Printed paper consumption was also lower, down to 21.3 tons of white paper, 42% less than in 2012. Branches shred Consumption of waste paper and send it for recycling. At Sul Financeira, a materials and project was implemented to reduce paper consumption in waste disposal booklets for installment payments, resulting in savings of GRI DMA EN – MATERIAIS | DMA EN – EMISSIONS 46.5%, or BRL45.6 thousand in only 5 months. In addition, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE | EN1 | EN2 | EN22 | other initiatives were introduced with the same goal, and With a focus on reducing the consumption their results are under analysis. of paper, which is the Bank’s most used material, good results were observed from BICBANCO also operates a selective waste collection systhe installation of two-sided printers and tem, with battery disposal bins installed in the central adconscious consumption campaigns launministration building. 55 kilos of batteries were collected. ched in 2012. The campaign “Movimento Azul: Nossa atitude reverbera no mundo” Ergonomic products made from recycled PET bottles were (Blue Movement: our attitude reverberapurchased, contributing to the removal of 3.2 kilos of PET tes around the world) – introduced in the from the environment, equivalent to 137 2-liter bottles. central administration building in 2012 – was extended to Sul Financeira in 2013. Materials and waste reduction was the focus of the Ecoefficiency Program in 2013 Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 67 Water GRI DMA EN – WATER | EN8 All the water used is supplied by basic sanitation utilities. In the central office building there is a system for rainwater collection and reuse. In 2013, total water consumed from municipal supplies was 36,382 m3, against 31,275.03 m3 in 2012. Energy and emissions GRI DMA EN – EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE | DMA EN – ENERGY | EN3 | EN4 | EN16 | EN17 | EN18 | EN19 BICBANCO uses the methodology of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program to measure its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The inventory of these emissions has been calculated since 2010 and audited since its second edition. History of Emissions (tCO2e) 1,741 1,711 1,591 1,276 930 939 434 369 347 346 306 96 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 68 Scope 1 | Considers mobile combustion from own vehicles and aircraft, and fugitive hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) emissions from refrigeration equipment. Services outlets and offices used 26.8 kilos of HFC 410-A gas and 132.3 kilos of HCFC-22 gas in 2013. The table below shows the energy used: Direct energy by source Type Fuel Liters GJ Transport – own aircraft Aviation gasoline 270,439.00 8,641.50 Transportation – own fleet Regular gasoline 114,445.47 3,687.41 Ethanol in 34,831.71 7,784.89 gasoline mix Total renewable energy 34,831.71 7,784.89 Total non-renewable energy 384,884.47 86,021.68 There was no diesel oil consumption by generators during the year. Scope 2 | Covers indirect emissions arising from the In 2013, this initiative avoided the emission purchase of electricity. During the year, BICBANCO purof 63.8 tCO2e, while direct CO2e emissions chased 3,184,304 KWh, equivalent to 10,994.95 GJ of from biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons energy. This corresponds to an energy reduction of 41% amounted to 42.1 tCO2e. compared to the previous year, and is particularly due to investments in infrastructure improvement and additional measures for energy reduction. Given the level of efEnvironmental ficiency, a significant reduction in the use of energy is not conservation expected over the next few years. GRI DMA EN – BIODIVERSITY | DMA EN – COMPLIANCE EN11 | EN28 Scope 3 | Covers mobile combustion emissions from transThe Bank has no properties inside protecport and distribution of freight (road and air), business ted areas, but maintains regular controls trips (road and air), taxi and courier (motorcycle) services over the conservation of native vegetaand fugitive emissions associated with the treatment of tion in properties in the city of Campos do effluents. Initiatives to reduce these emissions include viJordão and on Boraceia beach. The Bank deoconference meetings and training programs between did not receive any fines or sanctions service outlets and central administration to avoid travel. for non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations. . Sustainable Performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 69 (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE INFORMATION RELATED TO SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDED IN THE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2013 To the Board of Directors Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. São Paulo SP Introduction We have been engaged by Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. (“Bicbanco”) to present our limited assurance report on the compilation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 of Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. for the year ended December 31, 2013. Management’s responsibility for the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 The management of Bicbanco is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3.1) and for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of information free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Independent auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability information included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013, based on our limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance with the Technical Communication CTO 01, “Issuance of an Assurance Report related to Sustainability and Social Responsibility”, issued by the Federal Accounting Council (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and Review”, also issued by the CFC, which is equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000, “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance that the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries of management and other professionals of the entity involved in the preparation of the information, as well as applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the information, taken as a whole. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 70 Assurance Report A limited assurance engagement also requires the performance of additional procedures when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead him to believe that the information taken as a whole might present significant misstatements. The procedures selected are based on our understanding of the aspects related to the compilation and presentation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013, other circumstances of the engagement and our analysis of the areas in which significant misstatements might exist. The following procedures were adopted: (a) planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality and the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control systems that were used to prepare the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 of Bicbanco; (b) understanding the calculation methodology and the procedures adopted for the compilation of indicators through interviews with the managers in charge of the preparation of the information; and (c) applying analytical procedures to quantitative information and making inquiries regarding the qualitative information and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013. The limited assurance engagement also included the application of procedures to assess compliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3.1) applied in the preparation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion on the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013. Consequently, we were not able to obtain reasonable assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion. If we had performed an engagement with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements in the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013. Therefore, we do not express an opinion on this information. Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate and estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations of the materiality, relevance, and accuracy of the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data reported for prior years, nor future projections and goals. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 71 Assurance Report Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, described herein, no matter has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 of Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. has not been compiled, in all material respects, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3.1). Other matters Audit of the financial statements as at December 31, 2013 The financial statements of Bicbanco for the year ended December 31, 2013 were audited by other independent auditors, who issued their unqualified audit opinion on February 18, 2014. The social and environmental performance indicators based on accounting information and presented in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 of Bicbanco were extracted from those financial statements, which were not subject to assurance procedures for the purposes of this review. São Paulo, April 2, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Manuel Luiz da Silva Araújo Auditores Independentes Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 “S” SP CRC 2SP000160/O-5 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 72 Assurance Report BRAZILIAN INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (IBASE) 1 – Basis of Calculation 2013 (BRL thousands) 2012 (BRL thousands) Net Revenues (NR)1 516,940 677,049 Operating Income (OI) 47,122 122,425 Gross Payroll (GP)2 130,084 211,534 Total Added Value (TAV) 390,557 486,868 2013 (BRL 2012 (BRL 2 – Internal Social Indicators % of GP % of RL % of TAV % of GP % of NR % of TAV thousands) thousands) Meals 10,080 8% 2% 3% 10,805 5% 2% 2% Compulsory social charges 44,517 34% 9% 11% 32,591 15% 5% 7% Private pension 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Health 7,435 6% 1% 2% 6,879 3% 1% 1% Occupational health and safety 293 0% 0% 0% 92 0% 0% 0% Education 283 0% 0% 0% 647 0% 0% 0% Culture 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Professional training 206 0% 0% 0% 517 0% 0% 0% and development Daycare or daycare assistance 537 0% 0% 0% 538 0% 0% 0% Sports 5 0% 0% 0% 1 0% 0% 0% Profit sharing 34,499 27% 7% 9% 40,340 19% 6% 8% Transport 608 0% 0% 0% 650 0% 0% 0% Others 551 0% 0% 0% 405 0% 0% 0% Total – Internal Social Indicators 99,014 76% 19% 25% 93,465 44% 14% 19% 2013 (BRL 2012 (BRL 3 – External Social Indicators % of GP % of NR % of TAV thousands) thousands) Education 134 0% 0% 0% 50 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Culture 272 0% 0% 0% 350 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% Health and sanitation 0% 0% 0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Sports 0% 0% 0% 90 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Food security and fighting hunger 0% 0% 0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Industry indicator 0% 0% 0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Others 0% 0% 0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total Contributions to Society 406 0% 0% 0% 490 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% Taxes (except social charges) 0 0% 0% 0% 91,857 43.4% 13.6% 18.9% Total – External Social Indicators 406 0% 0% 0% 92,347 43.7% 13.6% 19.0% ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 73 IBASE 2013 (BRL % over % over % over 2012 (BRL % over % sobre % sobre 4 – Environmental Indicators thousands) GP NR TAV thousands) GP RL VAT 4.1 – Investments related to production/ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 operation of the Company 4.2 – Investments in external 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 programs and/or projects Total Investments in External Programs 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 and/or Projects (4.1+4.2) Number of environmental proceedings, both administrative and judicial, brought 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 against the entity Number of environment-related fines and indem0 0 nities imposed at administrative or judicial level With regard to the fixing of annual targets for (x) has no targets (x) has no targets minimizing waste and consumption in general in ( ) meets from 0% to 50% ( ) meets from 0% to 50% production/operations, and increasing efficiency ( ) meets from 51% to 75% ( ) meets from 51% to 75% in the use of natural resources, the Company: ( ) meets from 76% to 100% ( ) meets from 76% to 100% ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 74 IBASE 5 – Workforce Indicators 2013 – units 2012 – units Number of employees at the end of the year 879 1,038 Number of new hires during the year 86 151 Number of terminations during the year 245 154 Number of outsourced employees 149 197 Number of interns 37 28 Number of apprentices 18 19 Number of employees over 45 288 312 Number of employees by age bracket: Under 18 0 0 From 18 to 35 353 431 From 36 to 45 268 314 From 46 to 60 245 277 60 or older 13 16 Number of employees by educational level: Primary school 2 2 Secondary/technical school 248 300 Higher education 456 552 Graduate degree (specialization, master's degree and PhD) 173 184 Number of women working in the Company: 370 427 Percentage of supervisory positions held by women 31 16.14 Number of men working in the Company: 509 611 Percentages of supervisory positions held by men 69 22.45 Number of Afro-Brazilians, mixed-race people and indigenous 139 33 people working in the Company Nº of Afro-Brazilians, mixed-race or indigenous 1 7 people holding supervisory positions Number of disabled people or people with special needs 32 36 Gross pay (excluding charges) broken down by: Employees 85,567,284.78 96,792,539.00 Managers 14,574,989.25 8,866,034.18 Difference between the lowest salary paid by the Company and the minimum wage (national or regional) Difference between the lowest salary paid by the Company 2.50% 6.44% and the minimum wage ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 75 IBASE 6 – Relevant Information regarding the Exercise of Corporate Citizenship 2013 2012 Ratio between the highest and lowest wages in the Company 14,70% 14,51% Total number of work-related accidents 0 6 The social and environmental projects developed (x) directors and managers (x) directors and managers by the Company were defined by: () all the employees () all the employees ( ) directors and managers ( ) directors and managers The standards of health and safety in the workplace were defined by: () all the employees () all the employees (x) all employees + CIPA (x) all employees + CIPA ( ) does not get involved ( ) does not get involved With regard to free union association, collective bargaining ( ) follows ILO standards ( ) follows ILO standards rights and internal staff representation, the Company: (x) encourages and follows ILO (x) encourages and follows ILO () directors ( ) directors The pension plan includes: ( ) directors and managers ( ) directors and managers ( ) all the employees ( ) all the employees ( ) directors ( ) directors Profit sharing covers: ( ) directors and managers ( ) directors and managers (x) all the employees (x) all the employees ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered In selecting suppliers, the same standards of ethics and social ( ) are suggested ( ) are suggested and environmental responsibility adopted by the Company: (x) are required (x) are required ( ) does not get involved ( ) does not get involved In respect of participation of employees in voluntary (x) supports (x) supports work programs, the Company: ( ) organizes and encourages ( ) organizes and encourages to the Company: to the Company: to the Consumer Association to the Consumer Association Total number of consumer complaints and criticisms (Procon): 2365 (Procon):1 to the Courts: 1068 to the Courts: 739 by the Company: 100% by the Company: 100% Percentage of complaints and criticisms answered or resolved: by the Consumer Association by the Consumer Association (Procon): 100% (Procon): 100% a) by the Consumer Associaa) by the Consumer AssociaAmount of fines and indemnities awarded to customers tion (Procon): BRL4558.66 tion (Procon): BRL1,250.00 by consumer protection and defense bodies or by the courts b) by the Courts b) by the Courts: BRL2,985,940.96 BRL2,509,161.52 Number of labor proceedings filed against the Company 46 55 upheld 26 32 denied 20 25 Total amount of indemnities and fines paid by determination of the courts BRL2,698,302.23 BRL3,382,808.64 Total Added Value for Distribution (in BRL thousands): 390,557 486,868 Distribution of Added Value: % over Total % over Total Government 29.09% 31.47% Employees 46.96% 39.36% Shareholders 13.31% 24.54% Third parties 8.26% 6.47% Retained 2.37% -1.84% ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 76 IBASE 7 – Other Information Corporate Taxpayer's Registration No. (CNPJ) – 07.450.604/0001-89 BUSINESS SECTOR – Banking State – São Paulo This company does not use child labor or slave labor, has no involvement with prostitution or sexual exploitation of children or teens and is not involved with corruption. Our company values and respects diversity, both internally and externally. PwC has given its assurance on the Social Balance Sheet, as well as the sustainability information contained in this Report, and its assurance report appears on page 70. Relationship between the highest and lowest wage: the absolute result obtained from dividing the highest wage by the lowest. Total number of work-related accidents: all work-related accidents recorded during the year. Standards: in accordance with Conventions 87, 98, 135 and 154 of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the provision of Social Accountability Standard 8000 (SA 8000). In 2011 BICBANCO started reporting the IBASE jointly with the NBCT 15. As a result, the table was amended to include new fields for meeting the two sets of guidelines. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 77 IBASE GRI INDEX THE APPLICATION LEVEL OF THIS REPORT IS B+ Application Level of the Report C C+ B B+ A A+ Answer items : Answer all the criteria required for Same as required for Level B. 1.1; Level C plus: 2.1 a 2.10; 1.2; Result G3 Profile 3.1 a 3.8, 3.10 a 3.12; 3.9, 3.13; 4.1 a 4.4, 4.14 a 4.15. 4.5 a 4.13, 4.16 a 4.17. With External Verification With External Verification With External Verification Contents of the Report Not Required. Information on Management Management Approach disclosed Approach for each Category of for each Category of Indicator. Information on G3 Indicator. Result Management Approach Reply to a minimum of 10 Reply to a minimum of 20 Performance Reply to each essential G3 indicator G3 Performance Performance Indicators, including Indicators, including at least one from and Sector Supplement* indicators, Indicators and at least one from each of the each of the following performance areas: with due consideration to the Performance Indicators Result following areas: Social, Economic Economic, Environmental, Human Rights, Materiality Principle, in one of the from Sector Supplement and Environmental. Labor Practices, Society and Product following ways: (a) replying to the Responsibility. indicator; or (b) explaining reasons for omission. * Final version of Sector Supplement Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Organizational Profile Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, Message from 1.1 chair, or equivalent senior position) about Complete 7 the CEO the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Governance and Management – Values and Transparency – Sustainability Description of key impacts, risks, and Policy, 1.2 Complete 21-25 opportunities. Management – Risk Management, SocialEnvironmental Risk 2.1 Name of the organization. Complete Profile 2; 3, 6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Complete Profile 2-3 Profile, Governance Operational structure of the organization, and 2-3, 2.3 including main divisions, operating Complete Management 14-15 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. – Shareholding Structure, Subsidiaries 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Complete Profile 2-3 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically Complete Profile 2-3 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Complete Profile 2-3 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 78 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Complete Profile 2-3 customers/beneficiaries). Profile, Sustainable Performance – 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Complete Performance, 2-3, 41 Shareholders Equity and Basel index Significant changes during the reporting Profile, 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or Complete 2-3, 5 Highlights ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Complete Highlights 5 Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) About this 3.1 Complete 6 for information provided. report About this 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Complete 6 report About this 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Complete 6 report Contact point for questions regarding the bicbanco@ Back 3.4 Complete bicbanco.com.br cover report or its contents. Material Aspects Identified and Limits Process for defining report content, About this including: a) determining materiality, b) report, Social 3.5 prioritizing topics within the report, and c) Complete 6, 42 Performance – identifying stakeholders the organization Materiality Test expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, About this 3.6 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Complete 6 report joint ventures, and suppliers). State any specific limitations on the Not applicable in view of scope or boundary of the report. See 3.7 Complete the activities undertaken completeness Principle for explanation of by BICBANCO. scope. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 Complete Profile 2-3 can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying About this 3.9 Complete 6 estimations applied to the compilation of report the indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such About this 3.10 Complete 6 re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, report change of base years/periods, nature of business, and measurement methods). Significant changes from previous About this 3.11 reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Complete 6 report measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Index Table identifying the location of the 3.12 Complete GRI Index 78-91 Standard Disclosures in the report. Audit Policy and current practice with regard to About this 3.13 Complete 6 seeking external assurance for the report. report ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 79 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Governance Governance Governance structure of the organization, and including committees under the highest Management– 4.1 governance body responsible for specific Complete Corporate 16, 19 tasks, such as setting strategy or Governance, organizational oversight. Technical Committees Governance Indicate whether the Chair of the highest and governance body is also an executive Management 4.2 officer (and, if so, their function within the Complete – Corporate 17 organization’s management and the reasons Governance for this arrangement). – Board of Directors Governance and For organizations that have a unitary board Management structure, state the number of members 4.3 Complete – Corporate 17 of the highest governance body that are Governance independent and/or non-executive members. – Board of Directors Governance and Management– Corporate Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Governance17, 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to Complete General 42, 50 the highest governance body. Meetings, Social Performance -Investors Linkage between compensation for Governance and members of the highest governance Management, body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 Complete Management – 21 7-8 (including departure arrangements), and Remuneration of the organization’s performance (including Managers social and environmental performance). Governance Processes in place for the highest and 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of Complete 10 Management – interest are avoided. Code of Ethics Governance Process for determining the composition, and qualifications and expertise of the Management members of the highest governance 4.7 Complete – Corporate 17 body and its committees, including Governance any consideration of gender and other – Board of indicators of diversity. Directors Internally developed statements of mission Governance or values, codes of conduct, and principles and 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and Complete Management – 8-9 7-8 social performance and the status of their Mission, Vision implementation. and Values Procedures of the highest governance Governance and body for overseeing the organization’s Management identification and management of – Corporate economic, environmental, and social Governance 4.9 Complete 17, 21 performance, including relevant risks and – Board of opportunities, and adherence or compliance Directors, with internationally agreed standards, Remuneration of codes of conduct, and principles. Managers Governance and Management Processes for evaluating the highest – Corporate governance body’s own performance, Governance 4.10 Complete 17, 21 7-8 particularly with respect to economic, – Board of environmental, and social performance. Directors, Remuneration of Managers ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 80 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Organizational Profile Governance Explanation of whether and how the and 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Complete Management– 27 addressed by the organization. Operational Risk Externally developed economic, Social environmental, and social charters, 4.12 Complete Performance– 62-64 7-8 principles, or other initiatives to which the Society organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: a) has positions Social 4.13 in governance bodies, b) participates Complete Performance– 63-64 in projects or committees, c) provides Society substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or d) views membership as strategic. Engagement of Stakeholders List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Social 4.14 Complete 42 organization. Performance Basis for identification and selection of Social 4.15 Complete 42 stakeholders with whom to engage. Performance Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Social 4.16 including frequency of engagement by type Complete 42-43 Performance and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Social 4.17 and how the organization has responded Complete 43-44 Performance to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Sustainable Performance– Aspect: Economic Performance Complete 21-41 Economic Performance Sustainable Direct economic value generated and Performance distributed, including revenues, operating – Economic costs, employee compensation, donations, EC1 Complete Performance 38-39 and other community investments, retained – Financial earnings, and payments to capital providers Intermediation and governments. Revenue Governance and Management, Corporate Governance – Technical Financial implications and other risks Committees, 19, EC2 and opportunities for the organization’s Complete Governance 22-23 activities due to climate change. and Management – Management – Social and Environmental Risk Social Significant financial assistance received EC4 Complete Performance– 65 from government. Community ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 81 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Governance and Management – Shareholding Structure, Aspect: Market Presence Complete 8-9, 45 Subsidiaries; Sustainable Performance – Customers – Service Outlets Social Range of ratios of standard entry level Performance– EC5 wage compared to local minimum wage at Complete 56 Employees – significant locations of operation. Remuneration Policy, practices, and proportion of Social EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers at Complete Performance– 61-62 significant locations of operation. Suppliers Procedures for local hiring and proportion Social of senior management hired from the Performance– EC7 Complete 55 local community at locations of significant Employees – operation. Turnover Sustainable Performance – Economic Performance – External 37-38, Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact Complete Funding, Social 48-49 Performance – Products and Services with Environmental Features Development and impact of infrastructure Social investments and services provided primarily EC8 Complete Performance – 65-66 for public benefit through commercial, inCommunity kind, or pro bono engagement. Sustainable Performance – Economic Performance Understanding and describing significant – External 37-38, EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the Complete Funding, Social 48-49 extent of impacts. Performance – Products and Services with Environmental Features Environmental Aspect: Materials Complete 67 performance Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Complete 67 performance Percentage of materials used that are Environmental EN2 Complete 67 recycled input materials. performance Environmental Performance Aspect: Energy Complete 68-69 – Energy and Emissions Environmental Direct energy consumption by primary Performance EN3 Complete 68-69 energy source. – Energy and Emissions Environmental Indirect energy consumption by primary Performance EN4 Complete 68-69 source. – Energy and Emissions ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 82 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Environmental Aspect: Water Partial Performance – 68 Water Environmental EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Partial Performance – 68 Water Environmental Performance – Aspect: Biodiversity Partial 69 Environmental Preservation Location and size of land owned, leased, Environmental EN11 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Performance – Complete 69 and areas of high biodiversity value outside Environmental protected areas. Preservation Description of significant impacts of activities, Not applicable in view of EN12 products, and services on biodiversity in Complete – not the activities undertaken protected areas and areas of high biodiversity applicable by BICBANCO value outside protected areas. Environmental Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Products Complete 67-69 Performance Environmental Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Performance EN18 Complete 68-69 emissions and reductions achieved. – Energy and Emissions Environmental Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Performance EN19 Complete 68-69 by weight. – Energy and Emissions Total weight of waste by type and disposal Environmental EN22 Partial 67 method. Performance Not applicable in view of Total number and volume of significant Complete – not EN23 the activities undertaken spills. applicable by BICBANCO. Aspect: Products and Services Partial Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable in view of Complete – not EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed by the activities undertaken applicable category. by BICBANCO. Environmental Performance – Aspect: Compliance Complete 69 Environmental Preservation Monetary value of significant fines and Environmental total number of non-monetary sanctions Performance – EN28 Complete 69 for non-compliance with environmental Environmental laws and regulations. Preservation Social Aspect: Employment Complete Performance – 51-52 Employees Social Total workforce by employment type, Performance LA1 employment contract, and region, broken Complete – Employees 53-54 down by gender. – Map of Diversity Social Total number and rate of new employee hires Performance LA2 and employee turnover by age group, gender, Complete 55-56 – Employees – and region. Turnover Social Benefits provided to full-time employees Performance LA3 that are not provided to temporary or partComplete 59 – Employees – time employees, by major operations. Benefits ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 83 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Social Aspect: Relationship between Workers and Governance Complete Performance – 51-52 Employees Social Performance Percentage of employees covered by LA4 Complete – Employees 60 3 collective bargaining agreements. – Relationship with Unions Social Performance– Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Complete Employees 60-61 – Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented Social in formal joint management – worker health Performance LA6 and safety committees – that help monitor Complete – Employees 60-61 and advise on occupational health and safety – Health and programs. Safety Social Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Performance days, and absenteeism, and number of LA7 Complete – Employees 61 work-related fatalities by region and by – Health and gender. Safety Education, training, counseling, prevention, Social and risk-control programs in place to Performance LA8 assist workforce members, their families, Complete – Employees 60-61 or community members regarding serious – Health and diseases. Safety Social Performance Health and safety topics covered in formal – Employees LA9 Complete 60-61 3 agreements with trade unions. – Health and Safety Social Performance Aspect: Training and Education Complete – Employees 58 – Training and Development Social Average hours of training per year per Performance LA10 employee by gender, and by employee Complete – Employees 58 category. Training and Development Programs for skills management and Social lifelong learning that support the continued Performance LA11 Complete 55, 58 employability of employees and assist – Employees – them in managing career endings. Turnover Social Performance – Employees Percentage of employees receiving regular – Internship LA12 performance and career development Complete 55, 57 and Young reviews, by gender. Apprentice, performance assessment Social Performance Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunities Complete – Employees 53-54 – Map of Diversity Composition of governance bodies and Social breakdown of employees per category Performance LA13 according to gender, age group, minority Complete – Employees 53-54 6 group membership, and other indicators of – Map of diversity. Diversity Social Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Performance LA14 women to men by employee category, by Complete 56 – Employees – significant locations of operation. Remuneration ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 84 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Social PerReturn to work and retention rates after formance LA15 Complete 55 parental leave, by gender. – Employees – Turnover Governance and Management – Values and Aspect: Investment and Purchase Procedure Practices Complete 12-13 1 Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Percentage and total number of significant Management investment agreements and contracts that – Values and HR1 include clauses incorporating human rights Complete 12-13 1-2 1 Transparency concerns, or that have undergone human – Policy for rights screening. Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management – Values and Percentage of significant suppliers, Transparency contractors and other business partners 12-13, HR2 Complete – Policy for 1-2 1 that have undergone human rights 61-62 Prevention screening, and actions taken. of Illicit Acts, Social Performance – Suppliers Governance and Total hours of employee training on Management policies and procedures concerning – Values and HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant Complete 12-13 1-2 1 Transparency to operations, including the percentage of – Policy for employees trained. Prevention of Illicit Acts Social Performance Aspect: Non-discrimination Complete – Employees 53-54 – Map of Diversity Social Performance Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 Complete – Employees 53-54 1-2, 6 and corrective actions taken. – Map of Diversity Social Performance Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Complete – Employees 60 – Relationship with Unions Operations and significant suppliers Social identified in which the right to exercise Performance freedom of association and collective HR5 Complete – Employees 10, 60 1, 2-3 bargaining may be violated or at significant – Relationship risk, and actions taken to support these with Unions rights. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 85 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Governance and Management – Values and Aspect: Child Labor Complete 12-13 Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Operations and significant suppliers Management identified as having significant risk for – Values and HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken Complete 12-13 1-2, 5 Transparency to contribute to the effective abolition of child – Policy for labor. Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management – Values and Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Complete 12-13 Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Operations and significant suppliers Management identified as having significant risk for – Values and HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Complete 12-13 1-2, 4 1-2 Transparency measures to contribute to the elimination – Policy for of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Prevention of Illicit Acts Not applicable in view of Complete – not Aspect: Indigenous Rights the activities undertaken applicable by BICBANCO. Total number of incidents of violations Not applicable in view of Complete – not HR9 involving rights of indigenous people and the activities undertaken 1-2 applicable actions taken. by BICBANCO. Governance and Management – Values and Aspect: Analysis Complete 12-13 Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management Percentage and total number of operations – Values and HR10 that have been subject to human rights Complete 12-13 1-2 8-9-10 Transparency reviews and/or impact assessments. – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management – Values and Aspect: Remediation Complete 12-13 Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts There were no complaints regarding to Number of grievances related to human violation of HR11 rights filled, addressed and resolved Complete 12 1-2 human rights through formal grievance mechanisms. or violation of privacy or loss of client data ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 86 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Not applicable in view of Aspect: Community Complete the activities undertaken by BICBANCO. Percentage of operations with implemented Not applicable in view of Complete – not SO1 local community engagement, impact the activities undertaken applicable assessments, and development programs. by BICBANCO. Operations with significant potential Not applicable in view of Complete – not SO9 or actual negative impacts on local the activities undertaken applicable communities. by BICBANCO. Prevention and mitigation measures Not applicable in view of implemented in operations with significant Complete – not SO10 the activities undertaken potential or actual negative impacts on applicable by BICBANCO. local communities. Governance and Management – Values and Aspect: Corruption Complete 12-13 Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management Percentage and total number of business – Values and SO2 units analyzed for risks related to Complete 12-13 10 Transparency corruption. – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management Percentage of employees trained in – Values and SO3 organization’s anti-corruption policies and Complete 12-13 10 6 Transparency procedures. – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Governance and Management Actions taken in response to incidents of – Values and SO4 Complete 12-13 10 corruption. Transparency – Policy for Prevention of Illicit Acts Social Aspect: Public Policies Complete Performance – 62-63 Society Social Public policy positions and participation in SO5 Complete Performance – 62-63 10 public policy development and lobbying. Society Total value of financial and in-kind Social SO6 contributions to political parties, politicians, Complete Performance – 65-66 and related institutions by country. Community Governance and Management Aspect: Unfair Competition Complete 10 – Values and Transparency – Code of Ethics Governance and Total number of legal actions for antiManagement SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Complete 10 10 – Values and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Transparency – Code of Ethics ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 87 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Governance and management – Market Aspect: Compliance Complete 25, 28 Risk, Capital Management Risk Governance and Management Monetary value of significant fines and total – Code of SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for Complete Ethics, Social 10, 53 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Performance – Employees, Map of Diversity Not applicable in view of Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Complete the activities undertaken by BICBANCO. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Not applicable in view of Complete – not PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage the activities undertaken applicable of significant products and services by BICBANCO. categories subject to such procedures. Social Performance Aspect: Labeling of Products and Services Complete 45 – Customers – Communication Type of product and service information Social required by procedures, and percentage of Performance PR3 Complete 45 significant products and services subject to – Customers – such information requirements. Communication Total number of incidents of non-compliance Social with regulations and voluntary codes Performance PR4 Complete 45 concerning product and service information – Customers – and labeling, by type of outcomes. Communication Social Practices related to customer satisfaction, Performance PR5 including results of surveys measuring Partial – Customers 46 customer satisfaction. – Customer Service Social Performance Aspect: Marketing Communications: Complete 46 – Customers – Communication Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Social and voluntary codes related to marketing Performance PR6 Complete 45 communications, including advertising, – Customers – promotion, and sponsorship. Communication Total number of incidents of non-compliance Social with regulations and voluntary codes Performance PR7 concerning marketing communications, Complete 45 – Customers – including advertising, promotion, and Communication sponsorship by type of outcomes. Social Performance – Customers Aspect: Compliance Complete 45 – Customer Privacy, Communication Social Performance, Customers. Total number of substantiated complaints Sustainable PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy Complete Performance – 44 and losses of customer data. Clients – Client privacy and information security ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 88 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Social Performance – Customers Aspect: Compliance: Complete 45 – Customer Privacy, Communication Amount of fines and indemnities awarded to customers by consumer Monetary value of significant fines for protection and defense non-compliance with laws and regulations bodies or by the courts PR9 Complete concerning the provision and use of a) by the Consumer products and services. Association (PROCON): BRL 4,558.66 b) by the Courts: BRL 2,985,940.96 Governance and Management – Management – Social and Environmental Risk, Sustainable Performance – Economic 22-25, Aspect: Product Portfolio Complete Performance, 31-33, Credit 47-49 Operations, Social Performance – Products and services with Environmental Additionality Governance and Management Description of policies with specific – Values and 11, FS1 environmental and social components Complete Transparency 22-25 applied to business lines. – Sustainability Policy Governance and Description of the procedures for accessing Management FS2 and analyzing environmental and social Complete – Management 22-25 risks in business lines for each policy. – Social and Environmental Risk Governance Description of the customer monitoring and processes with respect to implementation Management FS3 and compliance with environmental Complete – Management 22-25 and social requirements included in the – Social and agreements or transactions. Environmental Risk Social Description of process(es) for improving Performance staff competence for implementation of FS4 Complete – Employees 58 environmental and social policies and Training and procedures applied to business lines. Development Governance and Description of interactions with Management customers and other stakeholders with 22-25, FS5 Complete – Management respect to environmental and social risks 4748 – Social and and opportunities. Environmental Risk Sustainable Performance Percentage of portfolio for business lines Economic FS6 by specific region, size (e.g. micro, medium, Complete 31-33 Performance large) and by sector. – Credit Operations ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 89 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Social Performance– Monetary value of products and services Products and FS7 designed to bring a specific social benefit for Complete 47, 48 Services with each business line broken down by purpose. Environmental Additionality Corporate Governance– Aspect: Audit Complete Management21-22 Risk Management Corporate Coverage and frequency of audits to Governance– assess implementation of social and FS9 Complete Management21, 22 7-8 environmental policies and risk assessment Risk procedures. Management Governance and Management Aspect: Active Ownership Complete – Management 22-25 – Social and Environmental Risk Governance and Percentage and number of companies in Management the portfolio of the institution with which FS10 Complete – Management 22-25 the informant organization interacted in – Social and social or environmental issues. Environmental Risk Not applicable in view of Percentage of assets subject to positive or Complete – not FS11 the activities undertaken 7, 8-9 negative environmental or social screening. applicable by BICBANCO. Voting policy(s) applied to environmental Not applicable in view of or social issues for actions on which the Complete – not FS12 the activities undertaken informant organization has the right to applicable by BICBANCO. voting shares or advise on voting. Not applicable, since the Bank focuses its business on offering differentiated products and services aimed at corporate credit, seeking to meet primarily Aspect: Community Complete the demand of medium size companies (middle market) – with annual revenues between BRL50 million and BRL500 million Not applicable, since the Bank focuses its business on offering differentiated products and services Access to financial services in low aimed at corporate credit, Complete – not FS13 populated or economically disadvantaged seeking to meet primarily applicable areas by access type. the demand of mediumsized companies (middle market) – with annual revenues between BRL50 million and BRL500 million ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 90 GRI Index Global National Pact for Indicator Description 2013 Status Chapter Page ComEradication of Slave pact Labor Social Initiatives to improve access to financial Performance FS14 Complete 45 services of disadvantaged people. – Customers – Service Outlets Social Performance Aspect: Labeling of Products and Services Complete 46 – Customers – Communication Governance and Management – Values and Transparency – Code of Ethics, 10, Policies for the correct development and Management FS15 Complete 26, 45, sale of financial products and services. – Credit 47-48 Risk, Social Performance – Products and Services with Environmental Additionality ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 91 GRI Index ACKNOWLEDGMENTS COORDINATION AND EDITING BICBANCO Marketing and Communications RESEARCH AND CONTENT COORDINATION BICBANCO Corporate Governance Sustainability COLLABORATION – BICBANCO DEPARTMENTS Controllership Credit Infrastructure Products and Services Human Resources Investor Relations IT DESIGN AND PRODUCTION TheMediaGroup DRAFTING TheMediaGroup ADVISORY Resultante Consultoria Estratégica TRANSLATION AND REVISION Just Traduções PHOTOS Fernando Favoretto AUDIT PricewaterhouseCoopers ONLINE VERSION TheMediaGroup www.bicbanco.com.br ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 92 Acknowledgments
