Contents 2/ About this Report 4/ Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly 6/ Message from CMD 8/ Towards mainstreaming sustainability in GAIL 14/ Business Profile 20/ Accolades & Recognition 22/ Corporate Governance 28/ Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 36/ Sustainability Strategy 42/ Shareholders / Investors 56/ Communities 70/ Customers 76/ Suppliers 80/ Employees 91/ Performance Snapshot 96/ Independent Assurance Statement 98/ Glossary 100/ GRI Content Index 114/ Alignment of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, NVGs and BRR 137/ Way Forward 2 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly About This Report “Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly” is the focus of GAIL’s sustainability efforts and performance for the year FY 2012-13. We have retained the same pattern of Stakeholder centric reporting for the current report, based on the positive feedback received from our stakeholders. We have tried to include maximum information in the relevant stakeholder sections and cross-referenced to the best extent possible. This is our third year of reporting and covers the following operational areas of GAIL: ÎÎ Gas Processing Units (GPUs) at Gandhar, Pata, Usar, Vaghodia and Vijaipur; ÎÎ Petrochemical unit at Pata; ÎÎ Natural Gas compressor stations at Dibiyapur, Hazira, Jhabua, Khera, Vaghodia and Vijaipur; ÎÎ LPG pumping / receiving stations at Abu Road, Cherlappali, G Konduru, Jamnagar, Kandla, Loni, Mansarampura, Nasirabad, Samakhiali and Vizag; ÎÎ Regional pipeline offices at Agartala, Baroda, Mumbai, Puducherry and Rajahmundry; ÎÎ GAIL Training Institute (GTI) at Jaipur and Noida; ÎÎ Corporate Office at New Delhi; and ÎÎ Info Hub at Noida. This report has been developed on the basis of GRI G3.1 Guidelines on Sustainability Reporting and the Oil & Gas Sector Supplement. The disclosures presented in this section are in line with the requirements of the application level ‘A+’ and address 73 core and 25 additional GRI performance indicators. This is a Type 2 Moderate level assured report; including data verification at different sites of GAIL that will continue to help us improve our processes and data management mechanisms. The GRI content index on pages 100-113 gives a detailed reference on the GRI performance indicators and standard disclosures. This report also addresses the nine principles of National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic responsibilities of business, published by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. This helps us to address sustainability issues that are material to the Indian context. Further, to increase the comprehensiveness of our Sustainability Report 2012-13 3 GAIL (India) Limited sustainability disclosures, we have also aligned this report to meet the requirements of: ÎÎ Oil and Gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2010) developed by IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues and the American Petroleum Institute (API). ÎÎ Principles and disclosure requirements under United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). While the data presented is essentially for the financial year 2012-13, to give a balanced perspective of our performance, we have also elaborated on some of our critical achievements and developments on Sustainability that have occurred in the recent past. We remain committed to further enhance and disclose transparently, our performance on the triple bottom line of Sustainability to all our stakeholders. Our robust sustainability governance structure assumes control of various sustainability dimensions. Last year we set sustainability targets for ourselves through Sustainability Aspirations 2020, to achieve our milestones in a focused manner. We understand that we have a long way to go in achieving these targets, but we remain committed to achieving them while we continue to transparently disclose our progress. The data and information presented in this report is sourced from our internal data management systems and processes. This year we developed and launched our in-house e-Sustainability Module – an online data management system for collection and collation of sustainability performance data across GAIL’s operations, ensuring accountability, transparency and speed in management of data. We have also used assumptions, standard equations and calculation methodologies for estimation and quantification of data, wherever required. We continue to improve our data management systems and as a result have made certain amendments to our approach followed last year, resulting in variation of some data indicators; the same has been explained wherever relevant. For all monetary values presented across this section, we have used an exchange rate of 1USD = 54.99 INR. In order to present a holistic account of our sustainability activities, certain information included in this report refers to our future plans and intentions as well. This information relates to our strategy, operations, performance goals and targets, business plans, research & development and investments in the countries, sectors or markets where we operate. By their sub-nature, such information involves a certain degree of uncertainty as the end result is dependent on future market conditions and geo-political developments, most of which are beyond our control or cannot be predicted with certainty. While we will strive to achieve progress on these issues, we cannot ensure a desirable outcome in all cases. Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly We started as a natural gas a robust plan of expanding our India. We are the youngest Public transmission company, two-andtransmission network beyond Sector Enterprise, to have been half decades ago and today have 15,000 km resulting in a capacity accorded the highest status of transformed into an integrated increase around 300 MMSCMD, empowerment. We believe that energy company along with the we are very well poised to secure with growth lies an opportunity of Natural Gas value chain having energy for tomorrow. truly committing towards aligning global footprints. While creating our business relationships in a fair, India’s largest network of Natural As recognition of the significant transparent and ethical manner and Gas trunk pipelines spanning over role GAIL plays in the country’s thereby enhancing our contribution 10,500 Km, we have diversified economic development and its towards all stakeholder groups. into operations around LPG, Liquid potential to emerge as a global With this we take a step forward as Hydrocarbons, Petrochemicals, company, we have recently been a responsible corporate citizen and Exploration & Production and bestowed, the coveted status of showcase ourselves as a valuable City Gas Distribution with an ever Maharatna (meaning a colossal jewel of the Indian Public sector. increasing global presence. With jewel) by the Hon’ble President of ‘Value Beyond Business’, our 1st theme for our 3rd Sustainability the most benign hydrocarbon, Sustainability report for FY 10Report FY 12-13. We have focussed complemented by robust 11, highlighted GAIL’s approach on reducing our environmental sustainable business strategies of doing business, wherein footprint by optimizing use of and proactive leadership, GAIL has positive value is created for our natural resources, conserving been and will continue to energise stakeholders. The 2nd Sustainability energy and water, adopting tomorrow, responsibly. Report FY 11-12, ‘Shaping the Future’ cleaner technologies and emphasized on inclusive action with thereby protecting the natural our stakeholders to achieve shared ecosystems. objectives. Moving ahead with good We endeavour to provide India and intentions, we have committed the world with a clean & efficient ourselves towards a roadmap energy source which is essential to behave responsibly; by taking to grow and sustain life. With concrete actions with ‘Energising our inherent strength to operate Tomorrow Responsibly’, as the 6 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly CMD Message From the Chairman’s Desk “GAIL’s journey of touching lives and continually improving operating processes is encapsulated in the 3rd edition of the “ disclosure report on sustainable development befittingly titled‘Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly’. Dear Stakeholders, Sustainable development is an ethos, gaining traction in the recent past and has come a long way in its journey in the last 21 years since the first Rio Summit in 1992. The challenge of finite resource availability on the planet for mankind’s sustenance and competitiveness coupled with the growing awareness of the climactic impact on the environment and ecology one another have undoubtedly been the global twin forces nudging policy makers and society to revisit approach mechanisms of deliverables. At the same time the increasing need for equitable and inclusive social and economic growth has been a profound driver for sustainable development in Asian and African sub-continents. The Rio+20 summit in June 2012 under the auspice of The United Nations had passed a General Resolution, aptly named as ‘The Future We Want’ and rededicating it to the cause through collaborative efforts of multi-lateral institutions, public, government and industry for handing over a healthy planet for the needs of posterity. Sustainability Report 2012-13 7 GAIL (India) Limited “ Today, GAIL is the only PSU in the Oil & Gas sector to become one “ of the founding members of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Focal Point India’s Sustainability and Transparency Consortium. Guided by these tenets, GAIL is the fundamentals of sustainable focussed towards ensuring an development at the heart of enduring performance of the Triple our business. GAIL has also Bottom line in the quest to create been selected as one of the 100 value beyond business. The report companies for the UNGC CEO 2013 very succinctly discloses the impact Study for Global Sustainability on the Environment, Society and Report, 2013 by United Nations. Economy as a consequence of our I hope the extensive and lucid business operations. GAIL has coverage under the report shall been committedly progressing make this an enriching read. towards its self-driven targets Your feedback shall immensely under ‘Sustainability Aspirations be helpful in shaping our efforts 2020’ programme. Under this towards developing a sustainable initiative the cardinal objectives future. include significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and specific energy intensity. As GAIL progresses in scaling up across the natural gas value B. C. Tripathi chain with global footprints, we Chairman & Managing Director have been conscious in keeping GAIL (India) Limited 8 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Towards mainstreaming sustainability in GAIL Our primary responsibility as a We are aware that GAIL’s deadlines and milestones, while our Maharatna CPSE is to ensure ambitious growth plan cannot be responsibility has been to ensure India’s energy security without successful without the support of and protect their interests. Finally compromising the environment our stakeholders. Our investors’ our employees are the cornerstone or society. As and when, the confidence and belief in GAIL and of GAIL’s success and without whom Government of India demonstrates its vision to be a leading company we would cease to exist. its confidence on a young in Natural Gas and beyond, organisation like GAIL, the onus motivates us to strategize and lies on us to reciprocate with implement our growth plans. The robust growth and value creation communities provide us with the for all. We envisage GAIL to be an social license to operate and their INR 1,300 billion company by 2020 faith drives us to invest a part of with an estimated profit of INR our profit towards designing and 100 billion. This unprecedented executing social interventions. business growth will propel us into Our customers, with their everthe big league of global oil & gas increasing expectations help us to giants and we are sure that our create innovative solutions that in legacy of responsible behaviour will turn drive their business and help help differentiate GAIL amongst them prosper. GAIL’s suppliers have others. always extended their unwavering support towards meeting tough Sustainability Report 2012-13 9 GAIL (India) Limited R. D. Goyal Director Project GAIL, India’s premier integrated gas commissioning the 5 MMTPA LNG our foray into renewable energy company has become the youngest regasification facility at Dabhol. generation through the solar Public Sector Enterprise to be route. This plant combined with We continuously strive to adopt accorded the Maharatna Status, the existing 118 MW Wind Power state-of-the-art IT solutions highlighting the Government’s projects, will go a long way in setting keeping in pace with the fast confidence in our organisation. We the course for our renewable changing industry for increased have to demonstrate that we are energy business. efficiency and productivity. GAIL a worthy recipient of this honour has been recently awarded with As we envisage GAIL to make through our sustained efforts SAP ACE Award for “Best Run rapid strides in terms of growth, towards responsible growth aiding Award for Innovative use of SAP”. our firm intent on responsible in India’s energy security while During the year, GAIL has also been growth will help us to stand apart. safeguarding the environment and certified as a Customer Centre for Environmental considerations the welfare of the society. Expertise (CCOE) by SAP. remain our highest priority. It is our sincerely endeavour to All our operations undergo In the area of energy efficiency, we develop world-class infrastructure rigorous independent audits of have taken several new initiatives throughout the country for Environmental Management and strengthened already existing efficient delivery of natural gas to Systems to ensure that our practices. Moving ahead with consumers. Our current pipeline performance exceeds the required our commitment to implement network of 10,800 Km is being standards. GAIL’s vision and strategies on expanded to around 15,000 km by sustainability, another hallmark 2015. Recently, we commissioned project commissioned this year the 1,000 Km long Dabhol Bangalore was the 5 MW Solar Power Project Pipeline Project. GAIL made in Rajasthan. The project marks another landmark achievement by 10 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly S. L. Raina Director HR At GAIL we truly believe that our our employees and their family we respect the interests of our employees lie at the centre of our members. We celebrate festivals stakeholders—our shareholders, focus. We have been successful in and events to give an opportunity employees, customers, suppliers, achieving our business objectives to our employees and their family and the wider community—and and milestones through dedication, members to socially interact with we actively seek out opportunities loyalty and contribution of our one another and develop a feeling to improve the environment and Human capital. On our part, we will of being part of one big GAIL family. to contribute to the well-being leave no stone unturned to ensure of the communities in which we that we provide our employees We engage the hearts and minds of do business. Our CSR initiatives and associates a safe workplace, our personnel through customised are designed to address the challenging work tasks, a HR policies, systems and processes various needs of the marginalised supportive work environment, open for them to unleash their true sections within the community. and transparent systems along with potential. Our policies promote These programmes address the social and financial security. diversity and equity and recognize various cross-sectional needs people on their merits and skill like education, healthcare, GAIL promotes a “Performance sets irrespective of their race, purposeful livelihood opportunities, Oriented Culture” with adequate caste, religion, colour, ancestry, environment protection and emphasis on providing work-life marital status, gender, age and quality infrastructure. This balance. Our efforts are focused nationality. We provide support to multi-pronged approach to CSR towards creating a workplace that our employees through internal ensures the holistic development is intellectually stimulating and also job rotation that gives them of the communities and lends a lot of fun to work at. We believe an opportunity to gain a broad a sustainable dimension to our in all round development for all experience in a wide range of CSR activities. Our CSR goal employees. As part of our induction disciplines. is to identify answers to social programme, the new recruits are challenges and to actively made to interact with the heads We recognise the importance of the communities that we operate contribute to the development of of various business functions and sustainable solutions. are encouraged to ask questions in and are committed towards to the best of the field executives, addressing their concerns. GAIL has When GAIL commits to energise giving them greater insight of GAIL’s a structured framework to identify tomorrow in a responsible manner, businesses and its value chain. In and address the needs & concerns the confidence to commit comes order to add different dimensions of the community through our from our core HR strengths – to the induction programme, social responsibility programs. A lean and thin workforce, young we have introduced modules on top-to-bottom robust governance and highly qualified manpower Yoga and Dramatics conducted structure with a dedicated team with cross functional expertise, by prestigious institutions. Our helps in evaluating and selecting robust learning and development townships have facilities such programs in the identified thrust practices, free and open as sports club, gym, swimming areas. communication process and a highly pool, library, etc., which is open to As a responsible corporate citizen, accessible senior leadership. Sustainability Report 2012-13 11 GAIL (India) Limited Prabhat Singh Director Marketing With 75% market share in Natural satisfaction index stood at 90.47%. Technology Center (GPTC) provides gas transportation and 51% market Further, regular interactive meets technical solutions and insights to share in Natural Gas marketing and existing customer complaint our customers. in India, GAIL plays a vital role in handling policy with customers GAIL has partnered with Indian India’s growth story by ensuring ensures systematic and timely Centre for Plastics in the sustainable supply of Natural Gas. addressal of their concerns. Environment (ICPE) to promote Besides, GAIL has over the years GAIL has always been committed product responsibility & research developed efficient systems for in making its customers as key to propagate the positive impacts handling grievances, complaints stakeholders toward its growth. To of plastics in comparison to other and concerns of customers further involve the customers on alternatives both in terms of utility by leveraging state of the art the road to growth & development, as well as environmental impact. technologies. we have taken an initiative to GAIL has played its role in advocacy actively solicit suggestions & ideas Up-gradation of our existing gas through various channels including from customers so as to improvise transmission has enabled us to industry bodies and influential our existing products & services or reach out to the newly developing groups. GAIL is the principal to come-up with new products & gas consumption centres. The sponsor of Asia Gas Partnership services. It has been GAIL’s constant supply and delivery of gas from Summit (AGPS), a Biennial event endeavour to achieve the highest multiple sources is handled on which is attended by major levels of customer satisfaction by a real-time basis through our producers, traders and consumers serving their needs with diligence sophisticated Gas monitoring of Natural gas across the world. and fairness. Our customer system. Our GAIL Polymer 12 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly S. Venkatraman Director – Business Development This being our third year in opportunities of LNG sourcing. 2020”. The targets are in aspects Sustainability reporting, “Energising We plan to import LNG into the of reducing our GHG Intensity, Tomorrow Responsibly” highlights country through the conventional Water Intensity, Specific Energy our initiatives and milestones route and also acquire equity in Consumption and increasing achieved in our Sustainability producing assets / liquefaction our waste water recycling and journey so far. facilities to source equity linked Awareness on Sustainability. We LNG. The highlights of our efforts have taken up training of employees Energy is considered as a catalyst in this regard are shared in relevant on sustainability aspects to truly for economic growth. India is sections of this report. As we sensitize, develop understanding currently the fourth largest understand, taking necessary steps & appreciation. Further we energy consumer in the world and today in the right direction for have taken steps to mesh our together with China will account securing energy is by considering sustainability initiatives within the for the biggest share of Asian the long-term perspectives of existing systems. One such step energy demand growth through responsibly safeguarding the future has been taken through our Internal 2035. While 75% of hydrocarbon supplies. Memorandum of Understanding energy requirements are met between the HoD’s and the through imports in India, it becomes Being an energy company we have concerned Directors which also imperative to secure cleaner taken strategic steps to improve lists down targets for Sustainability energy to fuel India’s growth story. our technological capabilities. We Aspirations 2020. In addition, we We are committed to augmenting are significantly investing in R&D have taken several projects in the energy supplies for the nation for exploring new opportunities aspects of energy management, through responsible sourcing for harnessing the fuel potential biodiversity conservation around thereby Energising Tomorrow. of solid municipal waste and waste heritage sites of Maharashtra, plastics. We are working towards Waste Water recycling and in Natural Gas, with an inherent exploring cleaner technologies environment friendly nature reduction of GHG emissions etc. such as hydrogen gas storage, gas along with greater efficiency and hydrates, shale gas etc. Further, we Giving high priority to safety of cost effectiveness, has emerged are actively exploring on reducing employees and workers, high as the fuel of the 21st century. our GHG emission, one such R&D standards on health and safety are In comparison to the world initiative being capturing of CO2 ensured before we conduct any average of 24%, the share of through the Microbial route. We business activity. We have been Natural Gas in India’s energy mix have also created a significant consistently outperforming our is around 10%, providing a huge footprint in renewables through the HSE target agreed within the MoU scope for increased utilisation wind and solar route, which we plan with the Government of India. Over of Natural Gas in India. As India’s to increase during the coming years. the last three years, our HSE Index premier integrated Natural Gas is above 98.8 %. Company, we believe that GAIL The essence of Sustainability has a major role to play in ensuring is ingrained in our vision As we march ahead in our journey energy security for India. To statement and we believe in being towards achieving and exceeding meet the exponentially growing environmentally responsible. our targets through robust demand of Natural Gas, we are We have shown our commitment Sustainability governance, we aggressively expanding our pipeline by setting targets for ourselves remain committed and proactive in infrastructure and exploring through “Sustainability Aspirations attainment of our goals. Sustainability Report 2012-13 13 GAIL (India) Limited P. K. Jain Director Finance Adequate availability of energy Motilal-Oswal Wealth Creation With the transition in business is one of the basic requirements Study. Further, for FY-2012-13 dynamics, companies are assuming for faster economic growth. We the Board of Directors have greater responsibility and going are actively pursuing business recommended payment of total beyond business-as-usual mode. At opportunities for securing energy dividend at the rate of 96 % on GAIL, realizing the importance and supply and have taken major the paid-up share capital of the greater role of businesses in the investments in this regard & Company. current environment, we have taken would continue in doing so. With actions to prepare for a low carbon This year we focussed a lot on the direction from our Vision economy. In this direction we have building and retaining better statement, our growth has been taken several initiatives during the Investor Relations. The motto has guided by being a responsible year which includes actions based been to reach to maximum number corporate citizen and creating longon Global Methane Initiatives (GMI) of investors from both domestic term value for all our stakeholders. recommendations, investments in and global markets and to ensure R&D projects like CO2 utilization, We believe that stakeholder dissemination of financial and nonetc. In addition, we have made value maximization and strong financial information about GAIL at investment in the renewable sector business outcomes are only regular intervals to the concerns of and recently commissioned a 5 MW possible by embracing both stakeholders. Solar PV project. risks and opportunities from The entire value chain of the Natural economic, environmental and social As we progress further, we shall gas sector has huge investment perspective. This year, our turnover continue to align our business potential thereby playing a crucial increased by 18% to INR 47333 objectives in consideration with our role in India’s energy security. With crores and PAT increased by 10 % to responsibility towards environment a conducive environment policy INR 4022 crores. and society and explore investment its share in our energy mix will opportunities in this regard. We were also ranked 18th under the grow and will support India’s Green biggest wealth creator aspect for growth. the period of 2OO7-12 by Annual Business Profile Spanning the last two-and-half decades since the late eighties, GAIL started as a natural gas transmission company and eventually transformed in to an integrated energy company along the Natural Gas value chain with global footprints. Today we have a network of Natural Gas pipelines covering a length of 10,500 km along with interests in the business of Natural Gas, LPG, Liquid Hydrocarbons, Petrochemicals, Exploration & Production, City Gas Distribution and Telecom. 16 Our Businesses, Products and Services Global Subsidiary & JVs GAIL Global (USA) Inc. GAIL Global (USA) LNG, Inc. GAIL China Gas Global Energy Holdings Limited GAIL Global (Singapore) Pte. Limited Associates: GSEG, Fayum Gas (Egypt), NATGAS (Egypt), Subsidiaries & JVs City Gas Distribution (Serving over 10 Lakh vehicles & 10 Lakh households through subsidiaries & JV’s) LPG Pumping / Receiving station (9 nos) NG Trading 3.5 MMTPA LNG Supply Contract Exploration and Production with sabine pass liquefaction LLC. 1.33 MMTPA LNG supply from Operational units 27 E&P blocks various international sources. (25 in India, 2 overseas) LNG Terminal at Dabhol Key products/services Gas from RGPPL (5 MMTPA Capacity) Imports, Gas from Indigenous sources 17 Gas Processing Units Subsidiaries & JVs Operational units 7 (Vijaypur (2), Pata, Vaghodia, Usar, Lakwa, Gandhar) LHC Production 1.4 MMTPA Key Products/ Services LPG, Pentane, propane, SBP solvents, napatha LPG Transmission NG Transmission 2 LPG P/L of total length 2038 Km 10700 Km Pipeline N/W JLPL (1415 Km) VSPL (623 Km) 210 MMSCMD NG P/L Capacity Transport Capacity 3.8 MMTPA Transmission Throughput (Fy 12-13)-3.136 MMT Petrochemicals Operational units 1 (Pata) Renewable Energy Toal production 497 TMT (FY 11-12) 1300 km of OFC network through Wind (Installed 117.95 MW) Total products/services HDPE/LLDPE cross country pipelines (1581 km) Solar (5 MW Solar Plant & state/national highway routes pellets, LP flakes, PE shreds commissioned) (1746 km) GAIL’s Pan-India Presence Accolades & Recognitions GAIL has consistently been ranked “Excellent” by the Department of Public Enterprise (DPE), Government of India, ever since the introduction of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) based performance review system was introduced by the DPE. GAIL has received several accolades and became the youngest PSU among total 7 Maharatnas to be conferred the Maharatna Status by Govt. of India for its performance in its operational areas, some of which are mentioned below: Corporate Awards / ÎÎ MoU Excellence Award for Best Performing CPSE in the Petroleum Sector consecutively Accolades for second year for the year 2009-10. ÎÎ Ranked 1st among Gas utilities in Asia in the ÎÎ Corporate Governance Award 2012 by Indian Platts Global Ranking of Energy Companies in Chamber of Commerce 2012 ÎÎ Commendation Certificate from SCOPE for ÎÎ Platts Global Energy Award, 2011 for ‘World’s Corporate Governance in 2010-11 No. 1 Company in Downstream Operations’ ÎÎ GAIL won ‘Company of the Year’ in the ÎÎ SCOPE Excellence Award FY 2010-11 Environmental Sustainability category by (Institutional I: Navratna Category) PetroFed Awards 2012 (Rs 500 crore to Rs 2,000 crore category) Sustainability Report 2012-13 HSE Awards ÎÎ GAIL Vaghodia bagged Gujarat State Safety Award from Gujarat Safety Council Vadodara. ÎÎ International Safety Award for outstanding achievement in safety from British Safety ÎÎ Golden Peacock Occupational Health & Safety Council, United kingdom for Gas Processing Award2012 for GAIL, Khera from Institute of Unit and Natural Gas Compressor Station, Directors, New Delhi. Vaghodia; Gas Processing Unit, Gandhar; ÎÎ Golden Peacock Environment Management Regional Natural Gas Pipeline Network, Award-2012 from Institute of Directors, New National Capital Region, Delhi. Delhi for GAIL, Vaghodia ÎÎ Sharvashrestha Suraksha Puraskar for ÎÎ Safety Innovation Award from Institution of Gas Processing Unit and for Natural Gas Engineers, New Delhi for Khera Compressor Compressor Station, Vijaipur from National station and Regional Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Council, MP chapter and National Safety Network, National Capital Region, Delhi . council Mumbai respectively for year 2010. Corporate Governance Our focus on good governance ensures fulfilment of goals and business objectives in a way that not only creates value for the company in the future but is also beneficial for our stakeholders in long term. We conduct our business with integrity and fairness. Understanding our commitment and responsibility towards conducting business in an ethical manner, we truly believe that the key to sustainability is in being transparent and accountable towards the stakeholders. 24 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly GAIL being a Public Sector the Board of Directors to oversee standards and goals; we developed Enterprise, we ensure that all implementation of our vision, a Sustainability Policy2 to act as the applicable rules, regulations, strategy and business plans, take a fundamental building block for laws and bye-laws of the land are corrective measures whenever propagating responsible behaviour adhered to. The management of the required and protect the interest at GAIL. This policy integrates our company believes in adhering to of our stakeholders. Some of vision and aspirations on economic, different statues in letter and spirit these include Audit Committee, environment and social bottomand adopting the best practices Business Development and lines. by going beyond adherence of Marketing Committee, Corporate We have been proactive in taking statutory framework to bring Social Responsibility Committee, up our sustainability issues and transparency, accountability and Employee Disciplinary Committee, have shown commitment through equity in all facets of its operations Empowered C&P Committee, a well-defined structure that and in our engagement with all Empowered Committee (Natural spans across various critical stakeholders. In this dynamic Gas, LNG and Polymers) for import functions to effectively manage and evolving business scenario, of Natural Gas / LNG/ Polymers, the organizational complexities a we constantly improvise our Ethics Committee, HR Committee, Sustainable Development Board systems and processes to ensure HSE Committee, Project Appraisal Sub-Committee (SDBC) chaired by effectiveness. The founding Committee, Remuneration Shri Arun Agarwal (Independent principles of our corporate Committee, Shareholder/ Investor Director) and supported by governance framework1 stress Grievance Committee, Share Director – Projects and Director on proactive flow of information Transfer Committee, Stakeholders’ – Business Development. This to Board members, compliance Grievance Redressal Committee committee has been instrumental to applicable laws and timely and Sustainable Development in driving sustainability across disclosure of information etc. Our Committee. For additional details GAIL’s operations. Based on the Board is responsible for defining on our corporate governance overarching functions of this company policies and overseeing framework, please refer to our committee, we have recently their implementation. Being a Annual Report FY 2012-13 included all other functional Central Public Sector Enterprise, Directors viz. Director – Finance, our Board is directly appointed by Sustainability Director – Marketing and Director – the President of India, through the Governance at HR as its members. This has helped Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG). As on 31st March GAIL us embed sustainability across our operations. 2013, there were 11 Directors on the GAIL has followed a top-toBoard comprising of 6 whole time In 2012-13, the committee met bottom approach in sustainability directors including The Chairman four times and following are some governance. We have consciously and Managing Director, 2 part time of the key decisions taken by the undertaken sustainability as a Directors (Government Nominees) members: part of Corporate Planning and and 3 part time Independent Strategy that shows the level Directors. ÎÎ Designation of nodal of importance accorded to it departments for each of the We are compliant to Clause 49 by the management. The idea is NVG Principles in order to of the equity listing agreement to facilitate assessment of our ingrain sustainability into with stock exchanges and the impacts and subsequent value GAIL’s business processes. DPE guidelines on corporate generated for our stakeholders governance that are applicable to by embedding aspects of ÎÎ Strict monitoring and review us except composition of Board sustainability in long-term strategy of Sustainability MoU projects of Directors.We have created a and day-to-day business decision for target completion in all number of sub committees under making. In order to establish a respect. common understanding of terms, 1 Please refer to Corporate Governance section of Sustainability Report FY 11-12 for details. 2 Please refer to Sustainability Report for FY 11-12 for detailed policy. Sustainability Report 2012-13 25 GAIL (India) Limited ÎÎ Roll-out of GAIL’s direction to achieve sustainability e-sustainability module for goals, targets and monitor effective data collection & on-ground implementation of collation with appropriate projects. To effectively implement data authorization at senior the initiatives at site level, we management level, across have multi-disciplinary site-level operations and sites. committees. In addition, we have a focused Sustainability Core team ÎÎ Develop a communication working at the corporate level. strategy for prioritised The principle activities of the Core stakeholder groups. Roll-out of GAIL’s e-sustainability team include supporting activities of SDBC and SDSC, working on module A Sustainable Development Steering Committee (SDSC) new sustainability initiatives, headed by Director – Business training of employees on aspects of Development has also been sustainability and development of constituted to provide impetus and GAIL’s sustainability report. Sustainable Development board committee Chairperson Independent Director Shri Arun Agrawal Director Director Director Director Director Project Marketing BD Finance HR Sustainable Development Steering Committee Chairperson Director (Business Development) ED(O&M-CR) ED (HR-P&ER) GM GM (Ops), Pata ED (F&A) GM (Trg), GM (HSE) GM (CST) GM (CP) (MKTG-JV&CA) GM (O&M), CO GM (CC&CCR) 3 Please refer to section Sustainability strategy of this Report. 26 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Going beyond the mandatory requirement, last year we developed GAIL’s Sustainability Risks related to social and Aspirations 2020 under the environmental aspects of guidance of the Steering sustainability are pre-identified for Committee. Sustainability new business plans/activities Aspirations 20203 enable us to set clear targets towards improving our sustainability performance Indicators and their mitigation like e-Business, Bill Watch related to GHG Emissions, Water plans have been prepared and System, File Movement System, Consumption, Energy efficiency are being assessed at different Customer Relation Management, and Training / Awareness on levels on quarterly basis and Customer Grievance Redressal Sustainability. overseen by the Board of Directors System, Online Recruitment, annually. To further strengthen the e-Performance Management Risk mechanism for assessing social System (e-PMS), Online Vigilance and environmental aspects of Complaint Registration System management sustainability, risks related to new and e-Budgeting System. Our Environmental and social issues business plans, capital projects, management information systems are of imperative concern and can mergers & acquisitions, are pre are in place for efficient and present risk and opportunity for identified and are approved along effective decision making including a business. We have an integrated with detailed feasibility reports. generation of exception reports, Risk Management Framework All statutory compliances with which are monitored by the top to protect and add value to the respect to preventive maintenance management. We have also put organization and its stakeholders schedule and environmental in place various initiatives like ensuring sustainable business clearances through respective e-Receivables, e-Invoicing and growth. This framework covers Pollution Control Board are taken in e-Ledger to enable electronic the Gas Transmission and Trading due course, along with creation of transaction. Various policies facilities, LPG Transmission separate budgets for compliances. and manuals like Contracts & facilities and LPG / Liquid Proactive steps for certifications Procurement Manual, HR Manual, Hydrocarbon / Petrochemical like ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Internal Audit Manual, Liquid Hydro Processing facilities. The Board have been taken to address Carbon Products Pricing Policy along with the Audit Committee issues related to environment and and Polymer Pricing Policy help our oversees the effectiveness and safety. Further, well planned and departments in transparent and performance of risk management coordinated CSR activities are uniform decision making. across our operations. being undertaken to address social With the objective of ensuring issues in the area of presence. The risks are evaluated, quantified, proper conduct and discipline, besides a code for employees, prioritized and mitigation plans Ethics, that are prepared are reviewed we have framed a Code of and monitored at various stages. Transparency Conduct for Board members After the identification and and and Senior Management. All the Board Members and Senior assessment of environmental Accountability Management Personnel annually and social issues relevant and significant to our operations, the We believe in adhering to all affirm compliance with this Code outcome is then scrutinized by a applicable statues in letter of Conduct. We have also framed site Level committee on site and and spirit and endeavour to the GAIL Employees’ (Conduct, then by a steering committee at adopt best practices to go Discipline and Appeal) Rules, the corporate office consisting of beyond adherence of statutory 1986 for our employees to ensure key officials. The recommendations frameworks and bring transparency, conduct and discipline at workplace of these committees are then accountability and equity in all and beyond. These include rules forwarded to the Board of facets of our operations. We have on Gift, Sexual Harassment and Directors through the Audit adopted several initiatives in Misconduct, amongst others. Committee for necessary actions. furtherance of goals for ethics, GAIL has adopted the Government An exhaustive list of Key Risk transparency and accountability of India resolution pertaining Sustainability Report 2012-13 27 GAIL (India) Limited to ‘Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informer’ and implemented the same under the umbrella of our ‘Whistle Blower Policy’. This policy encourages employees to report to the management in writing, complaints or disclosures on any allegation related to corruption or mis-use of office. The policy provides adequate safeguards against victimization of employees who avail this mechanism. Further, it also allows direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases. employees, etc. Customer and of Understanding (IMoU) that As a CPSE, we follow the guidelines vendor meets are organized is signed by different business of Chief Vigilance Commission during the annual Vigilance units driving them towards better (CVC) that is communicated to our Awareness Week, to discuss and performance management and vigilance department that oversees resolve their concerns. Further, A accountability to goals set under governance related issues. Settlement Advisory Committee the MoU. Recently, we have framed the has been formed for settlement Fraud Prevention Policy to create of commercial disputes with Project VIGEYE a system for detection, prevention the vendors. The Stakeholders and reporting of frauds and also (Vigilance Eye) Grievance Committee, a subeffectively handling and managing committee of the Board has GAIL has been the front runner such matters. been formed for resolving the to accept and follow a unique An MoU was signed with M/s disputes referred to it for amicable complaint lodging procedure Transparency International settlement. Further, shareholders/ through Project VIGEYE of the India in the year 2007 for Investors Grievance Redressal Central Vigilance Commission implementation of Integrity Committee has been formed for (CVC). This project is a citizenPact in GAIL thereby bringing looking into investor’s Grievances centric initiative, wherein citizens transparency in the procurement and matters relating to Registrar & join hands with the Central processes. Independent External Share Transfer Agent. Vigilance Commission in fighting Monitors have been appointed, corruption. It is a platform through who are responsible for Project which vigilance information flows overseeing the implementation VIGEYE freely from the common public of Integrity Pact Program to (Vigilance to the commission, making it prevent corruption, bribery or Eye) Front possible to provide easy access for any un-ethical practices at GAIL. runner sending sensitive information in Further, GAIL has formed an Ethics to adopt complaints quickly. Our Vigilance Committee; a sub-committee of a unique department ensured that all work the Board of Directors headed complaint centre in-charges communicate by an Independent Director who lodging instructions regarding this project addresses all aspects of ethics procedure of to all employees working under across our operations. the Central them. We have also ensured that Vigilance the information related to the In order to establish adequate Commission complaint lodging procedure was procedure for satisfactory (CVC) displayed at all prominent locations redressal of stakeholder to promote and create awareness complaints, we have put in Steps have been taken to increase about this project. It can be place grievance mechanisms transparency between business accessed through for different stakeholders like functions and divisions at GAIL. We vendors, customers, shareholders, also have an Internal Memorandum http://vigeyegpms.in/vigeye Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality With an objective to understand the material sustainability issues for GAIL for FY 2012-13, we undertook a series of stakeholder engagement initiatives. Based on an internal analysis, we prioritized employees, suppliers, customers and NGOs as those stakeholders with whom we could have a two-way dialogue and embark upon meaningful sustainability initiatives. Government of India is our major stakeholder. We consistently interact with Government bodies like MoPNG, MoCA, PNGRB, DPE, DGH, Planning Commission, etc. Further, we regularly engage through various MoUs with Central and State Government authorities. 30 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Stakeholder engagement We assessed the perceptions of each stakeholder group though a structured questionnaire specifically designed for each stakeholder group. Before assessment, the stakeholders interacted with knew sustainability initiatives were sensitized on elements of sustainability, followed by excellent employee welfare Suppliers: direct interaction with them measures, adequate learning and subsequently seeking their Our suppliers are the lifeline of and development opportunities, response on the questionnaire. our operations. It is on account efficient human resources, effective Specifically for our employees, we of their on-time and quality social responsibility programs, also hosted an online questionnaire performance that we can satisfy appropriate customer relationship on our intranet to ease the process the demands of our customers. management and robust corporate and seek maximum feedback. In all, Most of the suppliers perceive GAIL governance mechanisms have we interacted with more than 800 as socially and environmentally been highlighted as key strengths stakeholders across various groups responsible, quality conscious and by our employees. Most of our spread across our operations. a customer oriented company. employees have supported creation Following is a brief snapshot of the More than 70% of the suppliers, of department level and individual stakeholder engagement feedback: we interacted with knew about level sustainability specific KRAs along with allocation of fixed our sustainability initiatives, Employees: employee volunteering hours as indicating their high maturity levels. Employees are our most important some of the key measures to ensure Further, it is a matter of pride for stakeholders, since they are awareness and increase employee us that none of the suppliers said the one who drive this company involvement in GAIL’s sustainability that they had an unsatisfactory and help realize our dreams and initiatives. From the employees’ experience in dealing with GAIL, goals. Our employees perceive point-of-view, sustainability while more than 70% indicated GAIL as a leading natural gas risk mapping, research and an ‘excellent’ experience. The company that focuses on employee development, biodiversity, life cycle suppliers have lauded our file welfare, customer satisfaction assessment, material substitution, clearance management system, and an environmentally & local vendor development and dispute settlement mechanism, socially conscious respected sustainability branding are the most communication on future business brand. Attractive remuneration, important focus areas. plans, quality and safety and health practices. From their point-ofview, energy conservation, water conservation, biodiversity, social responsibility, research and development and business diversity are most important focus areas. Customers: We exist on account of our customers. Their belief and trust in GAIL and our products helps us grow our business. Most of the customers perceive GAIL as a company that is socially responsible, quality conscious and customer oriented. More than 80% of the customers did Sustainability Report 2012-13 31 GAIL (India) Limited not know about our sustainability social responsibility, customer of initiatives around health care, initiatives. We have considered satisfaction, vendor management, education and infrastructure this fact seriously and are planning waste management, biodiversity, development. None of the NGOs several high level interactions life cycle assessment, air emissions, we have worked with indicated with our customers to make them research and development and an unsatisfactory experience aware about GAIL’s sustainability sustainability risk mapping are while 50% indicated an ‘excellent’ initiatives. On the customer’s most important focus areas experience while working with GAIL. front as well, we proudly state The NGOs highlighted the following that none of them said that they Non-Governmental strengths of GAIL: adequate had an unsatisfactory experience Organizations: provisioning of resources, properly in dealing with GAIL, while more NGOs are our most critical partners designed social responsibility than 64% indicated an ‘excellent’ when it comes to delivering programs, clear cut social experience. For our customers, successful social responsibility responsibility agenda, futuristic energy management initiatives, programs. We interacted with vision, effective hand holding cost competitiveness, reliability some of our NGO partners and knowledge sharing, effective of product provided, customer across operations with a view to explanation of expectations relationship management, climate understand their experience of and end results and appropriate change agenda, strong financial working with us and with a vision stakeholder relationship performance, futuristic vision and to make these partnerships more management. social responsibility programs are effective and efficient. These areas of strong performance. While NGOs work with us on a gamut for them, energy conservation, Our engagement goals with a broader set of stakeholders along with the frequency and mode of engagement have been described in the table given below: Customers Goals ÎÎ To understand customer requirements ÎÎ To understand their satisfaction levels ÎÎ To address operational concerns ÎÎ To get feedback on new product development Frequency Annual, Quarterly Method Customer Meets Government & Regulators Goals ÎÎ Relationship building ÎÎ Performance appraisal through MOUs ÎÎ Submission of progress reports ÎÎ Discussions on major investment plans Frequency Annual, Quarterly Method MOUs, QPR 32 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Industry Associations Goals ÎÎ Share performance data ÎÎ Inform on keys decisions and projects ÎÎ Participate in conferences and seminars ÎÎ Engage in public policy advocacy Frequency Need-based Method Seminars, Conferences, Industry Expo, Interviews Investors Goals The motto of Investor Relations Management is to reach to maximum number of Investors from both Domestic and Global Markets and ensure dissemination of Financial and Nonfinancial information about the company at regular intervals to the concerns of stakeholders. ÎÎ Clearly communicating the company’s values, business plan, strategy, risks, growth prospects, etc. ÎÎ Highlight the company’s performance vis-à-vis previous periods ÎÎ Present the company as leaders in compliance, disclosures, transparency and corporate governance. ÎÎ Communicate to the investing community, what makes the company unique for the investor to invest their money. ÎÎ Address the concerns of investors with respect to the future challenges. Investor relations serve as a bridge between the management and investors. Investors and regulatory requirements today demand much greater transparency where timely and accurate information is of utmost essence. Frequency Annual/ Quarterly/ as and when necessary Method Annual General Meeting, Investor Meets, Investor Conferences, Conference Calls, Website hosting of financial information Employees Goals ÎÎ Communication on GAIL’s business goals, values and principles ÎÎ Action planning on major projects ÎÎ Implementation of best practices ÎÎ Facilitating learning and developing ÎÎ Track key performance indicators and action plans ÎÎ Understand and address concerns ÎÎ Idea generation, sharing and learning Frequency Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily Method Satisfaction surveys, Grievance Redressal, Suggestion schemes, CMD open house, Various committees, GAIL Day celebration, Emails, Journals, Meetings with employee associations and unions; Sustainability Report 2012-13 33 GAIL (India) Limited Media Goals ÎÎ Relationship building ÎÎ Appraising on performance highlights and lowlights ÎÎ Point-of-view on major sectoral developments Frequency Need-based Method Press Meets, Interviews NGOs Goals ÎÎ Executing social responsibility initiatives /projects. ÎÎ Understanding and addressing their concerns on critical incidents Frequency Need-based Method Project Meetings, Annual Reviews Suppliers Goals ÎÎ Communicate operational decisions ÎÎ Seek their performance data / information ÎÎ Understand and address their concerns Frequency Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily 34 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Materiality GAIL. We are the leader in Natural monitor and review. Our track Gas transmission in Asia with a record and sustainable profitability Our assessment also revealed presence in 5 countries and with levels will determine the amount other sustainability issues that pipelines that run over 10,500 of investment GAIL attracts. we feel have the potential to km and continue to strategically Predictable earnings stream and emerge as material issues in the increase our investments in the oil growth trajectory, corroboration of future. The other issues are energy and gas exploration and production profit and loss account by strong conservation, biodiversity, life in India and internationally. LNG is and predictable cash flow, market cycle assessment, research & the purest form of fuel or gas and in position in terms of control over development, sustainability risk order to provide long-term security; the product / service pricing power, mapping and vendor management we are trying to secure LNG barriers to competitive entry, levels supplies from diversified supply of market share, price-to-earnings Gas sourcing: sources to mitigate geo-political ratio and EBIDTA are key economic Energy plays an important role and pricing risks.. By process of factors dependent on business in India’s rapid growth. Ensuring liquefaction, all forms of impurities growth. Further, with recent adequate supplies of energy will like CO2 , Nitrogen are practically developments in the Natural Gas determine how we can contribute eliminated. We are also increasing sector and GAIL with respect to the towards this growth. Natural Gas our presence in natural gas trading. decrease in KGD6 production, high in an important component of the level of under-recoveries shared Business growth: by GAIL, decreasing return ratios country’s energy requirement and considering its environmental Petroleum sector reforms in India due to high capex and low physical and economic implications, it is opened the sector for domestic growth and reduced tariff due to undoubtedly the fuel of choice and multinational companies, PNGRB orders has led to a near amongst other fossil fuels. Thus thereby increasing competition stagnant performance. We are sourcing gas supplies that meet the in the market. This increased the focussing on unlocking the value requirements of quality, quantity pressure on our operating margins from our gas infrastructure through and cost plays an important role and created business growth alternative fuels and also focus towards sustaining business at as one of the critical factors to on increasing our petrochemical production. Our 2020 strategy complemented by Sustainability Aspirations 2020 will help us accelerate GAIL’s growth in a steady and sustainable manner. Customer satisfaction: GAIL’s gas customers are industries as diverse as power plants, fertilizer plants, sponge iron plants, ceramic tile manufacturers, tea gardens, processors, refineries and glass manufacturers. Managing their equally diverse expectations is essential for our business growth. We always endeavour to keep our customers satisfied by delivering quality products that are on time and at an affordable cost. We keep track of the customer satisfaction index across our businesses and work closely with our customers towards addressing their concerns. We have a very strong customer relationship management approach built into our petrochemical Sustainability Report 2012-13 35 GAIL (India) Limited marketing process and the same these installations and pipelines associates with a work environment is being replicated into the gas face threats of protests, that is fair and just and one that marketing business. We handle sabotage and even potential promotes an appropriate work every customer feedback with terror attacks, we continue to life balance. Our HR policies, equal seriousness and have invest heavily in securing them systems and processes have been developed efficient systems through technological and human customized to give our employees for handling their grievances, interventions. and associates the freedom to complaints and concerns. Some innovate and realize their full of these include the Customer Climate Change: potential. At the same time due Relationship Module, e-ledgers Climate change for GAIL is a importance is given to protect the for keeping a tab on financial business opportunity. We are rights of all employees including transactions and the Customer in the business of providing a safety and health at workplace, Value Management program. relatively cleaner form of energy grievance redressal, freedom While our growth is partially due to and thereby helping end-users of association, transparency in meticulous planning with adherence reduce their GHG emissions. With communication and action, uniform to norms, and procedures and our the Indian Government voluntarily code of conduct and equitable and emphasis on business with ethics, accepting emission reduction just treatment. the real credit goes undoubtedly targets, impending climate change to all our customers who have put related implications will pose their trust in us. a challenge to our operations. Climate change is an integral part of Safety & Security: our Sustainability Aspirations 2020 The nature of our business drives and we are extensively focussing us to rigorously practice safety on increasing energy efficiency and procedures across operations. rationalising energy use. We are We are aware that it is our also focussing on using renewable responsibility to maintain safe energy for own operations and and healthy working conditions making it available to others as for all relevant stakeholders. well. This is evident from our strong Further, safety and health play a wind energy portfolio and a growing very important role in keeping a solar energy portfolio. Additionally, high employee morale as well as we are also focussing on conversion productivity and in times to come of landfill gas and R&D project of have the potential to become a CO2 utilization as steps towards business maturity differentiator in tackling climate change. the domestic markets. Considering the large scale of projects and Skilled manpower O&M activities being under taken availability: by us across the nation and the There is an ever increasing need inherent hazards associated with to tap qualified personnel suitably our business operations, it is equipped with knowledge, skills, pertinent that observance of all the attitude and a practical exposure safety guidelines and regulations to highly specialized jobs in the Oil are of prime importance. Security & Gas sector. It is imperative that is given a high priority and all our we acquire the right talent to fuel operating locations have state-ofour growth and give them the right art security systems along with exposure and opportunity for their trained security staff in place to overall development. Our people avoid and handle any external or and associates are at the heart of internal threat. Most of our assets our transformation agenda and are of national significance and any also the key facilitators in helping incident related to these assets is us achieve our 2020 goals. We bound to have social, environmental have provided our employees and and economic ramifications. As Sustainability Strategy As a responsible corporate citizen, we plan to contribute towards a low carbon economy and create a path for sustainable growth. Over the years, we have diversified into cleaner business segments like renewables. 38 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Further, 5 MW solar project has the identified priority areas as been set up in Rajasthan and we our phased approach towards plan to set up additional capacities sustainability strategy. The over the coming years. Sustainability aspirations were drafted after an intensive We believe that technology shall consultation with internal and be an important focus area that external stakeholders concerned presents opportunities and has a with on-ground implementation and vast potential in the future. This were subsequently approved by can aid in resource optimization the Management. The aspirations in operations and processes and include areas where we would development of alternate sources provide maximum thrust and of energy. We focus on research achieve well-defined tangible and development in line with our targets. To begin with, we have identified thrust areas. We are selected aspects for reducing our actively exploring technologies that GHG Intensity, Water Intensity, can aid in utilizing various alternate Specific Energy Consumption sources of energy for augmenting and increasing our waste water the energy supplies and thereby recycling and Awareness on energising tomorrow. Sustainability. We would like to transparently share the progress Sustainability made by us in the last two years: On the wind energy front, we plan Aspirations 2020 to set up 500 MW wind power capacity in the next 5 years of which We realize that it is imperative 118 MW capacity has already been to track our sustainability commissioned across states of performance. At the outset, we Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. have set concrete targets in Sustainability Report 2012-13 39 GAIL (India) Limited Sustainability Reduction in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Focus Area Aspiration 33% reduction in GHG emission intensity (Total GHG emission/ Gross sale) in comparison to 2020 the baseline year (FY 2010-11) Action Plan ÎÎ Process optimizations ÎÎ Adoption of ISO 14064 GHG management systems ÎÎ Reduction in fugitive emissions and venting of Green House Gases in our operations ÎÎ Afforestation to sequester GHG emissions from our operations GHG Intensity Progress up to 2012-13 (in tCO2e/Cr) 28.65% reduction achieved from base year. 40 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Energy efficiency Focus Area Aspiration 5% reduction in specific energy consumption in comparison to the baseline year (FY 2010-11) 2020 Action Plan ÎÎ Adoption of Integrated Energy Management Systems ÎÎ Incubation of Internal energy audit groups at corporate and site level ÎÎ Focused energy audits ÎÎ Adoption of energy efficient technologies ÎÎ Enhanced adoption of renewable energy ÎÎ Reduction of flare and flare gas recovery Specific Energy Consumption Progress up to 2012-13 (in GJ/MT of LHC & PC) 0.9% increase from base year. Sustainability Fresh water consumption and Waste Water Recycling Focus Area Aspiration 45% reduction in water consumption intensity (Total water consumption/ Gross sales) in 2020 comparison to the baseline year (FY 2010-11) 5% increase in waste water recycling from current levels of 45% in the baseline year (FY 201011) Action Plan ÎÎ Establish a robust water accounting systems at all operational units ÎÎ Increased focus on utilizing treated waste water to meet plant process requirements ÎÎ Impetus on Rain water harvesting at all sites ÎÎ Robust water audits to establish improvement opportunities and minimize losses Sustainability Report 2012-13 41 GAIL (India) Limited Water Consumption Intensity Progress up to 2012-13 Waste Water Recycling Progress up to 2012-13 (in m3/Cr) (in m3 & %) 31.2 % reduction from base year. 0.5 % increase from base year. Sustainability Awareness on sustainability Focus Area Aspiration 100% of our employees will have awareness on sustainability 2020 Action Plan ÎÎ Organization wide Sustainability training need identification program ÎÎ Sustainability training calendars for executive and non-executive employees ÎÎ Train the trainer programs on Sustainability ÎÎ Mandatory sustainability modules for new joiners during induction Recently, these targets have been drilled down at an individual departmental level performance through Internal Memorandum of Understanding signed between the HoD and the concerned Director, driving towards better performance management and accountability. This shows the level of importance and seriousness accorded by the Management in achieving the Sustainability Aspirations 2020. Going forward, we plan to create aspirations for other aspects of sustainability as well. 42 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Report 2012-13 43 GAIL (India) Limited Shareholders / Investors Investor Relations is an on-going activity at GAIL where we communicate with the investment community comprising of existing shareholders, potential investors, analysts and media, on matters related to regulatory and voluntary activities across our operations. 44 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly This communication happens through various channels meetings with investors, company newsreleases, press meetings of senior management, annual reports and websites. The idea is to transparently share information with the stakeholders so that they can gain a greater understanding about our business, governance, financial / non-financial performance and prospects. The aim of embarking on an on-going investor relations programme is that it enables the investor community to make a cautious investment decision without compromising on ethics and values. Business Growth w.r.t. increase in average exchange rate from about INR 47/$ for FY Some of the major activities Amidst declining margins on 11-12 to about INR 54/$ for FY 12-13 conducted by GAIL’s investor account of pressure from the and higher price realizations on relation function are as follows: Government subsidies and Spot, LHC & Petrochemicals have ÎÎ Clearly communicating our the pipelines suffering from a led to this increase. Further, the values, business plan, strategy, declining throughput, GAIL’s economic value retained (calculated risks and growth prospects. turnover increased by 18 % to INR as economic value generated less 47,333 crores and Profit After Tax economic value distributed) was ÎÎ Highlighting our performance increased by 10 % to INR 4,022 INR 27306 Million. vis-à-vis competition. crores, in this year. Higher sales ÎÎ Demonstrating GAIL’s activities (INR) Milliions related to compliance, disclosures, transparency and A. Economic Value Generated 483572 corporate governance. ÎÎ Net Sales / Income from Operations 474027 ÎÎ Communicating to the investing community, what ÎÎ Other Operating Income 1900 makes GAIL unique for them to ÎÎ Other Income 7645 trust us and invest their money. B. Economic Value Distributed 456266 ÎÎ Addressing the concerns of investors with respect to the ÎÎ Operating cost 410649 future challenges. ÎÎ Employee wages and benefits 10674 ÎÎ Serving as a bridge between the management and the ÎÎ Payments to providers of capital 17240 investors. ÎÎ Payments to Governments 17056 ÎÎ Ensuring dissemination ÎÎ CSR initiatives 647 of timely and accurate information. Economic Value Retained (A – B) 27306 Sustainability Report 2012-13 45 GAIL (India) Limited LNG Terminal at Dabhol, Maharashtra Fund managers, analysts and investors seek to understand the dynamics of the business in which we operate and in particular, potential growth prospects of GAIL into the future. Our track record and sustainable profitability levels will determine how much a fund manager will invest in GAIL. Predictable earnings stream and growth trajectory, corroboration of profit and loss account by strong and predictable cash flow, market position in terms of control over the product / service pricing power, barriers to competitive entry, levels of market share, price-toearnings ratio and EBIDTA are the factors key to investors. With recent developments in the Natural Gas sector and GAIL with respect to the decrease in KGD6 production, high-level of under-recovery shared by GAIL, decreasing return ratios due to high capex and low physical growth and reduced tariff due to PNGRB orders, there is a bit of scepticism regarding GAIL’s short term performance. This has also led to a near stagnant share price performance for GAIL during the year. The major steps in ensuring business growth are as follows:ÎÎ Ensuring LNG imports We have been striving hard to meet the growing demand for natural gas in India through import of spot cargoes. During this year, we imported 11 cargoes from Egypt, Qatar, Yemen, Spain amounting to 0.62 MMTPA of LNG. In the short and medium term, GAIL has executed LNG agreements with Marubeni, GDF Suez, and GNF for a combined 4.9 MMSCMD of Natural Gas. In order to provide long-term security, we are trying to secure LNG supplies from diversified supply sources to mitigate geo-political and 46 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly pricing risks. Accordingly, we have executed two contracts for cumulative 6 MMTPA (3.5 MMTPA from US and 2.5 MMTPA from Russia) supply over a 20 year horizon. Further, we have also executed a gas sales agreement with TurkmenGaz for importing 38 MMSCMD of Natural Gas through the TurkmenistanAfghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) pipeline for a 30-year period. ÎÎ Developing regasification capacity player. We are also planning regular supply of raw material to commission a 3.5 MMTPA at competitive market prices, We are planning to set up an FSRU capacity at Kakinada in provide technical support offshore Floating Storage Andhra Pradesh to meet the to plastic processors and and Re-gasification terminal energy requirements of the establish a polymer warehouse (FSRU) in the east-coast states along the Eastern Coast. to cater to the needs of the of India. We are currently industrial units. Entire basic undertaking a feasibility study ÎÎ Plastic Park at infrastructure including land at for setting up that project. In Auraiya attractive rates, road transport January 2013, we commissioned GAIL signed a MoU with arrangement, water supply and the 5 MMTPA re-gasification UPSIDC on 5th September 2012 adequate safety & security terminal at Dabhol in the state for facilitating development to the prospective industrial of Maharashtra that will act of a Plastic Park at Auraiya, units in this plastic park will as a gateway to meet the Uttar Pradesh. This initiative of be arranged by UPSIDC. growing demand of consumers setting up an industrial belt for Through the All India Plastic in Maharashtra, Goa and plastic processing units shall Manufacturers Association Karnataka. The implications provide much needed boost to (AIPMA), we ensure special are humungous as it would overall economic development invitations to entrepreneurs in translate into tying up more of the region. The total area this park. LNG volumes, shipping arrangements, upstream earmarked for this industrial The major drivers of performance in asset acquisition and more so belt is about 314 acre, with each business segment of GAIL are enabling GAIL to unleash its UPSIDC making substantial investments towards cost of as given below: expertise for foraying more vigorously into other re-gas land and its development. For NG transmission and the growth and development opportunities and emerge as trading a dominant natural gas global of these industrial units, GAIL we will contribute towards the GAIL controls almost 75% of the gas transmission business and around 60% of the gas trading business in India given our wide pipeline coverage, last-mile connectivity and increasing demand RLNG. Further, the proactive pipeline expansion has helped to address the ever increasing demand for gas in India. Our trading business has witnessed a strong growth on account of the administered pricing mechanism Sustainability Report 2012-13 47 GAIL (India) Limited gas combined with increased projects will have a direct bearing Additions Ltd) will give us a higher demand for LNG. This year, GAIL on the financial bottom-line. market share in the petrochemical has signed a Terminal Service business in India. Agreement (TSA) with Dominion Liquid Hydrocarbons We use Natural Gas from the PannaCove Point LNG LP in USA for We bear a part of the underMukta-Tapti fields as feedstock a commitment of 2.3 MMTPA recovery incurred by the oil for our petrochemical plant. As liquefaction capacity in the Cove marketing companies on sales the gas price is fixed we get a high Point LNG liquefaction terminal of Petroleum products such as operating leverage and any increase project in US. GAIL has tied-up 5.8 Diesel, Kerosene & LPG, along or decrease in the international MMTPA of LNG linked to Henry with Government and other price of polyethylene is passed on Hub pricing, which is the largest Government-owned upstream to the bottom-line. Further as the volume tied up by a single Company companies such as ONGC & Oil cost of gas is less than one-thirds in North America. Our short-term India Ltd. The mechanism of sharing the cost of naphtha (used by other and long-term association with GDF, subsidy amongst the upstream producers), our EBITDA margins are Gazprom, GNF and Cheniere for companies is ad-hoc and is around 30% higher than our peers. RLNG supply will play a pivotal role determined based on a combination However, with the new expansion in ensuring RLNG supply in India. of the Government’s fiscal position, we will double our gas requirement. We anticipate signing of similar extent of under-recovery, and ability Replacing Natural Gas with LNG on LNG import agreements in the next of oil marketing companies to account of declining availability of five years, which would gradually bear the loss which plays a serious the former can negatively affect improve the utilization of new dampener for any investment. the profitability. This combined pipelines to 55-60% by 2018-19. With overall industry fuel underwith slow demand and declining As the tariff for the key pipelines recoveries higher and controlling international prices can seriously have been approved by the fiscal deficit the Government’s high affect our margins. PNGRB, there is a low regulatory priority, upstream companies are risk for the transmission vulnerable to a higher subsidy share LPG Transmission business further coupled with this year. The share of upstream During the financial year 2012faster than anticipated ramp up companies towards subsidy sharing 13, PNGRB had revised the LPG of domestic gas supplies and has increased from 33% in FY 08 transmission Tariff w.e.f 20.12.2012 implementation of reforms in to almost 37% in FY 13. Capping based on railway tariff effective the downstream oil sector by the of subsidized LPG cylinders by from 06.03.2012. This has a positive Government positively impacting the Government is expected impact on the LPG pipeline tariff the performance. Finally with to translate into lower underrevenue of approximately by Rs. 14 commissioning of the Dabhol recovery, however the full benefit Crores for JLPL & by Rs. 3.5 Crores terminal, we begin LNG contracts in will reflect in 2013-14 depending for VSPL. excess of 4 MMSCMD that would on Government’s subsidy sharing contribute to larger transmission formula. Focussing on volumes and higher earnings. While Petrochemicals Renewables the future looks bright, there are a Our planned expansion of 450,000 Climate change is a material few factors that have the potential TPA at Pata has the potential to issue for GAIL and we have been to dampen the growth. Even as we be one of GAIL’s highly profitable supporting the Government of are in the process of expanding ventures. With the upcoming India (GoI) National Action Plan our transmission capacity to 228 volume growth in petrochemicals, on Climate Change (NAPCC) MMSCMD by 2015-16, the declining we could possibly have Asia’s introduced in 2008. Now that India domestic production of gas and highest petrochemical margins. has committed to voluntarily reduce near stagnant LNG imports can Further, the 280 KPTA cracker its carbon emission intensity (GHG result in to lower pipeline utilization. in Assam in a JV (70% stake of emitted per unit of GDP) by 20-25% Tariff cuts by the regulators GAIL) along with Oil India, NRL by 2020 over the emission intensity combined with reimbursements (Numaligarh Refinery Limited) and of 2005, we have developed our own made for excess tariffs have the Government of Assam and the action plan in order to contribute impacted the earnings. Further, with 38% marketing share in ONGC’s to this commitment. Apart from increasing competition any delay 1.1 MMTPA OPAL (ONGC Petro Natural Gas, which is a relatively in completion of the expansion cleaner fuel, we have successfully 48 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly ÎÎ Development of high grade steel industry in India. ÎÎ Substituting road transportation of LPG ÎÎ Reducing vehicular emissions in cities by offering cleaner fuel in the form of CNG thereby replacing Diesel and motor spirit. ÎÎ Reducing GHG emissions from flaring. Our 2012-13 MoU GAIL CMD addressing during conference on Trans National Gas Pipeline Win Win Situation for all The Memorandum of Understanding is a negotiated document between the Government ventured in to wind power and solar Social Contribution and the Management of a Central power generation. Since inception, our focus has been Public Sector Enterprise clearly We commenced wind power not only to create value for our specifying the objectives of generation in 2010 through a wind shareholders but also become a agreement and obligations of power project setup in Gujarat. Over key contributor in the growth of both parties. The main purpose a period of time, we have increased “spaces” in which we operate. This of the MoU system is to ensure our wind energy portfolio to 118 MW is reflected in the communitya level playing field to the public comprising 14.7 MW in The State centric CSR initiatives of the sector enterprises vis-à-vis the of Gujarat and 98.75 MW together company. The initiatives that we private corporate sector. The in The States of Karnataka and have taken towards empowerment MoU consists of mutually agreed Tamil Nadu, with a total investment of society are discussed in detail targets on financial (50%) and nonin excess of INR 700 crores. Till in the communities section. In the financial parameters (50%). The date, we have generated around 34 FY 2012-13, GAIL has committed financial parameters include Gross million KWH of wind energy which an amount of Rs. 92.19 Crores Sales, Turnover, Gross Margin, is equivalent to a savings of around towards various CSR initiatives, Net Profit and Net Worth. The 26,520 tons of carbon dioxide. spread across different thrust non-financial parameters include areas like healthcare, livelihood performance under Corporate This year we have commissioned Social Responsibility, Research generation, education, community our first PV based solar power plant & Development, Sustainable development, infrastructure, at Raghwa village, Jaisalmer district Development, Human Resource drinking water and sanitation and (Rajasthan) having a capacity of 5 Management and Corporate environment protection. An amount MW. The power generated through Governance. of Rs. 30 Crores (approximate) this plant is exported to NVVN has been invested in Community (NTPC Vidyut Vypar Nigam Limited) Development and Infrastructure as per a long term power purchase related projects, out of the total agreement (PPA) signed with the sanctioned amount for CSR. We company. The plant was built at a continue to contribute towards cost of INR 51.0 crores. The total national development and wellpower generated and exported to being by NVVN during the year 2012-13 was 8,38,581 units with a corresponding ÎÎ Providing access to clean revenue generation of around INR energy alternatives through 78 lakhs. The total solar energy our gas pipeline networks generated during this year has to various sectors of Indian resulted in a savings of around 654 economy. tons of carbon dioxide. Sustainability Report 2012-13 49 GAIL (India) Limited Performance update on the SD aspects of GAIL’s 2012-13 MoU Criteria Unit Excellent Actual Performance Performance Target Achieved Publication of Sustainability Date 28.02.2013 28.02.2013 performance Report No. of meetings of Board Level SD Sub Nos. 4 4 Committee Implementation of Burner Date 30.11.2012 22.06.12 Management System in Hot Oil Heater of GPU Vaghodia Usage of Treated Sewage wastewater No. of Milestones 5 5 for Vivekanand Sports Complex and achieved on or horticulture purposes at GAIL, Pata before 31.03.2013 Preparation of ‘Green House Gas Nos. 3 4 Accounting Report’ for installati ns of GAIL (India) Ltd. Dharohar : Conservation of Native No. of Milestones 6 6 plant species at GPU Usar achieved on or before 31.03.2013 Training of Employees on Manhours 1,600 2,000 Sustainability Aspects External Evaluation of Projects Nos. 4 5 SD Expenditure (Rs. 50 lacs plus 0.1 % % 100% 267% of previous year PAT exceeding Rs. 100 crore) Project on CO2 utilisation Milestones 7 7 Specialized Coaching for IIT / No. of Children 100 102 Engineering Entrance Exam for children of underprivileged section (Project GAIL UTKARSH) Setting up of Non-formal education No. of NFE 225 250 (NFE) centres for mainstreaming centres out of school slum children to Govt. schools (Project – PADHO AUR BADHO) Job Linked Vocational Skill training to No. of youth 700 2880 youth of underprivileged rural / semirural families (Project GAIL IL&FS SKILL SCHOOLS) 50 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Medical outreach programme for No. of Persons 50,000 2,28,033 the local villagers in the rural areas covered adjoining major GAIL work centres through mobile health care vans Total Sanitation campaign in 5 villages No. of sanitation 250 386 covering individual houses units CSR Expenditure as % of previous % 0.85 1.77 year PAT Health, Safety & Environment Index % 98.5 98.89 Attrition as % of total employees % <7 1.1 Effectiveness of Grievance Redressal % settlement 80 93.75 system % of grievances settled vis-avis received during the year Pension, Medicare, Yoga classes Number of 7 13 to reduce stress where the job is programs stressful, setting up of wellness centre / date of such as Gym etc. implementation of scheme Employee satisfaction survey ESI % > 55 72.43 measure in % Formulation & Implementation of Yes / No Yes Yes social security scheme Number of structured meetings with Number of 10 12 employees’ representatives meetings Training Sessions on Health, Safety & No. of training 40 59 Environment for field level Employees sessions Sustainability Report 2012-13 51 GAIL (India) Limited SD aspects of GAIL’s 2013-14 MoU Criteria Unit Excellent Performance Target Training of Employees including Senior Management on CSR Manhours 1,700 & Sustainability Aspects through Seminars / Workshops / trainings in internalizing the CSR and Sustainability agenda within the organisation. Recycling of waste paper generated Kg 2,000 NG Powered CCVT Replacement by Solar Power No. of RR 5 Stations covered Meetings / Consultations held with Key Stakeholders No. of Meetings 4 Publication of Externally assured Sustainability Report as per Date 30.09.2013 latest GRI standards Job Linked Vocational Skill training to youth of underprivileged No. of Youth 2,000 rural / semi-rural families under Project 'GAIL IL&FS SKILL trained SCHOOLS' at 3 locations (Continued Flagship Programme) Enrolment for Specialized Coaching for IIT / Engineering No. of Children 100 Entrance Exam for children of underprivileged section under enrolled Project – GAIL UTKARSH (Continued Flagship Programme) Project Jaldhara Integrated Watershed Management Project in No. of Milestones 6 villages of District Jhabua, MP achieved Expenditure incurred on CSR and Sustainability activities as % % 1 of previous year PAT Existence of two-tier organisational structure with mandatory Yes / No Yes membership of an Independent Director on the Board level committee Health Safety and Environment Index % 98.5 Customer Satisfaction Index % 88 Attrition as % of total employees % <5 Effectiveness of Grievance Redressal system % of grievances % settlement 80 settled vis-a-vis received during the year Yoga / meditation classes to reduce stress where the job is Number of 7 stressful programs Number of structured meetings with employees' unions Number of 10 meetings 52 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Declaration on Compliance While pursuing business excellence goals we ensure that all our operations are in compliance to the national and international regulations applicable to us. Research and Development We have identified thrust areas of R&D in line with our business areas –Natural Gas transportation and storage, fuel cell and nano composites, CO2 utilization and Unconventional energy and eq. per year by 2020. This project Operational follow a focused strategy to is being implemented at Ghazipur excellence initiate projects in such areas. landfill site in Delhi. This project is expected to demonstrate the The concept of ‘excellence’ is Many basic / fundamental / well-integrated into our way of applied research projects have possibility of extraction of LFG from an un-scientifically managed working. We follow a top-down been taken up through various bottom-up approach, first to reputed engineering institutes landfill site and to convert it in to a clean fuel. The success of this nurture our employee capabilities and laboratories this year in these to think innovatively and then major thrust areas. We are also pilot project would open up the possibility of replicating its success to identify, develop and pursue actively exploring technologies opportunities that reduce our that can be used to exploit various all over the country. The project is being carried out in two phases. operational footprint and costs. non-conventional energy sources We have adopted a robust like Peat Gas, Gas Hydrates and First phase comprising landfill closure, LFG extraction and flaring. approach on TQM that focuses Underground Coal Gasification on developing small yet effective (UCG) to develop alternate sources And the second phase comprising purification of LFG and subsequent quality control circles at each of for augmenting the energy supplies our operating units. A Total Quality in the country. Bio-fixation of conversion to CNG. The Phase-1 of this project is already completed Management group has been CO2 using micro-algae and the set up at the corporate level to possibility of extracting various and in the process of firming up the design basis for Phase-2 of the centrally co-ordinate all quality value added products are also being and performance improvement pursued by our R&D department. project. initiatives across GAIL’s operations. We are setting up a unique and In association with Indian Institute This year, 112 Quality Circle projects first-of-its kind pilot project for of Petroleum (IIP), Dehradun, have been taken up resulting extraction of land fill gas (LFG) we have conducted bench scale in saving of INR 15.68 crores and its conversion to CNG after studies to assess the potential through various projects. Several purification. LFG is generated by of converting waste plastic measures have been undertaken anaerobic digestion of municipal into fuel with these studies to enhance employee awareness solid wastes (MSW) and contains yielded encouraging results. and capabilities to deliver quality nearly 50% methane. Methane After establishing bench scale projects and inculcate a culture of is a Green House Gas (GHG) and operations, on continuous basis, we continuous quality improvement. is 21 times more potent than CO2 are establishing the feasibility of In addition to quality circles, in causing global warming. It also setting up a Pilot Project as the next suggestion schemes have also been causes smog and poses safety and phase. introduced to encourage innovation health risks. Methane emissions and creativity amongst employees. from landfills in India are estimated The program is a reward scheme at 16 MT CO2 eq. per year and are for individuals who can come up predicted to increase to 20 MT CO2 with performance improvement Sustainability Report 2012-13 53 GAIL (India) Limited ideas in their areas of work. An Aspirations 2020, we have annual award for the most effective committed to reduce our specific suggestion is presented with a energy consumption by 5% by 2020 reward of INR 1,00,000 by our in comparison to 2010 baseline. We C&MD. plan to achieve this by developing an organization-wide integrated Energy conservation and energy management system and improvement in energy efficiency strengthening our energy audit have been one of the top procedures apart from other operational improvement areas technical interventions. for GAIL. Under our Sustainability Natural Gas (NG) processing in our operations (MMSCM) Our energy consumption (MiIlion GJ) 54 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly GHG EMISSIONS FROM OUR OPERATIONS (tCo2e) Energy audit at Usar pump energy consumption. Jagdishpur (HVJ) pipeline, dwells three Gas Turbine Compressor As part of sustainable development ÎÎ Monitoring of cooling tower Packages comprising of Cooper initiatives taken across GAIL effectiveness, heat exchangers Bessemer – RF4BB30 gas plants to improve energy efficiency and related parameters to compressor and Roll Royce RB211 and reduce overall wastage, an optimize the specific energy Gas Generator (drive). Requirement internal team from O&M having consumption. of up-gradation of integrated the credentials of Certified Energy control systems for all the three ÎÎ Directed maintenance and Auditors (CEA) from the Bureau RB-211-24G GTCs was of prime replacement of worn-out parts of Energy Efficiency conducted importance to ensure availability of to improve pump efficiencies. an energy audit at Usar. The major these machines for uninterrupted observations and findings of the ÎÎ Gas turbine Waste heat gas supply along the HVJ pipeline. team are: recovery has substantial The existing control systems potential to increase the of the packages at the Khera ÎÎ Opportunity to reduce gas utilization of waste heat were very old and had become venting and leakages from generated. technologically obsolete; causing seals of feed gas compressor to reduce energy loss in terms difficulty in procurement of spares ÎÎ Use of star rated ACs to reduce of natural gas as well as reduce as well. These existing systems electrical consumption in air the environmental impact due were liable to cause unscheduled conditioning. to GHG emission. tripping during start/stop of the ÎÎ Reducing energy consumption machine and even while in running ÎÎ Scope to reduce energy in street lighting systems by state. Hence the control system consumption in utilities like use of optical switches. of these GTC packages were nitrogen and compressed air upgraded during the FY 2012-13 in by simple modifications, leak Up-gradation of gas order to enhance the availability reduction and some interlock turbine control and start-up reliability, reduce arrangements. system at Khera tripping, ease the maintenance and Khera Compressor Station, improvise remote trouble shooting ÎÎ Reducing water losses in fire placed along the Hazira –Vijaipurfacilities, against the technological water network to reduce the obsolescence. Sustainability Report 2012-13 55 GAIL (India) Limited Utilization of flare Energy efficiency 1,340 MTPA of LPG equivalent gas for PNG (Piped initiatives at Vaghodia to INR 1.94 crore. Natural Gas) ÎÎ An improved automated burner Several energy efficiency initiatives In the LPG plant at Vijaipur, were adopted at Vaghodia in line management system was approximately 1,200 SCM per with the requirements of GAIL’s installed in Hot Oil Heaters. day natural gas from dry seal Sustainability Aspirations 2020. This system enabled fuel gas vents of LEF compressors Following are some of the major saving due to stoppage of and from depressurization of initiatives: pilot burner and enhanced equipments before handing over efficiency due to better airÎÎ A Waste Heat Recovery Steam fuel ratio control along with for maintenance or small passing Generation system (WHRSG) enhancing operational safety of valves is flared. The total PNG was installed to recover waste and environmental impact. demand of GAIL Vijaipur Township heat from exhaust of Gas The total investment for this which has 560 quarters apart Turbine Compressor (GTC). project was INR 83.44 lacs from public buildings like bachelor The total investment incurred resulting in a 12.79% reduction hostels, guest house and canteens was INR 62 crores while the in fuel gas consumption was estimated to be around 336 total savings amount to around equivalent to INR 28 lacs/ SCM per day. With this in the INR 15.65 crores per year on annum. background, it was planned to use account of 52 MT/ Hr of steam flare gas in the township as PNG generation. A scheme was Reducing de-rimming instead of existing LPG. The project developed to utilize the cold frequency at Pata was initiated with an investment generated due to pressure of INR 2.04 crores and is under Engineering modifications were reduction of RLNG supplied the final stage of implementation. carried out at the Nitrogen plant in to South Gujarat pipeline, for This initiative at GAIL Vijaipur is order to reduce the frequency of cooling of feed gas supplied to expected to result in reduction of de-rimming. This project resulted the GPU. The total investment 275.4 tons of carbon dioxide into in an annual savings of 4,48,560 for this project was INR 2.35 the atmosphere. KWh of electrical energy equivalent crore resulting in saving around to INR 22.43 lacs along with an 5,600 MWH/annum of energy equivalent reduction in production and an additional recovery of loss of 900 MT of Liquid Nitrogen. 56 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Report 2012-13 57 GAIL (India) Limited Communities GAIL’s commitment towards our communities has come a long way from rehabilitation activities in the 1990s to a distinct business function focussing on creating sustainable livelihoods. Like many other Indian companies with activities spread into the interiors of the country, CSR at GAIL started with community outreach and community development programmes. Over time, GAIL started undertaking long term programmes having wider social impact. 58 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly We are governed by our CSR over the last few years, its ÎÎ Creation of project-based policy to augment GAIL’s focus has been in the domain of accountability approach with involvement and commitment Education, Skill Development well-defined timelines and towards community initiatives. A for Livelihood generation and project milestones, in terms compassionate approach towards Health, more specifically in the of a standardised Agreement the community lies at the heart of rural domain. Most of the flagship signed with every external our operations at GAIL. We have programmes which involve long executing partner in place a comprehensive system term commitment by the company, ÎÎ Implementation through to undertake such initiatives. have been taken up in these areas various agencies as listed In alignment with vision of the with the objective of creating a under Section 4.9.1 of GAIL company, CSR initiatives strive long term and sustainable impact CSR Policy and as per the to enhance value creation in the by empowering and enabling the Guidelines on CSR issued by society and in the community communities. DPE in which it operates, through its The key to reaching the goals services, conduct & initiatives, so ÎÎ Monitoring and feedback of sustainable growth is to be as to promote sustained growth for including internal and external able to foresee and perceive the society and community. CSR assessment on concurrent the aspirations and needs of the performance indices have been and project completion disadvantaged sections. It is with included in the MoU signed with the basis, in form of thorough this very objective in mind that the MoPNG. Impact Assessment Studies company has realigned its systems, conducted by a Third party In adherence to Government processes and activities to enable guidelines, GAIL allocates two holistic development for all ÎÎ Robust implementing percent of its Net Profit after Tax sections. The projects implemented mechanism, through a 3-tier (PAT) of the previous financial are monitored and reviewed by the approval system. The Subyear for its CSR activities. GAIL CSR sub-committee at the Board Committee of the Board executes its CSR initiatives in level. CSR in GAIL has also evolved approves the total quantum seven identified major thrust into a distinct function, with a of CSR activities to be in a areas, vizEducation/ Literacy dedicated team, operating within particular financial year, it is Enhancement, Community the framework of a well-structured headed by the C & MD GAIL Development, Infrastructure, Skill CSR Policy. In an effort to achieve Development/ Empowerment, these goals, GAIL collaborates with ÎÎ In addition to allocation which Drinking Water/ Sanitation, communities, governmental and is primarily meant for the CSR Healthcare/ Medical Facility nongovernmental organisations, projects for the disadvantaged and Environment Protection/ academic institutions and others segments residing around GAIL Horticulture. For the F/Y 2012to identify emerging issues, Work Centres, the GAIL CSR 13, the Company had allocated a develop projects and effectively policy also provides for CSR budget of INR 92.19 Crores towards respond to challenges. We follow allocations under the following CSR activities in and around its global best practices in identifying, heads: major work centres (2% of its PAT implementing, and monitoring its ÎÎ Contribution towards for the year plus carry-over of CSR projects. Corpus of GAIL Charitable unutilized amount from previous and Education Trust. In FY The systematic and meticulous year). CSR activities at GAIL can 2012-13, an amount of Rs. approach of planning and be categorized in two broad areas 5 Crores was allocated for implementing our CSR projects : (i) Community outreach and the activities of the GAIL comprise of the following steps: community development which Charitable and Education Trust, focuses around its work centres A project based approach in which is a registered body and (ii) Flagship programmes for implementing CSR projects which under Societies Registration wealth and value creation which are largely undertaken in and Act, 1860. GAIL Charitable are aimed towards capability around the rural areas adjoining its & Education Trust extends development and empowerment major work centres/installations Scholarship to students on of the under privileged. Though merit cum means basis both the Company has identified above ÎÎ Systematic identification at School level and for higher mentioned seven major thrust of programs through needs Education from the interest areas for CSR interventions, assessment Sustainability Report 2012-13 59 GAIL (India) Limited earned on the contribution Being responsive GAIL Charitable and Education towards the Corpus. Trust was set up in 2009 to award GAIL, as a socially responsible scholarships to meritorious ÎÎ Contribution towards Relief corporate entity, recognises its students from weak financial for Natural Calamities or responsibility towards the various background. Disasters: Allocation is also stakeholder groups, especially made each year for rendering towards the community at large One of GAIL’s earliest and relief/contribution in the and the disadvantaged sections in most effective interventions in event of Natural calamities particular. This is reflected in the the education sector was the or disasters affecting the choice of CSR Programmes being introduction of the E-Shiksha communities in & around implemented by the company. GAIL Programme. As part of this project, the areas where GAIL has its is particularly sensitive to the fact computer labs were set up in a operations. Any unutilized that the programmes must address power equipped mobile vehicle amount under the annual the needs of the people and the alone with one qualified instructor allocation against this head area so that there is a holistic and teaching aids. The programme is carried forward to the next development within the area takes initiated in 2008, as a pilot project year. In FY 2012-13, 10% of the place, while also improving the in Vijaipur (M.P.), has benefitted CSR budget was earmarked for living standards of the people. more than 4500 students. The the same. programme has helped in making Education/ Literacy computer education accessible to ÎÎ Need Identification, Impact Enhancement government schools and facilitated Assessment and Sponsorship students to accomplish their of CSR events/publications: GAIL through its Education/ regular computer school curriculum Certain component of the Literacy Enhancement Initiatives through the mobile computer annual CSR Allocation is engaged in changing the world aided lab. After school hours, the is earmarked towards for children and young adults computer vehicles were available cumulative expenditure who have been deprived of the to the villagers of Vijaipur for the on Need Identification, opportunity to acquire knowledge adults to take up a course in typing Impact Assessment Studies, and education due to acute poverty. and basic computer literacy. Capacity building/training and A multitude of projects have been Sponsorship of CSR events/ implemented to address critical By far the most inspiring and publications. GAIL earmarks issues such as school dropout enriching initiatives, for the 3% of the CSR budget towards rate, literacy rate, education for beneficiary population and GAIL, the same. out-of school children, equipment have been two flagship projectsand infrastructure for schools, Utkarsh and Padho Aur Badho. ÎÎ Allocation towards MoP&NG/ among others. To facilitate Govt. Schemes: In adherence access to quality education by GAIL Utkarsh is aimed at securing of the Govt. /MoP&NG the less privileged children, the the future of brilliant students instructions, GAIL earmarks whose dreams may have otherwise 20% of its annual CSR allocation for participation in common CSR programmes undertaken collectively by oil PSUs. For the last few years, GAIL has been extending financial support to BPL families for providing them with LPG connections through Rajiv Gandhi LPG Vitran Yojana. In light of the Revised DPE Guidelines on CSR & Sustainability issued in December 2012, the abovementioned allocations have been revised and modified for the FY 2013-14 60 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly perished due to lack of finances. help such special children join the baseline survey) and focussed on This pioneering project provides mainstream. development of organic farming, all-expense paid, specialised agro and bio waste briquette as low residential coaching/intensive Skill Development/ cost fuel, animal husbandry and mentoring so that bright students Empowerment water management in the selected from under privileged can Enabling and empowering the villages, for a holistic development compete for engineering entrance underprivileged so that they model. Through formation of SHG examinations such as IIT/JEE, become agents of change, lies and thereby promoting Micro AIEEE, UPTU etc. This programme at the very heart of GAIL’s CSR Enterprise Creation among the is operated under the able initiatives. The organisation seeks population, the programme aims to mentorship of Sh. Abhayanand, IPS. to address the crucial issues of check migration to urban spaces, For the year 2012-13, 100 students employability by providing skills and instead promote the rural were identified for this programme to the disadvantaged so that they spaces as hubs of sustainability. through a meticulous selection gain sustainable employments, as Watershed Management Initiatives process out of which 83 have been well as social respect, selfreliance such as deepening of ponds and selected in prestigious Engineering and selfconfidence. GAIL through construction of check – dams have Colleges and Technical Institutions its CSR initiatives is bridging also been undertaken to augment including 23 students who have this ever increasing disparity by villager’s access to water. The secured admission in various IITs. extending employment linked skill success and goodwill generated Development Training to rural from the initiative has inspired your Urban slums can wreak devastation Company to take up an Integrated on childhood. As the struggle for youth of the country. The Multi-skill schools established in M.P. (Guna), Watershed Development and survival takes precedence, children Management Project, Project in urban slums are deprived not just A.P (Tandur) & Gujarat (Dediapada) under Project Swavalambh have Jaldhar in the FY 2013-14, in the of opportunities to study but also of otherwise water scarce region the joys and pleasures of childhood. been imparting skills based training in retail, hospitality & facility covering nearly 40 villages in GAIL’s Padho Aur Badho project the region to make them water strives to bring some degree management to rural &youth of country along with placement sufficient and environmentally of succour to these children by sustainable. fulfilling their dreams of getting an support. In the FY 2012-13, over education. Since 2009, the project 2800 youth were trained in the GAIL has sought to empower has been instrumental in setting sectors of retail, sales, hospitality, the mothers and sisters of the up 250 Non-formal Education BPO Service, Facility Management children associated with Padho centres in slums of Delhi/NCR. etc. The integrated ‘Backward and Aur Badho programme through its So far more than 8900 students Forward’ linkages pertaining to project, Garima. This serves the have been mainstreamed into the training and employment provided dual purpose of extending income government education system and through these schools make generation opportunities to these the mainstreaming process for the them unique and inimitable in its women as also preventing the 7500 students covered in 250 NFE approach towards creation of children from falling back into the Centres in 2012-13 is underway. sustainable livelihoods. ambush of child labour. In the year Aimed primarily towards enabling 2012 – 13, more than 1400 women To further boost the outreach have already been provided Skills of education among the lesser self-reliance and providing livelihood opportunities for the Training in embroidery, stitching privileged, GAIL has contributed and tailoring, apparel/dress making, for creation of infrastructure, disadvantaged tribal population; concentrated in the Jhabua district handicrafts and beauty culture provision of equipment, furnishing etc. to promote income generation and stationery to schools to of Madhya Pradesh, Project Anhad Gram is an intervention introduced through self-employment. enhance creativity among students and improve attendance by GAIL to provide skill based Livelihood opportunities are also of children in schools. GAIL’s training, better technology and being afforded to the people from inclusive development philosophy market access for the local produce, underprivileged and tribal regions in makes education for children to provide an alternative and the form of specialized vocational with special needs a possibility, sustainable livelihood. The project training with employment linkages through provisioning of hearing was undertaken in 25 identified in the form of training in Dari aids and other assisted aids to villages (identified through designing, blanket weaving, Sustainability Report 2012-13 61 GAIL (India) Limited plumbing, house wiring, bee villages of Auraiya, Guna, Jhabua of HIV/AIDS associated with this keeping, mushroom production and Khera. A unique programme segment of the population, GAIL etc., for effective empowerment under the umbrella of GAIL CSR is has been running an STI Clinic in and self-reliance. The fact that all Project Anhad Gram, operational in Madhya Pradesh and also organised these training are eventually linked the tribal region of Jhabua, which HIV/AIDS Awareness Camps in to income generation renders them aims at overall development of the U.P. and M.P. GAIL realises the effective and much sought after tribal community by making them significance of expert advice as among the beneficiaries. financially independent and also required in certain specific cases. empowers them socially. In order to provide for the same, Empowerment of the differently it has upgraded the Telemedicine abled and physically challenged GAIL has organised numerous Centre in a Government Hospital is another area where GAIL is outreach medical/ Health camps in in UP, wherein the patients and the proactively involved through rural areas for TB, cancer patients, doctors can seek expert advice provision of essential medical aids, Thalassemia screening, Eye from the most reputed hospitals equipment and infrastructural screening & spectacle distribution. and medical experts of the country. support. GAIL’s endeavours in Also, it has contributed towards this direction include initiatives augmentation of Cancer treatment Drinking Water/ like distribution of specialised services, as also provisioned Sanitation motorised vehicles to the physically for improved bio mass based challenged to promote their selfcook stoves to under privileged Scarcity of water is a global reliance. households in TehriUttarakhand concern, and GAIL places a premium Region to improve the respiratory on the value of water as a depleting Healthcare/ Medical health conditions of the women natural resource. To enable of that region. Additionally, GAIL access and increase the supply Since most of GAIL’s operational has also made a provision of of potable water, an integrated plants and pipeline stations are ambulances, diagnostic equipment, water management strategy in rural India, the organisation has Computerised ECG equipment, that supports responsible water devised and implemented projects bio-chemistry analyser to various management and environmental to bring health care facilities to the hospitals. Your Company has stewardship has been adopted doorsteps of local communities. also distributed free medicines under the Drinking water/ The critical area of Healthcare, to Epilepsy patients and has Sanitation thrust area. GAIL has and its relevance in the lives of established a Vitreo Retinal facilitated installation of borethe disadvantaged, is addressed Unit in Eye Hospital in MP. wells, tube-wells, hand pumps, by the GAIL’s Project Arogya, GAIL understands the role and overhead tanks, submersible pumps in partnership with Wockhardt significance of Transporters/ as well as storage facilities and Foundation, which caters to the Drivers/Truckers in furthering promoted rain water harvesting and gap in the primary health care their business operation. In order check dams/ irrigation systems in system delivery by operating to address the perennial problem villages, as part of this intervention. Mobile Medical Units in various GAIL believes in the philosophy that clean and sanitised surroundings are the cornerstones for leading a healthy and fruitful life. For the disadvantaged this is even more important as they inhabit areas that are unhygienic, far-flung and with no proper access to drainage systems or toilets. This need is addressed through Holistic Village Development Programmes and Total Sanitation Programmes in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The organization has also initiated projects that contribute to improve local hygiene and sanitation practices 62 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly through construction of nallahs clearly recognises that’s society’s adopting recycling practices of rain and pipelines and reconstruction of economic competitiveness is linked water harvesting, water recharging drainage systems in rural areas near to its social and environmental and ground water reuse systems, its project offices. health which is feasible only increasing the green cover of the by strengthening it at the areas in proximity to the work Infrastructure grassroots level. Embedding centres through extensive soil GAIL, among other interventions sustainability into the framework treatment of correcting alkalinity has also lent a helping hand towards of community development, and restoring the soil balance, boosting rural infrastructure, aimed GAIL has supported integrated afforestation and other biodiversity at the welfare of communities development programmes in management activities. Specific that live close to its work centres. villages by extending its support interventions undertaken under Rural infrastructure or rather the for reconstruction & renovation this thrust area include Mobile lack of it is has been a perceptible of various public utilities/ Veterinary Services (MVS) units need felt by many. For holistic buildings resulting in improved in the North-East, improvement and sustainable development conditions of living. A few among of drinking water facilities in the of all stakeholders, GAIL has these are construction of Junior Vedaranyam Range in Kodiakarai stepped in to invest in “common College Building at Madgul, Wildlife Sanctuary, Tamil Nadu resources” for the greater good Mahbubnagar, Andhra Pradesh having endangered species and and utilization by a cross section and construction of Public wildlife conservation of cultivated of stakeholder groups. Taking a Library Building at Chikballapur in land of Khadar area on Sonali collaborative approach, we work Karnataka, construction of village River, Haridwar, Uttarakhand with our partners to identify and roads, boundary walls for ponds, through flood protection activities, asses needs to determine the installation of solar lights and contributing a van to District forest scale and nature of investments. provision of clean drinking water. Department in Badaun, U.P. These include projects improving For sustainable development connectivity between villages of the whole community, GAIL Inclusive is also supporting livelihood and/to towns and cities Growth and through construction of village programmes in villages especially approach roads, village adoption for small and marginal farmers. Equitable programmes, construction of It has also undertaken a project Development community centres, community for Development Works in the backward district of Bhandara. GAIL believes that the key to toilets, Aanganwadi centres, economic growth lies in social school building and libraries to Environment investment. For a business to benefit the community at large. Protection/ prosper and sustain it is but The construction of check dams Horticulture natural that the “space” it operates and water catchment areas in the in also prospers and develops villages adjacent to the GAIL plant, Commitment towards the alongside. To achieve the objective Vijaipur, Madhya Pradesh, has Environment forms an implicit of inclusive growth and equitable successfully transformed farming part of GAIL’s Vision statement development, GAIL has adopted practices and farmers lives. The and through its CSR initiatives; multi-stakeholder partnerships physical asset creation has led to it has promoted this cause approach to provide innovative improvement in the physical access through specific environmentyet viable socio-economic the disadvantaged communities friendly programmes. As part investment models. The company have to resources and thereby of the bigger Sustainability has a proper system in place improved their social mobility in life. ambit, we remain conscious of for ensuring the same, which is sensitivities associated with Community guided by the GAIL CSR Policy. natural habitats and ecosystems Development The projects are implemented by and therefore restrict our activities the involvement of all stakeholder For sustainable and holistic to cause minimum damage to groups. The dedicated CSR team development, GAIL is guided by the surroundings. GAIL has tried at GAIL coordinates their efforts the Triple Bottom line, i.e. people to mitigate the damage to the in identifying CSR projects, (community), profit (business) environment and reduce its assessing their intrinsic value to and plant ( environment) and footprint by effectively ensuring the principles of Inclusive Growth zero discharge of harmful effluents, Sustainability Report 2012-13 63 GAIL (India) Limited and Equitable Development. infrastructure (schools, colleges, GAIL pays special attention to The programmes are executed roads etc.), drinking water facilities disadvantaged groups viz tribals, through external agencies, with and proper drainage systems, women, marginalised youth, the internal CSR Department(s) Holistic Village Development persons with disability etc. ensuring smooth execution of Initiatives etc. The company also the process in alignment with the has a system of regular monitoring, Community principles and procedures as laid review and interaction with the Development and down in the GAIL CSR Policy. GAIL community stakeholders, along carries out an annual exercise of with their implementing partners, Infrastructure the Third Party Impact Assessment to ensure that these community GAIL has committed Rs. 60.00 Lacs Study of its major CSR initiatives. development initiatives are (approx.) towards programmes that The same is carried out through successfully adopted by the target improve energy access of the local External agencies, NGOs, academic community and help them in communities, directly or indirectly. institution like Delhi School of reaping the true benefits of these These initiatives include Installation Social Work, Tata Institute of Social programmes. of Solar Lights in areas of Uttar Sciences etc. Finally, GAIL’s responsiveness Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh and For the year 2012-13, GAIL has towards all stakeholders esp. Provision of improved Biomass engaged the services of Tata disadvantaged, is reflected in based cook stoves to under Institute of Social Sciences to the geographical location of the privileged households in Tehri/ assess the impact of its major GAIL CSR Projects. Most of the Uttarakhand region. CSR initiatives. The company has CSR initiatives are carried out in Overall, the total spending on invested over INR 30 Crores in remote areas of the country and CSR as % of profit after tax in FY Community Development Initiatives also with a significant proportion 12-13 was 1.77% (as per the Audited during FY 2012-13 in the form of the disadvantaged population, Accounts of GAIL for the FY 2012-13) of projects that create physical in economic and social terms. Sl. Thrust Area CSR Allocation (Rs. In CSR Expenditure (Rs. In No. Crores) Crores) 1 Education 11.33 9.75 2 Community Development 23.45 17.67 3 Infrastructure 8.85 6.34 4 Drinking Water/ Sanitation 4.07 1.09 5 Skill Development/ Empowerment 24.68 16.23 6 Environment Protection/ Horticulture 0.60 0.20 7 Healthcare 9.72 4.50 TOTAL 82.70 55.78 *In addition certain amount has also been allocated towards Need Identification/ Impact Assessment Studies and Sponsorship and Relief against Natural Calamities Fund GAIL has invested approximately Rs. The 7 thrust areas have been creation for the community as well 23.50 in Community Development decided upon keeping in mind GAIL’s as improving the overall quality and Infrastructure projects. It is business operations, its social of life of the people residing also important to mention that the responsibility to the community and around the GAIL work centres. The other projects being implemented people. Community Development projects under the other thrust areas also and the Infrastructure projects Programmes dealing with impact the community in one way or focus on construction of Hospitals, Community Development are the other and thus enrich the lives Schools, Community Centres, mostly focussed on resource of the people in the community. Stadiums and other “common 64 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly resources” that can be used by Project Till the FY 2012-13, every year all members of the community. an amount of Rs. 5 Crores was Construction of roads, bus stands is execution and earmarked for activities of the GAIL also a part of these programmes. impact analysis Charitable and Education Trust, which is a registered body under the Sanitation and Drinking Water As provided in the CSR Guidelines Societies Registration Act, 1860. programmes also form an issued by DPE, GAIL makes use of This trust extends scholarships to integral part of GAIL’s Community various specialised agencies for students on merit cum means basis Development initiative. As a implementing its CSR projects. both at School level and for Higher part of this particular exercise As GAIL has a wide range of CSR education from the interest earned construction of toilets, provisioning Activities being carried out, which on the contribution towards the of clean drinking water facilities in are not only spread across a wide Corpus. undertaken. geographical areas, but are also varying in nature, requiring specific The CSR Projects of the company Some of the major Community are evaluated and their impact is knowledge and skill sets, its Development and Infrastructure assessed periodically at multiple executes its CSR projects through projects undertaken in the FY 2012levels. At the end of the project, specialised agencies which have the 13 include:the implementing partner submits expertise required to carry out a ÎÎ Installation of Solar Lights and particular project. These specialised a report pertaining to the impact promotion of non-conventional agencies include Government of the programme, specifically sources of energy in various Departments, NGO’s, Consultancy highlighting the project milestones villages of Uttar Pradesh. Organisations and other service achieved and the quantitative and delivery organisations specific to qualitative benefits generated. ÎÎ Provision of Drinking Water a particular project or need. The The project is also evaluated through installation of hand in-house team at GAIL helps in on milestones achieved by the pumps, water coolers, Bore the smooth implementation of all Cross Functional CSR Committee wells etc. in villages of Madhya the CSR projects by extending all formulated at every GAIL work Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. cooperation to the various service centre. Independent Third Party delivery agencies or implementing Assessments are also conducted ÎÎ Holistic Development of partners. All effort is made by for major CSR initiatives of GAIL Villages in Auraiya and Guna the in-house team to verify the at regular intervals. . The agencies through Total Sanitation antecedents and track records of engaged for these studies are Campaigns the implanting partners before primarily academic in nature and ÎÎ Construction of village roads, awarding of jobs, to the best extent have ranged from Tata Institute culverts, drains and other possible at the Company’s end. of Social Sciences (Mumbai), physical infrastructure like bus These agencies are selected in Department of Social Work (DSW), stops etc. adherence to the provisions of the University of Delhi to Jamia Millia GAIL CSR Policy, which requires Islamia, Delhi. TISS has undertaken ÎÎ Augmentation of public a Thirdparty Impact Assessment fulfilment of certain basic and infrastructure in form of Study for 5 major CSR initiatives desirable criteria. Further, it is also libraries, developing school of GAIL in the FY 2012-13, across ensured that these agencies seek infrastructure and medical various work centres. The findings clearance and/or empanelment infrastructure in states of and observation of the third party with the National CSR Hub (as listed Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, help GAIL to modify their CSR down in the DPE Guidelines). The Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Registration Certificates and the initiatives and innovate for the better. Pradesh, Delhi and Gujarat. Audited Accounts of the agencies All necessary steps are taken in ÎÎ Development works in District are also verified. The earlier work order to build a sense of “ownership” Bhandara*, Maharashtra experiences of the agencies with within the community with regards other PSUs or large organisations, ÎÎ Setting up of a Skill School to the particular community as well as their empanelment with Campus at Guna, M.P. development initiative being Government organisations or the undertaken. All CSR initiatives and *A notified backward district. Ministries in also taken into account Community Development initiatives, while selecting the implementing specifically the people-centric ones, partners. try and incorporate a dimension Sustainability Report 2012-13 65 GAIL (India) Limited of community involvement/ have been various measures Program so as to carry out a study interaction, awareness generation, adopted across GAIL business lines regarding fugitive and vented engagement, stakeholder for Environment Protection & its Methane emissions. The study has interaction and capacity building. conservation. GAIL has entered been taken up for Vijaipur, Hazira & Through these mechanisms, the into new businesses over the past Jhabua facilities by US EPA. Flares aim is to develop a sense of “wefew years with a focus on Triple E have been designed and operated ness” within the community. Also approach i.e. Ethics, Economy & for smokeless burning. all the community development Environment. Amongst the new initiatives are long term in nature businesses, GAIL’s CGD business ÎÎ Other Air Emissions and with a sustainable component. is helping many cities to keep their management The initiatives are taken up environment clean. GAIL’s supply Dry Low Emission (DLE) gas through a collaborative effort and of Natural Gas to its customers is turbines for gas transmission a process of engagement with helping them meet the statutory through VDPL Pipeline were the local community, including norms. Continuous endeavours installed to reduce the emissions local governance structures towards energy conservation footprint. At all major locations and institutions. The company measures in our existing operations of GAIL Natural Gas is used as also insists on the implementing helps us in conservation of precious feedstock & fuel stock to virtually agency to participate in the natural resources. rule out Suspended Particulate community in a phase wise Matter (SPM) and Oxides of Sulphur GAIL is an inherent, naturally manner, while simultaneously (SOx) emissions. Likewise Low environment friendly organization. building the community motivation NOx burners have been installed Not only do we take care of our and capability to operate the and operated to control oxides of own environment, but also help programme or the service on their Nitrogen (NOx) emissions. Provision our customers during their course own. of adequate stack heights and of business through Natural Gas. Our products i.e. the polymer has their monitoring for dispersion of Development of flue gas emissions and keeping played an instrumental role in online executive reducing the demand for Wood. the ground level concentrations (GLCs) well under limits specified trainee GAIL has always contributed toward in National Ambient Air Quality sustainable development through assignment various green initiatives including Standards (NAAQS) were ensured monitoring installations which are testimony at all operations of GAIL . At GAIL’s towards our endeavour to be seen Petrochemical unit for continuous system monitoring of Ambient Air Quality as an environmental responsible GAIL recruits about 150 executive company. Some of the salient not only Fixed Monitoring stations trainees each year who undergo features are: are used but Mobile Monitoring training across our operations. The stations were also used. Similarly performance reports submitted ÎÎ GHG Emissions Online analyzers were installed by these trainees were in the form management in all the stacks for continuous of hard copies. We introduced monitoring of stacks and provision Green House Gas Accounting was software, developed in-house at has been made for all upcoming undertaken at GAIL Pata, Vijaipur, GAIL to make this process online projects Installation of gas Gandhar, Vaghodia and Hazira and and reduce use of the papers. This detection system is being done at completed as per ISO 14064 and system has helped reduce the major plant operations to ensure WRI GHG protocol. Green House annual paper consumption at GAIL quick detection and control of a Gas accounting has now been taken by approximately 18000 sheets. gas leak. Similarly comprehensive up internally for four additional mechanical preventive maintenance sites of GAIL. Global Methane Environmental Initiative (GMI) program has been practices are in place to arrest fugitive emissions. performance undertaken at Vijaipur, Jhabua and Hazira through the signing of a ÎÎ Other Environment of owned MoU between GAIL (India) Ltd. with Initiatives operations the United States – Environment Protection Agency (US-EPA) making This year GAIL observed Earth Hour GAIL (India) Limited is committed a global initiative by WWF besides it a partner in the Natural Gas STAR to Environment Protection. There 66 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly observance of World Environment These are voluntary Standards discharge standards at all Day and the Oil and Gas adopted by an organization to times. Conservation Fortnight at all GAIL’s showcase and continually improve ÎÎ Maximizing reuse of treated operations and major work centres. its Environmental Performance. The waste water for horticulture In our continuous endeavour certification of EMS is testimony purpose and other purposes. towards safety we ensure all to our legal compliance to all GAIL reuses about 46 % of safety valves, pressure controlled applicable Environmental Rules at total wastewater generated valves etc. discharging hazardous all times. Under ISO 14001 Systems, annually. substances are connected to a definite objectives & targets are highly reliable flare system where taken up every year & Complied. ÎÎ Rain water harvesting the relieved gases and liquids are Periodic internal audits are done measures at all plants to burnt at controlled safe points. by qualified auditors and yearly increase ground water Periodical monitoring of the sound surveillance audits are also carried levels and reduce our water levels are carried out at all plants of out by external agencies. consumption. GAIL to ensure correct operation of equipment. In order to curb noise Water ÎÎ Celebration of Water Day at our locations the provision of across GAIL’s operations. conservation acoustic lining was done in burner ÎÎ The average value of discharge assembly to reduce excessive ÎÎ All major GAIL Installations water quality parameters for sound. In major GAIL locations have comprehensive the March, 2013 at our Pata installation of silencers were being wastewater treatment Site are: done in steam lines to reduce noise facilities. The treated during unexpected venting and wastewater is recycled and 1. TSS : 64.5 mg/l various other measures are taken to reused fully making the 2. BOD: 13.2 mg/l control the noise pollution. Installations zero discharge units. Constant endeavours are 3. COD: 177 mg/l Environmental made to harvest this precious 4. Sulphide: 1.3 mg/l resource and reduce water Management consumption; thus indirectly 5. Oil & grease: < 10 mg/l Systems reducing wastewater to be treated. 6. Phenolics: 0.018 mg/l A large majority of the installations of GAIL are certified with ÎÎ Setting up of Wastewater 7. pH : 7.45 Environmental management Treatment Plants to treat Systems i.e. ISO 14001:2004 (EMS). waste water and meeting Our water consumption (million m3) Surface water (river, sea, lake, stream) Groundwater Water tankers and utilities Municipal water supply Sustainability Report 2012-13 67 GAIL (India) Limited Other air emissions from our operations (tonne / year) ODS gas consumption (Kg) Biodiversity environment. Although none of has been achieved even in management our core operations are close to difficult terrains with hostile protected or reserved biodiversity climate & soil conditions. At Apart from our core operations; in areas as defined under National GAIL, Petrochemical Plant, particularly the pipelines we are norms, as a procedure, GAIL a good acreage of our land aware that they pass through areas mandates all its OIC’s to provide a is covered by water bodies of rich biodiversity. For this we are declaration on clearance of their and green belt attracting rare committed to preserve them in their individual locations on presence species of flora & fauna. natural form and regularly assess as / emergence of biodiversity well as manage the risks in respect ÎÎ The Total Green belt area of hotspots. We have initiated number to flora and fauna. In practice total land holdings of GAIL is of biodiversity management all our operations are preceded approximately 41%. The Green activities across our work centres by stringent procedures of belt area is about 17.2 million as listed below. environment impact assessments square metres. and all actions including corrective ÎÎ Extensive Green Belt ÎÎ Creation of water bodies, measures are very well planned developed at all locations green belt, lawns, parks, taking into account these issues across the country to mitigate ecological parks to enhance from the very beginning itself. Thus pollutants, if any. And to habitat and attract flora and it leads to minimum impact on the mitigate noise & odour. This fauna in the region. 68 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Project Dharohar mountains and scenic natural compounded by Global Warming, – Prepare, Care and beauty, and is known for tropical which is being experienced across Share fruits like the delicious golden the world. Every government is Alphanso mango, cashew, under pressure to act and control “Native Plants Conservation jackfruit, spice crops, coconut, the global environmental crisis. Landscaping” refers to landscaping areca nut and kokum. Over recent However we believe it is not just for by native plants with specific years, anthropogenic threats the government, but also for each goals of reducing pollution like population expansion, and every responsible individual to and improving the surrounding deforestation and forest act save our mother earth. environment. Native plants along fragmentation, mining, dam with their surrounding habitats are One of the most important construction and inefficient landtremendous resources. GPU Usar measures we can take is to bring use practices are shrinking and with its available land and other back the green cover. But green isolating ecosystems. These factors resources intends to conserve cover using exotic species is not pose a serious threat to the native these treasures for our coming the only solution; the green cover plant species of the Ecologically future generations. This Project can be made up of local species as Important Western Ghats. falls in line with “National Mission well. As a humble action to save the for Preservation of Ecological To meet the increasing demand planet in its own limited capacity Balance and Maintenance of Bioof market the exotic species was the LPG Recovery Plant, GAIL diversity”. became famous in the region. Such USAR has thought of a project exotic varieties do not fit into called “Dharohar – Prepare, Care One of the hot spots of Biodiversity the local situation. The dynamics and Share”. i.e. Western Ghats runs along of the environment have been the Konkan Region. Konkan, is a Under the project, part of green distorted leading to the depletion charming stretch of land on the belt area of GAIL USAR would be of the water table, reduced soil west coast of India, endowed with set aside to: fertility, migration of native birds beautiful seashore, picturesque and wild animals. The problems are Prepare Care Share ÎÎ Create comprehensive list of ÎÎ Construction and ÎÎ Dissemination of knowledge native plant establishment of Nursery and capacity building among local people and farmers ÎÎ Select plants which will be ÎÎ Selection and maintenance of used in project mother plants ÎÎ Supply the native varieties of plants to interested people and ÎÎ Study Existing land use pattern ÎÎ Mass propagation for farmers in and around USAR plantation ÎÎ Prepare revegetation plan with the intention of reviving ÎÎ Re-vegetation with native them in the area. plants Augmentation of in additional treated effluent being Aeration basin. It does not require existing STP at GAIL generated at the location. It was a secondary clarifier for biological GAON, Pata decided by the management to have sludge separation or tertiary a sewage treatment plant whose treatment because of 0.1-micron The irrigation of lawns and the effluents have parameters that size pore of membranes. The green belt at GAIL GAON was would be suitable for horticultural quality of water is much superior being done by bore well, thereby works such as irrigation of lawns. to any other technology and depleting the ground water level. The technology chosen for this ensures removal of coliform and Further, the planned expansion of purpose was MBR (Membrane other pathogens to a large extent the township would have exerted Bioreactor). The MBR system thus reducing the requirement extra load on existing STP (Sewage requires lesser area because of disinfection. The number of Treatment plan) and an additional of more MLSS concentration in treatment units is less leading to STP was being proposed, resulting Sustainability Report 2012-13 69 GAIL (India) Limited fewer breakdowns in operations. The efficient sewage treatment process ensures an odourless and clean environment as well as improved quality of treated water which adds to the hygiene level. The most important challenge while execution of the project was to install the MBR without stopping the running process. The benefit to have a MBR based STP was that the entire effluent was useable and there was zero wastage of sewage water. The total cost of this project was INR 4.43 crores. Fugitive emission Utlisation of Treated Waste Water Sustainability Project at GAIL’s Petrochemical Plant at Pata, U.P. identification and leak survey based on feasibility while others pressure is 9.0 Kg/cm2 on an In September 2011, GAIL became required plant/station shutdown. average) is done. This initiative has an international partner of natural The other fugitive emissions over resulted in the recovery of approx. gas star program of US-EPA 2.89 MMSCM were mainly due 15 Ton LPG per sphere inspection (United States environment to compressor wet seals which which earlier contributed to CO2 protection agency) and is only the required major modification and emissions due to directing it into second partner from India after substantial capital investment to the flare. A similar initiative has M/s ONGC. Under the program, arrest the same and is now a part been undertaken in Gandhar. US-EPA conducted site survey for of a long term action plan based on the feasibility of the proposed Solid Waste Disposal identification and quantification modification. through Pollution methane fugitive emissions. During Control Board the site survey infrared cameras Installation of approved agency and ultrasonic leak detectors portable vapour were used for identification of At GAIL’s process plants, hazardous recovery compressor even minor methane emissions solid waste is stored and disposed during statutory from valves, vents, instrument off as per the best available fittings & tubing’s and pipe flanges inspection of LPG environment practices.The solid that often go unnoticed. After Spheres wastes in the GAIL plants are the identification of methane As per statutory requirement, LPG collected, stored and handled in emission sources, quantification spheres for storage of LPG are a manner that has no detrimental of methane emissions was done to be inspected and hydro tested effects on the ground water or any using calibrated bags, hi flow every five years. For the inspection, other part of the environment. Care sampler, turbine meter and video these spheres are to be emptied is taken even for the aesthetics. estimation. Total annual methane out of all LPG vapours. Previously In this regard, GAIL Vijaipur has emission from both LPG Plant and before usage of vapour recovery obtained the Membership of Compressor station was estimated compressor, during inspection of Treatment, Storage and Disposal as 8.95 MMSCM of which 3.32 LPG spheres (GAIL Vijaipur has facility (CHW-TSDF) of Authorized MMSCM was accounted to leaking got 8 numbers of LPG Spheres Nodal agency M/s MPWMP components and thus was possible and 3 Propane Spheres), the LPG (RAMKY Environ Engineers to be stopped with directed vapours used to be diverted to the Limited) of the State Pollution inspection and maintenance. Out flare. However with the installation Control Board, for the disposal of of this 3.32 MMSCM, methane of portable vapour recovery solid waste being generated within emissions of 2.45 MMSCM compressor, LPG vapours recovery plant premises hence conforming (74% of the total 3.32 MMSCM up to 2.0 Kg/cm2 residual pressure to the role of environmentally emission accountable to leaking in the spheres (full LPG sphere responsible Maharatna Company. components) have been attended Customers Customers are one of our key stakeholders. We constantly endeavour to address our customers’ needs, expectations and concerns. We are committed to provide superior service to our customers. With the intent to provide connectivity to our customers ensuring supply of clean energy, we deliver value and benefits to our customers that are beyond their expectations. GAIL starts gas supply to Honda’s Tapukara plant 72 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly GAIL’s gas customers are industries as diverse as power plants, fertilizer plants, sponge iron plants, ceramic tile manufacturers, tea gardens, processors, refineries, and glass manufacturers. Earlier, gas markets were limited to the states where gas sources were found. We have been instrumental in expanding the gas market in India across states through our pan-India pipeline network providing connectivity to our customers that ensures supply of cleaner fuel. This not only boosts economic activities in these States but also generates revenue and employment opportunities for people with a relatively low impact on the environment. Today, industries are shifting to cleaner energy sources. This combined with the increasing cost of coal and crude oil has paved way for Natural Gas – a cleaner and cheaper source of energy. Our petrochemical business Gas Sales Agreement with Kanpur Fertilizers and cement limited segment is an important element of our overall growth. This segment addresses the raw material containers; rigid HDPE barrels for 9000 certified company, we pursue requirements of the plastics bulk chemical storage instead of this through our Total Quality industry by providing HDPE and steel drums; drinking water in PET Management (TQM) System. LLDPE pellets, LP flakes and bottles; etc. However, understanding the PE shreds. Plastics play a very challenges associated with end-ofThe fact that plastics are made important role in today’s modern life management. from hydrocarbons derived from world towards transforming petroleum, which is non-renewable, GAIL has established 8 CGD Joint the quality of life from clothing has raised questions concerning its Ventures (IGL, MGL, CUGL, GGL, to shelter, from transportation sustainability. However the issue AGL, BGL, TNGCL, MNGL) and to communication and from is on account of inappropriate one wholly owned subsidiary (M/s entertainment to health care. They disposal to which the solution GAIL Gas Ltd) to ensure energy have replaced several materials on being responsible management access to all sections of the society. account of better properties like of end-of-life of plastics. We have At present the CNG network is being lightweight, durable, flexible, partnered with Indian Centre for functional in 9 states (MP, UP, easy to process and also having Plastic in the Environment (ICPE) on AP, MH, Tripura, NCR, Rajasthan, high strength; all of this at a lesser educating and building awareness Haryana, Gujarat) of India having cost and a lower environmental of consumers on the benefits of 190 mother stations, 277 online impact. Plastics in many cases plastic products and the need stations, 120 daughter boosters/ have been used to conserve natural to – create a secure plastic waste daughter stations with a total of resources. For example: aseptic management system and also to CNG retail outlets catering to more packaging of food in barrier films maximize recycling of plastic waste than 10 lakh vehicles; while the PNG that saves on refrigeration and back into the system. At GAIL, we network is functional in 21 cities energy costs; packaging of edible are committed towards developing across 8 states (MP, UP, AP, MH, oils and milk in flexible packages safe, environment friendly and Tripura, NCR, Rajasthan, Haryana). eliminating the use of tin and glass economical products. As an ISO Sustainability Report 2012-13 73 GAIL (India) Limited Customer to Gas, Petrochemicals and Liquid ÎÎ e-Ledger for viewing their Hydrocarbons. Over the years, we updated customer ledgers interaction at have developed efficient systems ÎÎ On-line polymer product prices GAIL for handling grievances, complaints and concerns of customers ÎÎ On-line product dispatch We always endeavour to keep our by leveraging state of the art details customers satisfied by delivering technologies. Some of the key quality product that are on time and at an affordable cost. We keep track initiatives are: Public Policy of the customer satisfaction index ÎÎ Customer Relationship (CRM) Advocacy across our businesses and work Module through which our Customers can register a We believe in supporting advocacy closely with our customers towards service request or a complaint and lobbying towards development addressing their concerns. This without a timing constraint of policies that encourage year we improved our CSI score to through the internet. betterment of public goods. To 90.47 from 89.44 compared to the achieve this we have associated previous year. As a key element of ÎÎ Online Customer Suggestions ourselves with various associations, customer commitment to maintain System to facilitate industry bodies and influential a regular and direct contact with suggestions from our groups. We are the principal them, we organise regular customer customers enabling us to make sponsor of Asia Gas Partnership visits across all businesses our products and services Summit (AGPS), an event attended throughout the year. Such visits more efficient and effective. by major producers, traders and provide us with a platform to consumers of Natural Gas across understand on-ground customer ÎÎ Grievance redressal: Any the world along with high ranking concerns on a one-to-one basis. person can air grievances officials from the Government of During FY 2012-13, 45 customer and complaints, related to India and other countries. AGPS meets were conducted across India corruption, by lodging the is a flagship biennial event of the through our Zonal Offices wherein same on the website of the natural gas industry in South Asia a wide range of topics concerning CVC or through our website. and is promoted by GAIL. AGPS is existing and potential customers Further, if the individual an effective platform to discuss of various products and services desires, his / her identity can a plethora of issues surrounding were addressed. In FY 2012-13 be kept anonymous under gas and gas based infrastructure we tried to integrate the aspects “Public Interest Disclosure industries. Under the aegis of AGPS of Sustainability by arranging a and Protection of Informers multiple committees have been session on Sustainability and GAIL Resolution”. We also follow the formed to look into a diverse range in some of our Customer meets. principles and provisions of the of issues such as energy security, Apart from the customer visits and RTI Act 2005 for information sustainability, regulations, taxation, meets, we also have a customer disclosure. infrastructure bottlenecks, LNG, complaint handling policy related exploration and production regime, Leveraging IT etc. Recommendations of these for customer’s committees play an important role in the formulation of Government convenience policies. The 7th AGPS was We are aware about the organized during March 23-24, 2012 deployment and use of IT towards and witnessed an overwhelming ensuring transparent and timely response from the industry. This information sharing, resulting in summit involved 46 high level a robust decision making for our speakers from 14 countries, over customers. Some of the IT enabled 1000 participants from 21 countries, services that we have created for and more than 45 event partners. our customers include: We contribute to the various ÎÎ e-Receivables, e-Ticketing and working level committees under e-Invoicing the aegis of MoPNG toward the formulation of key government 74 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly bringing energy to the consumers in shared interest to GIIGNL members those states. include: LNG purchasing, importing, processing, transportation, We are a member of the handling, re-gasification and uses of Association of Oil and Gas LNG around the world. Operators, a registered body representing Oil & Gas companies Natural Gas is a cleaner alternative in India. AOGO was formed to amongst fossil fuels, and GAIL network, exchange information on being a leading natural gas operating issues that are upstream, company in India, has submitted find common solutions and if representations/ memoranda necessary approach the authorities through various trade associations to facilitate the changes which for effectively taking up shall encourage exploration in appropriate authorities for grant of India. The association today has fiscal benefits and rationalisation of six working groups comprising tax structure. The representations of 22 members companies. We cover issues relating to direct and are also a member of GIIGNL, indirect taxes as follows: which provides its members with policies. GAIL regularly responds ÎÎ Additional deduction under overviews of the general economic to queries raised by Government / section 35AD of the Income condition of the LNG industry, as MoPNG on issues related to supply Tax Act, 1961 to business of well as current state-of-the art of Natural Gas. For e.g. Chawala laying and operating Natural LNG technology, operations and Committee on allocation of natural Gas pipeline transportation best practices. This information resources, Rangarajan committee business. enhances facility operations, on Natural Gas pricing, etc. We also diversifies contractual techniques, ÎÎ Additional tax incentives to participate in the formulation of and supports industry positions Natural Gas Exploration and Government policies on multiple with international agencies. To this Production (E&P) business aspects of gas allocation, gas end, GIIGNL members also share under section 80IB and section pricing, regulation, gas pooling, information about commercial 42 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. taxation, gas swapping, etc. We and technical developments in also partner with various State LNG, including safety incidents ÎÎ Inclusion of Natural Gas in the Governments through MoUs on at member facilities. Activities of category of ‘Declared Goods’ a plethora of projects aimed at under CST Act 1956 so that VAT GAIL’s Flagship EventAsia Gas Partnership Summit Sustainability Report 2012-13 75 GAIL (India) Limited on Natural Gas is restricted to Industry, New Delhi ÎÎ PetroFed 5% which ranges from 5% to ÎÎ Federation of Indian Chambers ÎÎ Petrotech Society 26% in different states. of Commerce and Industry, ÎÎ PHD Chamber of Commerce ÎÎ Exemption to Liquefied New Delhi Natural Gas (LNG) used by ÎÎ Project management ÎÎ Global Compact Network, New Power sector from payment of Associates Delhi custom duty. ÎÎ Standing Conference of Public ÎÎ International Market Further, in the area of Shale Enterprise (SCOPE) AssessmentThe India CEO Gas, we have participated in Forum ÎÎ TERIBusiness Council for the consultative process of Government of India seeking Sustainable Development ÎÎ India Energy Forum comments on its draft Shale ÎÎ The Institute of Internal Gas Policy. We have submitted ÎÎ India Society for Training & Auditors, USA our comments on the said draft Development policy and discussed the same ÎÎ World Energy CouncilIndian ÎÎ Institute of Public Enterprises, with various industry associations member Committee, New Delhi Hyderabad for ensuring speedier promotion ÎÎ World Environment Foundation of Exploration and Exploitation ÎÎ International gas Union, of Shale Oil & Gas in India in a Norway ÎÎ World LPG Association responsible manner. (WLPGA), France ÎÎ International Group of Some of prominent Liquefied natural Gas associations include: Importers (GINGNL), France ÎÎ British Safety Council ÎÎ National Association of Corrosion Engineers ÎÎ Chemical Petrochemical International, USA Manufactures Association ÎÎ National Fire Protection ÎÎ Confederation of Indian Association 76 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Report 2012-13 77 GAIL (India) Limited Suppliers Our vendors, contractors and other business partners support our operations by delivering high quality raw materials and services that are vital for our operations. It is this support that enables us to develop products that create value for our customers. 78 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Supply chains are highly prone to business misconduct and hence we take complete responsibility to promote effective vigilance amongst our vendors and employees to ensure ethical and transparent business transactions. We have created a supplier procurement policy that enlists the roles and responsibilities of both our employees and our suppliers. Supplier Management and Engagement Director Projects(right) giving award to vendors during the Vendor Meet System To attain the highest levels of transparency and accountability from local suppliers to 83.84 % day business deals with a number with our suppliers across from 79.50 % during the previous of domestic and international operations, we have created a year amounting to INR 6,814.93 bidders / contractors / vendors. The Board level Audit Committee crores. We also support the local integrity pact is a tool developed comprising of three Independent suppliers by giving them preference by TI to ensure all activities and Directors, four full-time Directors for conducting basic jobs across transactions between company and the Company Secretary to operations. and their suppliers are handled in ensure transparency in all aspects a fair and transparent manner. The of business. To maintain and GAIL has appointed Independent integrity pact is also mandatorily go beyond compliance we have External Monitors (IEM) of high signed by vendors / suppliers ensured that all awarded tenders repute to lend transparency to our having high value contracts that are include clauses related to child and procurement procedures. IEMs above INR one crore. forced labour. strengthen vigilance in contracts and procurement procedures We organize vendor meets and Bill Watch by providing a transparent way regular business review meetings for vendors to put forth their System so as to address the key concerns grievances and get them redressed of vendors. We have also conducted We have deployed a bill watch in an effective manner. While we sustainability workshops for our system a web based bill tracking have taken stringent measures vendors to create awareness on system that increases transparency to curb corruption and promote sustainability and promote GAIL’s for our vendors enabling them to transparency in our operations, initiatives. We have encouraged track their payment and further there were seven cases of vendors to inculcate sustainability enhancing their trust on us. This corruption reported during the year. in their day-to-day business so as has resulted in timely payment Necessary action was taken by the to focus on producing environment of bills and a reduction in the time vigilance department, based on the friendly products. required for processing the bills outcome of their investigation. We from eight days to six days. To We are conscious about the rapid have signed an integrity pact with further strengthen and improve industrial development of our Transparency International and efficiency of this system, we have country and are committed towards have adopted several initiatives incorporated this system in SAP so developing a sound local supplier like the bill watch system, file as to provide warning messages in base. It is our responsibility to movement system, reverse auction case of duplicate bills, notification guard their business interest so as and tender monitoring system to of next billing date for GAIL to facilitate economic development ensure a high level of satisfaction supervisors thereby helping us in in the areas where we operate. We amongst vendors during their bringing tender consistency of the have increased our procurement association with GAIL. Our day-tosame job across different locations. Sustainability Report 2012-13 79 GAIL (India) Limited File Movement INR 8.07 crores thereby giving us by all HODs/OICs and Directors significant savings in procurement through SAP and a quarterly MIS System cost over the estimated costs. report should be put up to CMD for To expedite the decision making To enhance further transparency perusal. BIS has introduced fields in process at GAIL, we have in the procurement process, we SAP for this purpose and has made implemented a file movement have also developed a robust a provision of Exception report system. This is an e-monitoring tender monitoring system which in SAP for capturing the status tool which tracks and pinpoints the provides complete information on of POs/ WOs by displaying the reasons and the location where a the procurement cycle involving actual completion date, status of particular file has been held up in requisition, tendering, ordering, PO closure, due date of warrantee the system. The top management execution, payment, completion and expiry & retentions with reasons for oversees the process and monitors closure available in a single click. retentions in one screen in SAP. the files that are pending. To further strengthen the process, a system Contract Supply Chain of tracking the file continuously Closure Management marked to an employee (5 times or more) has been introduced. In case Initiative We continue with the Supply Chain hindrance by any employee was Management system managed Many contracted works which caused due to unnecessary delay by the Contract & Procurement had been completed several / indecisiveness, Management will department that was launched years ago had not attained take action against that particular as a pilot project in Vijaipur and closure and retention money employee. Due to close monitoring Pata site during the previous year. deposited by vendors had not of the files, pending or in transit Based on the performance of been returned after necessary for more than 90 days in FMS have this system, we will replicate the deductions. Taking a note of this reduced from 503 files to 227 files, system across other locations. situation, Vigilance department which is about 45.13 % reduction This system is responsible for asked concerned departments from 2008 levels. complete handling of the tendering to launch a special campaign process and handling of materials for the closure of contracts. As Reverse Auction a result of this campaign, the till it reaches the site. It comprises of a team from various disciplines percentage of contracts attaining Reverse auction is a live process like electrical, mechanical, closure improved from 84 % to that ensures transparent and instrumentation, the chemical and 89 % during the year. The overall competitive pricing provided petrochemical expansion project retention amount of INR 1.84 crore by vendors. GAIL has made it which ensures in expediting the during the start of the year could be mandatory to conduct reverse work by vendors and sub-vendors reduced to INR 1.31 crore under this auction for all procurements valuing at all stages of manufacturing, campaign. To extend the benefit more than INR 50 Crores. This year logistics monitoring and port of this campaign on a permanent we have already conducted 10 such clearances. basis, it has been decided that all auctions against one tender which contracts should be monitored has resulted in a total savings of right up to the final closure stage 80 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Report 2012-13 81 GAIL (India) Limited Employees Our employees help us create a competitive advantage, it is through their dedicated and sincere efforts that we achieve and exceed our goals. Employees are the drivers of sustainable growth; we believe in nurturing of quality talent and providing a rewarding career with development opportunities for all employees thus ensuring a brighter tomorrow for all. The Executive trainees at GAIL along-with CMD and Existing & Retired Employees on the occasion of GAIL Foundation Day Celebration. 82 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly M. Ravindran Director HR from 1.6.2013 We take immense pride in our most in a manner that is economically, to achieving the target and would valuable asset, the employee. As we socially and environmentally strive for many more programmes are committed to mainstreaming sustainable. Specific parameters that would aid them in improving sustainability within the have been incorporated in their skills. Employees are the core organizational culture and working, the Internal Memorandum of of our business operations, and with we see our employees as the frontUnderstanding linking sustainability their untiring and sincere efforts runner in attainment of this goal. with departmental / individual towards internalizing sustainability, For making sustainability the most performance through KPIs and we are confident that the journey sought after in the organization, KRAs. Although Training and ahead would lead us to achieving all employees at various levels Awareness to all our employees the sustainability targets. would need to be acquainted to is a part of our Sustainability the need of conducting business Aspirations 2020, we are committed Sustainability Report 2012-13 83 GAIL (India) Limited A happy and satisfied workforce assessment, recognition and Apart from above mentioned is the key to GAIL’s success. Our people HR practices emerged as initiatives which have been taken as people and associates are at areas of improvement. We have part of the survey outcome, many the heart of our transformation been working these areas of other policy level reviews have been agenda and also the key facilitators improvement and have adopted adopted to make GAIL a better in helping us achieve our 2020 several measures, some of the workplace including: goals. We endeavour to create major being: ÎÎ GAIL’s recruitment policy a workplace that will be the ÎÎ The Performance Management most sought after, making us an ÎÎ General Terms and Conditions System for executives (up employer of choice for the right of deputation/ posting to DGMs) is being further talent. We have provided our of employees on foreign improvised by including employees and associates with assignments elements of competency – a work environment that is fair, functional, cross-functional, ÎÎ Financial assistance in case just and one that promotes an and behavioural. The objective of Death/Total Permanent appropriate work life balance. Our is not only to assess the Disablement (TPD) of an HR policies, systems and processes present performance but also employee while in service have been customized to give to gauge the potential of our our employees and associate the ÎÎ Rate of interest for various executives for taking up higher freedom to innovate and realize advances roles and responsibilities. their full potential. At the same time due importance is given to ÎÎ In order to foster a culture ÎÎ General Terms and Conditions protect the rights of all employees of appreciation, a draft of Secondment of GAIL including safety and health at the comprehensive Rewards Employees to Joint Ventures/ workplace, grievance redressal Scheme consisting of several Subsidiaries. systems, freedom of association, new awards for employees with ÎÎ Rates of Daily Allowance transparency in communication and addition to the existing ones admissible under Travelling/ action. such as Women’s award has Daily Allowance (TA/DA) Rules been prepared after obtaining of GAIL Managing our views of cross-section of Human Capital employees. ÎÎ Superannuation Benefit Fund Scheme to Defined Creating a better ÎÎ The Mentorship programme at Contribution Scheme workplace GAIL assigns a mentor who is a senior level executive at GAIL, ÎÎ Deputation Allowance In order to have a pulse check of our to all the ETs joining GAIL. employees, an engagement survey ÎÎ Rates of House Rent Recovery was conducted during the year ÎÎ Individual Development for leased accommodation 2010. Through the survey, valuable Programme (IDP) has been and License Fee Recovery inputs from employees were sought implemented for all the for Company owned on several aspects related to their senior executives covered accommodation job like work assignments, work under SMDC exercise. The ÎÎ GAIL Employees’ (Conduct environment, team work, company lDP consists of distribution Discipline and Appeal) Rules policies and practices, managerial of books, e-learning courses 1986 effectiveness, culture, etc. The from Harvard Manage Mentor employee engagement survey and customized trainings at ÎÎ Guidelines for issuance of apart from indicating engagement IIMs, ISB and other reputed Safety kits Liveries levels of the employees also institutions. Improving quality of revealed the key drivers having a ÎÎ A section on Frequently Asked significant positive and negative life at GAIL Questions (FAQs) on HR impact on the engagement level policies has been prepared and Employee welfare is one of the of the employees. The overall hosted on the GAIL intranet for key foundations of GAIL’s HR score was 71 % with co-workers, ease of understanding of all Philosophy. There is a deep rooted benefits and work tasks being the employees. belief in our value system that the best areas while performance corporate growth is an extension 84 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly of employee’s growth and development. In other words, GAIL’s growth, prosperity and intellectual competence is reflection of the value it has added to its employees. Premised on the above philosophy, we have evolved and implemented various welfare policies with an aim to improve the Quality of Life and maintain Work-Life balance. Some of them include: ÎÎ We allow Maternity Leave of upto 180 days to our female employees. ÎÎ We have introduced paternity Director Projects(right) giving Long Service award to Employee leave for male employees up to a maximum of 15 days. We also grant a Child Care leave township or at nearest possible other events are celebrated for a period of maximum of locations. that inculcates a feeling two years (730 days) for female of belongingness among ÎÎ Employees superannuating employees having up to two employees. from the Company are allowed minor children in order to following benefits; Gender mainstreaming take care of them. Further, a at GAIL provision for Disability leave ÎÎ Leave encashment has been introduced for up to commensurate with leave GAIL is an Equal Opportunity a maximum of 24 months to at their credit. employer that promotes and cover instances of absence due leverages from its workforce ÎÎ Gratuity upto Rs. 10 lakh to accidental injury contracted diversity. GAIL complies with based on service in the out of and in the course of Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 and Company employment. there is no discrimination in wages ÎÎ PRMS (Post-Retirement based on gender. Our HR policies ÎÎ We provide our employees are notified and widely circulated Medical Scheme) subject with company owned for information of all employees. to stipulations accommodation at their These are also made available to place of posting. Wherever, ÎÎ Memento equivalent to all employees through e-mails and such accommodation is not one month’s Basic Pay and various media like HR Circulars, available, employees are DA HR Handbook, Personnel Manual allowed to avail HRA/ Lease and Employee Forms. We have a benefits, as applicable. GAIL ÎÎ Pension in terms of Superannuation Benefit well-defined policy for prevention also provides House Building of sexual harassment at the work Allowance to employees. Fund (SBF) Scheme of the Company place. While formulating this Across locations, club policy we have also incorporated facilities are made available ÎÎ Long Service Award relevant amendments to our to our executives for them to Conduct, Discipline and Appeal benefit from use of sports and ÎÎ Employees posted at Work (CDA) Rules and Certified Standing entertainment facilities. At our centres in cities/towns, are Orders to prevent such kind of major work locations – Pata allowed the facility of OPD and situations at the work place. With and Vijaipur, we have created indoor procedures at Company a view to assign due importance schooling facilities for our Empanelled hospitals. to representation of female employees within the township. employees, we have created a ÎÎ Employees are a part of GAIL Further wherever possible, Women Cell. The GAIL Women Cell family wherein events like GAIL hospital facilities have been is responsible to review the planned Foundation Day, Independence provided either within the schemes and other programmes Day, Republic Day and many Sustainability Report 2012-13 85 GAIL (India) Limited GAIL Cricket team during Inter Unit Cricket Tournament of the company in respect of Online Grievance who will respond to the employee women employees and ensure, Redressal System concerned within a period of 15 wherever possible, the aspect of days from the date of receipt of the women’s development through GAIL Management is committed grievance. such schemes and programmes. to putting in place a system which is well-structured, prompt, Step III: In case an aggrieved This cell also liaisons with National accountable, time-bound and easy employee is not satisfied with the Commission for Women; SCOPE from an analytical point of view. response given by the Corporate and Women in Public Sector This led GAIL HR Team to design HR Deptt., he / she may prefer an (WIPS) forums for the cause of and establish its ‘Online Grievance Appeal to Director (HR) by using Women’s development. With an Redressal System’. This web based the Online Grievance Redressal aim towards recognising and application was designed in-house. System. Director (HR) may take encouraging the women employees The model was very simple in feedback from the concerned of GAIL for the services rendered, modality as below: executive(s) and respond to the the GAIL Women Employees employee concerned within a period Award Scheme (GWEAS) was Step I: By making use of Online of 15 days from the date of receipt conceptualized, comprising a cash Grievance Redressal Mechanism, of the appeal. Such a settlement reward of INR 1 lac, certificate, an aggrieved employee can register of grievance by Director (HR) trophy and citation. The scheme his / her grievance to the concerned will be final and binding to all the comprises of two awards – one HR In charge who is expected to concerned. each for the Executive and Nonsettle the same within a period of 10 Executive women employees for days from the date of registration In the last one year, the System has exemplary performance in the of the grievance. On expiry of the been improved further in order to fields of functional management, stipulated time-period, the instant ensure expeditious redressal of social and cultural initiatives. An grievance will automatically get the grievance of the employees external jury panel consisting of one transferred to the Corporate HR registered in the Online Grievance representative each from Ministry Deptt. for disposal at its end. Redressal System. In order to of Women and Child Development, achieve the same a fortnightly National Commission for Women Step II: in case, an aggrieved report on the status of redressal and leading academicians evaluate employee is not satisfied with the of grievances is to be put up by all the nominations. We also celebrate response given by his concerned HR In charges of GAIL for onward International Women’s Day on 8th HR In charge he/she may take up submission to the CMD through March every year to emphasise on the matter with the Corporate HR Director (HR). This has resulted the role and importance of women Dept. for such appeals. The General in a better tracking of employee in the society. Manager (HR) from the Corporate grievances. Office is the designated officer 86 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Freedom of Association under Employees State Insurance Quarterly Meetings, both at Work and Collective Scheme, Workmen’s Compensation Centre and Corporate levels. Bargaining Act, other statutory benefits The record notes of discussions / payments, etc. At GAIL, it is held at various Work Centres are GAIL upholds the freedom compulsory for the contractors collated at the Corporate Office of association and collective to cover their respective labour on a monthly basis for effective bargaining rights of our employees under accident insurance. The monitoring by the Director (HR). through recognition and promotion payment to various contractors Issues pending at and meriting of the Workers’ Union, Officers’ is made subject to their fulfilling the Corporate Office support/ Association, Women’s Forum, the aforementioned conditions intervention are resolved and SC/ST Employees Association besides other statutory obligations. communicated to Work Centres and other similar bodies. Engineer In-charge at every work under the guidance of the Director Transparency in work, sharing of centre ensures that relevant labour (HR). Various issues in terms of work performances, strategies legislations are strictly adhered discussions held at the corporate and business plans are also to by contractors and suppliers. level are also recorded and actively pursued through such We also have a policy whereby addressed expeditiously. forums. Regular interaction with minimum age for employment the association and the Unions A Number of sessions/ meetings is prescribed and child labour is are held to maintain a cordial and have been conducted with strictly prohibited. harmonious industrial relationship. various Employee Collectives The following methodologies are At GAIL, there are two Unions i.e. GOA/ GEA/ GKS/ GSEWA at adopted for effective collective representing the interests the Corporate Level and almost bargaining in GAIL: of workmen and staff. GAIL all the issues raised by them are Employees Association (GEA) diligently resolved and settled. ÎÎ Regular interactions with is a representative body of nonEmployee participation in employee collectives executives posted at various Field Management and their effective ÎÎ Coordination with labour Offices/ Plants/ Installations across inclusion in the decision making authorities the Country except Corporate process has been an integral part ÎÎ Settlement of industrial Office, while the non-executive of our company philosophy. As disputes employees posted at The Corporate a guardian of key organizational ÎÎ Grievance redressal systems Office are represented by the culture, aspects like open GAIL Karamchari Sangh (GKS). The communication and progressive ÎÎ Issues pertaining to Contract officers of GAIL are represented by industrial relations, have been Labour/ PAPs/ Co-operative GAIL Officers Association (GOA). taken up as initiatives by the HR Societies Directorate in order to to bring ÎÎ Labour law compliances It has been the HR Directorate’s about significant improvement consistent endeavour to keep in these areas. Our Open Door ÎÎ Records/ analysis of work Employee’s Collectives associated Policy, Informal Communication centre level issues of with the progression of various Channel and easy accessibility of collectives HR Issues along with policy review Senior Executives, including CMD ÎÎ Negotiations with Unions for and introduction of new schemes. and Functional Directors, ensures long-term settlement For purposes of discussions with inclusion of employee feedback Unions and Associations on various for consideration/incorporation in We believe in voluntary labour and on-going issues at The Corporate the decision making process. There right to work. As per the directives level, a Committee consisting of is absolutely no embargo on any of The Government of India, we senior level executives nominated employee who might prohibit them ensure payment of minimum wages from various groups, functions from establishing dialogue with along with statutory payments and work centres has been Senior Executives. including social security benefits to constituted by the HR Directorate. labour. There are in-built provisions At the Work Centre level, the There are numerous forums in in the company policy, well Committee consists of an OfficerGAIL for promoting employee supported by regular compliance in-charge, Heads of HR and other participation in organizational checks for ensuring payment of Departments. Discussions with decision making, as well as on minimum wages, Provident Fund employee collectives are held issues related to employee welfare. and coverage of contract labour through Monthly/ Bi-Monthly/ Some of them are listed below: Sustainability Report 2012-13 87 GAIL (India) Limited ÎÎ Employee Welfare Committee rights by becoming a signatory collaborative effort to abolishing (EWC) to UNGC principles in May 2011. the child labour and attempt Our policies are suitably designed to bring focus to these lives of ÎÎ Canteen Committee and fully informed by human right deprivation. ÎÎ Quality Circles principles as per Human Right Act, 1993 (with amendment act, 2006), Inclusiveness ÎÎ House Allotment Advisory the Constitution of India and labour Committee and Affirmative laws. We support the Government ÎÎ GAIL Employees’ Contributory of India’s efforts in development Programmes at Provident Fund Trust of minorities and economically GAIL underprivileged sections of the ÎÎ Gratuity Trust society. For the welfare of the GAIL has a well-defined recruitment weaker and backward sections policy which is in line with the ÎÎ GAIL Employees Government of India guidelines of the society, we run a special Superannuation Benefit Fund on reservation for SC/ ST/ OBC/ recruitment drive, in addition to Trust PH enabling us to bring in the the normal recruitment exercise, through open and campus inclusiveness and diversity in the Human Rights at recruitment. GAIL employees organization. We are in compliance GAIL are covered by CDA (Conduct, of the Government norms as far as Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1986 reservation during recruitment for GAIL understands the human various positions in the organization and the same embeds the principles rights content of the Constitution is concerned. As a model employer of protection of Human Rights. of India, national laws and policies and socially responsible corporate and the content of International All employees when inducted are citizen we are committed to the Bill/treaties on Human Rights. trained on CDA Rules to develop cause of social, health and ethical We appreciate that human rights their understanding on the subject. issues confronting our employees, are inherent, universal, indivisible Through our Padho aur Badho their families and public at large. and interdependent in nature. We initiative, we have been striving to We support the fight for prevention recognize and respect the human eliminate child labour and restore and control of HIV/ AIDS among rights of all our stakeholders childhoods. Every year on 12th June, our stakeholders through various and groups within and beyond Anti Child Labour Day, under the initiatives. We have created a the workplace, including that of aegis of Padho aur Badho Nanhe work place policy on HIV/ AIDS communities, consumers and Munne Bachche Teri Muththi prevention and control. The broad vulnerable and marginalized Mein Kya Hai is organised. The objectives of this policy are in line groups. We have made a global programme underscores the need with the National Policy on HIV/ commitment to support human to protect child rights by making a AIDS of Government of India, to guide the national response to HIV/ AIDS pandemic in reducing and managing the impact of the world of work. Health and safety at GAIL We rigorously practice safety procedures across our operations and strive to maintain safe and healthy working conditions for all relevant stakeholders. The aspects of safety and health play a very important role in keeping high employee morale as well as productivity. Ensuring safety as CMD & Functional Directors during Annual HSE Workshop a prominent part of the code of 88 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly operation and promoting safety interacted with our employees More than 60 visits to various GAIL culture across operations is a major during the workshop. On 8th October installations were undertaken focus area for GAIL. Considering 2012, an online HSE reporting by corporate HSE officials for the large scale of projects and system was launched by Director monitoring the implementation of O&M activities being under taken (BD). HSE management systems. across the nation and the inherent Like every year, the CMD Trophy In January 2013, a Comprehensive hazards associated with the for “Best HSE performance” for the Fire Safety Policy of GAIL was business operations, it is pertinent year 2011-12 was announced. The launched by our CMD. This that observance of all the safety winners of CMD Trophy in this year policy is well supported by an guidelines and regulations is of are as follows: Integrated Fire Protection Manual prime importance. released for all GAIL sites. The Category-I: Gas Processing & At GAIL, the HSE Sub-committee Emergency Response and Disaster Petrochemical Unit: Gas Processing of Board monitors and reviews the Management Plan (ERDMP) of Unit Vaghodia health, safety and environmental all GAIL sites were submitted to performance of our operations. The Category-II: NG Compressor the Petroleum and Natural Gas committee meetings are held three Stations and LPG Booster Stations: Regulatory Board (PNGRB). The times during the year to deliberate Compressor Station Vijaipur PNGRB cross checked those and take action on HSE issues. plans and also our emergency This year we also organized the 13th Category-III: Natural Gas and LPG preparedness levels through mock HSE workshop of GAIL with the Terminals: Cherlapalli, VSPL LPG drills conducted by approved Third theme as “Disaster Management”. P/L Party Inspection Agencies. The The workshop was inaugurated GAIL fire crew actively participated We organise regular safety training by our CMD and attended by in the fire fighting activities at sessions for all our employees. all functional Directors and as IOCL Hazira on 5th January 2013 Some of the major trainings well as the Chairman of the HSE during the fire. These efforts organised this year included a Sub-committee. The workshop were appreciated by District technical interactive session by The focused on creating awareness Administration of Surat, Gujarat. British Safety Council on “Safety amongst the employees regarding Leadership” and “Safety Leadership We have a corporate Occupational methods and measures to tackle and Culture Transformation”. Health Committee supported any disaster. Leading experts of Moreover we also completed a by 6 local level Occupational the country from National Disaster Safety Perception Survey and a Gap Health Committees that meet Management Authority (NDMA) Analysis across GAIL installations. every quarter for continuous and Oil Industry Safety Directorate monitoring and improvement of (OISD) were called and they closely HSE performance Trends (HSE Index for last 5 years) Sustainability Report 2012-13 89 GAIL (India) Limited the occupational health of the along with the Central Industrial Security employees. The occupational health Security Force (CISF) personnel facilities and their management and Ex-Servicemen recruited Awareness at Pata were checked by The through the Directorate General The 11th Security Awareness Corporate HSE department along Resettlement (DGR), Department Week was observed in GAIL from with an occupational health expert. of Ex-Servicemen (Ministry of 13 18 December 2012. Various During the year, occupational health Defence), Government of India, competitions and events were committee meetings were held ensure the security of all our organised during the week. A every quarter. Occupational health installations and pipelines. Security Emergency Response Drill committee members comprise of (SERD) among all the 06 CISF units We are developing a comprehensive representatives from the Corporate deployed at GAIL, was organised training module for our security as well as from major sites. in simulated situations of “Bomb personnel on aspects of human rights covering various applicable Explosion” and “Militant firing”. Ensuring Based on the performance and national and international human security at GAIL rights norms. Our aim is to ensure effective response to the mock that we respect and uphold people’s situation, a panel of observers State of the art security systems adjudged GAIL, Lakwa as the best rights; avoid discrimination on have been installed at all our unit. A rolling trophy was presented the basis of race, religion, caste, operating locations along with a to OIC & CISF head, GAIL, Lakwa by creed, gender, language, or colour; well trained security staff. These C&MD GAIL on the inaugural day of do not encourage arbitrary precautions are taken in order to the awareness week. interference with any person’s avoid and also to be able to handle privacy; prevent any inhuman or Two Security Review Meetings any unforeseen internal or external degrading treatment and have (SRM) were held during the threat. Most of our assets are strict guidelines of use of force or year, chaired by Director (HR) of national significance and any firearms. and attended by all security inincident related to these assets is bound to have social, environmental We also plan on approaching The charges and HR in-charges looking and economic ramifications. As National Human Rights Commission after security duties. Various these installations and pipelines (NHRC) for imparting training to security issues were discussed face threats of protests, our security personnel. We are along with initiation of action sabotage and even potential committed to ensuring the security plans for improving the security terror attacks, we continue to of company assets, personnel effectiveness at GAIL. invest heavily in securing them and operations in a manner that through technological and human respects human rights and the interventions. GAIL’s security team fundamental right to freedom. Commencement of Security Awareness Week 90 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Security Corporate office, Noida and NCR security staff in GAIL). CISF, which is were also organised through the directly under the Ministry of home Sensitization Intelligence Bureau. Apart from affairs, has a laid down a procedure Workshops such workshops and sessions, our for imparting training during the security executives are nominated entire service at its various training Corporate Security Department twice a year to various work centres centres on all aspects of industrial initiated and conducted two to conduct security training to GAIL security and safety including human day comprehensive workshops employees. All employees are thus rights and gender sensitization. through GTI, Noida on “Security briefed on security related subjects, Management” covering all 34 twice a year. In this year, a total of Women’s security executives and non898 employees have been trained executives. These workshops Security on security matters. covered topics like Initiative ÎÎ Global, Regional and National Security This year we have focussed on Security Scenario Training for security of women and various initiatives were taken for ÎÎ Impact and expectations from Contract sensitising the women employees security Security as well as women residents / ÎÎ Security Architecture-design Personnel spouses / adult girl children on systems and operations various aspects of their personal The security personnel from DGR, safety and security. A one-day ÎÎ Conflict and stress though trained in service, are workshop on “Self-Defence” was management provided with continuous training conducted covering almost all to improve their skills. Security residents of colonies / societies in ÎÎ Principles of Self-Defence training for contract security different batches. These workshops ÎÎ Security criticality, Risk personnel is conducted twice a year were conducted through an external analysis and loss prevention by a security executive nominated agency and were based on the to carry out ISO audit and once in lecture-demo concept. Further, ÎÎ Personal Safety, Security 3 months by the local security-inan exclusive lecture session was and Demonstration on Selfcharge of the installation. Thus, in organised for women employees Defence measures all, there are six training sessions at the Corporate Office as well ÎÎ Petroleum & pipe line Act, organised for our contract security for other women posted in other Essential commodities Act, guards each year for each unit. The major work centres through Video topics of these training include Conference on personal safety. ÎÎ Prevention of Anti-social access control, discipline, industrial This year we undertook a unique Activities, Arms & Explosives security, use of gadgets, patrolling, initiative of distributing Pepper Act report writing, role of security Spraysa handy self-defence tool, during emergency situations, do’s & to all women employees working ÎÎ Use of electronics in Security don’ts, basic fire-fighting, Standard in GAIL. Apart from this, all female ÎÎ Emergency response and role Operating Procedure, pipeline foot residents of the 14 GAIL townships of security patrolling, amongst others. This continue to undergo security year, a total of 2115 personnel have briefings by various security ÎÎ Security survey and Audit been trained. internal auditors during their biÎÎ Kidnap & Hostage Incident annual visits. We have a security workforce of Management 4300 personnel comprising of 800 Security briefing sessions for from CISF and 3500 personnel senior officials of GAIL posted at through DGR(The figure is for total Sustainability Report 2012-13 91 GAIL (India) Limited Performance Snapshot Our Environmental performance Material consumption Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 NG processed MMSCM 14601.13 14849.11 15119.53 14373.41 NG used for making product MMSCM 1123.43 1060.21 1136.57 1080.33 NG sent back to pipeline MMSCM 13121.74 13342.26 13418.95 12944.06 Other material 1 MT 8869.86 10412.00 9916.43 10630.56 Packaging material MT 2128.00 2112.00 2249.00 2208.00 Energy Consumption Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Direct Energy 2 GJ 37452841.61 38281008.47 39012486.03 37359155.95 Indirect Energy3 GJ 971397.52 1039694.31 1166546.11 1118455.42 Renewable Energy GJ 546.36 33784.30 54880.74 838594.00 Energy from NG flaring GJ 393032.80 379338.37 337453.16 367375.07 Energy from LPG flaring GJ 892.98 987.43 4922.70 2472.37 Energy from NG venting GJ 97180.46 115026.50 133305.52 444484.41 Energy from LPG venting GJ 4283.81 2789.28 3738.54 2618.53 Total energy saved GJ -672231.73 1174649.79 155608.85 Emissions Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Total Scope 1 emissions 4 tCO2e 2230643.31 2261552.33 2363704.91 2381805.60 Total Scope 2 emissions 5 tCO2e 243528.03 260646.86 259257.40 243423.97 Total GHG emissions tCO2e 2474171.34 2522199.19 2622962.31 2625229.58 92 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Water Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Water consumption m 3 12818938.09 13811971.82 14077208.93 13855143.06 Waste water generated m 3 1298756.40 1629270.27 2255076.53 2437812.64 Waste water discharged out m3 710547.00 854256.62 1331330.45 1200865.63 of unit Water recycled m3 562291.03 736895.45 868490.41 1113396.22 Hazardous waste generation Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Used oil Litres 21126.00 42588.08 58150.00 10410.00 Used batteries Nos. 225.00 610 138.00 849.00 Basket filter waste MT 2.82 3.52 84.48 4.75 ETP Sludge MT 0.00 0.00 6.00 0.00 Tar MT 3.35 19.50 2.45 17.40 Tar ash MT 0.00 15.20 10.02 0.00 Oily sludge MT 300.00 282.00 343.43 341.07 Used lube oil Litres 141487.97 168604.93 94779.57 82411.00 Empty drums Nos. 213.00 220.00 8694.00 6199.00 E-waste MT 35.20 45.19 312.25 2.22 Bio-medical waste MT 0.15 0.23 0.21 0.58 Slop oil Litres 117226.70 136237.05 446603.00 325027.73 Non-Hazardous waste generation Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Used consumables MT 0.48 0.56 0.00 0.06 Used bag filters Nos. 1090.00 869.00 982.00 2202.00 Empty barrels Nos. 419.00 257.00 253.00 0.00 Metal scrap MT 264.73 385.18 631.74 642.50 Plastic scrap MT 15.78 17.18 46.80 164.72 Wooden scrap MT 12.60 0.70 235.74 442.21 Spent Alumina MT 1168.51 1221.73 1151.70 1196.89 Silica Gel MT 24.01 45.51 45.01 45.05 Cellulose Sludge MT 0.28 0.14 0.16 0.21 Canteen waste MT 10.60 11.20 12.57 41.52 Molecular Sieve MT 0.00 100.00 0.43 223.19 Ceramic Material Nos. 116.00 0.00 0.00 19.15 Aluminium Scrap MT 1.05 0.36 0.74 0.00 Miscellaneous Waste MT -13.81 24.88 9.30 Sustainability Report 2012-13 93 GAIL (India) Limited Air emissions Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 SPM tons / annum 831.43 906.15 1012.48 911.62 NOx tons / annum 815.19 710.46 695.48 848.23. CO tons / annum 0.02 0.04 0.03 0.00 SOx tons / annum 238.69 258.91 192.89 178.06 VOC tons / annum 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 ODS gas consumption Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 R-22 Kg 2204.50 2393.30 2298.94 2777.66 Total environment protection investment and expenditure type Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Show cause notices received Nos. 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 Environmental Fines INR crore 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Environmental expenditure INR crore 3.73 5.89 6.34 5.39 Our Social performance Health and safety committee Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Management representatives Nos. 218.00 235.00 245.00 247.00 in safety committees Non-Management Nos. 126.00 170.00 172.00 182.00 representatives in safety committees Health and safety Employees Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Near miss cases Nos. 173.00 179.00 156.00 157.00 Minor injuries Nos. 5.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 Reportable injuries – Male Nos. 0.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 Reportable injuries – Female Nos. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost days due to reportable Nos. 0.00 115.00 0.00 0.00 injuries Fatalities – Male Nos. 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 Fatalities – Female Nos. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 First aid cases Nos. 8.00 20.00 17.00 11.00 Manhours worked Manhrs 6280243.00 6355332.00 6584731.00 5603054.00 94 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly LTIFR per million 0.00 0.74 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Severity rate per million 0.00 42.30 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Fatality rate-male per million 0.00 0.37 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Fatality rate-female per million 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Health and safety Contract labour Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Near miss cases Nos. 177.00 189.00 208.00 184.00 Minor injuries Nos. 12.00 28.00 3.00 0.00 Reportable injuries – Male Nos. 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 Reportable injuries – Female Nos. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost days due to reportable Nos. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 injuries Fatalities – Male Nos. 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 Fatalities – Female Nos. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 First aid cases Nos. 120.00 110.00 73.00 57.00 Manhours worked manhours 16886211 20145368.00 30669256.00 16682966.00 LTFIR per million 0.00 0.11 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Severity rate per million 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Fatality rate – male per million 0.12 1.87 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Fatality rate – female per million 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 manhours worked Training Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Management employees Training Manhrs 92691 99218 107250 129831 (direct) – Male Management employees Training Manhrs 3960 5974 5445 7210 (direct) – Female Workmen (Direct employees) Training Manhrs 47102 48595 29071 26493 – Male Workmen (Direct employees) Training Manhrs 1656 1392 1520 1268 – Female Contractual labour Training Manhrs 30197 28617 38944 41835 (operations) – Male Contractual labour Training Manhrs 5 0 0 670 (operations) – Female Sustainability Report 2012-13 95 GAIL (India) Limited Employee Category 6 Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Senior Management Numbers 164 192 208 225 Middle Management Numbers 1237 1275 1317 1336 Junior Management Numbers 1291 1429 1501 1525 Non-management workers Numbers 1002 973 911 868 Employees-male Numbers 3495 3652 3715 3720 Employees-female Numbers 199 217 222 234 Attrition Rate-male % 0.69 0.49 0.70 1.13 Attrition Rate-female % 0.50 0.92 0.0 0.85 Security staff male Nos. ---2129.00 Security staff female Nos. ---161.00 Contact Worker Male Nos. ---6999 Contact Worker Female Nos. ---518 Our economic performance Economic value generated and distributed Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Revenues INR crore 2,55,572 3,29,837 4,11,745 4,83,572 Operating cost INR crore 2,02,879 2,70,115 3,54,441 4,10,649 Employee wages and benefit INR crore 6,212 7,527 7,208 10,674 Payments to providers of INR crore 10,343 10,700 14,352 17,240 capital Payments to government INR crore 16,478 15,530 17,769 17,056 Financial assistance from INR crore 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 government Local Suppliers Unit FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Total procurement of goods INR crore 6286.00 4667.00 8128.48 5106.94 and supplies Total procurement of goods INR crore 3999.00 4046.00 6814.93 4060.49 and supplies from local suppliers 1 This year we have started monitoring other material data for our LPG pipeline, NG pipeline & Compressor Stations. 2, 3 This year we have increased our level of accuracy of data monitoring & reporting. Data has been corrected for Diesel, Fuel gas & Electricity consumption in few sites. 4 Our scope-1 emission has been corrected taking the basis of carbon content for individual gas stream (like residual gas & flare gas). Earlier it was higher because IPCC standard emission factor for natural gas were being used for above two gas stream. Further venting emission calculation method has been corrected taking actual composition of methane gas for different gas stream. 5 Our Scope-2 emissions has been corrected taking optimum GRID Emission factors given by Central Electricity Authority, India. 6 Employees, Management, Non-Management data pertains to GAIL in line with Annual Report. Till last year we reported security staff & contract workforce data on man-hours basis. This year we have also included headcount basis reporting of security staff & contract workforce along with the gender. 96 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Report 2012-13 97 GAIL (India) Limited Glossary AIEEE All India Engineering Entrance GTI GAIL Training Institute Examination GPU Gas Processing Unit API American Petroleum Institute GREP Gas Rehabilitation and Expansion Project ASME American Society of Mechanical GM General Manager Engineers GJ Giga-Joule BPCL Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited GRI Global Reporting Initiative BOG Boiled Off-Gas GHG Green-house Gas BCPL Brahmaputra Cracker & Polymer Limited GSPC Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation BD Business Development HVJ Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur CS Carbon Steel HSE Health, Safety and Environment CPCB Central Pollution Control Board HSEMS Health, safety and environment CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise management system CVC Central Vigilance Commission HRSG Heat recovery steam Generator CMD Chairman and Managing Director HDPE High Density Poly-Ethylene CFC Chloro-fluoro Carbons HR Human Resources CGD City Gas Distribution HRD Human Resources Development CBM Coal Bed Methane IEM Independent External Monitors CRZ Coastal Regulation Zone IIT-JEE Indian Institute of Technology – Joint CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate Entrance Examination CNG Compressed Natural Gas INR Indian National Rupee CII Confederation of Indian Industry ISTD Indian Society of Training and CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Development CSI Customer Satisfaction Index ISRO Indian Space Research Organization DVPL Dahej-Vijaipur Pipe Line IGL Indraprastha Gas Limited DGM Deputy-General Manager IT Information Technology DGH Directorate-General of Hydrocarbons ILFS Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services DIN Dutch Institute fur Normung IMS Integrated Management System EVI Emergent Ventures India Private Limited ISO International Organization for EPA Environmental Protection Agency Standardization ED Executive Director IPIECA International Petroleum Industry E&P Exploration and Production Environmental Conservation Association FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of JLPL Jamnagar Loni Pipe Line Commerce and Industry JNNSM Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission FY Financial Year JV Joint Ventures Sustainability Report 2012-13 Km Kilo-meters PPAC Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell KG Krishna-Godavari PNG Piped Natural Gas LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas PCB Pollution Control Board LHC Liquid Hydro Carbon PUC Pollution Under Control LLDPE Linear Low Density Poly-Ethylene PE Poly-Ethylene LP Low Polymer PAT Profit After Tax MDP Management Development Programs PPP Public Private Partnership MBA Masters of Business Administration RGIPT Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum MoU Memorandum of Understanding Technology MT Metric Tons RGPPL Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited MMSCMD Million Metric Standard Cubic Meter per RLNG Re-gasified Liquid Natural Gas Day R&D Research and Development MoEF Ministry of Environment and Forests RoU Right of Use MoP&NG Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas RTI Right To Information MoRD Ministry of Rural Development SC Scheduled Castes MFO Mixed Fuel Oil ST Scheduled Tribes NCR National Capital Region SMDC Senior Management Development NH National Highways Center NIT National Institute of Technology SBP Special Boiling Point NG Natural Gas SH State Highways NELP New Exploration Licensing Policy SCADA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition NGO Non-Government Organizations SPM Suspended Particulate Matter NoC No objection Certificate SD Sustainable Development NRL Numaligarh Refinery Limited SGSY Swarna Jayanti Gram Swarozgar Yojana OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series TISS Tata Institute of Social Sciences OIC Officer-in-Charge TERI The Energy and Resources Institute ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation TMT Thousand Metric Tons OIL Oil India Limited tCO2e Tons of Carbon Dioxide equivalent OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate TPA Tons per Annum OMC Oil Marketing Companies TDS Total Dissolved Solids O&M Operation and Maintenance TI Transparency International OFC Optical Fibre Cable TB Tuberculosis OBC Other Backward Classes TAPI TurkmenistanAfghanistanPakistanIndia NOx Oxides of nitrogen UNGC United Nations Global Compact SOx Oxides of Sulphur US United States ODS Ozone Depleting Substances USD United States Dollar PESO Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization UP Uttar Pradesh PNGRB Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory UPTU Uttar Pradesh Technical University Board VHP Very High Pressure PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research VSPL Vizag-Secundrabad Pipe Line Association 100 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly GRI Content Index Indicator Description Reported Response UNGC API/ Reference Principles IPIECA link guidelines link 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior Fully ÎÎ Refer page 6-7 for C&MD’s decision-maker of the organization. statement ÎÎ Refer page 38-41 for targets under GAIL Sustainability Aspirations 2020 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Fully ÎÎ Refer page 26-27 for Risk opportunities. Management ÎÎ Refer page 34-35 for Materiality ÎÎ Refer page 30-33 for Stakeholder Engagement 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully ÎÎ Front Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Fully ÎÎ Refer Business Profile on page services. 16-17 2.3 Operational structure of the Fully ÎÎ Refer Business Profile on page 16-17 organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and ÎÎ For more details see page 1-14 joint ventures. section of Annual Report 2012-13 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully ÎÎ Back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the Fully ÎÎ All major operations under GAIL’s organization operates, and names of full control (100% ownership) countries with either major operations are based in India. For additional or that are specifically relevant to the information please refer section sustainability issues covered in the on Business Profile on printed report. page no. 1-8 of Annual Report 2012-13 ÎÎ Also refer About This Report section on page 2-3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully ÎÎ GAIL is a Central Public Sector Enterprise, listed on BSE, NSE and GDR on LSE Sustainability Report 2012-13 101 GAIL (India) Limited 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Business Profile breakdown, sectors served, and types of on page 16-18 customers/beneficiaries). ÎÎ Refer printed page no. 1-8 of Annual Report 2012-13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Business Profile on page 16-17 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Fully ÎÎ There were no significant changes. period regarding size, structure, or For changes in the scope of the ownership. report refer About This Report on page 2-3 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully ÎÎ Refer chapter on Awards and Recognition on page 20-21 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar Fully ÎÎ Refer About This Report section year) for information provided. on page 2-3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if Fully ÎÎ This is GAIL’s third sustainability any). report; the second report was released on 27 February 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully ÎÎ Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Fully ÎÎ Refer Way Forward on page 137 the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully ÎÎ The report content has been defined based on our stakeholder engagement and selection of material issues. We have engaged with all major stakeholder groups of GAIL ÎÎ Refer sections on Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly on page 4-5 ÎÎ Refer section Stakeholder Engagement on page 30-33 ÎÎ Refer section on Materiality on page 34-35 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Fully ÎÎ Refer section on About This divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Report on page 2-3 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the Fully ÎÎ Refer section on About This scope or boundary of the report (see Report on page 2-3 completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Fully ÎÎ Refer section on About This subsidiaries, leased facilities, Report on page 2-3 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and Fully ÎÎ Refer section on About This the bases of calculations, including Report on page 2-3 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 102 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any Fully ÎÎ On account of improvement in re-statements of information data management systems there provided in earlier reports, and the have been certain changes in the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., data presented in the report. mergers/acquisitions, change of base Where ever relevant the same has years/periods, nature of business, been highlighted in the form of measurement methods). footnotes across the report 3.11 Significant changes from previous Fully ÎÎ Refer section on About This reporting periods in the scope, Report on page 2-3 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Fully ÎÎ Refer the GRI Content Index on Standard Disclosures in the report. page 100-113 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard Fully ÎÎ Refer section on About This to seeking external assurance for the Report on page 2-3 report. ÎÎ Refer Assurance Statement on page 96-97 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Corporate organization, including committees Governance on page 22-27 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully ÎÎ Our Chairman is also an executive highest governance body is also an officer executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary Fully ÎÎ Refer page 44-51 of our Annual board structure, state the number Report 2012-13 and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Fully ÎÎ Recommendations can be employees to provide recommendations provided to the Shareholder and or direction to the highest governance Stakeholder Grievance committee body. under the Board of Directors ÎÎ Refer to section on Stakeholder Engagement page 30-33 and Shareholders / Investors page 42-55 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Fully ÎÎ The remuneration of whole time members of the highest governance directors is determined by the body, senior managers, and executives President of India, through the (including departure arrangements), Ministry of Petroleum and Natural and the organization’s performance Gas. The compensation includes (including social and environmental performance linked incentive performance). that is based on performance parameters defined under the MoU signed with Government of India 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Ethics, governance body to ensure conflicts of Transparency and Accountability interest are avoided. on page 26-27 Sustainability Report 2012-13 103 GAIL (India) Limited 4.7 Process for determining the Fully ÎÎ Whole time directors are selected composition, qualifications, and by Public Enterprises Selection expertise of the members of the highest Board (PESB) and appointed governance body and its committees, by Ministry of Petroleum and including any consideration of gender Natural Gas (MoPNG). Part time and other indicators of diversity. government nominee Directors are appointed by MoPNG. Independent directors representing the interest of stakeholders are selected by Search Committee and appointed by President of India, acting through MoPNG. 4.8 Internally developed statements of Fully ÎÎ Refer GAIL Vision and Mission mission or values, codes of conduct, in the 2012-13 Annual Report and and principles relevant to economic, Sustainability Policy on this web environmental, and social performance link: and the status of their implementation. ÎÎ http://www.gail.nic.in/final_site/ Sustainable_Development.html 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Fully ÎÎ Refer Corporate Governance on body for overseeing the organization’s page 22-27 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Fully ÎÎ Refer to Corporate Governance governance body’s own performance, section of Annual Report 2012-13 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Fully ÎÎ Use of precautionary approach is precautionary approach or principle is implicit in our risk management addressed by the organization. framework. Please refer risk management under Corporate Governance Section. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Fully ÎÎ Refer to About This Report section environmental, and social charters, on page 2-3 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or ÎÎ Refer to Alignment of the GRI G3.1 endorses. Guidelines, NVGs and BRR on page 114-136 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Fully ÎÎ Please refer Public Policy industry associations) and/or national/ Advocacy on page 73-75 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Stakeholder the organization. Engagement on page 30-33 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Stakeholder stakeholders with whom to engage. Engagement on page 30-33 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Engagement on page 30-33 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 104 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been Fully ÎÎ Refer Materiality on page 34-35 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach – EC Economic performance Fully ÎÎ Refer Shareholders / Investors on page 44-45 ÎÎ Refer management discussion and analysis on page 34-43 of the Annual Report Market presence, including local content Fully ÎÎ Refer Shareholders / Investors on page 44-45 ÎÎ Refer Materiality on page 34-35 Indirect economic impacts Fully ÎÎ Refer Social Contribution on page 48-50 Reserves Fully ÎÎ Not applicable Disclosure on Management ApproachEN Materials Fully ÎÎ Refer Gas Sourcing on page 34 SE5 and 45-47 Energy Fully ÎÎ Refer Operational Excellence on Principle E2 , E3 page 52-55 and Sustainability 7, Aspiration 2020 on page 38-41 principle 9 Water Fully ÎÎ Refer Water Management on page Principle E6, E9 41 and 66-67 7, principle 8 ,principle 9 Ecosystem services including Fully ÎÎ Refer Biodiversity Management on Principle E5 biodiversity page 67-68 8 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully ÎÎ Refer Emissions Management Principle E1,E7, E10 and Waste Management on page 7, 68-69 principle 8 Products and services Fully ÎÎ Refer page 44 HS4 Compliance Fully ÎÎ Refer page 52 principle SE14 10 Transport Fully ÎÎ Refer page 48 Overall Fully ÎÎ Refer Environmental Performance Owned Operations on page 65-69 ÎÎ Refer Operational Excellence on page 52-55 Disclosure on Management ApproachLA Employment Fully ÎÎ Refer Materiality on page 34-35 principle 1 SE6, SE16, SE17 ÎÎ Refer Managing Human Capital on page 83-84 Labor/management relations Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 87-88 principle SE8, SE9, 4, SE10 principle 5 Occupational Health and Safety Fully ÎÎ Refer Health and Safety at GAIL on HS1, HS2, page 87-88 HS3, HS5 Sustainability Report 2012-13 105 GAIL (India) Limited Training and education Fully ÎÎ Refer Managing Human Capital on HS1, SE16, page 88-90 and 96 SE17 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 83-85 principle SE15, SE18 6 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 87 principle 1 SE8, SE9, SE10, SE15 ÎÎ Refer Managing Human Capital on page 83-85 Disclosure on Management Approach – HR Investment and procurement practices Fully ÎÎ Refer Business Profile section on principle HS4, SE4, page 14-17 10 SE7, SE9, SE11, SE12 ÎÎ Refer Materiality on page 34-35 ÎÎ Refer Shareholders / Investors on page 42-48 Non-discrimination Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 83-87 Principle SE2, SE7, 1, principle SE9, SE15 2 Freedom of association and collective Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 86-87 principle 3 SE1, SE2, bargaining SE5, SE16 Child labour Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 87 principle 5 SE9, SE10 Prevention of forced and compulsory Fully ÎÎ No linkages could be found principle SE9, SE10 labour 4 Security Practices Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page principle 1 HS2, SE!0 89-90 Indigenous rights Fully ÎÎ Although the section talks about SE2, SE8 communities there is no such mention of indigenous people ÎÎ Refer the communities on page 57-64 Assessment Fully ÎÎ Refer Suppliers, Employees and SE8 Communities section on page 7679, 80-89 and 58-64 Remediation Fully ÎÎ Refer Suppliers, Employees and SE18 Communities section on page 7879, 50 and 62-63 Disclosure on Management ApproachSO Local communities Fully ÎÎ Refer Communities on page 57-63 SE1, SE4, SE5 Corruption Fully ÎÎ Refer Ethics, Transparency and principle SE11, SE12, Accountability on page 26-27 10 SE13 ÎÎ Refer Customers on page 71-75 ÎÎ Refer Suppliers on page 77-79 Public policy Fully ÎÎ Refer Public Policy Advocacy on SE14 page 73-75 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully ÎÎ We abide by all National principle SE11, SE14 regulations related to discouraging 10 Anti-Competitive behaviour Compliance Fully ÎÎ Refer Ethics, Transparency and SE11 Accountability on page 26-27 ÎÎ Refer page 52 Emergency preparedness Fully ÎÎ Refer Health and Safety at GAIL on page 87-89 106 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Involuntary resettlement Fully ÎÎ We abide by National SE1 Regulations on Resettlement and Rehabilitation; However none of our operations have caused any form of R&R this year Asset integrity and process safety Fully ÎÎ Refer Health and Safety at GAIL on HS4, HS5 page 87-89 Disclosure on Management ApproachPR Customer health and safety Fully ÎÎ Refer Customers on page 71-75 HS4 Product and service labelling Fully ÎÎ Not applicable HS4 Marketing communications Fully ÎÎ Not applicable Customer privacy Fully ÎÎ Not applicable Compliance Fully ÎÎ Refer Ethics, Transparency and principle SE11,SE14 Accountability on page 26-27 10 ÎÎ Refer page 52 Fossil fuel substitutes Fully ÎÎ Refer Materiality on page 34-35 principle E3 8, ÎÎ Refer Focussing on Renewables on principle page 47-48 9 Performance IndicatorsEconomic EC1 Direct economic value generated Fully ÎÎ Refer page 44 and page 95 and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks Fully ÎÎ GAIL has undertaken specific and opportunities for the organization’s targets on Climate Change under activities due to climate change. Sustainability Aspirations 2020, we will monitor the financial implications and outlays to undertake our projects to mitigate Climate Change impacts in the years to come EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined Fully ÎÎ Refer page 83-85 benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on SE13 from government. page 91-95 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 87-88 wage by gender compared to local and Gender Mainstreaming at minimum wage at significant locations GAIL section on page 84 of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Fully ÎÎ We define local as Indian SE4, SE7 spending on locally-based suppliers at subcontinent. Refer the table on significant locations of operation. Performance Snapshot on page 95 for details on spend. Though we do not have a specific policy on fostering / favouring local vendors, wherever possible we give preference to local vendors given all parameters to be equal. Also, most of the contracts / transportation contracts / canteen contracts / township facilities have been outsourced to local vendors. Sustainability Report 2012-13 107 GAIL (India) Limited EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Fully ÎÎ Recruitment at the Executive/ SE6 proportion of senior management hired Officer cadre is done only at all from the local community at significant India bases, and not at local level locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Community SE4 infrastructure investments and services Development and Infrastructure provided primarily for public benefit on page 58-64 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing Fully ÎÎ Refer Communities on page 58-64 SE4 significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ÎÎ Refer Shareholders / Investors on page 44-45 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved Fully ÎÎ Not applicable reserves and production. Performance IndicatorsEnvironmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on SE5 page 91-95 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on recycled input materials. page 91-95 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E2 energy source. page 91-95 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E2 source. page 91-95 OG2 Total amount invested in renewable Fully ÎÎ Refer Business Profile on page 48 E3 energy. OG3 Total amount of renewable energy Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on generated by source. page 91-95 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on efficiency improvements. page 91-95 ÎÎ Refer Operational Excellence on page 52-54 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on or renewable energy based products page 91-95 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these ÎÎ Refer Operational Excellence on initiatives. page 52-54 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Partially ÎÎ We are currently not consumption and reductions achieved. systematically tracking reduction of indirect energy consumption. We have analysed that our scope-3 GHG Emission for business travel which is very miniscule in comparison to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. Currently we are concentrating on reducing to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on page 92. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Fully ÎÎ No source affected significantly by E6 withdrawal of water. water withdrawal also Refer Page 92 and Water conservation Page no 66-67 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Fully ÎÎ Refer Sustainability Performance recycled and reused. Section on Page 93 and Water conservation page no 66-67 108 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully ÎÎ Refer Biodiversity Management on E5 managed in, or adjacent to, protected page 67-69 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of Fully ÎÎ Refer Biodiversity Management on E5 activities, products, and services on page 67-69 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully ÎÎ Refer Biodiversity Management on E5 page 67-69 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Fully ÎÎ Refer Biodiversity Management on E5 future plans for managing impacts on page 67-69 biodiversity. OG4 Number and percentage of significant Fully ÎÎ 100 % of sites have been assessed operating sites in which biodiversity risk for biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Fully ÎÎ None of our operations are located national conservation list species with in areas with habitats of IUCN habitats in areas affected by operations, Red List species or those listed on by level of extinction risk. National Conservation List EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E1 emissions by weight. page 91 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E1 emissions by weight. page 91-92 and page no 52-54 under operation excellence EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot E1 emissions and reductions achieved. on page 91-92 and sustainability strategy and Initiative page 38-41 Sustainability Aspirations 2020 Table EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E7 substances by weight. page 93 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E7 emissions by type and weight. page 93 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E9 destination. page 92 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E10 disposal method. page 92 end of the page under waste generation hazardous and non-hazardous OG5 Volume of formation or produced water. Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on page 92 EN23 Total number and volume of significant Fully ÎÎ No significant spills E8 spills. OG6 Volume of flared and vented Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on E4 hydrocarbon. page 91 OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and Fully ÎÎ Not applicable cuttings) and strategies for treatment and disposal. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Fully ÎÎ Not applicable. Across locations exported, or treated waste deemed we are not involved in any hazardous under the terms of the activities related to transporting, Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, importing, exporting or treatment and percentage of transported waste of waste deemed hazardous under shipped internationally. Basel Convention. Sustainability Report 2012-13 109 GAIL (India) Limited EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Fully ÎÎ There is no significant impact of biodiversity value of water bodies our wastewater discharges and and related habitats significantly run-offs to water bodies located in affected by the reporting organization’s the vicinity of our operations discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Fully ÎÎ Refer section on Environmental impacts of products and services, and Performance of Owned Operations extent of impact mitigation. on page 65-67 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully ÎÎ This is not applicable for our gas packaging materials that are reclaimed transmission businesses. by category. ÎÎ However, for the petrochemicals on account of small size of packaging bags, it is not possible to track and reclaim the same OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulfur content in Fully ÎÎ Natural Gas does not contain fuels. Benzene and Lead; The content of sulphur is below 4.5 ppm, depending on natural gas quality and source EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on total number of non-monetary sanctions page 95 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts Partial ÎÎ We have analysed that our scope-3 of transporting products and other GHG Emission for business travel goods and materials used for the is very miniscule in comparison organization’s operations, and to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. transporting members of the workforce. Currently we are concentrating on reducing to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. EN30 Total environmental protection Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on expenditures and investments by type. page 95 Performance IndicatorsLabour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on SE15 employment contract, and region, page 95 broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on hires and employee turnover by age page 94-95 group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Fully ÎÎ Refer Employees on page 83-84 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Fully ÎÎ 100% return to work and retention parental leave, by gender. rates after parental leave for both male and female employees LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Fully ÎÎ All Workmen, which constitute HS1 collective bargaining agreements. 21.09% of total employee strength, are covered by collective bargaining agreement LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Fully ÎÎ We adhere to Section 9A of significant operational changes, Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and including whether it is specified in Schedule 4 for providing notice collective agreements. period regarding significant operational changes 110 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly LA6 Percentage of total workforce Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on HS1 represented in formal joint page 94-95 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on HS2, HS3 lost days, and absenteeism, and number page 94-95 of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, Fully ÎÎ Refer Employees on page 88 & HS2 prevention, and risk-control programs Page 83-84 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Fully ÎÎ We are currently in the process HS2 formal agreements with trade unions. of collating health and safety topics covered in unions across operations LA10 Average hours of training per year per Fully ÎÎ Refer Performance Snapshot on SE17 employee by gender, and by employee page 94-95 category. LA11 Programs for skills management and Fully ÎÎ Refer Employees on page 83-84 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Fully ÎÎ Refer Employees on page 83-84 SE16 regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully ÎÎ Refer Corporate Governance on SE15 breakdown of employees per employee page 22-27 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and ÎÎ Refer page 44-51 of our Annual other indicators of diversity. Report 2012-13 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Fully ÎÎ No discrimination based on gender of women to men by employee category, is practiced for Compensation in by significant locations of operation. any work centres. Performance IndicatorsHuman Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of Fully ÎÎ Refer Ethics, Transparency and SE8 significant investment agreements Accountability on page 26-27 and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 87-88 or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Fully ÎÎ Currently we are in the process SE9 contractors and other business partners of setting up systems to screen that have undergone human rights Human Rights performance of our screening, and actions taken. suppliers and contractors. HR3 Total hours of employee training on Fully ÎÎ Refer Human Rights on page 87-88 policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of Fully ÎÎ No incidents of discrimination discrimination and corrective actions taken. Sustainability Report 2012-13 111 GAIL (India) Limited HR5 Operations and significant suppliers Fully ÎÎ Though there has not been a identified in which the right to exercise formal/ specific initiative to freedom of association and collective identify such operations, there is bargaining may be violated or at no operation which runs such a risk significant risk, and actions taken to to the right to exercise freedom support these rights. of association and collective bargaining. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Fully ÎÎ There is no incident of engagement identified as having significant risk for of Child Labour reported in the incidents of child labour, and measures reporting period. The Engineer taken to contribute to the effective in Charge (EIC) ensures relevant abolition of child labour. statutes are complied with. Prohibition to engage Child Labour is the standard C&P Clause. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers Fully ÎÎ Though there has not been a identified as having significant risk formal/ specific initiative to for incidents of forced or compulsory identify such operations, no labour, and measures to contribute to incident of engagement of forced the elimination of all forms of forced or or compulsory labour has been compulsory labour. reported in the assessment year. The Engineer in Charge (EIC) ensures relevant statutes are complied with. HR8 Percentage of security personnel Fully ÎÎ Refer Employees on page 87-88, SE10 trained in the organization’s policies page 89-90, Ensuring security at or procedures concerning aspects GAIL on page 95 of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations Fully ÎÎ There have been no incidents involving rights of indigenous people of violations involving rights of and actions taken. indigenous people page 87-89 Human Rights HR10 Percentage and total number of Fully ÎÎ All our core operations are operations that have been subject to continuously monitored and human rights reviews and/or impact reviewed to eliminate Human Right assessments. risks. For more information refer Human Rights on page 87-88 OG9 Operations where indigenous Fully ÎÎ We have one of our operations at communities are present or affected Jhabua where there is presence of by activities and where specific indigenous communities near our engagement strategies are in place. operations. For Details refer to page 58-64 HR11 “Number of grievances related to human Fully ÎÎ No such grievances have been filed rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.” Performance IndicatorsSociety SO1 Percentage of operations with Fully ÎÎ All our operations are governed SE1 implemented local community by our CSR approach. For more engagement, impact assessments, and information refer page 58-64 development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential Fully ÎÎ Not applicable or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures Fully ÎÎ Not applicable implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. OG10 Number and description of significant Fully ÎÎ We did not have any incidents of SE2 disputes with local communities and significant disputes with local indigenous peoples. communities and indigenous peoples 112 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly OG11 Number of sites that have been Fully ÎÎ Not applicable decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned. SO2 Percentage and total number of Fully ÎÎ Corruption risks are covered SE11, SE12 business units analyzed for risks related under our vigilance procedures to corruption. and risk management framework. Since our vigilance procedures are mandatory under the rules established by Government of India, 100% of our operations are covered under risk analysis including aspects related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully ÎÎ All our employees are mandate d organization’s anti-corruption policies to go through the Code of Conduct and procedures. and comply with it during their tenure. For more information refer Human Rights on page 87-88 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents Fully ÎÎ While we have taken stringent of corruption. measures to curb corruption and promote transparency in our operations, there were seven major cases of corruption reported during the year. Necessary action was taken by the vigilance department, based on the outcome of their investigation. SO5 Public policy positions and participation Fully ÎÎ Refer Public Policy Advocacy on SE14 in public policy development and page 72-75 lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Fully ÎÎ There were no financial or in -kind contributions to political parties, contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by etc. country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiFully ÎÎ No actions were taken against competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and GAIL since there were no instances monopoly practices and their outcomes. of anti -competitive behaviour, anti -trust or monopolistic practices SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and Fully ÎÎ There have been no legal violations total number of non-monetary sanctions in the year. Same information can for non-compliance with laws and be validated through the annual regulations. report as well. OG12 Operations where involuntary Fully ÎÎ No such operations SE3 resettlement took place, the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. OG13 Number of process safety events, by Fully ÎÎ No such events have taken place HS5 business activity. Performance indicatorsProduct responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and Fully ÎÎ Refer Customers on page 75 HS4 safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and ÎÎ Refer Research and Development percentage of significant products and on page 52 services categories subject to such ÎÎ Also see page PR Section page 67procedures. 69 of GAIL Sustainability Report FY 11-12 Sustainability Report 2012-13 113 GAIL (India) Limited PR2 Total number of incidents of nonFully ÎÎ There were no such incidents compliance with regulations and of non-compliance during the voluntary codes concerning health reporting period and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information Fully ÎÎ Our petrochemicals product required by procedures, and packages bear the location of the percentage of significant products and manufacturing facility, grade name services subject to such information and total weight as per Indian requirements. legislations and industry practice. PR4 Total number of incidents of nonFully ÎÎ There were no such incidents compliance with regulations and of non-compliance during the voluntary codes concerning product and reporting period service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Fully ÎÎ Refer Customers on page 72-75 satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Fully ÎÎ GAIL fully complies by the standards, and voluntary codes ASCI norms for advertising and related to marketing communications, communication and works with including advertising, promotion, and ASCI-authorized media agencies sponsorship. only PR7 Total number of incidents of nonFully ÎÎ There were no such incidents compliance with regulations and of non-compliance during the voluntary codes concerning marketing reporting period communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated Fully ÎÎ Customer privacy is not a material complaints regarding breaches issue for our industry and hence of customer privacy and losses of has not been reported customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Fully ÎÎ There were no such incidents for non-compliance with laws and of non-compliance during the regulations concerning the provision reporting period. and use of products and services. OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and Fully ÎÎ Not applicable purchased meeting sustainability criteria. 114 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Alignment of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, NVGs and BRR G3.1 SEBI BRR NVG Match (M) / Item Title Section # Title Link Principle (L) to G3.1 Profile Disclosures Statement from the most 1.1 senior decision-maker of the organization. Section E: Does the company identify and Principle 63 assess potential environmental Environment risks? Y/N Description of key impacts, risks, Section E: List up to 3 of your products 1.2 L and opportunities Principle or services whose design 2Products 1 has incorporated social or Life Cycle environmental concerns, risks and/ Sustainability or opportunities. Section A: General 2.1 Name of the organization. Information 2 Name of the company M about the Company Section A: General Sector(s) that the Company is Information 7 engaged in (industrial activity M about the code-wise) Primary brands, products, and/or Company 2.2 service Section A: General List three key products/services Information 8 that the Company manufactures/ M about the provides (as in balance sheet) Company Operational structure of the organization, including main Section C: Does the Company have any 2.3 1 M divisions, operating companies, Other Details Subsidiary Company/ Companies? subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Sustainability Report 2012-13 115 GAIL (India) Limited Section A: General Location of organization's 2.4 Information 3 Registered address M headquarters. about the Company Total number of locations where Number of countries where the business activity is undertaken by Section A: organization operates, and names the Company General of countries with either major 2.5 Information 9 i. Number of International L operations or that are specifically about the Locations (Provide details of major relevant to the sustainability Company 5) issues covered in the report. ii. Number of National Locations Nature of ownership and legal Section C: Does the Company have any 2.6 1 M form. Other Details Subsidiary Company/ Companies? Section A: General Sector(s) that the Company is Information 7 engaged in (industrial activity M Markets served (including about the code-wise) geographic breakdown, sectors Company 2.7 served, and types of customers/ Section A: beneficiaries). General Markets served by the Company Information 10 – Local/State/National/ M about the International Company Scale of the reporting 2.8 organization. Significant changes during the 2.9 reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Awards received in the reporting 2.10 period. Section A: Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/ General 3.1 calendar year) for information Information 6 Financial Year Reported M provided. about the Company Date of most recent previous 3.2 report (if any). Governance related to BR Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of the Company. Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Section D: BR Within 3 months, 3-6 months, 3.3 3 M etc.) Information Annually, More than 1 year Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? Section A: Contact point for questions General 3.4 regarding the report or its Information 5 E-mail id M contents. about the Company Process for defining report 3.5 content. 116 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Do the Subsidiary Company/ Companies participate in the BR Section C: 2 Initiatives of the parent company? Other Details If yes, then indicate the number of Boundary of the report (e.g., such subsidiary company(s) countries, divisions, subsidiaries, Do any other entity/entities (e.g. 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers, distributors etc.) that L suppliers). See GRI Boundary the Company does business with, Protocol for further guidance. Section C: participate in the BR initiatives of 3 Other Details the Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/ entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%] State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 3.7 the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the 3.9 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.10 (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of 3.12 the Standard Disclosures in the report. Has the company carried out Policy and current practice Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 3.13 with regard to seeking external 2.10 M Information the working of this policy by an assurance for the report. internal or external agency Sustainability Report 2012-13 117 GAIL (India) Limited Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR a) Details of the Director/Director responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies DIN Number Name Section D: BR 1 Designation Information b) Details of the BR head 1. DIN Number (if applicable) Governance structure of Principle 1: 2.Name Businesses should the organization, including committees under the highest 3.Designation conduct and govern 4.1 governance body responsible for 4.Telephone number L themselves specific tasks, such as setting with Ethics, 5.e-mail id strategy or organizational Transparency and oversight. Governance related to BR Accountability Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of the Company. Section D: BR Within 3 months, 3-6 months, 3 Information Annually, More than 1 year Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? Principle 1: Businesses should Indicate whether the Chair of the conduct and govern 4.2 highest governance body is also themselves an executive officer. with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Principle 1: For organizations that have a Businesses should unitary board structure, state the conduct and govern number and gender of members themselves 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonwith Ethics, executive members. Transparency and Accountability Principle 1: Businesses should Mechanisms for shareholders conduct and govern and employees to provide themselves 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 118 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Principle 1: Businesses should Processes in place for the highest conduct and govern 4.6 governance body to ensure themselves conflicts of interest are avoided. with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Principle 1: Internally developed statements Businesses should of mission or values, codes of conduct and govern conduct, and principles relevant themselves 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status with Ethics, of their implementation. Transparency and Accountability For all nine Principles: Has the policy being approved by the Board? Section D: BR 2.4 Is yes, has it been signed by MD/ Information owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? For all nine Principles: Does Procedures of the highest the company have a specified Section D: BR governance body for overseeing 2.5 committee of the Board/ Information the organization's identification Director/Official to oversee the Principle 1: and management of economic, implementation of the policy? Businesses should environmental, and social Governance related to BR conduct and govern 4.9 L performance, including relevant themselves with risks and opportunities, and Indicate the frequency with which Ethics, Transparency adherence or compliance with the Board of Directors, Committee and Accountability internationally agreed standards, of the Board or CEO to assess the codes of conduct, and principles. BR performance of the Company. Section D: BR Within 3 months, 3-6 months, 3 Information Annually, More than 1 year Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 4.12 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Sustainability Report 2012-13 119 GAIL (India) Limited Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which Section E: Is your company a member of any the organization: * Has positions in Principle trade and chamber or association? 4.13 governance bodies; * Participates 1 M 7Policy If Yes, Name only those major ones in projects or committees; * Advocacy that your business deals with: Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. Principle 4: Businesses should Principle 4: Businesses should respect the respect the interests of, and interests of, and be List of stakeholder groups Section D: BR be responsive towards all responsive towards 4.14 2.P4 L engaged by the organization. Information stakeholders, especially those who all stakeholders, are disadvantaged, vulnerable and especially those who marginalized are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised. Section E: Principle 4: Has the company mapped its Principle 4Businesses should 1 internal and external stakeholders? Stakeholder respect the Yes/No Engagement interests of, and be Basis for identification and responsive towards 4.15 selection of stakeholders with L Section E: Out of the above, has the company all stakeholders, whom to engage. Principle 4identified the disadvantaged, especially those who 2 are disadvantaged, Stakeholder vulnerable & marginalized Engagement stakeholders. vulnerable and marginalised. Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and Section D: BR be responsive towards all 2.P4 Information stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and Principle 4: marginalized Businesses should respect the Approaches to stakeholder Has the policy being formulated interests of, and be Section D: BR engagement, including frequency 2.2 in consultation with the relevant responsive towards 4.16 Information L of engagement by type and by stakeholders? all stakeholders, stakeholder group. Has the policy been formally especially those who Section D: BR are disadvantaged, 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information vulnerable and internal and external stakeholders? marginalised. Section E: Out of the above, has the company Principle 4identified the disadvantaged, 2 Stakeholder vulnerable & marginalized Engagement stakeholders. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information Principle 4: address stakeholders’ grievances Businesses should related to the policy/policies? Key topics and concerns that have respect the been raised through stakeholder Section E: Out of the above, has the company interests of, and be engagement, and how the Principle 4identified the disadvantaged, responsive towards 4.17 2 L organization has responded to Stakeholder vulnerable & marginalized all stakeholders, those key topics and concerns, Engagement stakeholders. especially those who including through its reporting. are disadvantaged, How many stakeholder complaints vulnerable and Section E: have been received in the past marginalised. Principle 52 financial year and what percent Human Rights was satisfactorily resolved by the management? 120 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Economic Category Aspect: Economic Performance Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services Section D: BR 2.P2 that are safe and contribute to Information sustainability throughout their life cycle Principle 8: Businesses should Section D: BR 2.P8 support inclusive growth and Information equitable development Section D: BR 2.1 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Information Has the policy being formulated Section D: BR 2.2 in consultation with the relevant Information stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Section D: BR 2.3 national /international standards? Information If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved Section D: BR by the Board? Is yes, has it been 2.4 Information signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director? DMA Does the company have a L Section D: BR specified committee of the Board/ 2.5 Information Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Section D: BR Indicate the link for the policy to be 2.6 Information viewed online? Has the policy been formally Section D: BR 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house Section D: BR 2.8 structure to implement the policy/ Information policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 2.10 Information the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? Section B: Financial 1 Paid up Capital (INR) Details of the Direct economic value generated Company and distributed, including Section B: revenues, operating costs, Financial employee compensation, 2 Total Turnover (INR) EC1 Details of the M donations and other community Company investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers Section B: and governments. Financial 3 Total profit after taxes (INR) Details of the Company Sustainability Report 2012-13 121 GAIL (India) Limited Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 organization's activities due to climate change. Coverage of the organization's EC3 defined benefit plan obligations. Significant financial assistance EC4 received from government. Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to EC5 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Section E: Does the company have Principle procedures in place for 2Products 3 sustainable sourcing (including Life Cycle Principle 2: transportation)? Sustainability Businesses should Policy, practices, and proportion Has the company taken any steps provide goods and of spending on locally-based to procure goods and services services that are EC6 M suppliers at significant locations Section E: from local & small producers, safe and contribute of operation. Principle including communities surrounding to sustainability 2Products 4 their place of work? throughout their life Life Cycle If yes, what steps have been cycle Sustainability taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors? Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management EC7 hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EC8 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9 impacts, including the extent of impacts. 122 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Environmental Category Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services Section D: BR 2.P2 that are safe and contribute to Information sustainability throughout their life cycle Principle 6: Business should Section D: BR 2.P6 respect, protect, and make efforts Information to restore the environment Section D: BR 2.1 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Information Has the policy being formulated Section D: BR 2.2 in consultation with the relevant Information stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Section D: BR 2.3 national /international standards? Information If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved Section D: BR by the Board? Is yes, has it been 2.4 Information signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a Section D: BR specified committee of the Board/ 2.5 Information Director/Official to oversee the DMA implementation of the policy? M Section D: BR Indicate the link for the policy to be 2.6 Information viewed online? Has the policy been formally Section D: BR 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house Section D: BR 2.8 structure to implement the policy/ Information policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 2.10 Information the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? Section E: Does the company identify and Principle 63 assess potential environmental Environment risks? Y/N Section E: Does the company identify and Principle 63 assess potential environmental Environment risks? Y/N Sustainability Report 2012-13 123 GAIL (India) Limited Aspect: Materials Materials used by weight or EN1 volume. Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods Does the company have a and services that are mechanism to recycle products safe and contribute Section E: to sustainability and waste? If yes what is the Principle throughout their life Percentage of materials used that percentage of recycling of EN2 2Products 5 L cycle are recycled input materials. products and waste (separately as Life Cycle <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide Principle 6: Business Sustainability details thereof, in about 50 words should respect, or so. protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. Aspect: Energy Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore Direct energy consumption by the environment. EN3 primary energy source. Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. Principle 6: Business should respect, Indirect energy consumption by EN4 protect, and make primary source. efforts to restore the environment. Has the company undertaken any Principle 6: Business Section E: other initiatives on – clean technology, should respect, Energy saved due to conservation EN5 Principle 65 energy efficiency, renewable energy, M protect, and make and efficiency improvements. Environment etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink efforts to restore for web page etc. the environment. Principle 2: Does the company have Businesses should strategies/ initiatives to address provide goods and Section E: global environmental issues such services that are Principle 62 as climate change, global warming, safe and contribute Environment etc? Y/N. If yes, please give to sustainability hyperlink for webpage etc. throughout their life cycle Has the company undertaken any Section E: other initiatives on – clean technology, Initiatives to provide energyPrinciple 65 energy efficiency, renewable energy, efficient or renewable energy Environment etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink EN6 based products and services, and for web page etc. L reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. For each such product, provide the Principle 6: Business following details in respect of resource should respect, use (energy, water, raw material etc.) protect, and make Section E: per unit of product(optional): efforts to restore Principle i. Reduction during sourcing/ the environment. 2Products 2 production/ distribution achieved Life Cycle since the previous year throughout the Sustainability value chain? ii. Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the previous year? 124 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly “For each such product, provide the following details in respect Principle 2: of resource use (energy, water, Businesses should Section E: raw material etc.) per unit of provide goods and Principle product(optional): services that are 2Products 2.i safe and contribute Life Cycle i. Reduction during sourcing/ to sustainability Sustainability production/ distribution achieved throughout their life since the previous year throughout cycle the value chain?” Initiatives to reduce indirect Does the company have EN7 energy consumption and strategies/ initiatives to address L reductions achieved. Section E: global environmental issues such Principle 62 as climate change, global warming, Environment Principle 6: Business etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc. should respect, protect, and make Has the company undertaken efforts to restore any other initiatives on – clean the environment. Section E: technology, energy efficiency, Principle 65 renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, Environment please give hyperlink for web page etc. Aspect: Water For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of Section E: product(optional): Principle 6: Business Principle i. Reduction during sourcing/ should respect, EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 2Products 2 production/ distribution achieved L protect, and make Life Cycle since the previous year throughout efforts to restore Sustainability the value chain? the environment. ii. Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the previous year? Water sources significantly EN9 affected by withdrawal of water. For each such product, provide the following details in respect Section E: of resource use (energy, water, Principle 6: Business Principle raw material etc.) per unit of should respect, Percentage and total volume of product(optional): EN10 2Products 2.ii L protect, and make water recycled and reused. Life Cycle ii. Reduction during usage by efforts to restore Sustainability consumers (energy, water) has the environment. been achieved since the previous year? Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent EN11 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Sustainability Report 2012-13 125 GAIL (India) Limited Principle 6: Business Strategies, current actions, and should respect, EN14 future plans for managing impacts protect, and make on biodiversity. efforts to restore the environment. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Principle 6: Business Total direct and indirect should respect, EN16 greenhouse gas emissions by protect, and make weight. efforts to restore the environment. Principle 6: Business Other relevant indirect should respect, EN17 greenhouse gas emissions by protect, and make weight. efforts to restore the environment. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address Section E: global environmental issues such Principle 62 as climate change, global warming, Environment etc? Y/N. If yes, please give Principle 6: Business Initiatives to reduce greenhouse hyperlink for webpage etc. should respect, EN18 gas emissions and reductions Does the company have any project L protect, and make achieved. related to Clean Development efforts to restore Section E: Mechanism? If so, provide details the environment. Principle 64 thereof, in about 50 words or Environment so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed? Emissions of ozone-depleting EN19 substances by weight. NOx, SOx, and other significant air EN20 emissions by type and weight. Principle 6: Business should respect, Total water discharge by quality EN21 protect, and make and destination. efforts to restore the environment. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products Section E: Principle 6: Business and waste? If yes what is the Principle should respect, Total weight of waste by type and percentage of recycling of EN22 2Products 5 L protect, and make disposal method. products and waste (separately as Life Cycle efforts to restore <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide Sustainability the environment. details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Total number and volume of EN23 significant spills. Weight of transported, imported, Does the company have a mechanism exported, or treated waste Section E: to recycle products and waste? If yes deemed hazardous under the Principle what is the percentage of recycling EN24 terms of the Basel Convention 2Products 5 L of products and waste (separately Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Life Cycle as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide percentage of transported waste Sustainability details thereof, in about 50 words or so. shipped internationally. 126 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN25 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services Does the company have Initiatives to mitigate strategies/ initiatives to address Section E: environmental impacts of global environmental issues such EN26 Principle 62 M products and services, and extent as climate change, global warming, Environment of impact mitigation. etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of Section E: product(optional): Principle i. Reduction during sourcing/ 2Products 2 production/ distribution achieved L Life Cycle since the previous year throughout Sustainability the value chain? ii. Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the previous year? Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products Section E: and waste? If yes what is the Percentage of products sold and Principle percentage of recycling of EN27 their packaging materials that are 2Products 5 L products and waste (separately as reclaimed by category. Life Cycle <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide Sustainability details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN28 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29 for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: Overall Total environmental protection EN30 expenditures and investments by type. Sustainability Report 2012-13 127 GAIL (India) Limited Labor Practices and Decent Work Category Principle 3: Businesses should Section D: BR 2.P3 promote the wellbeing of all Information employees Principle 4: Businesses should Principle 3: respect the interests of, and Businesses should Section D: BR be responsive towards all 2.P4 promote the Information stakeholders, especially those who wellbeing of all are disadvantaged, vulnerable and employees marginalized Principle 3: Principle 8: Businesses should Businesses should Section D: BR 2.P8 support inclusive growth and promote the Information equitable development wellbeing of all employees Section D: BR 2.1 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Information Has the policy being formulated Section D: BR 2.2 in consultation with the relevant Information stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Section D: BR 2.3 national /international standards? Information If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved DMA Section D: BR by the Board? Is yes, has it been M 2.4 Information signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a Section D: BR specified committee of the Board/ 2.5 Information Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Section D: BR Indicate the link for the policy to be 2.6 Information viewed online? Has the policy been formally Section D: BR 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house Section D: BR 2.8 structure to implement the policy/ Information policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 2.10 Information the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? 128 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Aspect: Employment Section E: Principle 3Please indicate the Total number of 1 Employee's employees. well being Principle 3: Section E: Please indicate the Total number Businesses should Total workforce by employment Principle 32 of employees hired on temporary/ promote the LA1 type, employment contract, and Employee's M contractual/casual basis. wellbeing of all region, broken down by gender. well being employees Principle 3: Section E: Businesses should Principle 3Please indicate the Number of 3 promote the Employee's permanent women employees. wellbeing of all well being employees Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 turnover by age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided LA3 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Return to work and retention LA15 rates after parental leave, by gender. Aspect: Labor/management relations Section E: Do you have an employee Principle 35 association that is recognized by L Employee's Percentage of employees management. well being LA4 covered by collective bargaining agreements. Section E: What percentage of your Principle 3permanent employees is members 6 M Employee's of this recognized employee well being association? Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety Section E: Percentage of total workforce Do you have an employee Principle represented in formal joint 5 association that is recognized by L 3Employee’s management-worker health management. well being LA6 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on Section E: What percentage of your occupational health and safety Principle 3permanent employees is members 6 M programs. Employee's of this recognized employee well being association? Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Sustainability Report 2012-13 129 GAIL (India) Limited Health and safety topics covered LA9 in formal agreements with trade unions. Aspect: Training and Education What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety & skill up-gradation training in the last year? Principle 3: Section E: Average hours of training per year Businesses should Principle 3• Permanent Employees LA10 per employee by gender, and by 8 L promote the Employee's employee category. • Permanent Women Employees wellbeing of all well being • Casual/Temporary/Contractual employees Employees • Employees with Disabilities What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety & skill up-gradation training Programs for skills management in the last year? Principle 3: Section E: and lifelong learning that support Businesses should Principle • Permanent Employees LA11 the continued employability of 9 L promote the 3Employee’s employees and assist them in • Permanent Women Employees wellbeing of all well being managing career endings. • Casual/Temporary/Contractual employees Employees • Employees with Disabilities Percentage of employees receiving regular performance LA12 and career development reviews, by gender. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Section E: Composition of governance Principle Please indicate the Number of 3 bodies and breakdown of 3Employee’s permanent women employees. employees per employee category well being LA13 M according to gender, age group, Section E: minority group membership, and Please indicate the Number Principle other indicators of diversity. 4 of permanent employees with 3Employee’s disabilities well being Aspect: Equal Remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 employee category, by significant locations of operation. 130 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Human Rights Category Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and Section D: BR be responsive towards all 2.P4 Information stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized Principle 5: Businesses should Section D: BR Principle 5: Businesses should 2.P5 respect and Information respect and promote human rights promote human rights. Principle 8: Businesses should Section D: BR 2.P8 support inclusive growth and Information equitable development Section D: BR 2.1 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Information Has the policy being formulated Section D: BR 2.2 in consultation with the relevant Information stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Section D: BR 2.3 national /international standards? Information If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved DMA Section D: BR by the Board? Is yes, has it been M 2.4 Information signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a Section D: BR specified committee of the Board/ 2.5 Information Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Section D: BR Indicate the link for the policy to be 2.6 Information viewed online? Has the policy been formally Section D: BR 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house Section D: BR 2.8 structure to implement the policy/ Information policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 2.10 Information the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that HR1 include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Sustainability Report 2012-13 131 GAIL (India) Limited Principle 2: Businesses should Percentage of significant provide goods and suppliers, contractors and services that are HR2 other business partners that safe and contribute have undergone human rights to sustainability screening, and actions taken. throughout their life cycle Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human HR3 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination Principle 5: Total number of incidents of Businesses should HR4 discrimination and corrective respect and actions taken. promote human rights. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective Bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom HR5 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child Labor Principle 2: Operations and significant Businesses should suppliers identified as having provide goods and significant risk for incidents of services that are HR6 child labour, and measures taken safe and contribute to contribute to the effective to sustainability abolition of child labour. throughout their life cycle Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Principle 2: Operations and significant Please indicate the Number of Businesses should suppliers identified as having Section E: complaints relating to child labour, provide goods and significant risk for incidents of Principle forced labour, involuntary labour, services that are HR7 forced or compulsory labour, and 7 L 3Employee’s sexual harassment in the last safe and contribute measures to contribute to the well being financial year and pending, as on to sustainability elimination of all forms of forced the end of the financial year. throughout their life or compulsory labour. cycle Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights Principle 5: Total number of incidents of Businesses should violations involving rights of HR9 respect and indigenous people and actions promote human taken. rights. 132 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Aspect: Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject HR10 to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Aspect: Remediation Please indicate the Number of Principle 3: Number of grievances related to Section E: complaints relating to child labour, Businesses should human rights filed, addressed and Principle forced labour, involuntary labour, 7 promote the resolved through formal grievance 3Employee’s sexual harassment in the last wellbeing of all mechanisms. well being financial year and pending, as on employees the end of the financial year. S.No. Category HR11 L No of complaints filed during the financial year Principle 5: Section E: Businesses should Section E: Principle 3Employee’s Principle No of complaints pending as on end 8 respect and well being 3Employee’s of the financial year promote human well being 1. Child labour/forced labour/ rights. involuntary labour 2. Sexual harassment 3. Discriminatory employment Society Category Principle 1: Businesses should Section D: BR conduct and govern themselves 2.P1 Information with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Principle 8: Businesses Principle 7: Businesses, when should support Section D: BR engaged in influencing public and inclusive growth 2.P7 Information regulatory policy, should do so in a and equitable responsible manner development. Principle 8: Businesses Principle 8: Businesses should Section D: BR should support 2.P8 support inclusive growth and Information inclusive growth equitable development and equitable development. DMA Section D: BR M 2.1 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Information Has the policy being formulated Section D: BR 2.2 in consultation with the relevant Information stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Section D: BR 2.3 national /international standards? Information If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved Section D: BR by the Board? Is yes, has it been 2.4 Information signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a Section D: BR specified committee of the Board/ 2.5 Information Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Section D: BR Indicate the link for the policy to be 2.6 Information viewed online? Sustainability Report 2012-13 133 GAIL (India) Limited Has the policy been formally Section D: BR 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house Section D: BR 2.8 structure to implement the policy/ Information policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 2.10 Information the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? Section E: Does the company have specified Principle programmes/initiatives/projects 1 8Inclusive in pursuit of the policy related to growth Principle 8? If yes details thereof. Are the programmes/projects Section E: undertaken through in-house Principle 2 team/own foundation/external 8Inclusive NGO/government structures/any growth other organization? Section E: Principle Have you done any impact 3 8Inclusive assessment of your initiative? growth Section E: Does the policy relating to ethics, Principle bribery and corruption cover 1-Ethics, only the company? Yes/ No. Does 1 Transparency it extend to the Group/Joint and Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/ Accountability NGOs /Others? Aspect: Local communities What is your company’s direct Section E: contribution to community Principle 4 development projectsAmount in Principle 8: 8Inclusive Percentage of operations with INR and the details of the projects Businesses growth implemented local community undertaken. should support SO1 L engagement, impact assessments, Have you taken steps to ensure inclusive growth and development programs. Section E: and equitable that this community development Principle development. 5 initiative is successfully adopted 8Inclusive by the community? Please explain growth in 50 words, or so. Operations with significant SO9 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. What is your company’s direct Section E: contribution to community Principle 4 development projectsAmount in Principle 8: Prevention and mitigation 8Inclusive INR and the details of the projects Businesses measures implemented in growth undertaken. should support SO10 operations with significant M Have you taken steps to ensure inclusive growth potential or actual negative Section E: that this community development and equitable impacts on local communities. Principle 5 initiative is successfully adopted development. 8Inclusive by the community? Please explain growth in 50 words, or so. 134 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Aspect: Corruption Percentage and total number of SO2 business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained SO3 in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Section E: How many stakeholder complaints Principle have been received in the past Actions taken in response to 1-Ethics, financial year and what percentage SO4 2 L incidents of corruption. Transparency was satisfactorily resolved by the and management? If so, provide details Accountability thereof, in about 50 words or so. Aspect: Public Policy Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in Public policy positions and influencing public SO5 participation in public policy and regulatory development and lobbying. policy, should do so in a responsible manner. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices, Total number of legal actions for Section E: irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour, antiPrinciple SO7 3 anti-competitive behaviour during M trust, and monopoly practices and 9Customer the last five years and pending their outcomes. Value as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Sustainability Report 2012-13 135 GAIL (India) Limited Product Responsibility Category Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services Section D: BR 2.P2 that are safe and contribute to Information sustainability throughout their life cycle Principle 9: Businesses should Section D: BR engage with and provide value to 2.P9 Information their customers and consumers in a responsible manner Section D: BR 2.1 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Information Has the policy being formulated Section D: BR 2.2 in consultation with the relevant Information stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Section D: BR 2.3 national /international standards? Information If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved Section D: BR by the Board? Is yes, has it been 2.4 Information signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director? DMA M Does the company have a Section D: BR specified committee of the Board/ 2.5 Information Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Section D: BR Indicate the link for the policy to be 2.6 Information viewed online? Has the policy been formally Section D: BR 2.7 communicated to all relevant Information internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house Section D: BR 2.8 structure to implement the policy/ Information policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism Section D: BR 2.9 related to the policy/policies to Information address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out Section D: BR independent audit/evaluation of 2.10 Information the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? Aspect: Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Principle 9: Total number of incidents of nonSection E: List up to 3 of your products Businesses should compliance with regulations and Principle or services whose design engage with and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 2Products 1 has incorporated social or L provide value to and safety impacts of products Life Cycle environmental concerns, risks and/ their customers and services during their life cycle, Sustainability or opportunities. and consumers in a by type of outcomes. responsible manner. 136 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Aspect: Product and service labelling Principle 9: Type of product and service Does the company display product Businesses should information required by Section E: information on the product label, engage with and procedures, and percentage of Principle PR3 2 over and above what is mandated M provide value to significant products and services 9Customer as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. / their customers subject to such information Value Remarks(additional information) and consumers in a requirements. responsible manner. Section E: What percentage of customer Principle complaints/consumer cases are 1 9Customer pending as on the end of financial Value year. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company Principle 9: regarding unfair trade practices, Total number of incidents of Section E: Businesses should irresponsible advertising and/or non-compliance with regulations Principle engage with and 3 anti-competitive behaviour during PR4 and voluntary codes concerning 9Customer L provide value to the last five years and pending product and service information Value their customers as on end of financial year. If so, and labelling, by type of outcomes. and consumers in a provide details thereof, in about 50 responsible manner. words or so. Section E: List up to 3 of your products Principle or services whose design 2Products 1 has incorporated social or Life Cycle environmental concerns, risks and/ Sustainability or opportunities. Principle 9: Businesses should Practices related to customer Section E: Did your company carry out any engage with and satisfaction, including results Principle PR5 4 consumer survey/ consumer M provide value to of surveys measuring customer 9Customer satisfaction trends? their customers satisfaction. Value and consumers in a responsible manner. Aspect: Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Sustainability Report 2012-13 137 GAIL (India) Limited Way Forward With this report, we have completed sites but also improving time the future” our 2nd report for FY 11a three year run in our sustainability efficiency. Going forward we 12 stressing on inclusivity to create journey. We realize that though will also consider the review of value for all our stakeholders; we have taken significant steps in Sustainability Aspirations 2020 in “Energising Tomorrow Responsibly” right direction, a strict monitoring line with best practices adopted by moves ahead from good intention and managing of our sustainability the industry to commitment towards roadmap targets is imperative to effectively to behave responsibly by taking Several social responsibility succeed and exceed our targets. concrete actions. With the highest programs have been undertaken status of Maharatna (meaning a Our sustainability journey during in light to strengthening the local colossal jewel) for Indian Public the last three years has been economy and bringing prosperity in Sector enterprise being accorded really enthralling and exciting. We the local communities. In addition, to GAIL, we believe the onus lies believe that in this nascent stage we conduct needs assessment and upon us as a responsible corporate we have achieved quite a number impact assessment of our social citizen to be a part of driving the of milestones such as being one of initiatives. We have been associated change to create a better tomorrow the first Public sector enterprise to with MoPNG, DGH, PNGRB, OISD, for all stakeholders and also develop and transparently disclose FICCI, TERI, ASSOCHAM and creates a legacy for others to track. our Sustainability Policy, taking KPMG to name a few. We continue several sustainability projects to communicate our progress as a As we progress towards achieving and initiatives at sites, forming signatory to United Nations Global 100% awareness amongst a robust governance structure Compact. employees on sustainability ingraining sustainability from aspects and streamlining our GAIL is also the only PSU among Board-room to shop-floor and engagement process, employees Oil & Gas sector to recently many more. Being one among the lying at the core of our business become one of the 10 exclusive few companies, we have shown our process shall be instrumental in founding members of the GRI commitment by setting targets bringing this change. (Global Reporting Initiative) Focal for ourselves & transparently Point India’s Sustainability and If you would like to share with us disclosing to all our stakeholders Transparency Consortium. We have your constructive feedback on how through “Sustainability Aspirations been selected as one of the 100 GAIL can shape the future towards 2020”. While progressing forward, companies for the UNGC CEO 2013 betterment of all, queries can be we realize that it is imperative Study for Global Sustainability directed to: to track our performance. We Report, 2013 by United Nations. have incorporated these targets ÎÎ Mr. Santanu Roy at the individual department With an eventful run in the past General Manager level through IMoU to bring three years, we remain committed (Corporate Planning) accountability. We have developed to ingrain sustainability within the at sroy@gail.co.in in-house e-Sustainability module organization working and culture. which ensures that we effectively Starting with our first report, “Value ÎÎ Mr. R K Singh measure our performance. The Beyond Business” for FY 10-11, Chief Manager module not only aids in providing highlighting on the responsible way (Corporate Planning) authenticated data from across we conduct our business, “Shaping at rk.singh@gail.co.in 138 Energising Tomorrow, Responsibly Sustainability Report 2012-13
