KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL CBD THE GREEN METROPOLIS FIC A MAGNIF WIT ITHIN A CITY ENT CITY WITHIN ICE MAGNIFICENT SUSTAINABI SUSTAINABILITY ILI LITY TY REPORT 2013 KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL CBD THE GREEN METROPOLIS MRCB has long been at the forefront of sustainable development, most notably in its portfolio of transit hub oriented projects. Its masterplan for Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD continues to unfold, heralding a remarkable urban transformation that is being recognised by industry watchers and a worldwide audience. Indeed, Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD is both the showcase and the benchmark for the next level of green design, innovation and environmental sensitivity. This year’s annual report focuses on eight green buildings in Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD that are not only magniﬁcent examples of high standards of green development, but also represent MRCB’s accomplishments and aspiration of being one of the top green developers in the country. 2 Our Approach to Reporting 3 About MRCB 16 CSR at MRCB 18 Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact 26 Corporate Governance CONTENTS 32 Environment 46 Community 56 Workplace 74 Marketplace COVERAGE The MRCB Sustainability Report covers the entire organisation and includes quantitative and qualitative data for 2013. Where OUR APPROACH group-wide information was unavailable, selected site data has been used. Some indicators are partial and only relate to TO REPORTING certain divisions or activities as indicated in the text. PRINCIPAL GUIDELINES This is the seventh Sustainability Report produced by Malaysian GRI-G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Framework Resources Corporation Berhad (MRCB). This report covers its responsibilities to stakeholders and the contributions the ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES Company has made to sustainable development. • Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ABOUT THIS REPORT Framework • Silver Book: The Putrajaya Committee GLC Transformation This Sustainability Report is consistent with MRCB’s Annual Manual Report and previous sustainability reports. This report • ACCA Malaysia Sustainable Reporting Guidelines for continues to feature Disclosures on Management Approach Malaysian Companies (DMA) and provides information on the nature of business in • ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility each area of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. This report provides a clear, comprehensive and transparent RELIABILITY OF INFORMATION DISCLOSED representation of the Company’s performance in managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of its operations. The report’s reliability has been examined by SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd (SIRIM) and assessed by the GRI for how Information on MRCB’s sustainability practices during the comprehensively the GRI-G3.1 guidelines have been applied year has been collated. Consideration has been given to issues to achieve a top application level of A+. MRCB’s assurance affecting direct and indirect stakeholders, which include approach is completely transparent, bias-free and independent. employees, shareholders, the surrounding community and SIRIM’s conclusions are presented in an Assurance Statement general public. The data is presented in the most accurate which can be found at the end of this report. There is no manner possible, using quantitative indicators where relevant. conﬂict of interest between the report preparation process and veriﬁcation process. In keeping with international best practice, ideas have been adopted from the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility. FEEDBACK Feedback from stakeholders, including the GRI and the judging panels of various Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) This report is available to all stakeholders in hard copy on awards, has been taken into consideration. request and can be downloaded from MRCB’s corporate website. For further information and comments please contact: MRCB’s transparency efforts are not limited to this report. Other material issues such as Corporate Governance and MOHAINI MOHD YUSOF detailed data of internal operations and business activities are reported in the Annual Report and are not repeated here. General Manager Head of Corporate Communications SCOPE OF REPORT Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad Level 22, 1 Sentral, REPORTING PERIOD Jalan Travers, Kuala Lumpur Sentral PO BOX 12640 January 1st to December 31st 2013 50470 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia REPORTING CYCLE Tel: +603 2786 8080 Annually Fax: +603 2780 5883 www.mrcb.com 2 3 ABOUT MRCB MRCB is a private limited company that was incorporated in National Transmission Grid in Peninsular Malaysia and the Malaysia on 21 August 1968 under the name of Perak Carbide 273 km Sabah East West Interconnection Grid. The Company Corporation Sdn Bhd. Subsequently, MRCB was listed on the was responsible for a 48 km road upgrade to four lane dual stock exchange in Malaysia on 22 March 1971 and is presently carriageway on Federal Route 5 between Ipoh and Lumut in listed on the Main Market of Bursa Securities. On 12 October Perak and is a turnkey contractor for retail and commercial 1981, the Company assumed its present name. properties. MRCB is principally an investment holding company. MRCB INFRASTRUCTURE, CONCESSION & ENVIRONMENT also engages in construction related activities, infrastructure, DIVISION (“ICE”) property development and investment, and provision of management services to its subsidiaries. Through its ICE is a division that excels in high proﬁt margin works subsidiaries, associated companies and jointly-controlled involving infrastructure developments with concession rights companies, the Company is also involved in property and environment based projects. ICE’s main toll concession development and investment, building services, environmental rights are the Duta-Ulu Klang Expressway (DUKE) and Eastern engineering, infrastructure and engineering and construction Dispersal Link (EDL). The success of its coastline and river related activities. rehabilitation projects has restored the degraded beaches and rivers in Pulau Pinang and Pahang including the tourist beach MRCB LAND on the island of Tioman, Pahang. ICE is currently working to rehabilitate three rivers: the Perai River in Pulau Pinang, MRCB Land is the property division of MRCB that currently Pahang River and Kuantan River in Pahang. has geographically diversiﬁed developments in Malaysia which are mainly in Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Perak, Pulau FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (FM) Pinang and Negeri Sembilan. The property division has a sustainable track record from the development of ofﬁce and FM was certiﬁed with the MS ISO 9001:2008 Quality commercial developments, high rise residential properties, Management System certiﬁcate for the services that it is retail complexes and a transportation hub. In terms of delivering. FM continues to maintain and manage both building building “Green” buildings, MRCB Land has tenaciously and its facilities (including car parks) for private and public adopted internationally and locally recognised green building sectors such as the EPF, Maybank, Axiata, MIDA, and Stesen design standards for developments in Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sentral Kuala Lumpur. such as the US Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) for 348 Sentral, Green Mark standard of Singapore’s Building and Construction Authority (BCA) for Platinum Sentral and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) for Q Sentral. ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION DIVISION (“E&C”) – PROJECT MANAGEMENT & CONSULTANCY The E&C is a division of the Company that has until recently been the largest revenue contributor. E&C has been active in carrying out a wide range of work including the construction of buildings and roads such as the Permai Psychiatric Hospital, Marlborough College and the Eastern Dispersal Link (EDL) in Johor Bahru. E&C also designed and built the 552 km SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CORPORATE STRUCTURE PROPERTY Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (74%) Unity Portfolio Sdn Bhd (100%) Onesentral Park Sdn Bhd (100%) Prema Bonanza Sdn Bhd (51%) MRCB Utama Sdn Bhd (100%) Malaysian Resources Development Sdn Bhd (100%) Seri Iskandar Development Corporation Sdn Bhd (70%) Bitar Enterprise Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Sentral Properties Sdn Bhd (100%) Sooka Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Excellent Bonanza Sdn Bhd (60%) Cosy Bonanza Sdn Bhd (65.70%) MRCB Land (Australia) Pty Ltd (70%) Nu Sentral Sdn Bhd (51%) 348 Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) 59 Inc Sdn Bhd (100%) Country Annexe Sdn Bhd (70%) Gapurna Land Sdn Bhd (100%) Puncak Wangi Sdn Bhd (100%) Gapurna Builders Sdn Bhd (100%) FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Services Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Parking Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Sentral (Penang) Sdn Bhd (100%) 4 5 ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION MRCB Engineering Sdn Bhd (100%) Milmix Sdn Bhd (100%) Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd (100%) Region Resources Sdn Bhd (100%) Gelanggang Harapan Construction Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Environmental Services Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Environment Sdn Bhd (55%) INFRASTRUCTURE & CONCESSION MRCB Prasarana Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Lingkaran Selatan Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Southern Link Berhad (100%) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MRCB Technologies Sdn Bhd (100%) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ORGANISATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHART AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Group Support Services Corporate Services Accounts & Finance Corporate Communications Taxation Corporate Governance Corporate Finance Legal Corporate Strategy Land Acquisition & Management 6 7 COMPANY SECRETARY Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Security, Health, Safety & Environment Senior Vice President Property Security/Auxiliary Police Infrastructure & Concession Health, Safety & Environment Engineering & Construction Facilities Management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN Welcome to MRCB’s Sustainability Report 2013. Our the way it conducted its businesses, incorporating the green commitment to sustainability and social responsibility is commitment in its property development projects. MRCB is embedded in our daily operations as it is integral to our now synonymous with its sustainable development strategies, ongoing success. At MRCB, we respond to the needs of our with all developments complying with green certiﬁcation bodies stakeholders and the environment, participate positively in such as Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI), the US-based our local communities, invest in our co-workers and create Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), or innovative, sustainable customer solutions. Our values in the Singapore-based BCA Green Mark (BCA). On 9 November turn drive our commitment to these communities and wider 2013, MRCB won the FIABCI Malaysia Property Award under society. Corporate sustainability relates to how an organisation the Sustainable Development category for Platinum Sentral, can operate in a manner that aligns its own growth and its ofﬁce-campus style green building in the Kuala Lumpur development with that of markets, organisations, employees, Sentral Central Business District (CBD). communities and the environment. The need for sustainable development is rapidly becoming a priority across the globe The iconic ofﬁce-campus style Platinum Sentral especially due to constraints associated with the availability Green building of Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD and quality of energy, materials, water, land, food, education, health care and other resources. At MRCB, we believe sustainable progress is made possible by developing better systems that maximise life cycle beneﬁts, while also minimising the economic, social and environmental costs of ownership. This is reﬂected in the sustainability principles we developed over the years. These principles and strategies are featured prominently throughout this report. They show how we apply innovation and technology to improve the sustainability performance of MRCB. In line with our strategic objective to greening the future, our constant endeavour is to reduce the impact our operations have on the environment. MRCB sees the potential in its In its quest for excellence, Semasa Services Sdn Bhd was environmental activities as not only as a business venture but among the ﬁrst ﬁve companies in Malaysia to be certiﬁed with complementing its CSR initiatives to promote eco-friendly ISO 50001 Energy Management System. This certiﬁcation was environments and encourage domestic tourism. In September awarded on 28 June 2013 by SIRIM. This will further expand and 2013, MRCB secured the Sungai Pahang estuary rehabilitation improve the professional delivery of energy services through Phase 3 project in Pekan, Pahang. The contract, worth RM130 better design, construction, operation, maintenance and million, was awarded by the Department of Irrigation and ultimately removal or demolition. In 2013, Semasa Services Drainage. MRCB Environment has received an interim letter of signed an agreement with Phillips Malaysia for the supply of award to rehabilitate Sungai Prai, Penang and a letter of intent LED tubes. This lighting can be ﬁve times more efﬁcient than to rehabilitate Sungai Kuantan, Pahang. conventional lighting, is environmentally safe, has an extended life and is more durable. These characteristics translate into Deemed one of Malaysia’s premier construction players and energy savings. LED tubes have been installed in Stesen urban property developers, MRCB made concerted efforts in Sentral Kuala Lumpur, Plaza Sentral, Sooka Sentral, 1 Sentral 2008 to incorporate sustainable practices into its core business and Kompleks Sentral. DNA. An internal transformation was implemented to enhance 8 9 As a responsible corporate citizen, we work constantly with the in Brickﬁelds with the opening of another MRCB project in the community surrounding our operations to upgrade their living coming years. standards and address their concerns wherever possible. We continue to invest in the PINTAR (Promoting Intelligence, The 1Malaysia Library is a CSR project in Kuala Lumpur Nurturing Talent and Advocating Responsibility) programme championed by MRCB to provide a community-based service. to provide learning opportunities to younger generations. As A computer laboratory that is equipped with special software of 2013, more than 15,000 students have been adopted since for online learning sets this apart from other libraries in MRCB became a member of PINTAR in 2007. These students the country. It contains community rooms that can be used will continue to touch other lives as they progress, mature and by anyone for community activities. To date, MRCB is in the enter the future job market. MRCB’s tradition of caring and process of developing 1Malaysia libraries in Lembah Pantai, giving continued in 2013. Close to 700 school bags, shoes, socks Titiwangsa and Wangsa Maju. These locations have a high and stationery sets were given to underprivileged students concentration of people on low incomes. from its nine adopted PINTAR schools in Pulau Pinang, Perak, Kuala Lumpur, Johor and Pahang. Our education initiatives were expanded by adding SK Pengkalan Jaya to the list of The Pines food court revitalised as adopted schools in 2013. Two schools also graduated from the Pines Bazaar PINTAR programme in 2013: SK Bagan Jemal in Penang and SK Tebrau Bakar Batu in Johor. We also continued contributing to our neighbouring Brickﬁelds community by completing a multi-storey development on the site of the former Pines food court. The building has 140 parking bays on two basement levels. The two ﬂoors of parking help alleviate parking congestion in Little India. The development of Pines Bazaar provided the much-needed space to park and offers visitors and shoppers a clean and orderly place to eat. Brickﬁelds has been transformed into a new cultural and tourism enclave. In total, 3,000 parking bays will be available SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN In the workplace, our focus is providing a safe and healthy work environment for our associates. Our workforce is our key asset and knowledge bank. One of our key objectives is making The Ascott serviced apartments is one of safety an organisational culture where ‘safety ﬁrst’ is MRCB’s Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD’s Green building way of life, empowering associates by making them aware of the risks to help them drive the change. We have adopted the SHASSIC assessment which is an independent method of assessing and evaluating the safety and health performance of a contractor in construction works or projects. Nine SHASSIC assessment programmes were conducted at various MRCB sites in 2013. Five sites were rated four stars, one three stars and the remaining three, two stars. We are planning to conduct four SHASSIC assessments in 2014. The Company is well positioned to deliver further performance improvements, particularly by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts, sustainable project development, responsible supply chain management and safety management. I am proud to invite you to read our 2013 Sustainability Review, which I believe demonstrates MRCB’s commitment to sustainability and our performance in making a real difference. We hope you enjoy reading about our progress and we would welcome your feedback and questions. I congratulate and thank our stakeholders for their commitment, teamwork and determination to do things in a more sustainable way. A green space within Platinum Sentral 10 11 LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement is a key part of CSR and achieving Detailed research and engagement was conducted to the triple bottom line. MRCB employs a variety of methods to understand stakeholders’ priorities and expectations across gauge the social and environmental issues of most importance all business units. This process helps the Company understand in order to improve decision-making and accountability. stakeholders’ concerns, formulate an approach and manage their expectations. The outcome of this study has helped Stakeholder engagement helps align business practices identify potential opportunities and risks that are integral to with societal needs and expectations to drive long-term the business’s success. sustainability and shareholder value. The needs of key stakeholders are at the heart of MRCB’s corporate strategy and business objectives. Stakeholders are informed of the corporate values as well as ongoing and upcoming projects. They are involved in prioritising our strategies moving forward. MRCB embraces open communication with its shareholders as evidenced by the lively two-way discourse during its annual general meetings SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MRCB STAKEHOLDER MAPPING Stakeholder mapping is a technique used to identify key people and organisations to engage with. Those most affected by or who inﬂuence our work are presented in the diagram below. CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS ANALYST / MEDIA INDUSTRY PEERS & INVESTORS VALUE CHAIN COMMUNITY AND EMPLOYEES GOVERNMENT / PARTNERS THE PUBLIC REGULATORY AUTHORITIES 12 13 The main engagement methods employed by MRCB are summarised in the table below. This list is not exhaustive but outlines the core channels of engagement. STAKEHOLDER GROUP METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT MRCB’S APPROACHES CUSTOMERS • Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) • MRCB conducts CSSs for newly • Customer complaints platform completed projects and those it maintains. • MRCB publishes information for its customers and the public in various online and printed media. SHAREHOLDERS & INVESTORS • Results announcement meetings • MRCB holds regular brieﬁngs for • Annual General Meetings investors and analysts. These form part of • Extraordinary General Meetings its Investor Relations initiatives to enter • Regular communication into dialogue with the community and • Investor road shows other constituencies. Potential investors • Reverse road shows and current stakeholders gain conﬁdence in the Company’s management as they are informed and updated of MRCB’s economic position. ANALYST / MEDIA • Regular communication • MRCB engages with its media partners • Media interviews, press release and and analysts regularly at corporate website postings events and launches. First-hand project • Ofﬁcial launches and events information is supplied. • Open dialogue INDUSTRY PEERS • Conference and meetings • The Annual Report, Sustainability Report • Industry workshops and corporate website provide up-to-date • Networking events information on company performance, the event calendar and other developments. VALUE CHAIN PARTNERS • Contract bidding and procurement • Fair and transparent procurement management practices are practised. Tender • Training and communication procedures incorporate elements of • Site visits sustainability and do not only focus on technical expertise and price. COMMUNITY AND THE PUBLIC • Community engagement • MRCB contributes to society regularly • Philanthropic activities especially local communities by improving • Open dialogue living standards. Social contributions extend beyond philanthropic activities. MRCB conducts an internship programme for the mutual beneﬁt of the organisation and society. In 2013, MRCB also collected money for various causes at KL Sentral. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MRCB STAKEHOLDER MAPPING STAKEHOLDER GROUP METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT MRCB’S APPROACHES EMPLOYEES • Employee representatives and • All best practices are employed in the committee meetings workplace including competitive beneﬁts, • Employee grievance system career advancement opportunities, work• Employee training life balance and most importantly a safe • Employee satisfaction survey working environment. • Quarterly newsletters • Intranet • Management meetings • Other events including an annual dinner, functions and informal gatherings GOVERNMENT / REGULATORY • Regular communication • Each department is responsible AUTHORITIES • Reports and compliance for compliance with all relevant regulations. Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD is continuously improved through certiﬁcation from local and international bodies including the US Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED); Singapore-based Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark; and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI). In society, MRCB supports the Government’s SL1M Management Training Programme which trains graduates making them more employable. The roof top of Nu Sentral mall reﬂects its status as Malaysia’s ﬁrst truly Green retail mall 14 15 MATERIALITY MAPPING Stakeholders’ key issues and areas of interest were identiﬁed through MRCB’s engagement platforms. A materiality matrix maps these issues against the level of impact on the business and MRCB’s stakeholders. The salient points of this mapping exercise are presented below. A combination of external stakeholder engagement and internal strategic alignment adds transparency and credibility to the process. MRCB focuses on long-term value drivers of its business and stakeholders at large. LEVEL OF MATERIALITY STAKEHOLDERS’ CONCERNS MRCB’S APPROACHES HIGH MATERIAL Quality Delivering the highest quality standards to customers, MRCB’s stringent quality processes monitors the quality of a project at each stage of its operations. Environmental impact from projects MRCB acknowledges that the nature of its business creates an impact on the environment. Various measures are being taken to minimise these impacts. Green building projects incorporate features outlined by local and international green standards including the GBI, LEED and BCA. Engagement with stakeholders MRCB ensures that stakeholders are updated regularly on ongoing and upcoming projects through various communication channels. Its communication practices ensure transparent and efﬁcient two-way communications. MEDIUM MATERIAL Employees welfare at work MRCB recognises that employees are instrumental to its success. Great opportunities are provided to employees to grow with the Company, reward their achievements and protect their wellbeing. MRCB as a good corporate citizen MRCB is committed to developing the nation by providing sustainable infrastructure. Monetary and non-ﬁnancial contributions are extended to the local community as MRCB’s direct stakeholders. LOW MATERIAL Freedom of association and collective Although MRCB does not have a union, bargaining employees’ rights to join any union of their choice are respected. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CSR AT MRCB MRCB is committed to contributing to the nation’s growth and interests in tandem with its core business activities. The Group provides monetary and in-kind social assistance to society, needy individuals and the nation. This assistance enhances their qualities of life and aligns development goals with the Government’s principles of sustainable development. The CSR guidelines below are applicable to all companies and subsidiaries under MRCB. FOUR CORE ACTIVITIES IT DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL AND CHARITABLE EDUCATION ORGANISATIONS MRCB’S CSR FOCUS COMMUNITY PROJECT 16 17 • IT DEVELOPMENT • NATIONAL AND CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS Sponsorship of IT programmes – computer literacy • National organisations campaign focusing on rural people, schools and • Malaysian Government endorsed charity activities orphanages. In-kind contributions are made to relevant • Relevant ministries’ activities schools and orphanages. Donations consist of computers, • Local orphanages printers, scanners and other necessities. • Organisations for the disabled • Relevant foundations recognised by the Malaysian Government • Entrepreneurial activities organised by the National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Malaysia, • EDUCATION Malay Chamber of Commerce Malaysia or relevant • Establish a Resource Centre – providing used books associations and newspaper distributions to selected schools • Recognised charitable organisations and orphanages situated within the vicinity of MRCB projects. • High Achievers Awards – monetary incentives to best students who are children of MRCB employees. • COMMUNITY PROJECTS • Charitable programmes close to MRCB projects, namely Majlis Berbuka Puasa, as well as donations to suraus and mosques, Majlis Kesyukuran/Doa Selamat on completion of MRCB projects. • Visits to old folk’s homes, donations to poor families and orphanages, activities and the disabled. • Blood donation campaign by MRCB employees, gotong-royong and other activities that enhance society’s needs approved by the Director General of Inland Revenue, Malaysia. • Commitment by MRCB to help in the construction and equipping of three 1Malaysia Libraries. These libraries will be developed at locations with a high concentration of the poor in Lembah Pantai, Titiwangsa and Wangsa Maju. Although this commitment was made in 2012 by the Ministry of Federal Territories and Urban Wellbeing, these projects are ongoing. MRCB hopes to report on the progress of these libraries in the next Sustainability Report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT MRCB became a signatory of the UN Global Compact on 4 September 2008. The UN Global Compact works towards the vision of a sustainable and inclusive global economy which delivers lasting beneﬁts to people, communities and markets. MRCB has aligned its operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact’s ten principles enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18 19 MRCB SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY While MRCB has experienced tremendous growth over the past years, its basic core values and strong business ethics continue to be the foundation for business success. Operating responsibly is important for ensuring a long-term sustainable future for the business, investors and society as a whole. MRCB is proud to share the various milestones and achievements the Company has achieved to date. PROJECTS YEAR VALUE OBJECTIVE VALUE OF SOCIETY MARKETPLACE GREEN BUILDING 2008 current • Enhance brand presence • Long-term beneﬁts INITIATIVES IN KL • Support Government’s for building owners, SENTRAL CBD: agenda occupants and tenants • Menara Shell • Promote sustainability • Promote sustainable • Platinum Sentral • Efﬁcient and energy development and • Nu Sentral saving building manage climate • Q Sentral change • The Sentral Residences • Nu Towers • Menara CIMB • 1 Sentrum ENVIRONMENT BEACH, RIVER 2003 current • Preserve the • Increase the economic AND COASTLINE environment livelihoods of REHABILITATION: • Showcase MRCB’s communities • Kg Tekek, Tioman expertise and brand • Bagan Ajam, Seberang presence Perai • Support Government • Kuala Sg. Pahang efforts COMMUNITY LITTLE INDIA 2010 – current • Enhance stakeholders • Improved infrastructure • Rejuvenation of goodwill • Renewed tourism Brickﬁelds’ aging • Business opportunities potentials buildings • Brand positioning • Business opportunities • Overall beautiﬁcation, • Neighbourhood • Restoration of culture road works and enrichment and heritage infrastructure • Enhanced real estate development value • On-going sponsorship of security and fountain maintenance • Promote knowledge culture PERPUSTAKAAN 2013 • Brand presence • Focal point for 1MALAYSIA: • Goodwill for local community gathering • Lembah Pantai community • State-of-the-art, secure • Titiwangsa and conducive facility • Wangsa Maju SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 AWARDS & As one of the leading property and engineering & construction players in the country, MRCB advocates the highest level of RECOGNITIONS excellence in developing all of its projects. This approach beneﬁts its clients, purchasers and business partners. MRCB’s depth of technical and technological expertise underpins the Group’s array of credentials. This position is strengthened by the attainment of quality certiﬁcations that are recognised by highly renowned local and international quality certiﬁcation authorities. MRCB GROUP 5th Malaysian Business Award 2013 • Industry Excellence National Annual Corporate Report Awards 2013 • Finalist (Overall) Malaysia Achievement Awards 2012 Special Organisation Achievement Category National Annual Corporate Report Awards 2012 Finalist (Overall) BrandLaureate Awards 2011 • Conglomerate Awards ACCA Masra 2011 • Shortlisted Stevie International Business Awards 2011 • Distinguished Honoree for Best Corporate Social Responsibility Programme of the Year in Asia (subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) for PINTAR programme 20 21 The Edge Billion Ringgit Club 2011 • Member NACRA Award 2010 • Best Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Award – Silver Award ACCA MaSRA 2010 • Shortlisted Asean Business Awards (Innovation) 2010 • 1st Runner Up Stevie International Business Awards 2010 • Distinguished Honoree for Best Corporate Social Responsibility Programme of the Year in Asia (subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) for the MRCB Arts Awards 2008/2009 PM CSR Award 2009 • Honourable Mention – Culture & Heritage ACCA MaSRA 2009 • Winner – Environmental Performance Report ACCA MaSRA 2009 • Special Mention – Assurance Approach NACRA Award 2009 • Best Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Award – Silver Award Member • The Edge Billion Ringgit Club 2010 StarBIZ ICR Malaysia Corporate Responsibility Awards 2009 • Finalist – Marketplace Category NACRA Award 2008 • Best Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Award – Platinum Award StarBIZ – ICR Malaysia Corporate Responsibility Awards 2008 • Finalist – Community Category SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 AWARDS & RECOGNITIONS PROPERTY KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL SDN BHD FIABCI Malaysia Chapter Property Awards for Green Sustainable Development Category 2013 • Winner – Platinum Sentral The Edge-PAM Green Excellence Awards 2012 • Green Building – Platinum Sentral Editors Choice Property Awards 2012 • Best Green Ofﬁce Development – Platinum Sentral • Best Green Initiative – Platinum Sentral • Best Integrated Development – Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD Stevie International Business Awards 2011 • Distinguished Honoree for the Environmental Responsibility Programme of the year in Asia (subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) for the Green Building Initiative FIABCI International Prix d’Excellence Awards for PurposeBuilt Development Category 2010 • 1st Runner-up – Sooka Sentral Lifestyle Centre FIABCI Malaysia Chapter Property Awards for Purpose-Built Development Category 2009 • Winner – Sooka Sentral Lifestyle Centre 2009 FIABCI Malaysia Property CEO of the Year Award • Datuk Shahril Ridza Ridzuan, formerly Group Managing Director of MRCB FIABCI International Prix d’Excellence Awards 2009 for Ofﬁce Development Category • 1st Runner-up – 1 Sentral FIABCI Malaysia Chapter Property Awards for Ofﬁce Development 2008 • Winner – 1 Sentral Islamic Finance News Award Musyarakah Deal of the Year 2007 • Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD 22 23 Malaysia’s First MSC Cybercentre in 2006 • Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD FIABCI International Prix d’Excellence Awards for Specialised and Public Sector Category 2003 • Finalist – Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur Best Steel Roof Design and Honorary Mention for Excellence in Architecture (PAM) for 2002 & 2003 • Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur FIABCI Malaysia Chapter Property Award for Specialised and Public Sector Category 2002 • Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur PAM 2002 Awards for Excellence in Architecture • Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur MRCB Sentral Properties Sdn Bhd • MS ISO 9001:2000 FACILITIES MANAGEMENT • Certiﬁcation to ISO 9001:2000 under the provision of corporate service covering corporate affairs and business development, ﬁnance, legal affairs and human resource, administration and quality on 16 November 2007 Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd • Building Gemilang Decoration Competition 2011 – 1st place • “Best Facilities Management Company in Asia Paciﬁc”: Asia Paciﬁc Excellent Standard Award (APBEST) – organised by APBEST Academy, Hong Kong in December 2008 • “Best Operation Driver of The Year”: Mohamed Roslan Mohamed Shariff, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, SSSB – Asia Paciﬁc Excellent Standard Award (APBEST) – organised by APBEST Academy, Hong Kong in December 2008 • Human Resource Development Award 2008; Medium and Small Service Industry by the Human Resource Development in October 2008 • Re-certiﬁcation to MS ISO 9001:2000 QMS in March 2006 • Transportation Project Award by Eastern Asia Society of Transportation Studies • Public Toilet Cleanliness Competition organised by Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur (DBKL) – 1st place for Year 2004 and 2005 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 AWARDS & RECOGNITIONS • Shortlist for QMEA 2004 Award for Category 1 (Local Company With Annual Sales Not Exceeding RM10 Million) organised by Ministry of International Trade & Industry (MITI) • Special Award for Quality Management Excellence 2005 organised by MITI Semasa Services Sdn Bhd • Certiﬁcation to MS ISO 9001:2000 QMS in March 2006 • 1st Runner up in the ASEAN Energy Management Best Practice Competition for Building Category on 23 August 2007 Semasa Security Sdn Bhd • SIRIM ISO 9001:2000 Provision of Static Security Services for Sooka Sentral and KWSP Building Damansara Fairway 1 MRCB Technologies Sdn Bhd Accreditation • MS ISO 9001:2000 • MSC Status Incubator Licenses • MOF (Bumiputera Status) • CIDB G7 • PKK Class A • Tabung Haji • Telekom, Celcom, Maxis, TT dotcom • Ministry of Defence, Malaysia • TNB, SESB, KTMB, SPNB • MCMC ASP (C) • Boustead Naval Shipyard INFRASTRUCTURE & CONCESSION MRCB Lingkaran Selatan Sdn Bhd • The Asset Asian Awards 2008, Triple A under the Best Project Finance for RM1.26 Billion Sukuk & Syndicated loan MRCB Prasarana Sdn Bhd License • CIDB G7 • Quality Management System SIRIM ISO 9001:2000 24 25 MRCB Environment Sdn Bhd • Stevie International Business Awards 2010 Distinguished Honoree for Best Environmental Responsibility Programme of the Year for the River and Beach Rehabilitation Project at Teluk Bay, Tioman Island 2008/2009 License • CIDB G7 • Quality Management System SIRIM ISO 9001:2008 ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd Accreditation • MS ISO 9001:2000 Licenses • PKK Class 1 Electrical • PKK Class 1 Bumiputera Status • CIDB G7 • Petronas, TNB, SESB • Ministry of Finance, Malaysia MILMIX Sdn Bhd Accreditation • MS ISO 9001:2000 License • CIDB G7 MRCB Engineering Sdn Bhd Accreditation • MS ISO 9001:2000 Licenses • PKK Class A • CIDB G7 • JPP Class D • Bank Negara Malaysia SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors of MRCB (“the Board”) remains The Board believes that its composition and size enabled it committed to achieving the highest standards of business to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively and integrity, ethics and professionalism across the activities of competently. From time to time, the Nomination Committee MRCB and its subsidiaries (“the Group”). The Board ﬁrmly of the Board reviews the mix of skills, knowledge, experience believes that sound Corporate Governance practices are and independence of its members. The Board is satisﬁed that essential for ensuring sustainable business performance and there have been no compromises to the independence of the value creation for the company’s shareholders. In this regard, Independent Directors in 2013. As a matter of policy, the Board the Board and the management team remain committed has established that the tenure of Independent Directors shall to ensuring that good Corporate Governance practices are not exceed a cumulative term of 12 years. The Board believes implemented throughout the Group and that these practices that this tenure provides a balance of effectiveness and are reﬁned and improved to ensure their continued relevance independence that is appropriate for the Group. In this regard, and effectiveness in meeting the challenges of its dynamic on 10 January 2014, Dato’ Ahmad Ibnihajar resigned from the business environment. Board as he had served as an Independent Director for more than 12 years. The Board also recognises the importance of MRCB’S BOARD STRUCTURE gender diversity and on 6 March 2014, the Board had appointed Puan Rohaya Mohammad Yusof to the Board. Composition of Members APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD AND RE-ELECTION OF As at 31 December 2013, the MRCB Board had nine members: DIRECTORS the Chairman (Non-Independent Non-Executive), one Executive Director and seven Non-Executive Directors. Five The Nomination Committee is entrusted with the responsibility of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are Independent of assessing capable candidates to be appointed as members Directors and two are Non-Independent Non-Executive of the Board. In assessing the suitability of candidates for Directors. membership to the Board, the Nomination Committee takes into consideration the background, skills, experience, time The members of the Board bring with them a diversity commitment and the potential contribution of the candidates to and depth of experience in corporate strategy, ﬁnance, the Board and to the current and future business requirements business management, property development and property of the Group. management. Together with their strong networking in the public and private sectors, the members of the Board provide All newly appointed Directors shall hold ofﬁce only until the effective oversight and strategic leadership to the management next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for team. re-election. This requirement is set out in Article 106 of the Company’s Articles of Association. Additionally, Articles 101 From 1 January 2013 up to 1 September 2013, the Independent and 102 of the Company’s Articles of Association require that Directors constituted 71% of the Board. However, with the at least one third of the Directors retire by rotation, and the appointment of Tan Sri Mohamad Salim Fateh Din and Dato’ retiring Directors each year are those who have been in ofﬁce Ishak Haji Mohamed to the Board on 2 September 2013 and the longest since their appointment or re-election. 28 October 2013 respectively, as at 31 December 2013, the Independent Directors constituted 56% of the Board. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Independent Directors provide objectivity during Board The Board oversees the business and affairs of the Group deliberations and ensure that decisions made are in the best and is principally responsible for strategic planning, risk interests of the company. management, succession planning and oversight of operations. It is also responsible for reviewing the adequacy of the 26 27 management information and internal control systems of the the Chairman, the most Senior Independent Director, Group. The Board is guided by a Charter which was reviewed Dato’ Ahmad Ibnihajar, chaired the Board meetings. and adopted on 20 November 2012. Amongst others, the Board Charter sets out the principal roles, functions, responsibilities BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETINGS and powers of the Board and its various committees. The schedule of Board of Directors meetings for each year is The following matters have been reserved by the Board for its established before the end of the preceding year along with decision: a schedule of matters to be discussed in these meetings. Apart from the scheduled meetings, additional meetings • Corporate plans and programmes; may be requested by the Chairman to deliberate on urgent or • Annual budgets, including major capital commitments; important matters that require attention. • New ventures; • Material acquisitions and disposals of undertakings and A total of nine Board of Directors meetings were held between properties; and 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013. All the Directors • Changes to the management and control structure of the attended more than 50% of the Board meetings during the Company and its subsidiaries, including key policies. period. The Group Managing Director is responsible for the day-to-day Amongst the matters deliberated by the Board in 2013 were: business operations of the Group. The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement and • Quarterly unaudited ﬁnancial results; scrutiny to the decisions made by the Board and for objectively • Announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad; challenging management. The Non-Executive Directors do not • Group audited ﬁnancial statements; engage in any business dealings with the Group to ensure that • Major business proposals and transactions; and they are capable of exercising independent judgement and act • Proposed acquisition of Gapurna Builders Sdn Bhd, in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders. Gapurna Land Sdn Bhd, Puncak Wangi Sdn Bhd, Gelanggang Harapan Construction Sdn Bhd and Gapurna The roles of the Chairman and Group Managing Director Global Solutions Sdn Bhd. are held by separate individuals, with clear division of responsibilities and authorities. The Chairman, who is a NonBOARD COMMITTEES Executive Director, is responsible for leadership, ensuring effective functioning of the Board and providing oversight over The Board has established ﬁve committees each with speciﬁc the operations of the Group. The Group Managing Director authorities and responsibilities, to assist the Board discharge is responsible for making and implementing operational its duties and responsibilities effectively. The roles, functions decisions and the day-to-day management of the Group. The and authorities of these committees are clearly set out in their Group Managing Director charts the overall business direction respective terms of reference. of the Group, reports and communicates key strategic matters and proposals to the Board, and implements decisions made These committees review and deliberate on strategic issues. by the Board. The Chairmen of the various committees report on their respective deliberations and recommendations to the Board The Group Managing Director is responsible for making and at the next Board meeting. The Board retains the ultimate implementing operational decisions and the day-to-day responsibility for decisions made by the committees. management of the Group. The Group Managing Director charts the overall business direction of the Group, reports and communicates key strategic matters and proposals to the Board, and implements decisions made by the Board. The Chairman is also responsible for chairing the meetings of the Board and ensuring that there is adequate deliberation and evaluation of proposals and information provided by management. In the absence of SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MRCB BOARD COMMITTEES BOARD CONDUCT Code of Ethics and Conduct for Board Members The Directors are expected to conduct themselves with the AUDIT COMMITTEE highest ethical standards. All Directors of the Group are given a copy of the Executive Handbook and the Code of Business Ethics upon their appointment. Compliance with the provisions EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF in these documents is deemed to be part of the terms and THE BOARD conditions of their service. Amongst others, the Executive Handbook and Code of Business Ethics set out the expected EMPLOYEES’ SHARE OPTION standards of conduct and behaviour when dealing with external SCHEME COMMITTEE customers, suppliers and conﬂict of interest situations; and in preserving the conﬁdentiality of company information. NOMINATION COMMITTEE Directors are required to disclose any conﬂict of interest situations or any material personal interest that they may have in the affairs of the Group as soon as they become aware of them and abstain from any deliberations on the matters. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Directors’ Training and Continuing Education Programme The Board members are mindful of the need to continuously REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS AND SENIOR upgrade and improve their knowledge and enhance their skills MANAGEMENT for the beneﬁt of the Group. All new Directors are required to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as required The remuneration of the Group Managing Director and by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. In addition to that, the designated senior management personnel is based on the Board assesses the training needs of its Directors from time to Remuneration Committee’s review and assessment of the time and ensures that the Directors have access to continuing achievements and contribution of each individual measured education programmes. against their respective key performance indicators. Recommendations are then made by the Remuneration During the year, members of the Board had attended various Committee for a decision by the Board on suitable remuneration courses on the changing laws, regulations, techniques and for each person. practices in leadership and management at the Board level. Non-Executive Directors receive a ﬁxed base fee as a Performance Evaluation consideration for their Board duties. The aggregate amount of Directors’ fees paid to Non-Executive Directors is recommended The Board, through the Nomination Committee, reviews and by the Board for the approval of the shareholders at the evaluates its own performance and that of individual Directors Company’s Annual General Meeting. every two years. The last performance evaluation was conducted in 2012. 28 29 Relationship of the Board with Management Menara Shell, which adjoins the Ascott Serviced Apartments is another premier Green building in Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD The relationship between the Board and Management remained strong and cohesive during the year under review. The Board continued to have direct and unrestricted access to the Group’s management team. The Board supports the management by providing leadership, and the setting of business targets through key performance indicators and balanced scorecards for senior management personnel. At the same time, the Board also serves a check-and-balance function by challenging and debating decisions made by the management before they are endorsed and approved. To do this, an established and structured reporting system has been put in place where the Board is regularly briefed and updated on the performance of the Group. This system enables the Board to closely monitor the achievement of targets set. Management and employees rewards such as bonuses and ESOS allocation, are based on ﬁnancial performance and achievement of key business targets. Full Access to Information In the course of discharging their duties, the directors always have: • full and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. The agenda and a full set of Board papers are typically distributed at least seven days before the Board or its committee meetings. This process ensures that the directors have enough time to review, consider and if necessary, obtain further information on the matters to be discussed, and thus be properly briefed and prepared during the meetings; • unrestricted access to the advice and services of the company secretary and other members of senior management; and • unrestricted advice and services of external and independent professionals, made available to Board members individually and collectively. This is made available independent of management’s intervention. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR ENVIRONMENT MRCB has been a long-term leader in environmental sustainability. The leadership has progressed from addressing the impact of the Company’s own operations to inﬂuencing clients and other stakeholders at every possible opportunity. There will always be more to do in this area but MRCB sets continuous and challenging targets for its most signiﬁcant environmental aspects. 30 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT MRCB supported higher appliance efﬁciency standards, lower The beach’s sand was nourished to achieve a wider beach greenhouse gas emissions and a lighter carbon footprint well proﬁle. Additional PEM pipes were laid under the new beach before sustainability became a signiﬁcant focus of business to reduce erosion. The project was completed in 2004. Sand and society. Embracing its responsibility for creating a better nourishment increased the beachfront of Teluk Cempedak environment, MRCB has proudly become one of the ﬁrst in by between 80m and 100m. Subsequently, the Company was green construction. awarded a small contract by DID to maintain the beach for three years. Care is taken to understand and respond to all environmental challenges that arise in operations. Minimising the MRCB Environment also deployed a similar solution to conserve environmental footprint helps the Company achieve more with 3 km of beach at Teluk Tekek, Tioman Island. An interim award less: less energy, less carbon, less waste and fewer resources. was received from DID in 2005. The project involved constructing a sea wall and laying the PEM system to minimise erosion and OUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BIODIVERSITY AND enhance its recreational value for tourism-related activities. CONSERVATION OF NATURE An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was also initiated to examine the pollution in various rivers in Teluk Tekek. An Managing impacts from operations requires a sophisticated, awareness programme was also introduced to protect the ecosystems-based approach. Particular attention is paid to rivers from further pollution. Creating awareness among the biodiversity when developing environmental management villagers to refrain from discharging kitchen efﬂuents directly plans. In September 2013, MRCB secured the Sungai Pahang into the river was crucial. DID introduced grease traps to food estuary rehabilitation Phase 3 project in Pekan, Pahang. outlets at selected villages. The contract, worth RM130 million, was awarded by the Department of Irrigation and Drainage. MRCB Environment was provided with an opportunity to improve lives in the local community. An interim award worth MRCB saw the potential in its environmental activities not approximately RM60 million was received in 2006 to improve only as a business venture. They complement the business’s the river mouth on a design and build basis. The interim work CSR initiatives to promote eco-friendly environments and included immediate dredging. A breakwater system was encourage domestic tourism. designed at the river mouth and the work was performed in phases. Once completed, local ﬁshermen can navigate more WHAT HAVE WE DONE SO FAR? safely especially during the monsoon season. It also helps reduce ﬂooding in the area. MRCB Environment’s Teluk Cempedak beach rehabilitation pilot project in Pahang was awarded by the Department of MRCB Environment was also awarded the contract to Irrigation and Drainage (DID) in 2003. The beach was eroding rehabilitate Sungai Prai in 2007, 2010 and 2011. The Company due to loss of sand. received the award to rehabilitate Sungai Kuantan, Pahang in 2008 from the DID. All projects have already been completed. A pressure equalisation module (PEM) system was employed to rehabilitate the coastline of Teluk Cempedak. Beaches erode when the sand is wet and saturated. PEM pipes were installed under the seabed to lower the pressure from the ground water level and stimulate sand sedimentation. The water table was reduced, which dried the sand on the beach. 32 33 REHABILITATION PROJECT IMPACT ANALYSIS PROJECT CONDITIONS PRIOR TO PROJECT SUCCESSES POST PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION SG. PAHANG REHABILITATION • Coastal ﬂooding of surrounding areas • Reduced risk of coastal ﬂooding in PROJECT • Siltation at the river mouth surrounding areas • Large waves producing strong currents • Siltation problem resolved through near the shore better ﬂushing and discharging of peak • Unsafe navigation for ﬁshing vessels ﬂows to the sea • Provide shelter from waves at all times • Provide adequate navigation channels, mooring and berthing areas SG. KUANTAN REHABILITATION • Coastal ﬂooding of surrounding areas • Reduced the risk of coastal ﬂooding in PROJECT • Siltation at the river mouth surrounding areas • Large waves producing strong currents • Siltation problem resolved through near the shore better ﬂushing and discharging of peak • Unsafe navigation for ﬁshing vessels ﬂows to the sea • Provide shelter from waves at all time • Provide adequate navigation channels, mooring and berthing areas SG. PERAI REHABILITATION • Coastal erosion • Reduced the risk of coastal ﬂooding in PROJECT • Inadequate navigation channel, surrounding areas mooring and berthing areas • Provide shelter from waves at all times • Unsafe navigation for ﬁshing vessels • Provide adequate navigation channels, mooring and berthing areas TELUK CEMPEDAK REHABILITATION • Narrow and steep beach • Sand nourishment increased the PROJECT • Large waves producing strong currents beachfront of Teluk Cempedak by near the shore between 80m and 100m. Sand loss • Dangerous for recreation reduced by 15% from 2004 to 2007 after PEM installation. • Reduced efﬂuent pollution from the drainage and sewer outfall along the beach GREEN BUILDING MRCB continues to showcase its expertise in green building developments in KL Sentral CBD to: • Provide value for building owners, tenants and occupants • Enhance brand and corporate reputation • Invest in a green-conscious marketplace of the future • Support its business leadership with a vision and commitment to developing green initiatives SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT The achievements recorded by each of MRCB’s green buildings are summarised in the table below. GREEN BUILDING ACHIEVEMENTS GREEN BUILDING ACHIEVEMENTS PLATINUM SENTRAL • Awarded Singapore’s Building and Construction Authority’s (BCA) Green Mark Platinum Award (Provisional), the Platinum Award & GBI Gold Certiﬁed for design stage • The ﬁrst green building in KL Sentral CBD paved the way for seven more, in the form of ofﬁce towers, serviced apartments and a retail mall • GBI Certiﬁed for Design Assessment MENARA SHELL & ASCOTT • Gold rating for LEED • Green Building Index (GBI) Gold Certiﬁed 1 SENTRUM • Towards achieving the silver rating for LEED and GBI MENARA CIMB • Gold rating for BCA Greenmark and GBI Certiﬁcation Q SENTRAL • GBI Gold Certiﬁed THE SENTRAL RESIDENCES • GBI Gold Certiﬁed NU SENTRAL • BCA Greenmark Compliance and GBI Certiﬁcation MRCB’s green development resulted in the following beneﬁts and positive impacts: GREEN IMPACT POSITIVE ENVIRONMENT IMPACT MINIMISING ENERGY USAGE Highly efﬁcient ventilation system USE OF ENVIRONMENTALIntegrating natural energy such as solar power with building power gridline FRIENDLY MATERIALS CONSUMING FEWER NATURAL Heat recovery wheel reuses waste heat energy and exhausts RESOURCES ENERGY EFFICIENCY DESIGN Highly efﬁcient and energy saving lighting with automatically controlled illumination levels LOW GREENHOUSE AND OZONE Generative lifts and motion sensor activated escalators DEPLETING GASES 34 35 Platinum Sentral The sustainability objectives of Platinum Sentral focus on: • Minimising waste, using environmentally-friendly materials, consuming fewer natural resources, energy efﬁcient designs, and low greenhouse and ozone depleting gas emissions. • Highly efﬁcient ventilation system designs that reduce transmission and ventilation loads. • Renewable energy, such as solar, that can be integrated into the building power gridline. • Reusing waste heat energy and exhausts with a heat recovery wheel. • Installing highly efﬁcient and energy saving lighting, lighting control and a light sensor control system to automatically control illumination. • Generative lifts and motion sensor activated escalators. FOCUS AREA SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES ENERGY EFFICIENCY BUILDING ENVELOPE • Selecting glass based on its U-Value, Solar Heat Gain Coefﬁcient (SHGC), and low-E coating to improve its Envelope Thermal Transfer Value (ETTV) • Installing screen or louvers that provide optimal shading • Dramatic use of custom-designed timber sun shades that showcase the innovative use of local building materials and content ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING The design is anticipated to save energy from the baseline building as per Ashrae 90.1 2004. The strategies included in the design are as follows: • Energy efﬁcient lighting T5 light ﬁttings, LED complete with high frequency electronic ballast • Daylight responsive sensor to control light by dimming or switching off • Demand control ventilation using CO2 sensors • Optimised lighting layout with reduced lighting power density but meeting minimum lux level standards VENTILATION CAR PARK • Car park is mechanically ventilated with an inverter to modulate the exhaust air fan based on CO levels • Mechanical ventilation system is coupled with CO sensors AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEM • Project uses a district cooling system • Air handling unit system is designed at 0.4W/CMH • CO2 sensors are designed to regulate outdoor airﬂow VENTILATION IN COMMON AREAS • BAFs use elevated air speed to provide cooling without a need for refrigerants • BAFs can increase occupant comfort by: • Using a high speed fan for cooling • Destratifying the space using a low speed fan • Minimising hot and cold areas • Providing an additional means of occupant control • Toilets and staircase are mechanical ventilated • Corridors and lift lobbies are air-conditioned • Atriums are naturally ventilated SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT FOCUS AREA SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES LIFTS AND ESCALATORS • Provision of variable voltage variable frequency motor drive • Lifts have sleep modes • Dual speed modes and motion sensors are provided on all escalators ENERGY EFFICIENT FEATURES • Motion sensors installed in all washrooms and staircases. • A ductless mechanical ventilation system has been designed. • A heat recovery wheel system precools and removes moisture from fresh air before it enters the building. RENEWABLE ENERGY • Photo Voltaic system installed capacity is 158. 976 kWp. WATER EFFICIENCY • Efﬁcient sanitary ﬁtting selected under the ‘Excellent’ Water Efﬁciency Labelling Scheme (WELS). • Water sub-meters monitor water usage from irrigation, water features and domestic purposes and links it back to the BMS. • Rainwater harvesting system reduces potable water usage for landscape irrigation throughout the entire site. • A good ﬁltration system will be incorporated on the irrigation system. • Rain sensors will be provided as part of an effective site irrigation system that is fully automated. • Excellent-rated basin taps, sinks, bib taps and ﬂushing cisterns are used. A ﬂush valve system is installed on all public toilets and a ﬂushing cistern system is designed for handicapped toilets. IRRIGATION SYSTEM • A rainwater harvesting system reduces the dependency on potable water for landscape irrigation across the entire site. • A good ﬁltration system will be added to the irrigation system. • Rain sensors will form part of an effective fully automated site irrigation system. • Rainwater harvesting system to reduce dependency on potable water for landscape irrigation used throughout the entire site. • A good ﬁltration system will be incorporated into the irrigation system. • Rain sensors will be provided as part of fully automated effective site irrigation system. • Water sub-meters monitor water used for irrigation, water features and domestic water purposes. GREENERY ROOF HEAT ISLAND EFFECT • The green roof reduces heat build-up in the surrounding environment. • 50% of the roof’s surface is covered with vegetation to deﬂect heat away from the concrete and hardpaving. • The green roof will help to lower the surrounding ambient temperature. 36 37 FOCUS AREA SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT • The main contractor will implement an effective construction management PRACTICE programme which includes consistent energy, water and construction waste monitoring as speciﬁed in the tender. • The project will be assessed by CONQUAS. • Recycling facilities will be provided throughout the development to encourage tenants and the public to recycle. • The main contractor will introduce an effective construction management programme to monitor energy, water and construction waste monitoring. Provisions for controlling subsoil drainage, preventing sedimentation and contamination of rain water run off was also speciﬁed in the tender. • A clean and green site will be provided. TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION Platinum Sentral also employs CISCO’s Smart+Connected Real Estate (S+CRE) solution offering the power of a centralised network solution. This solution accelerates and multiplies its infrastructure investments and differentiates itself from the rest of the market. The S+CRE solution eliminates the isolated, disconnected system within communities and allows more efﬁcient integration. Resources and information can be shared and utilised to serve the community more effectively by using the network as a fourth utility. It integrates: • Energy management through lighting control, solar panel management control and rain water harvesting. • Building management by controlling elevators, escalators and the ventilation system. • Facility management through the monitoring and scheduling of building automation systems. It generates reports on energy usage and efﬁciency, and a tenant portal allows service requests. • Security management through monitoring CCTV and building access control systems; coordinating user and guest databases; and an alarm and event exception handling. • Central maintenance management that administers fault reporting. • IT network management that provides information on current, historical and planned availability of systems, network status, operational statistics, fault monitoring and management. CISCO S+CRE SOLUTION BENEFITS STREAMLINED CONVERGENCE DIFFRENTIATION ADAPTABLE PROCESSES Shared ECOSYSTEM/ STAKEHOLDER ENVIRONMENT Operational infrastructure & INTERGRATION ATTRACTION AND Flexibility and Efﬁciencies, information New PARTNERS RETENTION space optimisation Safety Common Opportunities • Johnson Control Operating Picture Intergration Services • Honeywell • CNA Engineers • 3D Networks MANAGED • Panduit USER MOBILITY COST REDUCTION SERVICES • AECOM Space, GREEN BENEFITS Productivity In The • Parsons Revenue Technology, Compliance with Right Place at The • IBM Opportunities and Energy and Energy Objectives Right Time • Hitachi Remote Delivery Operations SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT Menara Shell Menara Shell’s integrated green features are expected to reduce energy by at least 21% and cut carbon emissions by 2,000 MT per year. The table below highlights the sustainability features incorporated in the design and construction of Menara Shell. FOCUS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES ENERGY EFFICIENCY • Efﬁcient T5 ﬂuorescent lights with perimeter daylight sensors • Daylight harvesting system featuring internal light shelves with glare control to extend daylight penetration into ofﬁce space WATER EFFICIENCY FITTINGS • Dual ﬂush cisterns • Low ﬂow urinal • Low ﬁttings for sink or bib taps, basin taps, mixers and showerheads • Rainwater harvesting system and water efﬁcient ﬁttings WASTE MANAGEMENT • MR2.1: Divert 50% of construction waste from landﬁll MATERIALS • Recycled content materials • Regional materials • Certiﬁed wood INDOOR ENVIRONMENTAL • CO2 sensor used to regulate fresh air QUALITY • Formaldehyde free composite wood • Low VOC paint • Low VOC carpet • Thermal comfort Q Sentral total integrated facilities management services such as the operation, maintenance and management of facilities. Car park Q Sentral is another green development by MRCB. The following logistics and management are also provided. These services sustainable technologies are incorporated into the building are provided for integrated transportation hubs, commercial, design in compliance with GBI standards: government, industrial sectors and high-rise buildings that include green buildings. • Energy efﬁcient technologies to reduce water and energy consumption Awards and Recognition • Rain water harvesting system • High efﬁciency sanitary ﬁttings The division’s operations comply with well-established standard • Hybrid renewable solar power energy systems to generate procedures that deliver excellence. It is committed to ISO power for all common areas certiﬁcation and has maintained this certiﬁcation for companies • The use of high Solar Reﬂectance Index (SRI) materials in under the division’s umbrella notably, Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd the building’s exterior to reﬂect heat (Semasa Sentral), Semasa Services Sdn Bhd (Semasa Services) • The use of T5 and LED energy-saving bulbs and Semasa Parking Sdn Bhd (Semasa Parking). GREEN FACILITIES MANAGEMENT In its quest for excellence, Semasa Services was one of the ﬁrst ﬁve Malaysian companies to be certiﬁed with the ISO 50001 MRCB’s Facilities Management (FM) established its own Energy Management System. This certiﬁcation, awarded on brand as a major player in the country since 2005. FM’s strong 28 June 2013 by SIRIM, will further expand and improve the performance is supported by a capable workforce. FM offers professional delivery of energy services. 38 39 NEW GREEN TECHNOLOGY VENTURES Deemed one of Malaysia’s premier construction players and urban property developers, MRCB made concerted efforts in Energy efﬁciency and green technology is a new journey for 2008 to incorporate sustainable practices into its core business Semasa Services. The efﬁcient utilisation of energy, water and DNA. An internal transformation was implemented to enhance materials is prioritised. This service is a concerted effort to the way it conducted its businesses, incorporating the green reduce a building’s impact on human health and the environment commitment in its property development projects. MRCB is throughout the structure’s lifecycle. This is achieved through now synonymous with its sustainable development strategies. better design, construction, operation, maintenance and All its developments comply with Green certiﬁcation bodies ultimately removal or demolition. Semasa Services assesses such as Malaysia’s GBI, the US-based LEED or the Singaporebuildings in order to classify them. The Company aims to based BCA Green Mark. manage a wider scope of green rated buildings under various green certiﬁcation bodies such as Malaysia’s GBI, Singapore’s Currently, MRCB is rolling out the principles of the Green BCA Green Mark and USA’s LEED. Prominent buildings under Agenda under the Government Transformation Programme. its supervision are Platinum Sentral, located in Kuala Lumpur The Company sets an example and contributes to sustainable Sentral CBD and the Energy Commission’s Diamond Building development. This positively affects its immediate stakeholders in Putrajaya. Clients beneﬁt from premium rental from green its suppliers, the authorities, surrounding communities and buildings by attracting reputable tenants who are conscious of its business partners. the pressing need for sustainability. It also helps incorporate energy and water efﬁcient technologies while reducing MRCB’s Platinum Sentral Wins Sustainable Development management costs and creating value-added services. Category at The FIABCI Malaysia Property Award 2013 Semasa Services offers energy efﬁciency and green technology On 9 November 2013, MRCB won the FIABCI Malaysia Property consultancy services, building energy audits and energy Award under the sustainable development category for initiatives either through outright purchase or shared savings Platinum Sentral, its ofﬁce-campus style green building in the with clients. Many clients have beneﬁted from energy efﬁciency Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD. programmes that have been carried out at several buildings including Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL), 1 Sentral and MRCB has won several awards from attaining best green Plaza Sentral. Electricity costs have reduced by between 11% initiatives to best green ofﬁce development awards. It is and 15%. This programme will lead to a reduction in carbon honoured to receive FIABCI’s Sustainable Development Award. emissions in support of the Government’s aspiration of more green initiatives. Energy efﬁciency initiatives at these buildings Platinum Sentral has outstanding features for energy saving, include energy assessments, building benchmarking, costfocusing on enhancing efﬁciency in utilising energy, water and effective energy efﬁciency improvements as well as green materials. Every feature from walls, the roof, gardens and workforce training and education. plant life help conserve energy. This is in-line with MRCB’s commitment to sustainable development. A visitor to Platinum In 2013, Semasa Services signed an agreement with Phillips Sentral’s expansive Atrium will experience being in the tropics Malaysia for the supply of LED tubes. This lighting can be on a balmy temperate day, made real by a vista of the sky ﬁve times more efﬁcient than conventional lighting. It is through the glass roof. Water features in its green spaces help environmentally safe, has an extended life and is more durable. cool an environment set against an evergreen park. Visitors These characteristics result in energy savings. LED tubes have and tenants alike engage in informal meetings and indulge in been installed in Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur, Plaza Sentral, leisure activities, right next to their places of business. Sooka Sentral, 1 Sentral and Kompleks Sentral. Reducing our Environmental Impact MRCB’S GREEN PLAN MRCB demonstrates leadership in the energy and As the master developer of Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD, MRCB environmental conservation by minimising its carbon footprint has eight spectacular buildings that are in various stages of and environmental impacts. The Life-Cycle Assessment completion. These buildings are Platinum Sentral, Menara approach shows the construction stage has the greatest CIMB, Q Sentral, The Sentral Residences, Nu Sentral retail environmental impact so energy-efﬁcient solutions are mall, 1 Sentrum, Menara Shell and Ascott Sentral. They are provided. Reducing the carbon footprint of business activities all built to green speciﬁcations and the designs have been is prioritised. Other environmental impacts such as emissions certiﬁed by local or international certiﬁcation bodies. to air, waste and water are also tracked. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT MRCB manages the environmental impacts from its operations • Replacing potable water with grey or rain water where including facilities, materials transport and business travel. practical ENERGY MANAGEMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Managing and reducing energy consumption not only saves The minimisation and disposal of waste has become one of the money but also helps mitigate climate change and enhance most signiﬁcant environmental issues in recent years. Waste corporate reputation. MRCB monitors its energy usage for disposal can have a signiﬁcant impact on the environment, projects and operations. The Company believes it cannot especially as the total volume of available landﬁll is decreasing. manage what it cannot measure. MRCB ensures compliance with all relevant environmental legislation. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh) Ofﬁce Waste COMPANY 2011 2012 2013 SIDEC 33,444.00 80,902.00 182,719.00 MRCB is committed to reducing, reusing and recycling the MRDSB 652,185.00 697,245.00 656,270.00 waste it generates wherever possible. The largest component MSPSB 25,711,932.79 39,850,964.25 36,001,521.76 of ofﬁce waste is paper, printer toner cartridges and IT equipment. Recycling points are provided in the ofﬁces to SSKL 19,982,693.33 17,453,693.61 1,394,347.64 encourage employees to recycle and double-sided printing is MRCB promoted to save paper. 51,352.85 48,044.50 1,958,152.78 PRASARANA MRCB Construction Waste 2,638,443.00 2,772,791.20 4,379,383.53 ENGINEERING The responsible management of waste is an essential aspect MRCB HQ 94,093.60 95,526.01 226,739.00 of sustainable building. In this context, managing waste means KLSD 1,531,070.38 1,454,474,47.00 1,394,347.64 eliminating waste where possible, minimising waste where TTSB 5,377,728.00 682,112.00 54,169.00 feasible and reusing materials that would otherwise become waste. Solid waste management practices have identiﬁed the WATER MANAGEMENT reduction, recycling and reuse of wastes as essential for the sustainable management of resources. Water is becoming an increasingly scarce resource. MRCB monitors its water consumption with the aim of reducing it. MRCB realises that many opportunities exist for reducing and This has been achieved through initiatives such as installing recovering materials that would otherwise be disposed off. The low-ﬂow toilets in ofﬁces. Company considers the beneﬁcial reuse of materials along with any economically viable means of reducing the total waste A proactive approach to water efﬁciency inﬂuences the design disposed of. Effective strategies for identifying and separating speciﬁcations applied to constructions and the way buildings wastes are also examined. Options are being explored to create are being used, managed and maintained. value by returning wastes back to manufacturing processes; incorporating recycled materials into products; and reducing MRCB’s principles on water efﬁciency include: building-related wastes through efﬁcient jobsite practices. • Monitoring and managing the current system to ensure equipment is performing to its full potential and The following table presents the total waste disposed of by encouraging responsible use Lot B. • Reducing water usage by employing efﬁcient technologies, ﬁxing leaks and inﬂuencing users behaviour • Using efﬁcient water storage and distribution system 40 41 TOTAL WEIGHT PERCENTAGE take part in the Earth Hour by relaying the message to their TYPE OF WASTE friends, relatives and families. It is hoped that they participate (TONNES) RECYCLED (%) in this global effort as a very high percentage of employees STEEL BAR / 107.15 100% have young families. Everyone is keenly aware of the need to SCRAP METAL safeguard the environment for future generations. TIMBER / 3.444 56.25% CONCRETE / MoU between MRCB and the Malaysian Light Emitting Diode PAPER / DEBRIS (LED) Consortium OZONE DEPLETION In October 2013, MRCB has signed an MoU with the LED Consortium with three other companies: Malaysian Industrial Some network cooling systems and ofﬁce air conditioning Development Finance Berhad (MIDF), Mydin Mohamed systems use refrigerants. MRCB has phased out the use of Holdings Berhad and Johor Corporation (JCorp). This MoU CFCs and is currently phasing out the use of HCFCs. This is aims to maintain a synergistic relationship between the parties in accordance with the Montreal Protocol, an international through the sharing of ideas. The parties will jointly develop agreement on the phasing out of ozone-depleting substances. and implement future collaborative, mutually-beneﬁcial programmes. MRCB is jointly committed to developing and OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES implementing future collaborative programmes to encourage the use of LED lighting in the domestic market. MRCB Switches off Lights in its Property Development For Earth Hour 2013 The Green LED/SSLprogramme is in-line with the Government’s objective of promoting LED/SSL lighting as a cost and energyOn 18 March 2013, MRCB participated in the global Earth Hour efﬁcient lighting solution. The Government has issued a movement for the fourth year. MRCB’s iconic Kuala Lumpur directive to phase out all incandescent, conventional lighting in Sentral development and its Shah Alam property – Alam buildings and property projects beginning next year. Sentral took part in this initiative. All non-essential lights were switched off for one hour in its buildings and property under KL Sentral as a Smoke-Free Zone its management to create awareness of the threat of global warming. This included the iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral MRCB has issued a formal notice at its KL Sentral areas that development consisting of: smoking is now prohibited. This provision is aligned with the Food Act 1983 and Tobacco Control Act 2004. Research shows • The landmark ofﬁce tower 1 Sentral MRCB’s that even short exposure to second-hand smoke has immediate Headquarters harmful effects. It increases the risk of heart disease and lung • The iconic Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s cancer. Thousands of people travel through Kuala Lumpur largest and busiest transportation hub Sentral CBD each day. MRCB is responsible for minimising the • Platinum Sentral, MRCB’s award winning green building. risk that smoking brings to other commuters. • Plaza Sentral, the ﬁrst strata ofﬁce building in Kuala Lumpur Sentral development OUR CARBON EMISSIONS • Sooka Sentral, MRCB’s award winning lifestyle centre • Plaza Alam Sentral, MRCB’s retail mall in Shah Alam A greenhouse gas (GHG) is any gaseous compound in the atmosphere that is capable of absorbing infrared radiation, As a developer, MRCB recognised its obligation to help create thereby trapping and holding heat in the atmosphere. By awareness of global warming. Rather than merely creating increasing the heat in the atmosphere, GHGs are responsible awareness, the Company took a more proactive approach for the greenhouse effect, which ultimately leads to global by incorporating sustainable elements into its property warming. This is the ﬁfth year that MRCB is reporting its GHG developments. emissions. This small contribution from MRCB will hopefully create a new MRCB emissions accounting is based on the internationallyconsciousness in Malaysians and other property developers to recognised GHG Protocol established by the World Business work towards more sustainable lifestyles and address climate Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and World change issues. Employees are encouraged to personally Resources Institute (WRI). Emissions accounting is based on SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT the GHG Protocol classiﬁcation of directINDICATORS and indirect emissions. Our company-owned vehicles produced 1,200.88 MT of CO2 SCOPE CATEGORY emissions in 2013. This is an increase of 88.90% compared to MEASURED 635.72 MT in the previous year. SCOPE 1 Direct GHG Company-owned emissions vehicles Scope 2 SCOPE 2 Indirect GHG Electricity emissions The data was obtained from the monthly electricity invoices SCOPE 3 Other indirect GHG Air travel and issued for SIDEC, MRDSB, MSPSB, SSKL, MRCB Prasarana, emissions employee-owned MRCB Engineering, MRCB HQ, KLSD and TTSB. vehicles All data inputs are in kWh and cover a period of three years Scope 1 from January 2011 to December 2013. The emissions factor has been derived from the Malaysian Green Technology GHG emissions are monitored by tracking and tabulating Corporation CDM Electricity Baseline for West Malaysia. The all fuel purchases used for company-owned vehicles. The carbon emissions arising from electricity consumption are as emissions factors for diesel and petrol have been derived follows: from the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions from Purchased Electricity Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions from company-owned vehicles 45,000.00 42,368.87 40,000.00 CO2 eq EMISSIONS (MT) Petrol 37,598.36 1400.00 35,000.00 Diesel 30,000.00 31,587.15 1200.00 CO2 eq EMISSIONS (MT) 25,000.00 241.76 1000.00 20,000.00 800.00 15,000.00 600.00 10,000.00 277.16 5,000.00 400.00 200.00 2011 2012 2013 Year In 2013, our CO2 emissions resulting from purchased electricity 2012 2013 usage have decreased by 25.45% from 42,368.87 MT in 2012 to Year 31,587.15 MT in 2013. 42 43 Scope 3 Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions from employee-owned vehicles and air travel GHG emissions resulting from air travel were measured from point to point including the number of employees on board, 2500.00 ﬂight class and distance. All short and long haul ﬂights were included in the GHG calculation. Online tools derived from 2046.53 the WRI GHG Protocol have been used to estimate the CO2 CO2 eq EMISSIONS (MT) 2000.00 emissions from air travel. 1665.35 Emissions resulting from employees’ own vehicles have been 1573.57 estimated from primary data derived from a survey of 145 1500.00 employees conducted in early 2014. Respondents were asked questions to determine the type, make, model, year and fuel type of each vehicle. Questions were presented to estimate the average distance of daily business travel. A Mobile Combustion 1000.00 GHG Emissions Calculation Tool from the GHG Protocol Initiative was used to calculate the emissions. It has been assumed that each employee works 46 weeks on average each 500.00 year. The adjacent chart compares emissions from employee owned vehicles and air travel in 2012 and 2013. 105.85 78.09 60.62 In 2013, CO2 emissions resulting from employee-owned vehicles increased by 5.83% from 1,573.57 MT in 2012 to 1,665.35 MT in 2013. CO2 emissions resulting from air travel 2011 2012 2013 decreased by 22.37% from 78.09 MT in 2012 to 60.62 MT in 2013. Air Travel Employee Owned Vehicles SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR ENGAGEMENT WITH THE COMMUNITY MRCB is a socially active organisation that is committed to giving back to the communities in which it operates. Working in diverse locations means that MRCB must approach community engagement in a ﬂexible manner. The Company seeks to invest in community projects and improve skills while supporting education and access to employment. Working with local communities by building relationships and investing time and effort has the potential to bring all parties lasting and positive beneﬁts. 44 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 COMMUNITY It is extremely important that MRCB supports social Close to 700 school bags, shoes, socks and stationery sets investments that contribute to the sustainable development were given to underprivileged students from its nine adopted goals of communities surrounding its operations. MRCB PINTAR schools in Pulau Pinang, Perak, Kuala Lumpur, Johor works in partnership with social development organisations, and Pahang. government institutions and local community representatives to ensure its investment addresses relevant and material MRCB expanded its education initiatives by adding SK issues in a rigorous manner with a positive impact on society. Pengkalan Jaya to its list of adopted schools in 2013. Two schools also graduated from the PINTAR programme in 2013: EDUCATION SK Bagan Jemal in Penang and SK Tebrau Bakar Batu in Johor. The following eight schools are currently under the MRCB Every individual has the right to quality learning opportunities. PINTAR Schools Adoption Programme: MRCB has been working together with schools surrounding its operations by providing them with educational assistance. • SJK(T) Ladang Mayﬁeld, Tasek Gelugor, Penang • SJK(C) Yoke Hwa, Kuala Pahang, Pahang PINTAR • SK La Salle 1, Brickﬁelds, Kuala Lumpur • SK La Salle 2, Brickﬁelds, Kuala Lumpur PINTAR (Promoting Intelligence, Nurturing Talent and • SK Indera Shahbandar, Kuala Pahang, Pahang Advocating Responsibility) is a collaborative social responsibility • SK Serandu, Kuala Pahang, Pahang initiative by PINTAR Foundation. It collaborates with GLCs and • SK Iskandar Perdana, Seri Iskandar, Perak private corporations in Malaysia to foster academic and non• SK Pengkalan Jaya, Butterworth, Penang academic excellence particularly for the underserved students nationwide through its school adoption programme. Intensive classess and motivational trips have been developed to assist the students. Students are exposed to various MRCB has been a strong supporter of the PINTAR Foundation employment avenues which are available. They may also programme since 2007. PINTAR helps underprivileged children attend seminars and workshops on academic-related topics in primary schools improve their academic performance. It while learning lessons on attitudes and behaviour. reaches out through school reward incentives, motivation and teambuilding activities. MRCB engages with these schools annually and has given more than RM2 million to the programme since it commenced. In 2013, improving an understanding of Mathematics, English and Science has been promoted in the PINTAR school programme for the sixth year. Underprivileged and lower-performing students directly beneﬁted from focused and specialised tutoring sessions from experienced former teachers and academicians. As of 2013, more than 15,000 students have been adopted since MRCB became a member of PINTAR in 2007. These students will continue to touch other lives as they progress, mature and enter the future job market. MRCB’s tradition of caring and giving also continued in 2013. 46 47 UPSR Average Pass Rates (%) AVERAGE PASS RATES (%) 2011 2012 2013 SJK (T) LADANG MAYFIELD 62.86 83.2 70.5 SK LA SALLE 1 BRICKFIELDS 71 56.1 48 SK LA SALLE 2 BRICKFIELDS 73.68 41.67 58.33 SK INDERA SHAHBANDAR 65.78 56.38 58.65 SK SERANDU 75.88 62.16 58.82 SK ISKANDAR PERDANA 0 76.9 86 SK PENGKALAN JAYA 0 0 66 PINTAR ACTIVITIES SCHOOL INVOLVED DESCRIPTION ENGLISH WORKSHOP • SK Pengkalan Jaya Workshops focussing on improving students’ • SJK(T) Ladan Mayﬁeld command of English were held for standard six • SK Iskandar Perdana students. • SK La Salle 1 Brickﬁelds • SK La Salle 2 Brickﬁelds • SK Indera Shahbandar • SK Serandu STUDY REVISION BOOKS FOR • SK Pengkalan Jaya MRCB sponsored the purchase of revision books STUDENTS AND READING • SJK(T) Ladan Mayﬁeld for students and updated reading materials in the MATERIALS • SK Iskandar Perdana school libraries. • SK La Salle 1 Brickﬁelds • SK La Salle 2 Brickﬁelds • SK Indera Shahbandar • SK Serandu UPSR CLINIC • SK Indera Shahbandar Two-day intensive classes were held to prepare • SK Serandu students for the UPSR examinations. The • SK Pengkalan Jaya sessions focused on the four core subjects of • SJK(T) Ladang Mayﬁeld English, Bahasa Malaysia, Mathematics and • SJK (C) Yoke Hwa Science. The sessions were conducted by the New Straits Times (NST). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 COMMUNITY PINTAR ACTIVITIES SCHOOL INVOLVED DESCRIPTION MOTIVASI KECEMERLANGAN • SK Indera Shahbandar Smart Learning classes were held to guide UPSR (SMART LEARNING) • SK Serandu students on answering examination questions. • SK Pengkalan Jaya Dr Abdul Aziz Sahat from Akademi Minda Bestari • SJK(T) Ladang Mayﬁeld led the sessions and shared effective learning • SK Iskandar Perdana methods, which are key to successful studies. • SK La Salle 1 Brickﬁelds • SK La Salle 2 Brickﬁelds EZ MATH • SK Indera Shahbandar EZ Math conducted classes that introduced • SK Serandu techniques to solve mathematics questions • SK Pengkalan Jaya during examinations. Students were taught to • SJK(T) Ladang Mayﬁeld think critically especially when trying to solve • SK Iskandar Perdana challenging mathematical equations. • SK La Salle 1 • SK La Salle 2 MRCB CAMPAIGN KIDS & • SK Indera Shahbandar Students learned ways of managing their CASH • SK Serandu ﬁnances effectively. They were also introduced • SK Pengkalan Jaya to the importance of saving and spending money • SJK(T) Ladang Mayﬁeld responsibly. • SK Iskandar Perdana • SK La Salle 1 • SK La Salle 2 YOUNG LEADERS CAMPAIGN • SK Pengkalan Jaya MRCB sponsors school uniforms, school bags • SJK(T) Ladang Mayﬁeld and socks as part of its support for the Young • SK Iskandar Perdana Leaders Campaign. • SK La Salle 1 • SK La Salle 2 • SK Indera Shahbandar • SK Serandu COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT needed space to park. It also offers visitors and shoppers a clean and orderly place to eat. Brickﬁelds has been Pines Bazaar transformed into a new cultural and tourism enclave. The local business community and Malaysia has beneﬁted by the MRCB completed a multi-storey development on the site of the increased number of tourists visiting Brickﬁelds. former Pines food court. The building has 170 parking bays on two basement levels; the upper three levels contain food In total, 3,000 parking bays will be available in Brickﬁelds with outlets, retail outlets and ofﬁce space. 28 stalls are situated in the opening of another MRCB project in the coming years. the building. 1Malaysia Library The project is using the concept of classical Moghul-Indian architecture. The two ﬂoors of parking help alleviate parking The 1Malaysia Library is a CSR project in Kuala Lumpur congestion in Little India, which has experienced very heavy championed by MRCB to provide a community-based service. trafﬁc. The development of Pines Bazaar provided the muchA special computer laboratory equipped with customised 48 49 online learning software sets his apart from other libraries The donation will be used in four main thrusts: in the country. The libraries contain community rooms that can be used anyone organising community activities. To date, 1. Intervention in primary and secondary schools MRCB are working on 1Malaysia libraries in Lembah Pantai, 2. Skills nurturing and management Titiwangsa and Wangsa Maju. These locations have a high 3. Professionals certiﬁcations and development concentration of people on low incomes. 4. Leadership development 1Malaysia libraries provide a comfortable place for people Supporting Malaysian Association for the Blind of all ages and walks of life to meet. It serves as a venue for local community members to hold meetings and tutorials. MRCB donated RM500 for the purchase of an embossing MRCB hopes this library project will encourage community machine. RM1,000 was also donated to help with the volunteerism activities especially by the local communities. administration of the Kuala Lumpur and Selangor branch Annual General Meeting 2013. Kechara Soup Kitchen Kechara Soup Kitchen (KSK) is a non-religious community action group that distributes food, basic medical aid and counselling to the homeless and urban poor in Malaysia. Volunteers distribute these supplies regardless of religion or race. The KSK is led by its President Dato’ Ruby Khong, who heads a dedicated committee of passionate volunteers. KSK’s services have grown from distributing 20 weekly food packets in 2006, to currently more than 850. A permanent KSK operations centre in Jalan Barat, off Jalan Imbi ofﬁcially started making home-cooked food for the Strengthening of Bumiputera’s capacity building as part of homeless in September 2010. It serves up to 180 people from nation building Monday to Friday alongside their regular weekend distribution service. Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan Bumiputera is an initiative under the Bumiputra Economic Roadmap. It was launched through TERAJU under the Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister’s Ofﬁce. It focuses on strengthening Bumiputera’s capacity building. Objectives include increasing the quality, quantity and relevance of Bumiputera talents. This is in-line with the government’s effort to lead Malaysia to becoming a high income nation status through academic and vocational education. MRCB contributed RM250,000 to this cause. Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan Bumiputera’s task is ensuring MRCB’s management team on that the capabilities and expertise of Bumiputera will continue food distribution rounds to develop competitively at the global level through quality education. Collaboration Between MRCB-KSK Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan targets high potential Bumiputera; the bottom 40 percent cluster (who would be given more MRCB actively promotes CSR through numerous strategic consideration for non-academic); students in need of a second programmes especially those that support children chance; and talents from challenged environments. and the general community. In 2013, MRCB’s Corporate Communication Department allocated RM46,504.00 for KSK’s SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 COMMUNITY activities in a collaborative programme called “Nourish The The collaboration also beneﬁts from KSK’s close cooperation Poor”. The Brickﬁelds area, Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD’s with the National Anti-Drug Agency (NADA). Those abusing neighbouring community, was among the areas targeted substances are encouraged to enroll on rehabilitation under this programme. On average 20 to 30 homeless people programmes for free. are provided with food on every weekend in Brickﬁelds. Elderly homeless persons who lack family support may choose Programme Details to enter homes that are suitable for their individual physical, mental and medical conditions. This service is also provided The “Nourish The Poor” programme rides on KSK’s activities. free of charge. Food and basic personal hygiene products are provided for the homeless along with basic counselling on health, ﬁrst aid as CULTURAL, ARTS AND HERITAGE well as general physical and mental well-being. Malam Gala Warisan Seni MRCB’s budget allocation for this programme helps KSK volunteers feed 60 persons every Saturday from 11pm to 2am. The Warisan Seni Gala Dinner was organised by Persatuan Karyawan Malaysia on 24 November 2013. During the event, MRCB contributed RM50,000 to the organisation. This Gala Each balanced vegetarian meal follows a speciﬁc recipe that Dinner appreciated artistes who have contributed to the prevents any allergies or food intolerances. It also suits any entertainment industry since the 1950s. It aims to enhance medical restrictions for those who are unwell. The meal set MRCB’s corporate presence in the community and the includes: entertainment industry. • Vegetarian fried rice or egg burger • Bottled drinking water • Whole apples or oranges • Bread loaves or sweet buns with kaya, chocolate or jam • Biscuits The cost per meal is RM8.50 and is provided with a RM9.70 set of toiletries. Shampoo, soap, a toothbrush and toothpaste encourage personal hygiene, health and wellbeing. Basic ﬁrst aid and an ambulance service are provided by medical personnel from Maha Mas Medic Services Sdn Bhd (MAHAMAS). MAHAMAS is Malaysia’s largest privately owned ambulance service provider. Its personnel provide free basic medical counselling and treatment such as cleaning of small cuts and wounds; tending to fevers, coughs, skin ailments; Gold Jubilee of Hari Malaysia Celebration and conducting general health checks. Those suffering from serious medical conditions are treated at the Kuala Lumpur The Ministry of Information Communications and Multimedia General Hospital free of charge. The cost for the MAHAMAS Malaysia requested sponsorship from MRCB and other ambulance service per night is RM250.00. corporate bodies. The sponsorship request was made through Khazanah Nasional to help fund the 2013 National General counselling is also provided by KSK volunteers who Day celebration. This event started with a national event are trained to listen and counsel those who seek advice. Job Pelancaran Kibar Jalur Gemilang on 16 August 2013 in Kedah. seekers are provided with job placement services to help them The Ambang Kemerdekaan event was held on the eve of the re-enter society. This service is provided free of charge. 56th Independence Day on 30 August 2013 in Putrajaya. This 50 51 was followed by a parade on 31 August 2013 at Merdeka IFF was conceptualised and launched in 2006 with the overall Square. This Golden Jubilee Celebration is held in conjunction objective of winning the hearts and minds of Muslims and nonwith the 50th Malaysia Day. The event was held in Sarawak and Muslims alike. IFF has grown and developed exponentially Sabah on 16 September 2013. since its debut show in Kuala Lumpur in 2006 to Abu Dhabi, Astana, Bandung, Dubai, Singapore, New York, London and Enhancing Aesthetics for Tourism Monte Carlo. In 2013, MRCB was awarded with an iconic and ﬁrst ever project My Beautiful Malaysia Day Programme to install overhead transmission lines in Malaysia, crossing the Straits of Melaka. The unique electricity transmission lines will MRCB contributed RM250,000 to the Government’s My run from Pantai Siring to Pulau Besar in Melaka. The project Beautiful Malaysia Day Programme. 1Malaysia For Youth was awarded on 2 October 2013 to a joint venture consisting of (1M4U) launched this programme on 3 February 2013 to spark Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd (TTSB) and Ketara Teknik the volunteerism spirit among youths. Sdn Bhd (KTSB). TTSB is a subsidiary of MRCB under its Construction & Engineering Division. The transmission line uses a specially constructed monopole steel structure in place of the conventional lattice steel structure. This deﬁning design enhances the aesthetic value of the area, which is part of Melaka’s tourism zone. Pantai Siring is located near Medan Ikan Bakar Umbai, which is also a tourism hot spot. The project will create a new landmark for Melaka as it can be seen from afar from land or air. Local scenery will be complemented by the glowing red light of Air Warning Navigation Spheres from dusk to dawn. An artist’s rendition of the unique power line project in Melaka The spheres will be attached along the 4.2 km length of the transmission lines on 14 monopoles, two of which will be installed on the beach. These red lights will resemble those This programme adopted the concept of My Beautiful used on several lighthouses operating close to each other in Neighbourhood, an initiative under the Blue Ocean Strategy, the area. launched by the Ministry. It helps direct youths to use their spare time for good causes and to help society. This is the ﬁrst time a routine overhead transmission line installation in Malaysia is being blended with other tourism The programme was held in conjunction with the Malaysia elements. This sets a new benchmark in technical achievement Volunteerism Year. It instilled the spirit of volunteerism into and sustainable enhancement of environmental aesthetics. youths. Activities included gotong-royong at selected areas, repair works, repainting of buildings and tree planting. Islamic Fashion Festival 2013 HUMANITARIAN MRCB sponsored the Islamic Fashion Festival (IFF) 2013 for RM3,000. Models showed off the beautiful creations of wellContributions to Tabung Bencana NSTP–Media Prima known local designers at the International IFF at JW Marriott Hotel from 18 to 20th November 2013. MRCB donated RM500,000 to the NSTP-Media Prima Flood Relief Fund. Tabung Bencana NSTP–Media Prima was launched The fashion show featured modern styles and groovy designs in response to a huge earthquake that occurred in Padang, in celebration of coloured Muslim wear classics. It was an Sumatra. This platform supports major catastrophes, natural opportunity for up-and-coming designers to experience the disasters and other humanitarian crises. Tabung Bencana energy of a major runway production. NSTP–Media Prima has also run several well-known fundraising campaigns such as the Thailand, Japanese Tsunami and Padang Earthquake Funds. These funds also covered local campaigns to help victims of major ﬂoods, landslides and ﬁre blazes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 COMMUNITY Flood relief missions disbursed groceries, toiletries, cleaning Majlis Lan Berambeh Anak Sarawak 2013 equipment and other basic items. Members of Persatuan Anak Sarawak Semenanjung were On 7 December 2013, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak appreciated on 5 October 2013. The Company also contributed witnessed a RM500,000 cheque presentation to the NSTP-Media RM100,000 during this event. MRCB’s representatives, Prima Flood Relief Fund. The contribution was handed over at including the GMD, joined other corporate bodies, captains of the exhibition site of NSTP Pavilion, which took part in the Umno industry, entrepreneurs and students in this annual celebratory General Assembly 2013 at the Putra World Trade Centre. event for Sarawakians away from home. This event has helped to enhance MRCB’s corporate presence in the Sarawakian Contributions to Tabung Wira Lahad Datu community. Tabung Wira Lahad Datu Media Prima was launched in March 5th Young Corporate Malaysians (YCM) Summit 2013 2013 following the militant intrusion in Lahad Datu. Tabung Wira Lahad Datu was established to commemorate the YCM was established in January 2008 by a group of young services of security personnel who were killed or injured in professionals based in Kuala Lumpur. The objective of the YCM the line of duty defending the sovereignty of the country during is to build a network of young professionals through various Ops Daulat at Lahad Datu, Semporna and Kunak in Sabah. The informative and social events beneﬁcial for its members. immediate activation of the fund was delivered to the family members of the fallen and injured security personnel. MRCB donated RM25,000 to The 5th Young Corporate Malaysians Summit. The event was held on 9 November MRCB’s Building Services Division (BSD) helped to spread the 2013 at the Intercontinental Hotel. This annual event gathers message of caring and giving via a donation drive at SSKL. A captains of industries and groupings of young professionals donation box was placed to encourage the public to donate to in an informal no holds barred forum and talk sessions. the Lahad Datu heroes. RM5,399.60 was collected from the Attracting 20 CEO’s and Leaders from various industries, it public, management and employees. The amount was handed was attended by approximately 500 young professionals across over to the Public Service Department for the Tabung Wira all disciplines. Negara – Lahad Datu. OTHER COMMUNITY INITIATIVES Breaking Fast with Rumah Anak-anak Yatim Pertubuhan Kebajikan Al-Kausar During Ramadan, MRCB’s Building Services Division (BSD) invited orphans from Rumah Anak-anak Yatim Pertubuhan Kebajikan Al-Kausar, Bangi, Selangor to break fast with the management team. The children were also given duit raya t and gifts. Tenants, business partners and employees clubbed together to collect RM11,165.00 in cash, which was given to the Tan Sri Mohamad Salim Fateh Din, MRCB’s Group Managing Director speaking to the young members of YCM orphanage. 52 53 DHRRA Malaysia’s Fundraising Banquet Dinner The Mousetrap Gala Charity Night MRCB gave RM1,000 for DHRRA Malaysia’s Fundraising A Gala Charity Night was organised by Yayasan Tunku Banquet Dinner entitled ‘A Decade of Achievement, Together Naquiyuddin (YTN) on 16 October 2013. MRCB supported this We Create Another Milestone’. The dinner was held on 7 event by providing a donation of RM20,000. September 2013 at the Crystal Crown Hotel, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia. YTN is a proactive foundation that was initially formed to assist the underprivileged, especially in healthcare and education. DHRRA provides social protection of various stages for In the years to follow, YTN’s interest grew as there was a community members who are in need. It addresses welfare need to address the importance of other vital areas, such as issues, homelessness, skills training, psychological wellbeing, environment and sports. It recognises that life can counselling and enhancing education all free of charge. be improved with education although academic excellence is not the only criteria. Knowledge and action in the identiﬁed areas improve the quality of life to a higher degree. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR EMPLOYEES ARE OUR GREATEST ASSET MRCB is proud to offer a dynamic work environment that embraces team strategies. The best and brightest are attracted by providing an entrepreneurial environment coupled with exceptional training, tools and technology. MRCB consistently recruits talented people and provides them with career development opportunities by investing in their education and training. A world-class work environment is maintained with health and safety being fundamental for the Company’s sustainable development. 54 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE At the core of MRCB’s success, is a team of people that is In an anonymous survey conducted in early 2014, employees driven by its strong values of respect, integrity, diversity, were asked if they believe MRCB has the right balance between inclusion, team work and a spirit of winning. What makes family and work life. 66.96% of employees who responded MRCB special? At the core, it is the people – their passion, were satisﬁed with the balance between family and work. Only commitment and integrity. Employee engagement along with 6.90% were dissatisﬁed with this balance. individual and manager performance are assessed annually. This mechanism ensures that MRCB continues to engage and motivate its employees. It also checks they have the skills and support they need to help the Company succeed. PROVIDING EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES TO THE LOCALS There is no speciﬁc policy covering the hiring of locals. However, MRCB’s hiring practices ensure a consistent, fair and cost effective approach to candidate selection and recruitment. Locals are prioritised during hiring unless the specialised skillset and expertise required is not available in the country. Local hiring practices have been introduced in all ofﬁces, COMPETITIVE BENEFITS which provide proper notiﬁcation of open positions. Selection is based on job criteria. At MRCB, qualiﬁed employees are hired Progressive compensation, beneﬁts and rewards practices and kept motivated to promote growth and stability. Tailoring are designed to attract, motivate and retain top performers to hiring policies and procedures to local markets helps the support the business strategy. Company attract the right people for the right jobs. Productive relationships are built between co-workers. Individual growth Employees Share Option Scheme (ESOS) plans are implemented that consist of education, personal growth and work-life balance. Local employment helps the All conﬁrmed MRCB employees aged 18 and above are eligible Company meet its hiring needs while advancing economic to participate in the ESOS. Employees must have been on development and education in Malaysia. In 2013, 100% of MRCB’s payroll for at least six calendar months. employees were Malaysian. An executive director of the Company is only eligible to In communicating this commitment, MRCB participated in participate in the ESOS if the allotment of shares has been various job fairs in Malaysia. One such fair was the BN Youth approved by the shareholders of the Company in a general Job Fair 2013. This was held from 27 to 29 September 2013 at meeting. the Putra World Trade Centre Kuala Lumpur. Beneﬁts WORK-LIFE BALANCE • Annual leave: All conﬁrmed employees are entitled to MRCB aims to create work-life balance in the workplace annual leave. by creating and maintaining supportive and healthy work • Compassionate leave: An employee may be granted environments. Allowing employees to have the right balance compassionate leave in the event of a natural disaster, between work and personal responsibilities helps strengthen marriage, paternity or death of a family member employee loyalty and productivity. including a spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother and parent-in-law. 56 57 • Examination leave is granted for any employee sitting for CONFLICT OF INTEREST an examination in a course of study relevant to their work. Only conﬁrmed employees are eligible. Employees must avoid any conﬂict between their own interests • Sick leave is granted on production of a medical certiﬁcate and those of the Company. This applies to the conduct of their from the Company’s panel clinics or during an emergency personal affairs and in dealing with suppliers, distributors, by any registered medical practitioner. agents, media representatives, advertisers and all other • Pilgrimage leave: Every Muslim employee is entitled to individuals or organisations doing or seeking to do business 40 days of pilgrimage leave including rest days and public with MRCB. holidays once in the course of their employment with the Company and subject to the following conditions: It is considered to be in conﬂict with the Company’s interest if • Continuous service of ﬁve years. employees: • Prior approval ﬁrst being obtained from the Head of Division or Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. • Abuse their authority and position in the Company for • Performance of Hajj only. personal reasons or personal gain; • Medical facilities: All employees are entitled to free • Provide undue patronage of relatives and acquaintances; medical consultations, treatment and medicines • Divulge Company information without proper prescribed by the Company’s panel clinics. In cases of authorisation; emergency and where the panel clinic is not available, • Are involved in other personal or external business the employee may seek treatment from any registered activities that may compromise the integrity of the medical practitioner and the Company reimburses the Company. employee on production of an ofﬁcial receipt. • Retirement age: The retirement age for all employees is Speciﬁc examples of such conﬂicts of interests are: 60 years. • Retirement beneﬁts for employees who joined before • For an employee or a member of his family having an 2002 interest in any organisation that has business dealings MRCB. This situation may give rise to preferential High Achievers’ Awards for Employees’ Children treatment and create unfair competition for the Company’s other suppliers, agents, distributors, media On 5 June 2013, the 11th High Achievers’ Awards were held for representatives, advertisers and all other individuals or the children of employees who achieved commendable results organisations having or seeking to have business dealing in the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM), Sijil Pelajaran with the Company. Malaysia (SPM) and Penilaian Menengah Rendah (PMR). • For an employee or member of his family to have an interest in any organisation or relationship with any individual in an A total of 49 students were invited to a special ceremony to advisory capacity or otherwise, whose principal activity is receive their awards in the form of cash incentives worth in direct competition with some or all of the Company’s approximately RM20,000 in total. Each student received their activities. share of the cash pool according to how many A-graded • For an employee, without proper authorisation, to release subjects they achieved in their respective examinations. Company information generally regarded as conﬁdential to create personal advantage from transactions of the The award of cash incentives were received by two STPM, 24 Company’s securities in the open market, or to otherwise SPM and 23 PMR students. inﬂuence market conditions for the transaction of such securities, whether for personal advantage or otherwise. MRCB organises the High Achievers’ Awards as education • For an employee or a member of his family to conduct is considered a priority in children’s lives. Year-on-year business transactions with the Company, its afﬁliates improvements have been seen with an increase in students or other organisations, or individuals who have or are receiving the awards. There has also been an overall seeking to have business dealings with the Company. improvement in academic performance by MRCB employees’ children throughout the years. The ceremony was held at the Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur Symphony Hall. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE • For an employee or a member of his family to serve in any 8. To promote energy conservation by efﬁcient use, careful capacity in the employment or otherwise of an organisation planning with due regard to improve energy utilisations or an individual who has or is seeking to have business with and appropriate investment in energy efﬁcient measure. the Company. For an employee or a member of his family To promote efﬁcient use of materials and resources to accept or solicit any reward or gratiﬁcation, whether throughout our facilities including water, electricity, raw in the form of cash or kind of favour or otherwise, in materials and other resources, particularly those that are exchange for providing information or forms of assistance non-renewable. to an individual or organisation which has or is seeking to 9. To comply with all relevant safety, health and environment have, business dealings with the Company. laws and regulations and review this policy periodically. SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEES MRCB’s Occupational Safety and Health Policy Statement For this Report, MRCB is featuring the Facilities Management (FM) as one of its main divisions. The Safety and Health of our colleagues, contractors, visitors and the communities and the environment in which we live and Safety and health of the work force is operate is an integral part of Malaysian Resources Corporate paramount in MRCB Berhad’s vision of becoming a leading Malaysian Organisation, that to be recognised for the delivery of world-class services in each of our core business, with a corporate presence in strategically selected countries and markets. We will act in a responsible manner; 1. To prevent accidents and ill health arising from the work activities. 2. To provide adequate training to ensure employees are competent in their work. 3. To engage with our contractors on a daily basis and provide advice and supervision on occupational safety and health and environment at all locations and sites. 4. To respond effectively to safety, health and environment emergencies involving our operations. 5. To operate and maintain equipment, facilities and processes in a safe manner. 6. To carry out our activities that have a minimum effect to the environment and promotes environmental awareness among our employees and encourage them to work in an environmentally responsible manner. 7. To conserve natural resources through innovative processes with the reward of reducing, re-using and recycling (3R) waste. 58 59 BSD Safety and Health Committees Vice President FM FM Safety & FM Safety & Health Health Advisor Representative SEMASA SEMASA SEMASA SERVICES SENTRAL PARKING SDN BHD SDN BHD SDN BHD 6 19 5 Employer 15 3 5 Employer Employee Representatives Employee Employer Employee Representatives Representatives + 1 Secretary Representatives Representatives Representatives Assistant SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE Health, Safety and Environment Committee for Projek Pemuliharaan Muara Sungai Pahang CHAIRMAN MOHD MUJIB MISWANDAI (PM) CONTRACTOR REPRESENTATIVE IR. CHU SOU WAI YUZAM SHAH HAFIZ BASHARUDDIN ANGKASA MRCB MRCB SITE SAFETY MOHD ZULKIFLI ALIAS AUGUSTINE MECHAEL ROSLI HARON MRCB ANGKASA MRCB 60 61 SECRETARY DAIMAN SAPRAN (SHO) SUB-CON REPRESENTATIVE NORASHIKIN MOHD TAN SENG COON NURMUNIRAH MAT NOR MOSLIM KBB ENG PYT QS PYT NOR AZHAR MARZUKI MD SHAWAL ADNAN (SHO) PM PYT AST. PM PYT PYT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH ASSESSMENT SYSTEM IN 85% 100% ***** CONSTRUCTION (SHASSIC) 70% 84% **** SHASSIC is an independent method of assessing and 55% 69% *** evaluating the safety and health performance of a contractor 40% 54% ** in construction works or projects. SHASSIC was developed by LESS THAN 39% * a technical committee consisting of industry stakeholders. It was published as the Construction Industry Standard or CIS 10: 2008 in November 2008. Nine SHASSIC assessment programmes were conducted at various MRCB sites in 2013. The details and scores are SHASSIC was designed and developed to enable the user to presented in the table below. achieve any or a combination of the following objectives: PROJECT NAME DATE SCORE REMARK i. To benchmark the level of safety and health performance LOT 348, KL 8 9 March 4 Stars 80.06 of the construction industry in Malaysia. SENTRAL 2013 ii. To have a standard system of safety and health assessment in the construction industry. LOT G, KL 11 12 4 Stars 84.64 iii. To assess safety and health performance of contractors SENTRAL March 2013 based on this standard. LOT D, KL 14 15 4 Stars 83.26 iv. To evaluate the performance of contractors on the safety SENTRAL March 2013 and health practices at the site. LOT B, KL 18 19 4 Stars 77.94 v. To improve and to take necessary corrective action on OSH SENTRAL March 2013 performance and management at the site. ACRE WORK 10 -11 4 Stars 77.36 vi. To compile data for statistical analysis. CASTING YARD September AT SG.LONG 2013 SHASSIC assessment at MRCB covers three main components according to the SHASSIC (CIS 10: 2008). These components BRIDGEAX, 20 21 3 Stars 58.50 are document checks (40%), site/workplace inspections CASTING YARD August 2013 (40%) and employee interviews (20%). The assessment also OLAK LEMPIT, examines OSH policy; OSH organisation; HIRARC; OSH training BANTING and promotion; machinery and equipment management; (KELANA JAYA construction materials management; emergency preparedness; SUNWAY) accident investigation and reporting; records management; ANG SENG, 28 29 2 Stars 49.83 and performance monitoring. BRICKFIELDS August 2013 PINES 4-5 2 Stars 41.95 The SHASSIC assessment score is based on simple formula BRICKFIELDS April 2013 given in SHASSIC (CIS 10: 2008). The score achieved in SHASSIC is determined by a star rating ranging from between AMPANG LEP 8-9 2 Stars 53.48 1 and 5 stars. 5 stars are given to the best practice of OSH PACKAGE B, October 2013 management. The score distributions are as follows: PUCHONG 62 63 In 2014, MRCB plans to conduct four SHASSIC assessments at Toolbox Talk the following sites: Timely toolbox talks are organised to brief employees, • Kuala Pahang especially site workers, on safety standards and practices • 4th Lane Highway Package C ( Sg Buloh – Rawang) expected. Topics covered during a toolbox talk include: • 4th Lane Highway Package E (Nilai – Seremban) • Sri Iskandar Development, Tronoh, Perak • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) • Excavation works HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMMES • Scaffolds compliance • Handling tools and equipment Crisis Drill at Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) • Fire prevention • Working at height SSKL carried out its 12th crisis drill on 14 June 2013. The • Warning signs exercise, named “Ex-sentral 13”, tested the protocols and • Accidents reporting standard operating procedures under the SSKL emergency • Inspection and incidents review plan. The exercise tackled various scenarios that might occur • Dress code at the station such as ﬁres, bomb threats, kidnapping, toxic • Security procedures gas attacks, gas leaks and natural disasters. More than 100 members of the SSKL emergency response team, Fire and Employees are also briefed on potential hazards arising at Rescue Department, police, ambulance and government work including falling from heights, falling objects, slips and agencies participated in the three-hour drill. Agencies and falls, collapse of machinery, electrocution, ﬁre and chemical uniformed units participating in the exercise were the National spillage. Security Council, the Royal Malaysian Police, the Fire and Rescue Department, the Emergency Department of University Work and personnel safety is constantly emphasised Malaya Medical Centre, SSKL rail operators and the Civil Defence Department. The realistic ﬁre scenario was played out at the main concourse area using artiﬁcial smoke. The authorities were quick to respond to the situation. Within minutes, they established a command centre, evacuated commuters, extinguished the ﬁre, removed casualties and treated the wounded. The drill’s aim was to provide experience, knowledge and training for SSKL’s employees. It also taught them to act and handle any type of emergency in a professional manner. Since the opening of KL Sentral 12 years ago, MRCB has conducted similar drills to ensure that all parties are prepared to face any situation. This is part of SSKL’s efforts to make sure that its safety is reviewed from time to time. MRCB has 280 closed circuit televisions and 258 auxiliary policemen to monitor and ensure the safety and security of commuters. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE MRCB SAFETY STATISTICS IN 2013 TOTAL HOURS ACCIDENT DATA (MRCB STAFF) ACCIDENT DATA (CONTRACT STAFF) PROJECT (ON MAN TOTAL PROJECT) INJURY DEATH INJURY DEATH LOT 348 1,042,908 0 0 0 0 KUALA PAHANG ENVIRONMENT 50,000 0 0 0 0 PROJECT PHASE 2 LRT AMG LINES 770,197 0 0 0 0 PACKAGE B 4TH LANE WIDENING1,510,260 0 0 2 0 PACKAGE E LOT A CIMB 3,475,040 0 0 0 0 OFFICE TOWER LOT G (RETAIL) 2,841,380 0 0 0 0 EASTERN DISPERSAL LINK NA NA NA NA NA EXPRESSWAY 4TH LANE WIDENING339,560 0 0 0 0 PACKAGE C LOT D-2 BLOK PANGSAPURI SERVICES MEWAH 57 (TINGKAT) & 5 480,073 0 0 0 0 TINGKAT TEMPAT LETAK KERETA ARAS BAWAH LOT B MENARA PEJABAT 45 TINGKAT DENGAN 1,320,008 0 0 0 0 2 TINGKAT BESMEN LETAK KERETA MUARA SG PERAI ENVIRONMENTAL 156,434 0 0 0 0 PROJECT 64 65 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT TRAINING APPLICATION At MRCB, employees are offered a wide variety of learning • Forward the training brochure to Learning & and development opportunities that build on their strengths, Development Unit improve their skills and help them to overcome individual • Proceed with the training application through challenges. Matching individual employees’ aspirations with HR organisational needs are prioritised. APPROVAL PROCESS Previously, new employees who are still under probation are • Seek the necessary approval according to the not entitled to attend internal or external training. From March LOA at least two weeks before the training days 2014, all employees can attend any training duly approved by a • Seek approval from Learning & Development superior and the GCOO. Unit for data capturing Ongoing employee training programmes are announced through various channels such as emails, newsletters and TRAINING CONFIRMATION notice boards. Hard copies of registration forms are distributed • Training & Development will email throughout the Company. Employees can complete this form conﬁrmation of participant’s enrollment and return it to the Human Resource Department to secure • Payment is made before the training days their seats. The brief application process for internal training sessions is summarised below: Teambuilding TRAINING APPLICATION • Reply to advertisement from Learning & MRCB also conducts team building activities for its employees. Development Unit via email The development of good team-building skills enables • Proceed with the application in training stronger relationships and ultimately increased productivity. calendar via HR once advised It also facilitates better communication, motivates employees, promotes creativity, develops problem-solving skills and APPROVAL PROCESS breaks down barriers. • Seek the necessary approval according to the A survey was conducted to gauge employee job satisfaction LOA at least two weeks before the training days and ascertain the levels to which their training and career • Seek approval from Learning & Development development programmes fulﬁl their needs. This online survey Unit for data capturing was carried out anonymously by independent consultants during early 2014. It was hoped that this approach would help TRAINING CONFIRMATION document employees’ views more accurately and clearly. • Training & Development will email the conﬁrmation of participant 51 of the 145 respondents had been involved in some way with MRCB’s team building activities. These employees were asked if they thought the team building programmes had helped them in ﬁve key areas. The percentages of respondents helped by these programmes for the last three years are presented in Employees also attend external training in many disciplines the following table. in addition to bespoke internal training sessions. A blend of internal and external training courses help develop skills and knowledge for a particular employee’s role. There is an ongoing regular programme for the most popular courses. Employees are also encouraged to attend conferences and seminars to improve their technical and industry knowledge. A brief process of applying for external courses is summarised in the following table. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE TEAM BUILDING DATE NO. OF COURSE NO OF IMPROVEMENT 2011 2012 2013 DAYS TITLE PARTICIPANTS AREA 18 MARCH Induction 1 5 IMPROVED MY 2013 March 76.23 77.60 86.27 PEOPLE SKILLS 8 APRIL 2013 Induction 1 30 DEVELOPED April MY TECHNICAL 41.80 57.60 64.71 2 MAY 2013 Induction COMPETENCE 1 10 May IMPROVED MY 10 JUNE 2013 Induction MANAGEMENT 58.20 67.20 74.51 1 2 July SKILLS 17 JULY 2013 Induction ENCOURAGED A 1 4 July NEW WORKING 68.03 75.20 86.27 CULTURE Balanced Score Card (BSC) CREATED A SENSE OF BSC is the concept used to translate corporate vision and 64.75 78.40 76.47 COMPANY PRIDE strategy into a set of strategic objectives that drive behaviour AND LOYALTY and performance. The target participants for this training are top management and senior managers. The objectives of MRCB Induction Programme MRCB’s BSC are to: MRCB conducts regular induction programmes for new • Align their business activities with the strategic goals of employees. These employees are given all the help and the organisation. guidance they need for them to perform their duties to the • Select business activities and programmes that produce required standard as soon as possible. It integrates employees the desired outcomes towards organisational goals. across the Company for mutual beneﬁt. A total of 72 employees • Determine and select relevant key performance indicators. attended the programme in 2013. • Create a BSC to align strategy with all mapped interrelated objectives. Breakdown of employees attending induction • Create meaningful reports and dashboards to communicate performance both internally and externally. DATE NO. OF COURSE NO OF • Align the organisation with the strategic objectives. DAYS TITLE PARTICIPANTS • Help align organisational processes such as budgeting, risk management and analytics with strategic priorities. 2 JANUARY Induction 2 6 2013 January Six BSC sessions were held in 2013. The course title and other 15 FEBRUARY Induction details are listed in the table opposite. 1 10 2013 February 1 MARCH 2013 Induction 1 5 March 66 67 DATE NO. OF COURSE NO OF was held on 11 April 2013; eight top managers attended the DAYS TITLE PARTICIPANTS second session which was held on 11 June 2013. 15 MAY 2013 Balanced CIDB Green Card Scorecard (Refresher) 2 23 This is an integrated programme that registers and accredits KPI And construction personnel to improve safety levels on construction Goal sites. These qualiﬁcations ensure that construction workers Setting are aware of the importance of a safe and healthy workplace. 24 JUNE 2013 Balanced The training programme provides a basic knowledge of safety Scoreand health at the construction work site. It also informs 2 50 card The workers of the legal safety and health requirements. Workshop 19 AUGUST Balanced EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 2013 Scorecard 1 15 MRCB Board of Directors Retreat Workshop for E & C MRCB’s Board of Directors and senior management 19 AUGUST Balanced participated in a three-day, two-night retreat. The session 2013 Scorecard 1 11 was held at The Danna Hotel, Langkawi from 23 to 25 August Workshop 2013. Participants were briefed on the merger between MRCB for BSD and GAPURNA. Top managers were empowered to lead their 26 AUGUST Balanced team on the change resulting from this merger. Change 2013 Scorecard management included the alignment of KPIs and managing 1 Workshop 8 employees. for Property Group Managing Director’s meeting with MRCB’s senior 24 AUGUST Balanced management team 2013 Scorecard 1 7 Workshop MRCB senior managers were formally introduced to the new for Retail Group Managing Director during an informal meeting held on 18 November 2013. During the session, the Group Managing QLASSIC Awareness Course Director briefed the managers on his goals and aspirations. Senior managers also shared their experiences with the Quality Assessment System in Construction (QLASSIC) is Company. Challenges they face at work and their expectations developed by the Construction Industry Development Board from MRCB were outlined. (CIDB) Malaysia in conjunction with major construction industry stakeholders. QLASSIC is an industry benchmark tool EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION to measure workmanship quality of construction work for a completed building project. The QLASSIC Awareness Course Employee satisfaction is essential to the success of any held on 8 May 2013 was attended by 86 employees. business. A high level of employee contentedness is directly related to a lower turnover rate. Employee satisfaction is a 360 Degree Leadership Inventory major priority for MRCB. MRCB’s 360 Degree Leadership Inventory training focuses MRCB conducted a survey to measure the satisfaction, on instilling leadership behaviour in its employees. The motivation and loyalty of employees. The survey was conducted programme briefed participants on Kouzes and Posner in April 2014. This was based on a similar survey performed in Leadership Inventory. Participants of this training programme February 2013 for the year 2012 and March 2012 for the year were from MRCB’s top management. There were two sessions 2011. held in 2013. 42 top managers attended the ﬁrst session which SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE MRCB employs an external consultant to collect the data and generate the reports. It is hoped that employees will feel more comfortable and respond more openly and candidly when they know their responses are being handled by an outside organisation. Many employees may be reluctant to give their honest opinion on employee attitude surveys because they think their views are being tracked by the Company. Results of Employee Satisfaction Survey for 2011 and 2013 80 74 75 64 71 71 71 69 70 72 71 71 70 68 66 66 67 68 64 63 48 32 16 Working General Communication Leadership Strategy Benefits Environment Satisfaction Effectiveness 2011 2012 2013 The general satisfaction of the workforce remains high. Employees also believe that the working environment has improved. Although communication effectiveness, leadership and strategy have decreased slightly in 2013 they remain higher than in 2011. The major restructuring of the Company explains this slight drop in satisfaction. Employees are also slightly less satisﬁed with the beneﬁts they received although these have not changed. MRCB takes employee satisfaction seriously. Although this survey suggests employees are generally happy there is no room for complacency. In the same anonymous survey, employees were simply asked, “How satisﬁed are you with your job?” 78.62% of respondents were satisﬁed and only 1.38% were dissatisﬁed. 75.86% of respondents were satisﬁed with their own morale compared with only 2.07% who felt demoralised in any way. 74.48% of respondents reported that they were satisﬁed that their work gave them a feeling of accomplishment. NOTICE PERIOD OF OPERATIONAL CHANGE Any restructuring of operations is usually done after consulting managerial and supervisory employees. The impact of the changes is also assessed when appropriate. If the Company makes any operational changes that potentially affect its employees, MRCB tries to give a minimum of two weeks’ notice to the relevant employees. If possible, the Company provides a longer notice period for more signiﬁcant operational changes. 68 69 PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS Prior to reviewing the actual performance of individual employees, their overall performance is discussed with Heads of Department and Heads of Division. Consensus is ﬁrst obtained on employees’ overall performance. This review approach provides senior management the opportunity to discuss and resolve any inconsistencies in the evaluation prior to discussing it with the employee. At the end of the performance review, employees are given an interim rating, pending ﬁnalisation of the overall rating by the moderating committee. Ratings are based solely on the performance of key goals and competency. Evaluators rate employees’ performance based on what has been accomplished and how this was achieved. The table below presents the general description for each rating level. RATING NUMBERICAL RATING PERFORMANCE RATINGS DESCRIPTOR EXCEEDED EXPECTATION A 1 Consistently exceeds speciﬁc targets, measures and job requirements, both in terms of what they did and how they did it: • Contributes to the department’s or division’s success well beyond expectations • Contributes unique, innovative and workable solutions to projects and/or problems • Exceptional performance and effort are the employee’s norm MEET EXPECTATION B 2 Consistently achieves the results expected: • Results are timely and accurate and are produced with minimum supervision • Competent performance with minimal guidance IMPROVEMENT NEEDED C 3 Sometimes performing at an acceptable level but lacks consistency and needs improvement to meet expectations: • Performance was inconsistent • Employee requires guidance and supervision to meet expectations • Overall performance that is unacceptable due to the employee’s own lack of effort or skills 9-Box Grid: Performance / Competency A VALUED SPECIALIST / EMERGING PERFORMER STAR PERFORMER SUBJECT MATTER • Gets most, if not all important • Gets all important things done EXPERT things done • Acts at a level of capability of • Gets all important things • May act at level of capability of one at least one level above current done level above current position position • Is a pro in his/her position • Acts as role model • Acknowledged as a skilled leader • Is seen as a leader in his/her • Exhibits many strengths or or role model area competencies beyond current role • Exhibits many strengths or • Has reached potential • Has some leadership development competencies beyond current role • Not promotable or the issues • Has wide spread inﬂuence beyond person is not interested to current role be a leader or assume more responsibilities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WORKPLACE B AVERAGE PERFORMER SOLID PERFORMER STRONG PERFORMER • Gets most important things • Gets most important things done • Gets most important things done done • Shows signs of leadership or role • Acknowledged as a leader and role • Is very proﬁcient in his/her modelling model current position • Exhibits many competencies of • Exhibits many competencies and • Is not seen as a leader in his/ current position behaviour beyond current position her area • Acts at level of capability of next • Maybe in wrong job or has level in the organisation non-job related distraction C LOW PERFORMER INCONSISTENT PERFORMER POTENTIAL PERFORMER • Isn’t getting most important • Isn’t getting most important things • Isn’t getting most important things things done done done • Difﬁculty performing to • Capable of making higher • Has been acknowledged as a team standards in his/her current contribution player and role model position • May be new, in wrong job or • Exhibits many competencies of occupied with non-work distraction current position • May be in wrong job or occupied with non-work distraction WORKFORCE STATISTICS TABLE 2011 2012 2013 EMPLOYEES TOTAL NUMBER 1,218 1,221 1,155 EXECUTIVE 674 653 590 NON-EXECUTIVE 544 568 565 PERMANENT STAFF 510 536 517 NON-PERMANENT STAFF 708 685 638 FEMALE 367 367 341 MALE 851 854 814 AGE GROUP <30 516 521 461 30 50 638 630 611 >50 64 70 83 DIVERSITY MALAY 1,088 1,090 1,023 70 71 2011 2012 2013 DIVERSITY CHINESE 65 63 58 INDIAN 43 37 39 OTHERS 22 31 35 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE 173 283 303 MALE 130 217 221 FEMALE 43 66 82 AGE GROUP <30 80 142 152 30 50 83 126 125 >50 10 15 26 WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT % WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT 1.1 1.1 0.23 % WOMEN IN TOP 0.1 0.1 0 MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR PROMISE TO SUSTAINABLE MARKETPLACE PRACTICE At MRCB, employees are passionate about what they do as they work together with supply chain partners. The team prioritises customers’ needs and considers how to deliver and support their sustainable development aspirations. Doing business with integrity builds trust and positive relationships that are central to maintaining a successful business. MRCB works hard to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct in all areas of operations and expects no less of its business partners. 72 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MARKETPLACE MRCB continues to develop strong partnerships with its YEAR (%) customers and suppliers for a sustainable supply chain. COMPANY Ensuring projects are of the highest quality and standard is 2011 2012 2013 of paramount importance. Customers’ satisfaction is at the FACILITIES MANAGEMENT heart of MRCB’s delivery. Efﬁciency and effectiveness remain SEMASA 93.4 94.6 N/A a priority. SENTRAL SEMASA 88.8 88.4 89.2 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT SERVICES Sustainable procurement embeds environmental, economic SEMASA 89.3 87.9 82.0 and social criteria into contractual documents with the aim of PARKING motivating suppliers to offer more sustainable products and OVERALL FOR 90.5 90.3 85.6 services. FACILITIES MANAGEMENT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION MRCB LAND An annual Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) gauges MRCB 88.2 87.9 74.9 purchasers’ and tenants’ satisfaction. The surveys are SENTRAL administered by a dedicated and independent team, PROPERTIES Customer Relationship Management (CRM). The surveys (FORMERLY target purchasers for newly completed property development MRCB and tenants of buildings that are being managed by MRCB’s SELBORN) subsidiaries. SIDEC 85.7 70.1 71.7 MRCB 75.8 N/A N/A The survey feedback on facilities management is used to UTAMA formulate plans for service improvements. Findings related MALAYSIAN 78.2 85.0 78.0 to project development are directed to the project team for improvements in product design, speciﬁcations, marketing, RESOURCES sales and other after sales services. SENTRAL SDN BHD The results of the CSS for Facilities Management and MRCB MRDSB 87.1 89.5 83.4 Land from 2011 to 2013 are presented in the following table. OVERALL 83.0 83.1 77.0 FOR MRCB LAND OVERALL 86.7 86.7 81.3 Note: Overall score calculations for Facilities Management and MRCB Land are an average of the companies under the division. The Overall score is an average of Overall for Facilities Management and Overall for MRCB LAND. 74 75 CUSTOMER PRIVACY CORRUPTION, GRATUITIES AND GIFT GIVING CRM surveys are conducted by an independent team within Employees or their family members must not proﬁt from MRCB MRCB. The proﬁles of survey respondents are not shared with other than their regular compensation. They may not receive the business units and management. All respondents feel free gifts, loans, business deals or other special preferences beyond to share their views and grouses. All reports are forwarded in what is ordinarily available from a person or organisation that Portable Document Format (PDF) and individual company data does business with MRCB or a competitor. remains conﬁdential. Employees must not accept lavish gifts other than small value MRCB is committed to maintaining its clientele’s privacy by gifts extended as a business courtesy. If employees are faced securely accessing and storing all personal information. Only with business situations that may also call for giving gifts, certain employees are trusted to input information, update proper approval must be obtained. or maintain the clientele databank and retrieve required information. These employees can only gain access to the Lavish or frequent entertainment may inﬂuence one’s databank via dedicated usernames and passwords. independent judgment on behalf of MRCB. If an invitation seems inappropriate, it must be declined or the employee ENSURING OUR CUSTOMERS ARE WELL-INFORMED should offer pay. One-to-one sessions are conducted with the prospective It may be impractical to refuse or return a gift on occasions. In purchasers of MRCB products. Additional information related such cases, employees are advised to practise good business to the organisation is disseminated as and when requested by sense and discretion. the purchaser or customer. All discounts and rebates to customers must reﬂect true A website is maintained in addition to the ongoing production of commercial transactions and not be intended to serve any various sales kits and both physical and computer-generated illegal or improper purpose such as kickbacks and bribery. 3-D scale models. Customers and potential customers are kept informed through various channels including advertisements, A survey was conducted in early 2014 to gauge employees’ promotion campaigns, soft or pre-opening events leading up to knowledge of MRCB’s Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy, ofﬁcial launching events. and other ethical guidelines in the Code of Business Ethics. Only 4.83% felt there was insufﬁcient information provided Advertising Materials Approval Process in this area during induction training. This is 2.08% less than the previous year in which 6.91% felt there was inadequate Project and product facts are summarised in the draft training. advertising copy highlighting the Unique Selling Points (USP) that each product offers. This is either done internally or by an ANTI-COMPETITION IN MRCB external specialist advertising agency. These USPs encapsulate the deﬁning features of each product and form the basis of our The Malaysia’s Competition Act 2010 came into effect on information via publicity. After the initial fact gathering and the 1 January 2012. This law provides a regulatory framework creative process of copywriting and graphic design, approval against market manipulation and cartel practices. Healthy is sought from the Company’s Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer. competition is needed to make the economy more efﬁcient The publicity material is reﬁned to enhance the promotional and dynamic. MRCB ensures that there are no breaches of this aspects of the ‘sell’ while proactively safeguarding against any legislation. misrepresentation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MARKETPLACE PREVENTION OF FRAUD The Board has also introduced the Prevention of Fraud Manual. This document guides the management and employees in maintaining the highest standards of conduct and integrity in all dealings. It details the management’s responsibility to establish proper control processes to prevent and detect fraud. It deﬁnes what constitutes fraud and fraudulent activities, and puts together a framework for preventing fraud. During the year, the Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed and updated. The Whistleblowing Policy outlines the avenues and procedures for whistleblowers to communicate their Tan Sri Abu Kassim Mohamed Chief Commissioner of the concerns to the Board without management’s intervention and Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission displays MRCB’s endorsed Corporate Integrity Pledge interference. This can be done either through the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Head of Corporate Governance. As part of the review, more channels for communicating concerns OUR COMMITMENT TO TRANSPARENT COMMUNICATIONS were established, including through the Company’s website. The Whistleblowing Policy also describes the procedures Various corporate announcements required under the Main to be taken for investigating and dealing with reports on the Market Listing Requirements (MMLR) have been made misconduct of employees. during the period under review including the timely release of quarterly ﬁnancial results. This ensures that the stakeholders and investing public has up-to-date information on the Group’s performance, operations and other signiﬁcant developments. Various corporate announcements required under the MMLR have been made during the period under review. These include the timely release of quarterly ﬁnancial results. In addition, detailed information on the Group’s signiﬁcant corporate events and developments were made through the media via press releases and press conferences. Shareholders, investors and stakeholders can conveniently access up-to-date information on the Group’s projects, quarterly ﬁnancial position, investor relations and general corporate information at its regularly-updated corporate public website http://www.mrcb.com. There is also a “Contact Us” icon on the Company’s website, which leads to a webpage where shareholders and investors can conveniently forward their questions and comments to the Company. Shareholders and members of the public may also contact the Senior Independent Director of the Company to Essential ethics guideline for convey their concerns or questions. MRCB employees 76 77 GRI INDEX MRCB has adopted the internationally-recognised reporting framework, the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI). The GRI ensures the highest level of transparency and disclosure for MRCB’s Sustainability Report 2013. The GRI Content Index table acts as a reference for readers to easily locate information for each GRI indicator. The GRI Content Index table is presented to guide where information on each GRI indicator can be found. Status : • Fully Reported; Partially Reported; x Not Reported G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURE PART: PROFILE DISCLOSURES Reasons for Omission Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference & Explanation 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the • 8-10 organisation 1.2 Description of key impacts, • 8-10 risks, and opportunities 2. Organisational Proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organisation • Front Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/ • 3 or services 2.3 Operational structure of the • 2 organisation 2.4 Location of organisation’s • 2 headquarters 2.5 Number of countries where the • 4-5 organisation operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal • 4-5 form 2.7 Markets served • 4-5 2.8 Scale of the reporting • 2 organisation 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the • 8-10 reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the • 20-25 reporting period 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period • 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURE PART: PROFILE DISCLOSURES Reasons for Omission Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference & Explanation 3. Report Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous • 2 report 3.3 Reporting cycle • 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its • 2 contents 3.5 Process for deﬁning report • 2,14-15 content 3.6 Boundary of the report • 2, 8-10, 14-15 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope • 8-10, 14-15 or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint • 8-10, 14-15 ventures, subsidiaries, etc 3.9 Data measurement techniques • 42-43 and the bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any • 8-10 re-statements of information 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from • 8-10 previous reporting period 3.12 Table identifying the location of • GRI G3.1 Index the Standard Disclosures 3.13 Policy and current practice Assurance Statement with regard to seeking external • by SIRIM QAS Sdn Bhd assurance for the report 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the • 26-27 and AR2013 organisation 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is • 26 also an executive ofﬁcer 4.3 Independent and/or nonexecutive members of the • 26 Board 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide • 29 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organisation’s • 28 performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure • 57 conﬂicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Qualiﬁcations and expertise of • AR2013 the Board 78 79 G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURE PART: PROFILE DISCLOSURES Reasons for Omission Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference & Explanation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of • 16 conduct, and principles 4.9 Identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, • 16 and social performance, conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own • 69 performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or • 15 principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social • 34 charters, principles 4.13 This information is not available. We aim to Memberships in associations • AR2013 have this indicator to be disclosed in coming reports 4.14 List of stakeholder groups • 12 engaged by the organisation 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with • 12 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder • 13-14 engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, • 13-14 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value • AR2013 generated and distributed EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the • 40 organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned • 56 beneﬁt plan obligations EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial This information As and when it assistance received from x is currently not is found to be government available relevant Market presence EC5 Standard entry level wage • 56 vs. local minimum wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on • 56 locally-based suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring • 56 Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments • 46-48 and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant • 49 indirect economic impacts Materials EN1 This information is currently not Materials used by weight or available and we x 2015 volume hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN2 This information is currently not Percentage of materials available and we used that are recycled input x 2015 hope to have it in the materials next Sustainability Report Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption • 35, 40 by primary energy source 80 81 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary • 35, 40 source CRE1 Building energy intensity This information is currently not available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and • 35, 40 efﬁciency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or • 36 renewable energy EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy • 35 consumption and reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by This information source is currently not available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN9 Signiﬁcant impact of • 36 withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total This information volume of water recycled is currently not and reused available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report CRE2 Building water intensity This information is currently not available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed • 32-33 in, or adjacent to, protected areas SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Biodiversity EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on • 32-33 biodiversity in protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or MRCB’s restored biodiversity and conservation x programme does not focus on protecting habitats EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans • 32-33 for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red MRCB’s List species and national biodiversity and conservation list species conservation x with habitats in areas programme does affected by operations not focus on protecting habitats Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions • 42-43 by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions • 42-43 by weight CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions This information intensity from buildings is currently not available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report CRE4 Greenhouse gas This information emissions intensity from is currently not new construction and available and we x 2015 redevelopment activity hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions • 42-43 and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozonedepleting substances by • 35-41 weight 82 83 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN20 NOx, SOx, and other This information signiﬁcant air emissions is currently not by type and weight available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN21 Total water discharge by This information quality and destination is currently not available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN22 Total weight of waste by Total waste type and disposal method disposed is reported • 40-41 in totality instead of by type and disposal method EN23 Total number and volume This information of signiﬁcant spills is currently not available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN24 Weight of transported, This information imported, exported, or is currently not treated waste deemed available and we x 2015 hazardous hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report EN25 Identity, size, protected This information status, and biodiversity is currently not value of water bodies available and we and related habitats hope to have it in the x 2015 signiﬁcantly affected next Sustainability by the reporting Report organisation’s discharges of water and runoff SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Land Degradation, Contamination CRE5 Land and other assets This information remediated and in need is currently not of remediation for the available and we existing or intended x hope to have it in the 2015 land use according next Sustainability to applicable legal Report designations Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of • 40-43 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not materials that are Applicable reclaimed by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of MRCB has not signiﬁcant ﬁnes and received any total number of nonsigniﬁcant ﬁnes and monetary sanctions for sanctions for nonnon-compliance with • compliance with environmental laws and environmental laws regulations and regulations during this reporting period Transport EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the • 42-43 organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental This information protection expenditures is currently not and investments by type available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report 84 85 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, • 70-71 employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age • 70-71 group, gender, and region LA3 Beneﬁts provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary • 56 or part-time employees, by major operations LA15 Return to work and Such beneﬁt is not retention rates after x currently available parental leave, by gender at the Company Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees This information covered by collective is currently not bargaining agreements available and we x 2015 hope to have it in the next Sustainability Report LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Any operational regarding signiﬁcant changes occurring operational changes, that may affect including whether it is employees are speciﬁed in collective communicated agreements throughout the • Company. The Human Resource Department provides notice to all employees via email or other electronic modes Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety • 58-61 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and • 64 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in veriﬁed compliance with an internationally • 62 recognised health and safety management system LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist • 63 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not agreements with trade Applicable unions Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by • 65-67 employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability • 65-67 of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular • 69 performance and career development reviews 86 87 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category • 70-71 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and MRCB provides remuneration of women equal remuneration to men by employee • between men and category, by signiﬁcant women employees locations of operation (1:1) SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Percentage and total We are currently number of signiﬁcant improving out data investment agreements collection process that include human rights x and hope to have 2015 clauses or that have this information undergone human rights available in our next screening Report HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant We are currently suppliers and contractors improving out data that have undergone collection process screening on human rights x and hope to have 2015 and actions taken this information available in our next Report HR3 Total hours of employee Employees’ rights training on policies and are clearly stipulated procedures concerning in the Company’s aspects of human rights that • Policy which is are relevant to operations, distributed to all including the percentage of employees upon employees trained joining the Company Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of Any form of discrimination and actions discrimination taken is not tolerated. There have been • no incidents of discrimination reported during 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identiﬁed in We respect the which the right to exercise right of our freedom of association and employees to collective bargaining may • join any union or be at signiﬁcant risk, and organisation of actions taken to support their choice these rights Child labour HR6 Operations identiﬁed as MRCB recognises having signiﬁcant risk for that its activities incidents of child labour, have the potential and measures taken to to impact the contribute to the elimination human rights of child labour of individuals affected by its business. In all of • our operations, we do not use child, forced or compulsory labour. We also ensure that rights of indigenous people are not violated by our operations Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identiﬁed as MRCB recognises having signiﬁcant risk that its activities for incidents of forced or have the potential compulsory labour, and to impact the measures to contribute to human rights the elimination of forced or of individuals compulsory labour affected by its business. In all of • our operations, we do not use child, forced or compulsory labour. We also ensure that rights of indigenous people are not violated by our operations 88 89 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Forced and compulsory labour HR8 Percentage of security Employees’ rights personnel trained in the including security organisation’s policies or personnel are procedures concerning clearly stipulated aspects of human rights that • in the Company’s are relevant to operations Policy which is distributed to all employees upon joining the Company Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents MRCB recognises of violations involving rights that its activities of indigenous people and have the potential actions taken to impact the human rights of individuals affected by its business. In all of • our operations, we do not use child, forced or compulsory labour. We also ensure that rights of indigenous people are not violated by our operations Assessment HR10 Percentage and total All applicable number of operations that employment and have been subject to human human rights laws rights reviews and/or impact and regulations assessments are complied • with wherever we have operations; we expect our suppliers to do the same Remediation HR11 Number of grievances We are currently related to human rights improving our data ﬁled, addressed and collection process resolved through formal x and hope to have 2015 grievance mechanisms this information available in our next Report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: SOCIETY Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage • 49-51 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO9 Operations with signiﬁcant potential or actual • 52-53 negative impacts on local communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with signiﬁcant • 49-53 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities CRE7 Number of persons We are currently voluntarily and improving our data involuntarily displaced collection process and/or resettled by x and hope to have 2015 development, broken down this information by project available in our next Report Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units • 75 analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees Employees trained in organisation’s are briefed on anti-corruption policies and anti-corruption procedures practices in the Company’s Code • 75 of Conduct which is distributed to all employees upon joining the Company SO4 Actions taken in response to • 75 incidents of corruption 90 91 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: SOCIETY Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and MRCB maintains a participation in public policy good relationship development and lobbying with the authorities by practicing • its expertise in supporting the Government’s goals SO6 Total value of ﬁnancial and MRCB did not in-kind contributions to extend any political parties, politicians, ﬁnancial and inand related institutions by kind contributions • country to political parties and politicians during this reporting period Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and • 75 monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of MRCB did not signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total receive any ﬁnes number of non-monetary and sanctions for sanctions for nonnon-compliance • compliance with laws and with laws and regulations regulations during this reporting period SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in This information which health and safety has been reported impacts of products and in great detail services are assessed in previous for improvement, and x Sustainability percentage of signiﬁcant Reports products and services categories subject to such procedures SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Customer health and safety PR2 Total number of incidents There were of non-compliance with no signiﬁcant regulations and voluntary penalties for codes concerning health noncompliance or and safety impacts of violations of laws • products and services and regulations during their life cycle, by in relation to the type of outcomes impact of our projects during 2013 Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage • 75 of signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certiﬁcation, rating and labelling schemes for new • 34 construction, management, occupation and redevelopment PR4 Total number of incidents There were of non-compliance with no signiﬁcant regulations and voluntary penalties for noncodes concerning product compliance or and service information violations of laws and labelling, by type of • and regulations outcomes in relation to provision of information pertaining to our projects in 2013 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys • 74 measuring customer satisfaction 92 93 STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Reasons for Proﬁle Disclosure Description Status Cross-Reference Omission & To be reported in Explanation Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing • 75 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents There have been of non-compliance no complaints with regulations received in relation and voluntary codes to our marketing concerning marketing • and advertising communications, including practices in 2013 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of • 75 customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of There were signiﬁcant ﬁnes for nonno signiﬁcant compliance with laws and penalties for nonregulations concerning compliance or • the provision and use of violations of laws products and services and regulations in relation to our projects in 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 94 95 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NOTES MALAYSIAN RESOURCES CORPORATION BERHAD 7994-D Level 21, 1 Sentral, Jalan Travers Kuala Lumpur Sentral 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel : 603 2786 8080 Fax : 603 2780 7988 www.mrcb.com
