UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Statement from the Director On its 2nd year of United Nations Global Compact participation, Elif continues its committment to ensure that the Global Compact and its Ten Principles are an integral part of the company strategy, culture and every day operations. We are pleased to present Elif’s by meeting the packaging needs structure has been remodeled as a Communication on Progress of our customers in this region group of companies whilst starting Report 2013-2014; the second through a more efficient use of to standardize the applications of report published by our company, resources as well as by all corporate value based activities which has been shaping its increasing the effectiveness of over all available points of strategies with an emphasis on the company in the geography. operation. the United Nations Global Cairo acts as a ‘hub’ among the The most important activity has Compact Principles. emerging markets in the region. been the adoption of English as the Over the past year, Elif has yet Considering the fact that Egypt is common language for this group of again maintained its development presenting a potential for itself corporations. Also, we have through the new projects and together with the neighboring improved our policy for information policies that have been put into countries, as well as its proximity management and awarded with practice in line with the Global to resources of raw material and ISO 27001. Compact and its Ten Principles. the opportunity of available After realizing our large scaled Packaging is an essential part of qualified human resources, it energy recovery project in 2012, our daily lives in every aspect. So becomes apparent how this two more projects have kicked-off much that, it has now become investment will greatly contribute over the past year, parallel to our the a major part of all the to the macroeconomics. sustainability mission. These are: products we consume with the Our Cairo factory has been 1. Re-water project and aim of enhancing the quality of designed in such a way that it can 2. Trigeneration project our lives. act as a global model in its field. Please do not hesitate to contact Creating employment opportunity us should you wish to acquire Starting from this point of view, for 350 people, our Cairo further information regarding either we have expanded our manufacturing site will operate as of these two exemplary projects. ‘Packaging Intelligence’ motto a ‘Greenfield’ factory. The facility, with ‘Packaging for Life’. Elif, a The fundamental element that lies aiming to utilize the local company that reaches millions of behind Elif Group’s consistent and resources at the highest level people through the packaging sustained development is the very possible, will not only contribute materials it manufactures, is synergy generated by our clients, to Egypt’s import substitution and conscious of the responsibility it our suppliers, our professional export balance; but also by carries, and is thriving to achieve human resources and our transferring our ‘know how’, that its mission in terms of innovative management. In this will have an impact on the sustainability. sense, I would like to respectfully efficiency and the intellectual fund thank all of our business partners In order to further improve Elif’s of Egypt and play a vital role in and co-workers. global packaging supplier identity, improving the quality standards of a milestone has been reached in packaging within the region. Cairo, where, the company’s All these developments have also second manufacturing site is revealed the requirement for an scheduled to start operating organizational restructuring within within the current year. This will Elif. Thus, the fourth phase of our provide an important step in Selçuk K. Yarangümelioğlu transformation has begun over progressing towards the the past year. On one hand, Elif’s Chief Executive Officer company’s mission UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 2| Director’s Photo Our Approach to Reporting Contents Elif prepares and presents its United Nations Introduction Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement from the Report in accordance with the UNGC Reporting Director ............................ 2 Guidelines. Our Approach to Reporting......................... 3 Elif United Nations Global In this report, ‘Elif’ refers to Elif Company Profile Compact Communication on Group of Companies; Elif Progress Report 2013-2014 is Holding A.Ş., Elif Plastik Elif At a Glance ............... 4 issued annually and provides a Ambalaj Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Vision, Mission and summary of its progress for 10 Elif Global Ambalaj San. ve Tic. principles of UNGC in 4 areas; A.Ş: and Elif Global Packaging Values .............................. 6 Human Rights, Labour Rights, S.A.E. The report is prepared for 40 years of Experience ... 8 Environment, Anti-corruption. the period 2013-2014. Sustainability Approach.10 Details regarding the information given in the report can be Quality Approach .......... 12 provided online at Elif’s corporate website and at the section dedicated for action Report Profile pages of the regarding area. The online content provides Our Policies and further information about Elif’ as Standards ...................... 14 well as additional and update UNGC Principles, information about the issues covered in this report. Approach, www.elifglobal.com Implementations and Results............................ 20 Questions & Feedback Human Rights Principles Actions .......................... 24 We welcome your feedback on our commitments and Labour Rights Principles – performance detailed here in our United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2013-2014 . Actions .......................... 26 Questions and feedback about the report should be directed Environmental Principles – to Elif via the ‘Contact us’ enquiry form at Actions .......................... 28 www.elifglobal.com/contact or via e-mail to Anti‐Corruption Principle – marketing@elifglobal.com or via phone numbers given at Actions .......................... 30 Elif corporate website. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 |3 Elif at a Glance Our packaging reaches millions of people all around the world every day, helping to create a happier and healthier life. We exist for People in every sphere of life. Our business is Packaging for Life. Elif targets to meet tomorrow's Elif supplies packaging trust and help people to reach expectations to keep global materials for many multinational products they consume with benchmark company position in brands in food & beverage, safety and health. the flexible packaging industry. baby, adult and fem care, With its global benchmark In every stage of its consumer tissue, household and flexible packaging production development, Elif runs after new fabric care, pet care, and many facilities of Elif in Turkey and horizons. This has been other industrial sectors. achieved with the enthusiasm Egypt, Elif makes over 175 Producing the face of many mUSD. generated by the synergy of our leading brands, Elif serves customers, suppliers, coIn every phase of its millions of people in more than workers and management team. imprescriptible transformation, 50 countries all over the world. Elif continuously improves its Continuously improving our Elif’s packaging materials standarts that leverages its service and quality standards protect, carry, communicate, development. This development parallel with our sustainability nourish and care the products is the driver of Elif’s always notion, we develop better they warp. At Elif, we are aware raising standarts. products driven by innovation that packaging materials we and art-of science, improve the produce not only protect the effiency of our manufacturing product they carry, but also the facilities and provide products reputation of Elif’s customers. tailored to the unique needs of Elif supports its customers to our customers, society and deliver their products with environment. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 4| Elif is an unrivalled packaging partner, serving 360° Tangible Excellence Packaging Solutions for its customers with continuous innovation , sustainable practice and a global diverse culture Converted Materials Technical Packaging on Reel Films Sectors We Serve Food & Household Personal Beverage Care Care Retail & Other Industrial UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 |5 Vision, Mission & Values We are working relentlessly to be a global benchmark company in the flexible packaging industry by creating long term value for our business partners, Elif members and the society with a sustainability notion integrated with our high quality and service standards. VISION Corporate Values technical competence and expertise. As thinkers with a Being the global Elif carries its core values from point of view, anticipating market benchmark company in the the first day of its establishment trends and translating them into flexible packaging and improve them in every step opportunities and progress for industry. it takes. These values reflect the our customers and through behaviors that shape the tone of knowledge-based innovation, Elif continues to target how Elif works within its Elif will continue to find the tomorrow's excellence to keep ecosystem to create value by better way to produce and its global benchmark company over fulfilling the needs of deliver products, serve position in the flexible packaging customers in a spirit of customers, protect environment, industry. This has been leadership, through diversity and support the packaging achieved with the enthusiasm and integrity and with a clear industry in its efforts to produce generated by the synergy of awareness of responsibility. better packaging. Elif's customers, suppliers, professional human resources Leadership Responsibility and management team with Elif has a full awareness of Elif acts responsibly toward the innovative approach. being world-class and a clear environment and the society and Continuously improving its vision of where the Company is aim to make a positive impact service and quality standards, going in every aspect of the through its brands, activities, Elif has been authenticated as business. Elif will continue to be resources and assets. Elif’s the market leader for setting pioneers by empowering sustainability notion combines high standards in the flexible initiatives and setting worldwide economic success with packaging industry by its benchmarks through environmental protection and multinational customers with determination, courage, social responsibility both in its leading brands. knowledge and passion to work and marketplace. progress. Elif is a top-notch in Therefore, Elif builds stable and the way it designs, produces sustainable relationships with its MISSION and serves its products, a leader business partners by acting in management performance responsibly throughout its entire To deliver value adding and committed to deliver flexible packaging business framework. leadership results. solutions for the Elif exists for the purpose of sustainability framework Elif is passionate about quality creating value by increasing the to deliver quality exceeding standard of living and quality of with worldwide expectations to organizations, authenticated quality. life of its employees and communities and environments otherwise contributing to the Elif is committed to provide through scientific and economic, environmental, and exceptional service and highest technological developments and social well-being of customers, quality products tailored to the continuous improvement of our suppliers, and the nations in unique needs of each customer resources. Quality is the source which the company transacts through collaboration and of Elif’s reputation for high business. The objective of Elif's innovation driven by the art of standards and the Company will sustainable development is to science. Elif is committed to continuously pursue it to make ensure the continued existence work relentlessly to deliver value its customers, business partners of the company as an economic adding flexible packaging and co-workers experience it not factor, as an employer in the solutions for the sustainability only today but also tomorrow. region, in harmony with the framework of its partners, Elif maintains cutting-edge environment and the standards customers, economy, society knowledge combined with of society in the long-term. and environment. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 6| Elif Value Chain Passion to Leadership Responsibility Diversity Integrity Create Value Quality Safety Cultural Honest and Ethical Customer Focus Behaviour Know-how Environmental Intellectual Respect Talent & Respect Teamwork Innovation Social Awareness Geographical Sprit of Law Productivity Sustainable management forms needs and ideas of its coenvironments that its business the basis of Elif’s commercial workers, customers and touches. success. Conscious suppliers helps Elif understand all aspects and provide valuePassion to Create Value consideration of its social and societal responsibility, as well as added consultancy to anticipate Elif is passionate about conscientious handling of and project for long-term. intelligent packaging solutions natural resources and the Elif develops its market helping to shape the next environment, are integral parts presence by appealing to generation of its customers’ of Elif’s self-image. diverse consumers and products. With the essence of customers with its products and teamwork of its talented human Elif intends to be a worldwide services. Being diverse in capital, Elif is intensely focused international trademark by culture and geography as the on performing sustainable and expanding its customer and markets it serves, enables Elif productive solutions for its partner network all around the enhance the lives of people it customers to help them achieve world thanks to its diverse their business objectives, for human resources, cultural serves. communities the Company infrastructure and capability of Integrity touches to add more value for geographical distribution and them and for environment we speed to react. Elif builds trust in its belong to improve its positive relationships through honest and Diversity impact. The Company acts as it ethical behavior . Elif upholds its is committed to act, Elif creates Elif leverages diversity to create corporate values and principles value. maximum value for our business in every action and decision. As using the colors of diverse a vital asset of its corporate ideas, needs, talents, responsibility, Elif operates geographies, cultures and within integrity, respect and the capabilities of its organization, sprit of law. Elif will honor its customers, business partners as commitments by practicing the well as communities. Being highest ethical standards for diverse in intelligence with societies, organizations and different approaches, thoughts, UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 |7 42 years of Experience Through transformative change management, risk minimization by diversification, and disciplined management of assets, we achieve sustainable growth and successful transformation of business into a Global Benchmark Company. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 8| UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 |9 Quality Approach Elif continues to target tomorrow’s excellence by strengthening synergy and dynamism generated by the unity of its customers, suppliers with professional human resources and its innovative management approach. Elif is committed to provide exceptional service and high quality products tailored to the unique needs of each customer through collaboration and innovation driven by the art of science. Elif continues to target tomorrow’s excellence by strengthening synergy and dynamism generated by the unity of its customers, suppliers with professional human resources and its innovative management approach. Therefore, Elif not only advocates good corporate governance but also promotes long-lasting cooperation as well as open communication with customers and suppliers to uphold the principles of mutual trust and fundamental human values as a part of our social responsibility program. Quality, Innovative and Responsible Packaging for Life Elif continuously pursue excellence to make its customers experience the Excellence not only today but also tomorrow in all geographies and under all conditions. 360˚ Tangible Excellence is one of Elif’s core values reflecting the behaviors that shape the tone of how Elif works with its customers and partners as well as its internal working principals. Sustainable Practice and Continuous Innovation are the other two core values of Elif. Elif’s understanding of Quality is continuously training the employees under the roof of Elif with the latest technology it possesses, continuously UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 10 | Quality Certificates ISO 27001 was the first large scaled heat Accreditation recovery project not only in Elif has successfully adopted the Turkey but also around the concept of Total Quality Elif is one of the first world. With the newly Approach over all of production packaging companies, which is implemented system, Elif will and service processes and been awarded the 2013 version of have released amenity of 10.000 awarded by ISO 9001 Quality ISO/IEC 27001 Information trees against global warming of Management System, ISO Safety Management System the Earth in 10 years. 14001 Environmental Standard in Turkey. Management System, ISO 22000 Food Safety Following the inspections Management System, OHSAS carried out in June, Elif has 18001 Occupational Health & been granted the ISO 27001 Safety Management, ISO 27001 Information Safety Certificate, Information Management which sets the standards to Security System certificates and prepare risk management and BRC/IoP Global Standard for risk handling plans, duties and Food Packaging and Other responsibilities, business Packaging Materials. continuity plans, emergency incident management Elif wins golden award in procedures of the institutions in Crescent and Stars of terms of information safety and Packaging 2013 with its snack to keep the records during the packaging produced with the practice. Elif has achieved that latest packaging technologies success by publishing an and techniques. information safety policy in which all activities are contained and creating awareness by the staff about the threats towards the information safety. Excellence, Re-certifications Sustainability & In 2013, Elif achieved reInnovation certifications after related audits. Confirming that Elif continues to target tomorrow’s production and service excellence. Elif is committed to supplying sustainable, more efficient, Elif has been recognized with safer, cleaner and customer ‘P&G 2013 External Business focused production and service Partner Excellence Award’ processes to professionally fulfill acknowledging performance, or exceed customers collaboration and partnership. requirements. This recertification is an evident of Elif’s strong commitment to increase Elif’s sustainability approach customer satisfaction by recognized by Coca-Cola’s consistently providing products prestigious Green Supplier that meet global standards and Award. The awarded project regulatory requirements UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 11 Elif’s Approach of Sustainability To create long term value for sustainability, Elif tracks its sustainability management performance and plans its enhancements in a framework outlining three main domains of sustainability as indicated. Elif acts responsibly toward the Elif's approach to sustainability Packaging environment and society and is driven by the operating model Sustainability promotes productive and cost defining its approach to saving methods and technology business in three elements and Sustainability of packaging is in its business activities. For Elif, starts with its brand essence: dependent on three core sustainable development means ‘Packaging Intelligence’ functions of packaging the combination of long term combined intelligently. Elif acts oriented economic success with – Vision & Mission: Elif's responsibly with the awareness environmental protection and strategic framework for of sustainable packaging. social responsibility both in the significant success workplace and marketplace of – Corporate Personality: Protecting: Optimum Elif. It is aimed to integrate a Articulating Elif's unique packaging should extend sustainability notion into Elif's approach to conducting work product shelf life to the required organizational and management every day. level and protect the product system and build stable and – Corporate Values: Reflecting against physical, chemical and sustainable relationships with the behaviors that shape the microbial damage to minimize business partners of Elif by tone of how Elif works with its food spoilage and maximize acting responsibly throughout customers and partners as well community health. Therefore, the entire supply chain. as its internal working principals reducing the amount of packaging also ends up in reducing its sustainability impact due to product waste/spoilage or spread of health issues in the Packaging Sustainability community. Informing: Packaging is not only a communication tool for marketers but also an information platform for consumers. While right dosing and storage instructions can prevent product waste and protect community health, recycling and other green information like carbon footprint and supply chain tracing help to increase the sustainability of the packaging itself. Performing: Packaging also serves many purposes in terms of functionality and contributes to sustainability in the supply chain and the community. Longer shelf life, easy handling, less storage space and other convenience functions contributes to sustainability of both economy and community as well as environment. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 12 | Sustainability Framework Environmental Economic Social Sustainability: Sustainability: Sustainability Environmental Sustainability is Elif plans its actions to achieve Social Sustainability is the core the ability to maintain the and maintain an adaptive, element of Sustainability which qualities that are valued in the resilient, vital economy providing aims to create and maintain physical environment of Elif. opportunities and stability for its quality of life for people. Elif’s programs for stakeholders, employees, Economic and Environmental Environmental Sustainability business partners, customers, factors are important, but they include actions to prevent the society and the environment. are both means to the end, threats and impacts from Initiatives of Elif for Economic rather than ends in themselves. arising, protect the environment Sustainability includes raising Therefore, by working towards from threats and damage, the level of accountability / Economic and Environmental reduce the use of physical transparency as well as Sustainability, Elif is already resources and use renewable corporate governance, working towards Social rather than depletable increasing shareholder value, Sustainability. Elif’s actions for resources, to redesign enhancing economic Social Sustainability includes production processes and performance and productivity, ensuring fair trade and fair products to eliminate the and reaching financial objectives competition, local economic production of environmentally in and for its sustainability development, continuously unfriendly materials, and to help framework. enhancing working conditions protection and restoration of and workplace safety, protecting natural habitats and human rights and health, environments valued for their providing a proper base for livability or beauty. diversity, caring for personal security and privacy as well as supporting and leading social philanthropy programs. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 13 Our Policies and Standards Board of Elif supports the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice and are committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability. Good corporate governance and 4. Documents that would 10. If ill-intentioned people try to transparency are fundamental to disclose company’s private collect the information achieving Elif's vision of information should not be taken considered as “company secret” becoming a Global Benchmark out of the company after normal that should not be revealed to Company in the Packaging work hours for work purposes. If third parties or if such an Sector by providing high quality intention is sensed, the the work needs to be completed and service standard. Elif strives company should be immediately on that day, it would be for excellence in products informed of this situation. appropriate to stay late in the offered and in the way it does building provided that the 11. Company staff working in business throughout all its permission of the related production departments of new customers, suppliers and manager is taken. products, projects, inventions, partners in a safe and brand etc. should not accept environmentally responsible 5. Company staff should refrain anybody to their departments as manner. This precision applies from giving information about equally to transparency in financial issues such as guests no matter how close the reporting and meeting the regarding wages, additional person is (friend, relative or expectations of regulators, rights and fringe benefits to other company staff who do not shareholders and the public. people from inside and outside have permission to enter that the company. department) and should not give Elif Corporate information about the subject. 6. Company staff should not Confidentiality Policy discuss outside the company 12. If company phones are used 1. Company staff are personally personal problems, complaints by company staff and if responsible for protecting at all as well as conflicts inside the confidential matters are being times the confidentiality of any company. discussed, utmost attention written and/or verbal information must be paid to confidentiality 7. Company staff should not or documents given to him/her and security issues. Confidential give any information to anybody directly or indirectly as per matters should not be discussed about company objectives, his/her position. in crowded places or in know-how and projects. company of third parties. 2. Telephone numbers 8. Company staff should refrain registered in the company’s from accepting gifts or materials 13. Company staff should telephone guide and other accept visitors in the waiting hall from other companies, contact information should not allocated by the company, not in institutions and third parties; be shared with people from their offices. If visitors need to they should also refrain from outside the company. be accepted in the office promises, wishes or offers for environment, then important and 3. Company staff should not promotional purposes. confidential documentation have any discussions or 9. Company staff should be inside the room should be taken interviews with people outside careful about consuming alcohol away. the company that would be in social meetings such as harmful for the company’s receptions, dinners or balls 14. Security manager and/or security and confidentiality and company manager must be organized by the company. should not disclose any informed of suspicious behavior information or documents. observed in social activities organized together with third parties. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 14 | 15. Company staff should inform Elif Environment, • ensures the selection of their managers of any Occupational Health materials responsive to suspicious situations that they environment concerns, and witness and that they think that it And Safety Policy suitable for occupational health would put the company into a Elif adopts and implements a and safety in terms of selection difficult situation. management approach to of equipment and vehicles, protect the environment, • prevents waste in raw material 16. At the end of work hours, prioritize occupational health use, important documents should not and safety, guarantee be left uncovered, documents • achieves savings in power compliance with the terms and done with must be filed and consumption, and reduces requests of the customer, in others must be placed in a pollution, addition to the privilege of drawer or a cabinet with a lock. technological and high-quality • provides ergonomic and 17. Documents and papers of work. healthy work environments to confidential nature should not be minimize the risk of occupational With this purpose, in compliance thrown into the bin; but, must be accidents, with the laws, regulations, and destroyed using a shredder. If by-laws as well as EU directives • offers trainings to improve there is no shredder available, regarding environment and environment and worker health then such documents should be occupational safety, and occupational safety awareness cut to very small pieces and customer requirements, it will in employees. then must be mixed up with develop worker health and other litter. occupational safety It is Elif’s duty to inform all of its management systems compliant employees, visitors and 18. Company staff should close suppliers about environment and windows and curtains at the end with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, and reinforce occupational safety, to deliver of the work day, office safely the inheritance received equipment, especially them through continuous improvements. to future generations. computers, must be turned off and all documents, USBs, CDs It will also make sub-contractors and floppy discs must be to observe the provisions, preserved in locked places and methods, and principles of laws doors must be locked up. and ISO 14001 and OHSAS 19. Workplaces should be 18001 standards, with the same opened by company staff at the discipline and attitude. beginning of the work day using In this respect, Elif; the same method and if there is • thinks of the environment in something inappropriate, then terms of the use of natural the security unit and manager resources, should be informed. • closely monitors environment 20. Company staff should pay related publications, attention to network safety and confidentiality rules when • prevents and reduces waste, company computers are used. and carries out all activities required for recycling, UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 15 Our Policies and Standards (cntd.) Elif released its Human Resources and Information Security Policy in the last 12-months term. The new policies integrates Elif’s corporate values of leadership, responsibility, diversity, integrity and value creation into the Company’s human resources and information management systems. Elif Ethical Code Of Elif Employees; from the firm's operations for Conduct themselves, members of their The firm's personnel is required family, or any relatives. They do Elif Ethical Code, to abide by the Principles of not use or lend the property, Work Ethics when performing knowledge, and titles of the firm is drawn up in order to allow Elif their duties. The Work ethics for personal interests. In order to and its employees to achieve principles, based on the values protect the intellectual property shared success, and to develop of the firm, were formulated with of ELİF and its customers, the and maintain mutual an awareness that business employees are responsible with relationships in line with procedures, standards, and laws protecting the information universal common values, with and regulations may not always protected and used in programs the customers and suppliers, provide sufficient guidance with such as İsoft, SAP etc., and and is approved also by the respect to all our behaviors and acting in line with Information Board of Directors. attitudes. The Work Ethics Code Security policies and Principled behavior is the adopted by the Board of procedures. major policy guiding the Directors includes basic and Globally accepted principles Elif employees shall give and activities of Elif The firm regarding Honesty, Reliability, receive gifts from persons, considers the application of Confidence, Protection of Trade agencies and organizations they same standards and same level Secrets, and Conflicts of come into contact with due to of closeness with all its Interest. their work, only within the customers, suppliers, and framework of established rules employees as an indispensable The employees of Elif do not of the firm. obligation, as well as the main plan for or derive personal driver of its existence and benefits for himself/herself, The employees should use the growth. his/her relatives or social circle, firm's assets only for work making use of his/her position in related purposes, protect them, For the firm, the timely and full the firm. They also strive to and ensure their most effective performance of obligations protect the interests of the firm use. In cases where the specified in laws and contracts, in all business contacts with employee determines cases as well as acting on the basis of third parties. The employees otherwise, all Elif employees are fairness has priority over all shall not engage in close tasked with protecting and commercial concerns. Current relations with persons or guarding the firm's assets before reliability and respectability of organizations that may benefit employees or 3rd Parties, and Elif stems from this attitude. from their work related decisions with ensuring use in line with the Elif Ethical Code of or the confidential information at interests of the firm. Conduct their command, and shall avoid No employee outside the such acts or behaviors. assigned departments shall covers the basic principles and attitudes of the Firm. The Conflicts of interest will come to make verbal or written remarks policies of Elif form an integral occur in case the private representing or binding Elif monolithic structure with the interests of the employee are before 3rd Parties. firm's values and principles. The actually or potentially in conflict The employees of Elif are under application, monitoring, and with the interests of Elif. In case obligation to abide by all laws, ensuring the maintenance of the existing positions of the rules, and regulations within these principles are among the employees lead to such Turkey, as well as the rules and responsibilities of all Elif inappropriate personal interests, laws of the countries they visit employees, and all employees no employee will derive benefits during travels abroad. are required to observe these. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 16 | ELİF Work Principles, ensure product safety and • Not to employ uninsured quality, and to maintain the personnel; ELİF aims to provide its development of the firm with the • To make continuous employees a healthy, safe, and support of continuous and improvements in all matters by efficient work environment. effective trainings. taking all necessary measures With this purpose: required for the health and Elif Quality Policy safety of all employees without • Aggressive attitudes, acts any discrimination. detrimental to the effectiveness Fundamental quality policy of Elif is to make Elif, a brand and security of work already synonymous with Elif Information Security environment, threatening words Policy and behaviors, harassment and quality, unrivalled in terms of mobbing, promotion of production to meet maximum As Elif, it is our main policy to commercial, political, or religious expectations within the ensure the security of all interests shall not be accepted. framework of customer administrative, financial and requirements by making the commercial data which are • Alteration of official documents most efficient use of the shared in the information by employees during the advanced technology at its systems by use of the advanced performance of their duties is command, through continuous technologies utilized by the unacceptable. During the training of its employees, to company, act in accordance with preparation of official documents increase its market share the laws, provide highest level of the employees are under through contributions of all Elif security for customer obligation to abide by time employees within a dynamic information by adhering to the related and other restrictions institutional structure following customer contracts, protect the stipulated by the relevant scientific and technological confidentiality of our employees’ authority. developments closely, and to personal information, act in Each new employee of Elif shall ensure continuity in the accordance with intellectual be told of the work ethics during development of the firm by property rights, take necessary the orientation, and shall be aiming for ever growing targets measures for ensuring continuity required to sign undertakings at the time of achievement. in business and minimize the that they understand such rules Elif Social Responsibility risks associated with security constitute integral parts of the violations, protect our Policy investments and reputation, and employment contract. The basic social responsibility apply the minimum standards Elif Product Safety policy of ELİF is to fulfill all required for providing, Policy national and legal requirements maintaining and improving with an awareness of social information security. The fundamental product safety policy of ELİF is to ensure responsibility in the making of a compliance of products with healthy and conscious society, national and international and standards, laws, and • Not to employ any personnel regulations, as well as under 18 years of age; expectations in the whole • Not to pay wages less than the process from the procurement of minimum wage; raw materials to the delivery to • Pay normal wages and the customer, as well as to overtime in full and on time; UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 17 Our Policies and Standards (cntd.) Elif’s vision for Human Resources is to be a model company that adapts a «world class» HR management method, which everyone wants to be or already is happy to be a part of. Elif Human Resources with the misson: Policy «to be an objective, «In the light of open and scrupulous common values of Elif, company which is investment contactable in every made to the human condition and identifies is the investment and solves problems made to the future» with its determined and shared system. Elif takes human factor as one of the key elements in its Our Principles: activities. The main aim of Human Resources Policy of Elif • To take possession of the is to use the human resource in change and direct it. an efficient and effective way, • To recruit people who are and assembling the happiness highly educated, open to of employees with the company innovation and change and goals in common values. easily adapt to the group values. With this policy; Elif aims to be • To create a corporate structure one of the most preferred which is controlled by those who companies ensuring employee enjoy their responsibilities, use satisfaction by every opportunity to improve • improving employees’ quality their jobs and who are of life, productive. • providing understandable, • To provide opportunities for accessible, quick and honest employees to make them reach communication, the highest efficiency level in • and acting with the “Right shortest time. person, right job” philosophy. • By using both selfimprovement and job-focused Elif’’s vision in Human training programs prepared with Resources is: unique contents for each level, increasing our employees’ added value provided to the «to be a model company company. that adapts a world class Human Resources management method, which everyone wants to be or already is happy to be – a part of» UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 18 | UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 19 UNGC Principles: Approach, Implementation, Actions & Results UNGC Principles Approach Human 1. Businesses should support and Elif seeks to uphold universal human Rights respect the protection of rights, including accessibility, internationally proclaimed human discrimination and labour rights. Elif rights; and Code of Conduct requires the fair and 2. Make sure that they are not equitable treatment of all Elif employees, complicit in human rights abuses. suppliers and customers. Diversity & Equal Employment Opportunity is a sustained competitive advantage for the continued growth of Elif. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the Labor rights and safety is a critical topic Rights freedom of association and the for Elif. Elif is committed to deliver any effective recognition of the right to legal, organizational or functional collective bargaining; requirement related with labour rights 4. The elimination of all forms of and safety. Elif’ aims to develop an equal forced and compulsory labour; opportunity diverse workforce, engaged 5. The effective abolition of child to work in a safe workplace with highest labour; and standards and no injuries. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a Elif works relentlessly to reduce the use precautionary approach to of natural resources in its products, environmental challenges; operations and services. One of Elif’s 8. Undertake initiatives to promote core values is sustainable development greater environmental and Elif values its reputation as an responsibility; and environmentally engaged supplier . 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work Elif works against all forms of corruption, Corruption against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Elif including extortion and bribery. supports the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption, complies with law, and condemns any form of bribery or corrupt activity parallel to its Code of Conduct. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 20 | Implementation Actions & Results • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • No prosecutions relating to human rights issues • Disclosure Policy have been recorded for the period covered by • Occupational Health & Safety Policy this report. • Social Responsibility Policy • Details of the actions can be found on pg.24-25. • Product Safety Policy • Elif released its new claim «Packaging for Life» • Quality Policy • 3rd consecutive «Human Respct» award in 3 • SEDEX years • Save Food Initiative • New opportunities for North African society • Renewal of Human Resources Policy • No prosecutions relating to equal opportunity or • http://elifplastik.com.tr/dynamics/documents/elifins other labour rights issues have been recorded ankaynaklaripolitikasieng.pdf for the period covered by this report. • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • Details of the actions can be found on pg.26-27. • Occupational Health & Safety Policy • %27.8 better performance on the number of • SEDEX cases per worked hour (Case Frequency Rate). • OHSAS 18001 • 50.13% lower Case Weigth Ratio. • Career & Co-worker Development • 11.7 hours of education per co-worker achieved • Diversity & Equal Employment for safer working conditions. • Occupational Health & Safety • Sustainability Achievements & Projects: • Details of the actions can be found on pg.28-29. • NOsume Energy Project • Elif recognized by Coca-Cola Green Supplier • New Re-water Project Award, nominated by Ontex as «Supplier of the • New Tri-gen Project Year» in sustainability category and awarded by • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy ÇEVKO • Sustainability Framework • 1 new patented bio-degradable packaging • Packaging Sustainability solution • ISO 14001 • reduced water abstraction by 10,5% per ton of • Getting prepared for ISO 50001 production compared with 2012 • Renewal of Information Management • Elif has not be involved in any corrupt activities Security System & SAP Implementation (or potential corruption) , nor has Elif been • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy involved in corrupt activities during or before our • SEDEX membership to the Global Compact. • Legal Governance • Details of the actions can be found on pg.30-31. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 21 Human Rights Actions Elif’s packaging reaches millions of people all around the world every day, helping to create a happier and healthier life. The Company exists for People in every sphere of life. Elif’s business is “Packaging for Life”. Packaging for Life A Hub for Emerging 3rd Consecutive «Human This year, Elif has introduced its Markets Respect» Award new claim of packaging Elif's operations are relentlessly Bringing diverse individuals with «Packaging for Life». focused on value creation for different cultures, approaches, From the first day of its society, environment and perspectives and experiences in establishment, Elif always acts economy. In the light of the order to enrich the Company’s with the responsibility and Company’s corporate value of vision for ideas, solutions and awareness to produce leadership, responsibility, approach, Elif, once again was packaging materials that will diversity, integrity and value granted ‘Human Respect serve for People in every sphere creation, Elif decided to invest Award’ by Kariyer.net, which is of life. When you are making fun for a new flexible packaging Turkey's leading human with your friends, when you are facility in North Africa, which has resources site with the largest taking care of your baby, when a very strong, dynamic and candidate database. . you are sharing your time with growing population and industry Elif, structuring its management your son, when you are away presenting a wonderful approach on the respect for from the city for a piece of opportunity to serve for global human , received ‘Human freedom, packaging solutions of leaders and growing local Respect Award ‘ of Kariyer.net Elif is always there to serve you players. Therefore, Egypt is as the company “replying the for what you need, for your selected strategically as the applications and evaluating the happiness and health, every day center of this very important applications received in the best across the world. project of Elif, representing the way” this year, too, like last very first step of its solid global year. The Prizes have been Packaging is an essential part of production and presence. our daily lives. It provides given to the companies which important functional benefits Elif is not only an investor who received over 10,000 such as product protection, provides new job opportunities applications and replied more consumer information, and creates added value for the that 99 percent of these convenient handling and Economy of the Emerging applications within 21 days by preservation of the natural Markets in the region, but also, answering each applicant resources. Elif produces the by using the latest technology individually. packaging of the products that and bringing its knowhow to the With 5% increase in its number millions of people all around the region, it is a supplier of high of employees, Elif is proud of world need and enjoy on a daily quality standard packaging being one of the most preferred basis. materials and services that will companies, besides progressing leverage the African Society. Elif works passionately to deliver in line with its corporate values, «always» better products for the Elif’s Egypt facility will start the management approach that society, for the environment, for operating in Q4 2014 with 350 we have adopted and the the future. At Elif, «We are planned co-workers and 25.000 strategies that we realized. In Packaging for Life». tons of production capacity, line with the HR Policy, Elif, contributing to the development being aware that the most the region. valued asset of a company is UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 24| Millions  the human, continues its involved in the value chain. Elif activities based on the principle will continue to contribute of establishing a quick, healthy towards ensuring that extend and effective communication with both the employees and the shelf life, reduce waste and deliver ultimate product and of people in applicants who applied to join Elif family. brand protection. contact with Elif Elif helps to SAVE FOOD protect the every day Initiative Planet with its Elif is proud to 900 Co-workers 3 be a Elif turned its lights off on participant of Saturday March 29 between the SAVE 8:30 – 9:30 pm in local time for FOOD initiative to help preventing food Earth Hour, an annual event Concsecutive aimed at raising awareness waste and the loss of valuable resources at Interpack 2014. about energy consumption and climate change. «Human The SAVE FOOD initiative campaign against global food Traditional Donation for Respect» awards losswas initiated at the Orphaned Children beginning of 2010 by the Food In the last term, Elif continues its 1 and Agriculture Organization of donation fyearly or orphaned the United Nations and Messe children. Aware of the fact that a Düsseldorf GmbH. The aim of sustainable future is only the Save Food congress is to developing new concepts which possible with heathy development of the next New facility with contribute to the more efficient use of food resources amongst generations, Elif plans to repeat this project every year as a 350 planned coindustry experts, researchers, tradition and to carry out social politics and consumers. responsibility projects that are workers Elif’s most important leverage contributory to sustainability of for the global society is the social values. quality of packaging materials Elif’s extensive support package that helps societies to access donated to Bahçelievler Social better quality products. Services and Child Protection As part of “Save Food Foundation contains a variety of Initiative”, Elif is particularly hygiene products, cleaning keen to promote information tissues and detergents with interchange and cooperation packaging materials produced between all parties and partners by Elif . UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 25 Labour Rights Actions Elif is aware that its co-workers and the synergy generated by them are key values for the company. Therefore, Elif is committed to continuously enhance the workplace conditions for better working environment and provide a safer and healthier environment for its co-workers, contractors and visitors. 3 Year of SEDEX Getting closer to «No Elif Case Frequency Rate is Membership Injuries» measured by calculating the number of injuries or workElif is a member of SEDEX Elif’s approach to occupational related illnesses per total hours (Supplier Ethical Data and workplace health and safety worked and multiplied by Exchange) which has more than is driven by Elif Environment, 1.000.000. In year 2013, the 21,000 members globally. As a Occupational Health and Safety Case Frequency Rate was 1.68, member of SEDEX, Elif is being Policy, shared on p.15 of this corresponding to 35 cases audited periodically according to report. Elif prepares and across Elif’s total business. SMETA (SEDEX Members develops an annual action plan Compared to last year’s Case Ethical Trade Audit) and to reach its long terms targets Frequency Rate of 2.33, Elif assuring self improvements of on occupational health and achieved a %27.8 better its sustainability and ethical safety. As well as Elif performance on the number of policies for all of its Environment, Occupational cases per worked hour. manufacturing sites. Health and Safety department responsible from the Elif Case Weight Ratio is Every year Elif goes through measured by calculating the management of the environment SEDEX audit and also supports number of lost days due to the and labour safety, every Elif numerous audits from our injuries or work-related illnesses employee can come with customers against the SEDEX per total hours worked and proposal for development of responses. multiplied by million. In 2013, the safety. Employees are welcome SEDEX provides an online with their proposals and ideas Case Weight Ratio was 7,13, platform for reporting labour and are also encouraged with an corresponding to 148 lost days standards, health and safety, award system. across Elif’s total business. business integrity and Compared to last year’s ratio of Supporting Elif’s Environment, 14.3, Elif has achieved a great environmental performance Occupational Health and Safety performance with 50.13% lower information. The questionnaire Policy and strategy, each Elif Case Weigth Ratio. includes questions about labour manufacturing site prepares an conditions, human resources Elif continuously and periodically annual program including action policy and human rights. educates, trains and conducts plan for environment and Questions are centered around: yearly health risk-control workplace safety. • Child and young employees programs for its co-workers. Elif • Freely chosen employment The goal of Elif's occupational is certificated with OHSAS • Freedom of association and health and safety programs is to 18001 Occupational Health & collective bargaining foster a safer and healthier work Safety Management System • Wages environment for its co-workers Certificate and implemented a • Working hours as well as to protect the welfare variety of programs and • Non-discrimination of people engaged in work or processes to achieve greater • Regular employment employment and surroundings. . protection and to prevent • Use of small holders Elif is aware that its co-workers occupational injury and illness of • Discipline and grievance and the synergy generated by employees, contractors and • Use of home workers them are key values for the visitors. company. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 26 | The results clearly demonstrates Through this focus on providing that Elif’s health and safety equal opportunity to each case programs are performing and individual and understanding the Company is getting closer to its «No Injuries» target parallel motivators for each of them, Elif supports and encourages its frequency rate to its Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Policy. employees in order to satisfy and inspire them for their 27.8% personal best. New Human Resources Policy Elif provides employees a In 2013, Elif release its new working environment free of discrimination and harassment. case weight Human Resources Policy shaping the Company’s general Co-worker Awareness ratio Human Resources Policy as and Educations well as Recruitment, Training & Total time of education covered 50.1% Development, Performance by Elif for orientation, Development, Career information and awarenessManagemnt and Planning, raising purposes has reached Wage Management Policies as well as Suggestion & Request 11.7 hours per co-worker. hours of Educations for occupational System and Motivation Development Programs. health and safety are specifically designed according to the education Elif’s new Human Resources Policy is centered around Elif’s technical requirements of each department.. 11.7  vision for Human Resources to be a model company that adapts a «world class» HR management method, which everyone wants to be or already is happy to be a part of. The Policy is also integrated with Elif’s core value of Diversity. Elif is committed to create a winning team with a winning culture where colleagues and managers diversify and have equal employment opportunity. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 27 Environment Actions Developing its business activities in order to promote productive, sustainable and cost saving methods and technologies, Elif stands out with the value it creates for the environment and society and its commitment in sustainable development. 500ml more Water for • the introduction of affordable 3 Recognitions for Elif’s per Capita by Re-Water new technologies for optimized Sustainability Approach cleaning of process equipment Project • increased awareness among in 2013 Water performance of Elif is employees and implementation Elif’s sustainability approach is driven by Re-Water project of ‘simple solutions’ (small, recognized by Coca-Cola’s which is leveraged by easy-to-implement changes) prestigious Green Supplier continuous improvement Award with its Nosume Energy initiatives at site level to reduce, Program. The award, given for reuse and recycle water. The the first time, is an important biggest contributors to performance indicator of Elif’s reductions were: approach to sustainability. • ‘sub-metering’ of water usage, Elif’s performance, which giving us more accurate In 2013 the absolute quantity of includes its commitment to information on which processes water abstracted by Elif sustainable growing, developing have potential for water manufacturing site decreased by innovative products, reducing reduction approximately 3,4% compared energy consumption and waste, • water improvement plans in to 2012. By increasing the as well as engaging with people the manufacturing site with the efficiency of water usage, Elif and communities, was biggest water footprint reduced water abstraction by acknowledged by the Ontex. As • use of regeneration unit waste 10,5% per ton of production only company nominated in water in process water cooling compared with 2012. packaging sector, Elif is systems delighted that its efforts have • use of process water cooling As an outcome of the Re-Water project, Elif saved 38.933,30 m3 been recognized through Ontex system purge waste water in ‘2013 Supplier of the Year’ HVAC cooling system water when reduction in water consumption, reuse of process award and look forward to • change of standard urinal continuing to further strengthen. discharge systems with water for another process and electronic urinal discharge total treated water for nature is Elif is also recognized by systems considered. ÇEVKO(Environmental • change of standard basin taps Elif has made good progress Protection & Packaging Waste with photocell control basin tap through continuous Recovery and Recycling • treating sanitary waste water in improvement and in 2013 Elif Foundation) and took its place biological water treatment has saved the equivalent of on stage again with its futuresystem in order to use for around 0,5 liters of water for oriented projects which are irrigation every person living in Turkey. conducted under sustainability, • optimizing water and water environmental protection and treatment chemicals used in In the last 5 years, since 2008, waste management issues, at boilers and cooling towers the Re-Water project the Night for ÇEVKO Green Dot through new technologies improvements covered by Elif Awards. saved around 1,5 liters of water for every person living in Turkey. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 28 | A New Patented BioTrigeneration Project degradable Solution Elif has kicked off a trigeneration 1 patented bioElif offers a new bio-degradable flexible packaging material for project to cover the growing environmental friendly and high degradable solution  brand owners with its patented quality energy need of its ElifCare bio-degradable solution. manufacturing plant in Istanbul. The project specially designed for the specific needs of Elif, covering manufacturing and 3 installation of the complete system as well as gas engines Elif’s patented innovative with 4 MW capacity and the solution provides a more sustainable packaging material thermal oil recovery system. recognitions for Elif plans to reduce its by considering environmental impacts during manufacture, use greenhouse gas emissions with Elif’s green the low carbon trigeneration and disposal of package while ensuring optimum performance system that would produce clean local power for more projects in 2013 in protecting the product. efficient use of energy and ElifCare is differentiated from provide heating and airother packaging solutions with conditioning for enhanced its unlimited shelf life, stable optical and mechanical working conditions at its Istanbul plant. water properties and applicability for all packaging purposes both Elif will use the system to abstraction per printed and unprinted. produce 4MW and reproduce Elif’s patented bio-degradable 3.2MW energy from natural natural gas. The main benefits ton packaging solution with enhanced bio-degradation of the system are: Production of low-carbon 10.5% properties such as: electricity • Unlimited shelf life Reproduce energy to obtain • Diverse area of use for all thermal oil printed-unprinted flexible Use the reproduced energy for airpackaging solutions conditioning by a absorption chiller • No change in optical and Elif will also benefit the system mechanical properties of the by providing high quality energy material to • Standard test methods Prevent the waste of materials due • No heavy metal residue left in to electricity discontinuities soil Eliminate quality problems due to • Provide hygienic usage for electricity discontinuities packaging of food & beverages Increase production efficiency Decrease maintenance costs UNGCCommunication on Progress Report 2013 | 29 Anti-corruption Actions Elif works together with its customers, suppliers and co-workers parallel to its Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy, in order to improve products in marketplace and develop new solutions that will add value to the economy, environment and culture of the marketplaces and geographies it reaches. Marketplace Approach Responsible and Ethical New Information Sourcing and Management Security Elif intends to be a worldwide Procurement System international trademark by providing products and services Elif is a member of Sedex Elif was one of the first of high quality and value, (Supplier Ethical Data packaging companies, which helping customers and societies, Exchange) since 2010. Sedex is were awarded the 2013 version articulate their goals, charting a a not-for-profit membership of ISO/IEC 27001 Information course which navigates them organization that Safety Management System from where they are today to enables the sharing of ethical Standard in Turkey. where they want to be tomorrow performance information ISO/IEC 27001 is the only and beyond. Elif upholds the between companies and their controllable international values and principles of cultures suppliers. Sedex membership standard that defines the it operates and serves, as well means that Elif provides access requirements of Information as its customers, in every action to its ethical performance Safety Management System and decision by treating their information to its customers and (ISMS). Being designed to assets as its own and behaving can request the same from its ensure adequate and with their long-term suppliers. More than proportionate safety controls, development in mind. 400 global brands, 17,000 ISO/IEC 27001 certification suppliers and more than 21,000 helps protect and manage the Code of Conduct and sites in 160 countries currently valuable information assets. At Ethics Policy participate in Sedex. the same time, ISO/IEC 27001 Implementation for New adopts the process approach to As a member of Sedex, Elif is create, implement, operate, Marketplaces being audited periodically monitor, inspect, maintain and Elif’s new manufacturing plant according to SMETA (Sedex develop the Information Safety will start operating in Q4 2014. Members Ethical Trade Audit) Management System. The new plant in Cairo, Egypt and completed SSAQ (Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire) Following the inspections will be the hub of Middle East for improvements of its carried out in June, Elif has and Africa operations of the sustainability and ethical been granted the ISO 27001 company. policies. The increased demand Information Safety Certificate, for sustainability information which sets the standards to Elif is not only an investor who provides new job opportunities about Elif’s operations from prepare risk management and customers is met by the risk handling plans, duties and and creates added value for the registered information in the responsibilities, business African Economy, but also, by Sedex database and, during continuity plans, emergency using the latest technology and 2013, more than 10 customers incident management bringing its know-how to the requested access to Sedex procedures of the institutions in region, Eliff’s Code of Conduct information relating Elif sites. terms of information safety and and Ethics Policy will be implemented as well in its new facility and organization. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 30 | to keep the records during the practice. Elif has achieved that NO corrupt success by publishing an information safety policy in which all activities are contained activities (or and creating awareness by the staff about the threats towards potential the information safety. corruption) Independent Audits In today's global economic during or before conditions, both international and national environment in our membership which the business world, Elif is emphasizing the concept of the continuity and transparency. But to the Global transparency can only be obtained with financial reporting Compact. and independent audits provided in the international standards. Elif goes through tax audit and auditing of accounts on an 3 annual base. As a global company operating in foreign years of SEDEX trade, Elif also gets external auditing service for its foreign membership trade operations. In this sense, the accuracy of the declarations in conformity with the regulations and the calculated duties & taxes are audited and New the outcome is reported Information Management Security Policy UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013 | 31 Elif Holding A.Ş. Sanayi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Esenyurt 24510 Istanbul, Turkey T: +90 212 622 06 22 F: +90 212 622 06 77 www.elifglobal.com
