Report 2013 How we Input Our organization create Total energy use Energy We continue to improve our energy efficiency Capital expenditures Value of all assets value 99,000 TJ or 5.6 GJ per ton of production and increase our share of renewable energy, which is currently at 31 percent. €666 million €16.1billion Employee engagement score (1-5 scale) 3.88 As the leading global paints and coatings Employee company and a major producer of specialty benefits chemicals, we know only too well that our Total energy bill €3.0 billion future hinges on our ability to create value by doing more with less. €0.6 billion E Total energy input Employees 49,600 More innovation, less traditional solutions; Fresh water consumption D A 31% Renewable energy 265 million m A B 37% Natural gas more renewable energy and materials, less C 15% Coal 3 C fossil-based; more value chain focus while D 15% Nuclear improving our financial performance; more or 14.9 m3 per ton E 2% Other fossil fuels Total reportable rate Own operations of production of injuries CO2(e) emissions investment in talent and career planning. B By bringing more value to our customers, 2.3 3.9 million tons investors, employees and society in general, we can better position ourselves for growth Raw materials Total waste and achieve our strategic vision of leading market positions delivering leading per­and packaging We value our supplier relationships. Around 161 kilotons formance. 96 percent have signed our Vendor Policy, So as well as actively working to reduce our Cost of raw materials and packaging which helps to ensure a sustainable supply chain. Renewable raw materials are now 85% carbon footprint across the value chain, we’re 13 percent of the organic (fossil-based) of sites with sustainable also creating social value by developing our employees and generating intellectual value €5.4 billion ­materials that we buy. An increase will lower our dependence on fossil-based resources. fresh water management by continuing to innovate in order to supply more sustainable products and solutions for our customers. This will ultimately lead to more financial value for our investors. A Origin of raw materials Upstream CO2(e) A 5% Renewable raw materials emissions (bio-based) B B 35% Fossil-derived materials including VOCs (petrochemicals) 11 million tons C C 60% Inorganic materials (salt, minerals, clays) RD&I investments €373 million Output Asset value Customer value The value of our assets is €16.1 billion. We In 2013 we sold products to many thousands Buildings and Infrastructure invested €666 million in 2013 to keep our of customers. We continue to improve our is our largest end-user facilities in good shape, as well as expanding customer focus and develop products and segment, with €6.4 billion our manufacturing capability. We continue to solutions that help them to be successful in of revenue. improve process and product safety. their markets. and e i n gs ctur il d t r u Bu nfras Human value rat iv e Financial value I Employee safety is a key priority and we are e co ts With a ROS% of 6.6 percent, we are making D ain actively driving towards a reduction in the P progress towards achieving our 9 percent number of incidents. We highly value, and target for 2015, and with our ROI% of actively work on, improving employee 9.6 percent, we are progressing towards our The Transportation end-user engagement. We’re investing in training and 14 percent target for 2015. segment is generating development and continue to work on a more €2.4 billion of revenue. diverse workforce. Revenue per end-user segment D A 44% Buildings and Infrastructure n rt atio Environmental value B 16% Transportation spo A C 16% Consumer Goods n We continue to improve the environmental C D 24% Industrial Tra footprint of our operations by focusing on B operational eco-efficiency. c e an r f ormings Revenue Pe oat C €14.6 billion The Consumer Goods enduser segment is generating Operating income €2.3 billion of revenue. €958 million Earnings per share s od €3.00 n sum e rG o Co Innovation value Community value Innovation is vital for our current and future We contributed €1.0 million to community The Industrial end-user success. Currently, 18 percent of our revenue programs, 2,000 employees volunteered, and segment is generating is derived from eco-premium solutions with six million lives improved via our “Let’s Colour” €3.5 billion of revenue. customer benefits. We continue to work program. We also paid €230 million in taxes. alty ls towards sustainable solutions that our customers expect from us. p eci mica S he C Downstream CO2(e) emissions ial u str including VOCs Ind 12 million tons AkzoNobel Our geo-mix (revenue) and employees (by region) at a glance in 2013 Geo-mix revenue by destination Employees by region North America Mature Europe Asia Pacific 38% 15% 25% Revenue (in € billions) 20,600 €14.6 5,100 15,100 Revenue by Business Area A Decorative Paints 28% A B Performance Coatings 38% C C Specialty Chemicals 34% B Employees 49,600 Latin America Emerging Europe Other countries Employees by Business Area D A Decorative Paints 33% C A B Performance Coatings 43% C Specialty Chemicals 21% 11% 8% D Other 3% 3% B 4,500 2,600 1,700 In 2013, we took further steps to adjust our company to the new business reality. It was a challenging year, but we continued to make progress, drive value creation and strengthen our financial position. More details can be found in this Report 2013, which offers an in-depth look at our performance and activities during the year. In an effort to make our reporting as transparent and comprehensive as possible, AkzoNobel’s Report 2013 is also available online (www.akzonobel.com/report) and as an iPad app (http://bit.ly/ANApp). The digital versions offer additional information, such as videos and downloadable graphs and tables. Case studies -75% Throughout our Report 2013 you will find various 100 million liters/ case studies highlighting just part of our contribution year to the world around us. 20 Doing more with less 37 Putting more wind in our sails -75% 47 Setting world class standards 58 No job too big 70 Making roads safer 77 Learning to be the best 80 A different class of product 177 Greening the supply chain 206 Driving improvements 100% fully for customers Prevents the development biodegradable of frost damage to road surfaces 2 Contents Strategy 5 Financial statements 111 Index 207 Chairman’s statement 6 Consolidated statement of income 112 Glossary 208 Our businesses 8 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 112 Financial calendar 210 End-user segments 9 Consolidated balance sheet 113 History 211 Strategy and targets 14 Consolidated statement of cash flows 114 Risk management 22 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 115 Segment information 116 Business performance 31 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 117 Decorative Paints 38 Company financial statements 155 Performance Coatings 48 Other information 160 Specialty Chemicals 60 Sustainability statements 163 Our leadership 73 Consolidated sustainability statements 164 Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 74 Value chain 171 Statement of the Board of Management 76 Safety 180 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 78 Employees 186 Our Supervisory Board 79 Environment 191 Report of the Supervisory Board 81 Independent assurance report 195 Governance and compliance 87 Summaries 199 Corporate governance statement 88 Financial summary 200 Compliance and integrity management 97 Sustainability performance summary 204 Remuneration report 101 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 107 3 Strategy Strategy This section provides an overview of our strategic priorities and gives details of the targets to which we aspire. You will also find the Chairman’s statement and learn about how we manage operational risks. Chairman’s statement 6 Our businesses 8 End-user segments 9 Strategy and targets 14 Risk management 22 Leading market positions delivering leading performance Dear stakeholder 2013 was a year of initiating a process of change. We launched a new organic growth and ope­rational excellence strategy with a new vision, new financial targets and clearly defined targets for sustainability. Our new executive team also established itself, and we adapted the short and long-term incentives for an extended group of executives in order to align them with our new strategy. The original targets for our performance improvement program were delivered a year early, and we moved into a more continuous improvement mode going forward. It was also a year when we launched new values to drive a performance culture, while a commercial excellence program has been established to drive growth. Coming into 2013, there was little indication that economic conditions were going to rebound, and while some indicators slowly began to suggest that the tide was turning, we saw little evidence in our businesses. Against this uncertain backdrop, we continued to make progress on our strategy and 2015 targets. Our commitment to improving our profitability, even in a testing economic environment, was exemplified by the fact that our performance improvement program delivered more than the targeted €500 million EBITDA a year early. We have now transitioned into a period of continuous improvement, with cost savings coming through and increased traction in several important programs at corporate and Business Area levels. Despite the market headwinds, we improved our return on “We continued to make progress on our strategy and 2015 targets” sales in the third and fourth quarters and remain on track to deliver our 2015 targets. Key profitability ratios and cash flow also improved, while the receipt of funds from the divestments of our Decorative Paints North America and Building Adhesives businesses meant that we did not need to refinance borrowings, which helped us to improve our net debt position at year-end. Capital expenditures were reduced, reflecting the completion of many of our longer term strategic investment programs, while operating working capital further declined. 6 Chairman’s statement | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Having sold our North American Decorative Paints activities, with less, it will help to build on our long-standing reputation energized leadership team in place made up of people who we continued to take decisive action to reorganize the busias a leader in the field of sustainability, evidenced by being really understand their business, who are hands-on and not ness and make it more competitive. This included the straranked first in the broad Materials industry group on the Dow only have a strategic mindset, but also know what it takes to tegic divestments of Building Adhesives and our German Jones Sustainability Index, which includes the chemicals, lead an organization. One of our immediate tasks will be to decorative paints stores, as well as continuing our efforts to mining and materials sectors. find a successor for CFO Keith Nichols, who announced that streamline the product range and further reduce complexity. he will be leaving the company at the end of June 2014. Keith We also continued to invest, opening a new plant in India and Another key development was the launch of our new values has played a vital role in helping to transform the company announcing the construction of two new facilities in China, and behaviors, which are fully aligned with our new strateover the last eight years and I would like to personally thank while our new decorative paints site in the UK will commence gy. I’m a firm believer that people make an organization and him for his outstanding contribution. full operations in 2015. by energizing the company around a new set of values we will ensure everyone is playing a role in helping us to meet It is difficult to look ahead with any certainty, but what is clear Growing demand our strategic goals and deliver leading performance. We is that we are in a strong financial position, have a focused Performance Coatings made steady progress, with Marine have established three core principles Safety, Integrity and strategy in place and have already made progress in startand Protective Coatings and Aerospace Coatings securing Sustainability – and four values – Customer focused, Deliver ing to deliver on our strategic targets. There is also clarity in several major contracts, while Specialty Finishes had a strong on commitments, Passion for excellence, Winning together. where we want to go and what we want to do. We have set year on the back of growing demand for coatings for mobile To help all our employees become familiar with them and realistic targets and have mapped out a journey to drive value devices. Our Specialty Chemicals businesses, on the other understand their importance, an extensive global roll-out creation which has already begun. There are still many issues hand, were negatively affected by a fairly weak year for the has been taking place which has included more than 200 to address, including safety, a more rigorous approach to industry as a whole. A major restructuring program is currently town hall sessions hosted by various senior leaders, includtalent development and transitioning our culture and behavunderway which will not only adjust our manufacturing footing members of the Executive Committee. I participated in iors based on a continuous improvement mindset. I’m confiprint and drive efficiency, but will also enable us to capitalmany of these myself and was very encouraged by the enthudent, however, that we are driving forward in the right direction ize on the investments that we have made in the world’s siasm our people showed and their eagerness to define which and that our focus on organic growth and operational excelhigh growth regions. A strategic portfolio review resulted in behavioral changes will make the greatest impact on their lence will result in the leading performance that we have set the divestment of our Primary Amides and Purate activities, business results. out to achieve. while on the investment side, our Industrial Chemicals plant in Frankfurt is due to become operational in 2014. Energized leadership On behalf of the Executive Committee, I would like to thank Fostering this winning culture is one of the key responsibilities our shareholders and all our colleagues around the world for Despite the difficult economic environment, we continued to of Marten Booisma, the most recent addition to our Executheir hard work and valued contribution during 2013. introduce a wide range of new products and technologies to tive Committee. Marten is our Chief Human Resource Officer the market. This included a number of eco-premium prodand his significant international experience will be invaluable ucts, such as a heat-reflective range of powder coatings and as we look to deliver the change in culture that’s needed. He a highly efficient biocidal antifouling for ships which offers a is part of an Executive Committee which has seen a number controlled release over time. Our continued focus on innovaof changes in the last 18 months, including the appointments tion underlines the fact that even though the business environof Conrad Keijzer (responsible for Performance Coatings) ment remains challenging, we are committed to investing in and Ruud Joosten (Decorative Paints). They joined Werner Ton Büchner both product and process innovation and remain fully focused Fuhrmann (Specialty Chemicals) and Sven Dumoulin (General CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management and on increasing our share of revenue from products that offer a Counsel), to complete an Executive Committee with extensive Executive Committee sustainability advantage for customers. In order to accelerate experience and expertise. Another key appointment in 2013 our efforts in this area, in 2013, we also launched our Planet was that of David Allen as our new Head of Supply Chain, Possible concept. Essentially a commitment to doing more Research and Development. We now have a very strong and AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Chairman’s statement | Strategy 7 Our businesses Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Whether our customers are professional decorators or keen We’re a leading supplier of performance coatings with strong As a major producer of specialty chemicals with leadership DIY-ers, they want great paint that gives a great finish. We product technologies and brands. Our high quality products positions in many markets, we make sure that industries supply a huge variety of quality products for every situation are used by customers across the world to protect and worldwide are supplied with high quality ingredients and and surface, including paints, lacquers and varnishes. We enhance everything from vessels, cars, aircraft, yachts and process aids for the manufacture of life’s essentials. These also offer a range of mixing machines, color concepts and architectural components (structural steel, building products, include products used in paints, detergents, foods, plastics, training courses for the building and renovation industry, while flooring) to consumer goods (mobile devices, appliances, cosmetics, construction, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, our specialty coatings for metal, wood and other critical buildbeverage cans, furniture) and oil and gas platforms. Due electronics, agro and oilfield applications. ing materials lead the market. to our strong product portfolio, leading technologies and extensive distribution network, we hold leading positions in The business operates four units: The business operates three units: the markets we serve. • Functional Chemicals (e.g. chelates, ethylene amines) • Decorative Paints Europe • Industrial Chemicals (e.g. chlor-alkali, caustic soda, salt) • Decorative Paints Asia The business operates four units: • Pulp and Performance Chemicals (e.g. bleaching, colloidal • Decorative Paints Latin America • Automotive and Aerospace Coatings silicas) • Industrial Coatings (e.g. coil, wood and packaging) • Surface Chemistry (e.g. surfactants, synthetic polymers Brands include Dulux, Sikkens, Flexa, Coral, Sadolin • Marine and Protective Coatings and bio-polymers) and Hammerite. • Powder Coatings Brands include AkzoNobel, Dissolvine, Eka, Expancel, Jozo, Some of our customers: Thousands of paint distributors Brands include International, Sikkens, Interpon and Awlgrip. Kromasil, Ecosel, Bindzil and Biostyle. around the world and large retail outlets such as B&Q, Leroy Merlin and OBI. Some of our customers: Airbus, Boeing, Bosch, Dell, IKEA, Some of our customers: BASF, Bayer, Dow, GE, Huntsman, Philips, Samsung, Shell, Toyota, Volkswagen, Whirlpool. Monsanto, P&G, Shin-Etsu, Stora Enso, Momentive, Unilever. Decorative Paints 2013 revenue split per-end user segment Performance Coatings 2013 revenue split per end-user segment Specialty Chemicals 2013 revenue split per end-user segment in % in % in % A Buildings and Infrastructure 100 A Buildings and Infrastructure 24 A Buildings and Infrastructure 18 B Transportation 37 D B Transportation 6 A A C Consumer Goods 25 C Consumer Goods 19 D Industrial 14 D Industrial 57 B C D C B A 8 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 End-user segments Buildings and Infrastructure Transportation Consumer Goods Industrial We supply a wide variety of products to We supply products that are widely used in the We supply a large range of products used We supply products for oil and gas, metals and build, decorate, protect, maintain and renomaintenance of cars, trucks, ships, airplanes in con­sumer electronics, furniture, domesmining, electricity/utilities, agriculture, che­mivate building interiors and exteriors. Various and trains, as well as for parts manufacture and tic appliances, food and beverage, personal ­cal manufacturing and pulp and paper. They products are also used for the construction assembly. They play important functional roles, care and cleaning. Our specialty chemicals are used during production, or play a funcand maintenance of infrastructure, such as such as protection and aesthetics. Our specialty are either vital to the process that makes tional role in the end product. We also sell airports, bridges and roads. We divide our chemicals are also key parts of the process components, or they are key functional ingreliquid protective and powder coatings, which global Buildings and Infrastructure activities that makes components. We are active in three dients. Our coatings also play an aesthetic or provide functionality such as fire and corrointo three specific sub-segments: sub-segments: design role. We have two sub-segments: sion protection. We have two sub-segments: New build projects Automotive repair Consumer durables Natural resource and energy industries • Residential • Aftermarket refurbishment and • Consumer electronics • Oil and gas extraction • Commercial modification of cars and trucks • Domestic appliances • Metals and mining • Infrastructure • Repair of damage to cars and trucks • Wood furniture and cabinetry • Energy and electricity generation • Metal furniture • Water and wastewater treatment Maintenance, renovation and repair Automotive OEM, parts and assembly • Toys, recreational and sports equipment • Agriculture • Residential • Interior and exterior components and • Commercial systems for cars and trucks, including: Consumer packaged goods Process industries • Infrastructure • Bumpers and wheels • Packaged (particularly canned) food • Bulk chemicals • Instrument panels and beverage • Specialty chemicals Building products and components • Assembly of cars, light vehicles and • Personal care products such as hair and • Pulp production • Windows commercial vehicles body care • Paper manufacturing • Doors • Industrial cleaning • Joinery Marine and air transport • Household cleaning • Flooring • Ship new build, maintenance, repair and • Micronutrients • Roofing and siding refurbishment • Pharmaceuticals • Structural components • Airplane new build, maintenance, repair and refurbishment AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 9 Buildings and Infrastructure This end-user segment includes a variety markets, notably infrastructure, although this buildings heated by fossil fuels will also fall Total construction 1 of products used to build, decorate, prois reducing somewhat. The outlook for high below 6 percent. Sustainability issues beyond $ billion, output 2013 tect, maintain and renovate buildings growth regions remains positive due to popuenergy use and carbon emissions, such as air US BRI 2 EUR China and infrastructure interiors and exteriors. lation and wealth growth, but growth rates quality, will continue to have an impact. 30 It is our largest segment (44 percent of going forward are lower, particularly in China, revenue), with the Maintenance, renovation where growth has moderated considerably. Implications for strategy and actions and repair sub-segment particularly imporWe will need to manage product lines and re20 tant for our Decorative Paints business. Future sustainability developments structure operations to respond to structurally Given the contribution of the built environment reduced demand levels in mature markets. In 10 Trends to scarce resource use, demand for products high growth regions, we must have strong market There was significant contraction during the that contribute to a reduction in non-renewpositions and brands where relevant. Globally, recession, with limited recovery in mature able energy use and energy cost reduction is a we need business models based on a value-cost economies. In Europe, most analysts believe major factor, and this will continue. According trade-off and must innovate to respond to sustain-10 0 10 20 30 the decline has halted and in some markets, to the World Business Council for Sustainable ability and other end-user needs to create trigsuch as the UK, housing transactions and Development (WBCSD), by 2050, 70 percent gers for purchasing our products. We also need Total market new build construction 1 house prices are rising. Moderate growth of the world’s population will live in urban to con­tinue restructuring in mature geographies, hundreds units levels have returned in North America. Governareas and 95 percent of new building stock while in high growth areas we must ensure strong US BRI 2 EUR China ment stimulus activity remains a factor in many will use zero net energy. The proportion of positions and appropriate business models. 35 30 25 Where some of our products are used: 20 15 Internal and external masonry Roofing 10 Refurbishment Furniture 5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Structural steel Restoration Architectural detailing Total market maintenance and repair 1 $ billion, output Asphalt additives US BRI 2 EUR China 12 Cladding 10 8 Curtain wall 6 Window frames 4 2 Flooring 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 Source: IHS/Construction IC, January 2014. 2 BRI: Brazil, Russia, India. 10 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Transportation Light vehicle production 1 This end-user segment covers parts, assembly and Where you can find some of our products: million units maintenance of all forms of transport. At 16 percent of China N-AM EUR our revenue, this is one of the two smaller segments for 30 AkzoNobel. Our coatings are vital for both protection and aesthetics in vehicles and our chemicals are used Wing coatings 25 in processes that make components. Cabin coatings 20 Trends Basecoat/clearcoat systems 15 New build markets in this segment are quite cyclical, with substanSpecial effects tial drops in demand during an economic downturn. The timing 10 of the downturn can differ, however. Car production was already 5 recovering from the recent economic crisis in 2010 and has been '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 on a reasonable growth path since then. We expect this pattern to continue going forward, with growth roughly tracking GDP in Primers Antifoulings 1 Vehicle car park (passenger cars and light all geographies. In terms of shipbuilding it is not clear whether the Cargo hold coatings Varnishes vehicles) million units bottom of the cycle has been reached. Based on the order book, BRIC N-AM EUR a robust recovery is expected to begin in 2014, but the timing of Fouling control Fillers 35 this is still uncertain as previous forecasts had shown recovery Finishes beginning in 2013. The maintenance market in all parts of the 30 Transportation segment is much more stable, but slower growing, Ballast tank coatings as evidenced by the vehicle car park, an important contributor to 25 vehicle repair market dynamics. 20 Future sustainability developments 15 Reduced energy use in the manufacture and running of vehicles 10 is clearly a major issue. Therefore, expected changes in the '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 segment due to reduced energy use are considerable. According to the WBCSD’s Vision 2050 report, by 2050, an 80 percent New build ship deliveries 2 reduction in energy use by light duty vehicles is expected, along million deadweight tons with a 50 percent drop in energy use in freight transportation. Delivered On order 200 Implications for strategy and actions -5.7% As production continues to shift, we need to continue to -28.2% 150 +18.4% +10.6% ensure that we are well-positioned geographically both in terms of supply and the decision-making process, which 100 often takes place in other physical locations. We also need Paint repairs to have products with the right functionality, aesthetics and Instrument panels 50 price level to consistently meet the requirements in this Wheels very demanding segment. This includes providing prodBumpers 0 ucts that contribute to reduced energy use throughout the Vehicle components '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 value chain. 1 Source: IHS, January 2014. 2 Source: Clarkson Research Services Limited, December 2013. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 11 Consumer Goods This end-user segment covers durables care), while growth in production and demand Future sustainability developments Domestic appliance production 1 such as consumer electronics, furniture is higher in high growth areas, the main global The WBCSD expects consumer durables to last $ billion, value added and domestic appliances, as well as food production base remains in Europe and North longer, with package recycling being integrated Mature BRIC and beverage, personal care and cleaning America. Reasonable growth rates are expectinto business models. By 2050, it is forecast 50 products. At 16 percent of revenue, it is one ed in all sectors, but for some, such as consumpeople will only use five tons of non-renewable of our two smaller segments, to which we er electronics, domestic appliance and personal materials each, down from today’s 85 tons (US). 40 sell both coatings and chemicals. care, growth rates are expected to be higher. Implications for strategy and actions 30 Trends The geographic shift has changed demand We need to optimize our design, sales, techThere is a shift from mature to high growth patterns, with an emphasis in high growth nical service and production to address the 20 regions. In some sectors (consumer electronmarkets on more affordable goods. But shifts geographic shift, including building more capaics and domestic appliances), this has been so in consumption are not restricted to high bilities in high growth areas and continuing to 10 dramatic that production in high growth regions growth markets. Globally, there is evidence of restructure in mature regions. We also need 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 now outstrips the mature economies. In other the “vanishing middle”, with consumers buying differentiated business models with approprisectors (furniture, food and beverage, personal either premium products or basic alternatives. ate value and cost trade-offs. Food and beverage production 1 $ billion, value added Mature BRIC 60 Where some of our products are used: Microwave ovens Sports equipment 50 Tablet devices 40 Wood cabinetry 30 20 10 Consumer 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 electronics Personal care 2 Salt $ billion, retail value Washing Mature BRIC Mobile machines phones 25 Beverage cans Metal 20 furniture Wood Detergents 15 furniture 10 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 Source: Oxford Economics, January 2014. 2 Source: Euromonitor International, December 2013. 12 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Industrial Chemical production 1 This end-user segment covers production rates, a trend we expect to continue. We also improvement by 2050 according to the WBCSD). $ billion, value added activities such as oil and gas, mining, expect higher growth levels in North America, Increasingly, “closed loop” processes will lead to BRI 2 China N-AM W-EUR agriculture and chemical and pulp manudue partly to the impact of shale gas. China reductions in waste that goes to landfill. 200 facturing. It is our second largest segment, remains important, due to both production and being 24 percent of revenue. We supply demand growth, but these rates are moderatImplications for strategy and actions 150 key chemicals for industrial processes and ing somewhat. Production growth in other high Globally, we need to continue improving produccoatings. growth regions is forecast to be much lower, tivity and innovation rates to remain competitive. 100 except in select markets such as bleached pulp We must also continue to optimize our manuTrends production, where South America is key and facturing footprint in Europe (where growth is 50 Many industrial markets are fairly cyclical, with growing rapidly. Growth in oil and gas should limited), capitalize on opportunities created by some exceptions, such as pulp production. remain high due to high oil prices. shale gas in North America and continue devel0 Most have recovered since the recession, partly oping marketing and selling capabilities in China '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 because the downturn was muted by high Future sustainability developments and other high growth markets to take advangrowth market demand. For example the chemiSustainability continues to be a key driver. A tage of higher growth rates. Bleached chemical pulp production 1 cals industry in Western Europe returned to peak major increase is expected in the eco-efficiency $ billion, output levels in 2010 and has since grown at modest of resources and materials (four to ten times Lat-AM Asia N-AM EUR 40 Where some of our products are used: 35 Production efficiencies 30 Processing aids Sustainable 25 Energy saving technologies 20 Quality improvements 15 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 Brent crude oil price 3 $ barrel 120 Corrosion protection 100 Drilling additives 80 Well stimulation Cementing additives 60 40 De-icing salt 20 '01 '03 '05 '07 '09 '11 '13 '15 '17 1 Source: Oxford Economics, January 2014. 2 BRI: Brazil, Russia, India. 3 Source: RISI, January 2014. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 13 Strategy and targets Our strategic targets Return on sales Resource efficiency Achieve return on sales (operating income/revenue) of Improve resource efficiency across the full value chain 9 percent by 2015 Carbon emissions Return on investment Reduce our carbon emissions across the value chain by Achieve return on investment (operating income/average 25 to 30 percent per ton by 2020 (2012 base) invested capital) of 14 percent by 2015 Eco-premium solutions Net debt/EBITDA Increase revenue from down­stream eco-premium solutions Maintain net debt/EBITDA lower than 2.0 by 2015 to 20 percent of our revenues by 2020 Planet Possible We are looking to proactively engage with partners who We are fully aware that our future hinges on our ability to do fully support our Planet Possible strategy and want to better radically more while using less. So in order to secure our own understand the changes that will be required in our market business success – and that of our customers – we have to segments in order to open up infinite possibilities in a finite create more value from fewer resources. world. Some people think the planet won’t be able to support Because at AkzoNobel, we firmly believe that the planet being nine billion people by 2050. But we do. Which is why we’ve limited by resources doesn’t mean our ambition and imaginaadopted a sustainability approach geared towards accelerattion have to be restricted as well. So we are committed to ing the pace of our commitment. finding opportunities where there don’t appear to be any. Welcome to Planet Possible 14 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 In 2013, we announced a new vision, targets and strategy. Since then, it has been fine-tuned and cascaded throughout the company. Key enablers such as aligned core principles and values have now been developed. Vision: Leading market positions delivering leading performance End-user segments Actions Buildings and Infrastructure Deliver dependably Transportation Processes Grow organically Consumer Goods and capabilities Innovate Industrial Strategic People, product and  Simplify focus areas process safety Standardize Operational control cycle Continuously improve Care for the customer Continuous improvement Reduction of product Innovation and p  rocess complexity Procurement Cash and return on investment Talent management Embedded safety and sustainability Diverse and inclusive talent development Values AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 15 Strategic focus areas We have identified five areas that we will focus on in terms Reduction of product and process complexity Cash and return on investment of strategy development across the company. The following Achieving leading performance means that we will need to In the past few years, we have not generated sufficient cash to provides a brief description of what we have been doing and have an appropriate cost position in all aspects of our business. fully fund our requirements and our return on investment has what we plan to do in each of them. To deliver this, we need to simplify and standardize our product been too low given our cost of capital. Addressing this situaportfolio and our business processes. We will deliver the tion is fundamental to achieving our targets. In 2013, we signifiCare for the customer former by implementing the product and margin management cantly reduced our net debt by reducing our capital expenThe starting point for market success has to be care for our approach that has already been described. We will achieve the ditures, lowering our operating working capital and through customers. This incorporates understanding both the trends in latter by implementing company-wide processes and Business divestments. We also took a major step by successfully the end-user segments that we serve and those in the needsArea level capabilities. completing our performance improvement program a year based customer segments, as well as developing appropriahead of schedule, but recognize that this is still not enough. ate product and service value propositions to serve these A key area of focus in process complexity reduction at the We are in the process of creating a continuous improvement segments. All of this will help to ensure that we are able to AkzoNobel level is in global business services. For functional process for all parts of our company which will generate yeardevelop and/or maintain our leading market positions. support activities such as human resources, finance and inforon-year cost savings to offset inflation and other increases. mation management, we are in the process of putting a threeHowever, if we are to achieve our vision of delivering leading pronged approach in place, with centers of excellence, busiA key contributor to a simultaneous improvement in costs, performance from our leading market positions, we must go ness partners and regional shared service centers. This has cash and return on investment will be taking a more differen­ beyond value proposition development and create and utilize already been carried out with some functions in certain parts tiated and selective approach to investments. To facilitate this, commercially excellent processes. For example, we have to of the world, leading to meaningful improvements in terms of we have thoroughly reviewed all our portfolios and carefully manage our products and margins in a disciplined manner effectiveness and efficiency. defined which market sectors we will be investing in, with a based on a deep understanding of the cost-to-serve our focus on organic growth, as well as defining where we need to customers. We also need to develop and train our sales force Reducing product and process complexity will yield required focus more in terms of structural cost reductions. to sell effectively and efficiently. benefits in terms of costs. But it should also yield additional benefits in terms of carbon footprint reduction and the manageWe will also remain acutely aware of both the sustainability and To ensure that our commercial excellence initiatives are fully ment of priority substances. Because taking a more proactive financial consequences of our decisions. We are convinced that attuned to our market sectors, we have decided to pursue approach to product and process management will involve choosing sustainable solutions makes good business sense these initiatives within each of our three Business Areas, based evaluating and selecting the best formulations and approaches and that we can generate more value from fewer resources, on an overarching company-wide framework. More informain terms of performance, as well as robustness from a sustainwhether these resources are monetary, people-based or raw tion on specific implementation plans per Business Area can be ability perspective. material-based. Therefore, we will be even more rigorous in found on the relevant pages within the Business performance bringing sustainability into our investment decisions. section. Examples of this include: (a) the introduction of raw material slates to reduce and rationalize the procurement of existing – and the introduction of new – raw materials used in the production of performance coatings and (b) the development of continuous reactive distillation processes for the production of specialty chemicals and coatings intermediates at lower cost and with significantly reduced production of waste. 16 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Embedded safety and sustainability • Sustainable business Diverse and inclusive talent development In 2013, for the second year in a row, we were ranked top of We will create business value through products and If we are to deliver on our vision and ambitions, we need to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the Materials industry solutions that provide both functionality and other sustain­ ensure the active participation of a strong and motivated workgroup. We have now been in the top three in our sector for eight able benefits, as well as cost savings from operational force, which reflects the diversity of the end-user segments we consecutive years. This is a record we are very proud of, and efficiency. Overall, we will track our progress against serve. which we have achieved by being committed to the concept this aspect of our strategy using a measure of ecothat we shouldn’t make separate business and sustainability premium solutions with downstream benefits. These are Therefore, we have to continue building our programs and prodecisions. We also recognize that we cannot rest on our laurels, solutions that generate direct resource, environmental and cesses in order to achieve substantially higher levels of employbecause we need to constantly look for the next level of develenergy benefits for our customers, consumers and users ee engagement and diversity at various levels in the company. opment in our safety and sustainability agenda. • Resource efficiency We will do this through focusing our resources on companyWe will accelerate resource efficiency improvements wide talent management that: Building on our solid sustainability foundations, in 2013 we across the value chain. This includes yield improve­• Actively redresses the gender balance in our management developed a new approach to sustainability based on input ments from manufacturing excellence and lowest layers and ensures that our management reflects our from all parts of the company, as well as from external stakeimaginable cost formulations, as well as increased use geographical presence holders. We fundamentally believe that financial and sustainof renewable materials and energy by our suppliers and • Provides continuous learning and development ability performance are aligned and are therefore firmly commitin our own operations opportunities at all levels of our organization ted to what we call Planet Possible. In the next generation • Capable, engaged people • Increases employee engagement of sustainability development, we believe that leadership will We will continue to train and develop our people to require a much stronger external focus. By tailoring solutions their maximum potential and work hard to ensure that they The new integrated Talent Management process, which was to customer and end-user needs, we will make sustainability remain highly motivated and committed to our introduced in 2013, will bring increased objectivity to the identiprofitable, both now and in the future. future success fication of talent, a more targeted approach to the development • Maintaining strong existing foundations of leadership potential and increased process transparency. There are four main components to this new sustainability Based on a company-wide process, we will continue to This, when combined with the new skills-based curriculum strategy, which we refer to as our Planet Possible approach. improve in people, process and product safety. We will offered to all employees via the AkzoNobel Academy, and the They are: also maintain our integrity management processes further alignment of learning and development with our strate(see Compliance and integrity management chapter) and gy, will put us in a strong position to deliver leading performance our community involvement, facilitated by our AkzoNobel over the coming years. Community Program AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 17 Processes and capabilities We believe that in order to make the required progress on our Operational Control Cycle execution through and beyond launch, utilizing a robust project strategic focus areas, we must have a select set of companyThe Operational Control Cycle is a connected cycle based on management approach. wide core processes. Our intention is to develop, implement a continuous improvement approach. The objective is to drive and embed processes that truly distinguish AkzoNobel. Our operational performance and continuous improvement, align Procurement AkzoNobel Academy will be fundamental to ensuring that we views on the outlook going forward and make and follow up Raw material spend is a significant component of our cost deliver this. Each of these core processes is described briefly on relevant operational decisions quickly. It starts with a CEO/ base. There are also situations whereby the same company below. CFO/BA cycle, but also includes BA/BU and CEO/Functional can be a supplier, competitor and customer of our businesses. cycles and continues throughout the organization. This process Careful management of procurement process is therefore very People, product and process safety has now been in place for more than a year and is already important. These processes will be based on defining requireSafety comes first at AkzoNobel, both figuratively and literally. having a significant impact in terms of strategy implementation. ments guided by business strategy, a robust strategic sourcing Our safety process includes: process, disciplined key supplier management and an efficient • Assessing the safety culture, management systems and Continuous improvement purchase-to-pay operational process. progress Process standardization is fundamental to making improve• Identifying “at risk” behaviors, hazards and priority harmful ments in our strategic focus areas. But this isn’t enough for Talent management substances us to deliver on our vision of leading performance. We need In order to deliver diverse and inclusive talent development, we • Observing behaviors, developing hazard scenarios, to make step changes in some parts of our business, using must have one talent management process company-wide, scoring and notifying priority substances expert-led projects to generate major improvements. Once which engages and motivates a high quality, diverse workforce. • Analyzing behavior observations and assessing process these step changes have been achieved, we need to make This talent management process includes: safety and priority substance risks incremental, ongoing improvements based on a continuous • Planning for talent needs • Removing barriers to safe behavior, managing process plan-do-review-act approach in all areas of the organization. • Developing and retaining talent safety risks, restricting or prohibiting certain substances • Assessing performance and potential • Driving continuous improvement Innovation • Identifying leaders through creation of a common Given the nature of our business, which involves specialty prodleadership potential profile ucts, innovation is very important to our success and we must • Deploying personnel based on solid succession planning have best practice innovation processes. We are developing and rich internal talent pools processes that start with customer insight and incorporate • Strategic workforce planning structured ideation, selection and prioritization, and disciplined • Attracting, acquiring and on-boarding based on a clear employee value proposition 18 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Actions End-user segments Core principles and values To address our strategic focus areas and deliver on our vision We are convinced that by prioritizing activities in our strateEveryone at AkzoNobel is central to our strategy and its impleand targets, we have identified a set of high level actions that gic focus areas, implementing our core processes and taking mentation. To enable the successful roll-out of our strategic we are pursuing throughout the company. We will: defined operational effectiveness actions based on our new agenda and, in turn, the achievement of our vision, we must be • Deliver dependably values and behaviors, our internal approach will support clear not only about what we will do, but also how we will do • Grow organically de­livery on our vision and targets. However, we will only achieve it. Through a process that involved individuals from across the • Innovate our vision if our internal approach is delivered successfully to company, we defined the following: • Simplify the markets via our end-user segments. • Standardize Core principles • Continuously improve To ensure that our action plans are appropriate for our end-user There are certain behaviors that we expect from all our employsegments, we have initiated a disciplined ongoing approach to ees under all circumstances. We call these non-negotiable Since we announced these high level actions in early 2013, all evaluating the outlook for our end-user segments and subbehaviors, or core principles. We have defined three – Safety, functions and businesses within the company have been develsegments based on external research and analysis. Profiles of Integrity and Sustainability. oping appropriate action plans, as evidenced in the Business the trends for these four end-user segments – Buildings and performance section of this Report 2013. Infrastructure, Transportation, Consumer Goods and Industrial Values – are included earlier in this Strategy section. • Customer focused – we build successful partnerships with our customers • Deliver on commitments – we do what we say we will do • Passion for excellence – we strive to be the best in everything we do, every day • Winning together – we develop, share and use our personal strengths to win as a team These principles and values have now been translated into 26 languages and we have defined a set of behavioral dos and don’ts so that all our employees around the world will understand what we expect from them. We are in the process of embedding these core principles and values into all of our processes, beginning with talent management. We build successful partnerships Core principles Customer focused with our customers • Safety • Integrity Deliver on commitments We do what we say we will do • Sustainability We strive to be the best Passion for excellence in everything we do, every day We develop, share and use our Winning together personal strengths to win as a team AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 19 Doing more with less RAL 6004 Manufacturing, by its very nature, can result in the loss of some raw materials during the various processes involved. Paints and coatings are no exception, with materials being generated that can’t be sold as products to customers. This includes off-spec batches, quality control samples, powder fines and outdated stocks, as well as damaged goods that are returned to us. In the past, these were often disposed of as waste, for example by incineration or landfill. But as part of our continuing efforts to radically reduce our waste streams, we’ve now found customers for these previously obsolete Material that can’t be sold as products to materials. customers includes off-spec batches, QC samples, powder fines and outdated stocks Representatives from our various paints and coatings businesses joined forces with specialists from supply chain, legal and our corporate departments to form a dedicated task force. Together, they developed contracts which made it possible for the company to sell what used to be regarded as waste for further use as low tier paints. This included making all the required documents available, such as safety data sheets and product codes. Customers now use what we sell them as raw materials in their own processes and market products under their own brand names. Typical low tier products are water-borne and solvent-borne paints, as well as powder coatings. Audits are also carried out to ensure that our products are being legitimately applied for further use. In 2013, 11,000 tons of paints and coatings were sold as a result of this initiative, saving AkzoNobel an estimated €4.5 million. 11,000 tons of paints and coatings containing our obsolete materials was sold in 2013 Estimated cost savings for AkzoNobel €4.5 million Risk management Doing business inherently involves taking risks. By taking balanced risks, we strive to be a sustainable company. Risk management is an Enterprise Risk Management essential element of our corporate governance process and strategy development. Enterprise Risk Management reporting 22 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 We foster a high awareness of business risks and internal Risk appetite Risk management in 2013 control, geared to preserving our risk appetite and providing Clarity on risk appetite and boundaries that determine the Enterprise Risk Management is a bottom-up process which transparency in our operations. The Executive Committee is freedom of action or choice in terms of risk taking and risk provides full coverage of the organization and ensures that responsible for managing the risks associated with our activiacceptance is provided to all managers. Risk boundaries we focus on what we consider to be the areas of major risk ties and, in turn, for the establishment and adequate functioare set by our strategy, our Company Statement, Code of exposure. The scoping of our 2013 risk management activining of appropriate risk management and control systems Conduct, company values, authority schedules, policies and ties was performed by the Executive Committee, business (see Statement of the Board of Management in the Our leadcorporate directives. Our risk appetite differs by objective area unit Managing Directors and Corporate Directors, in associaership section). and type of risk: tion with the risk management function. Besides the focus on coverage of our organization, emphasis is put on organizaAkzoNobel risk management framework • Strategic: In pursuing our strategic ambitions, we are tional changes, key strategic projects and high growth regions. Through our risk management framework, we seek to provide prepared to take considerable risk related to achieving reasonable assurance that our business objectives can be our performance, innovation and sustainability objecIn 2013, we facilitated 93 Enterprise Risk Management achieved and our obligations to customers, shareholders, tives. Returns on investment in the development of workshops. In these workshops, more than 2,000 unique employees and society can be met. Our risk management innovative products and sustainable solutions are never risk scenarios were identified and prioritized by responsible framework is in line with the Enterprise Risk Management – certain. Yet considerable funds and efforts are spent on management teams and functional experts. In addition, in Integrated Framework of COSO and the Dutch Corporate research, development and innovation, even in less certain selected areas with low risk tolerance, dedicated risk assessGovernance Code. The Executive Committee reviews our economic circumstances ments were performed to preserve our risk appetite. All major risk management and control systems and our major busi• Operational: With respect to operational risks, we seek risks were responded to by the unit that identified them. The ness risks, which are subsequently reviewed by the Superto minimize the downside risk from the impact of unforeoutcome of all risk assessments was reported to the next visory Board. seen operational failures within our businesses higher management level. Risk profiles and trends were shared • Financial: With respect to financial risks, we have a by managers across the company. In the bottom-up consoliprudent financing strategy and a strict cash management dation process, the risks were taken to the next management policy and are committed to maintaining strong investment level, where they were re-assessed, either because of the grade credit ratings. Our financial risk management and materiality of the risk exposure and/or because of the accurisk appetite are explained in more detail in Note 23 of the mulated effect. Financial statements • Compliance: We do not permit our employees to take Risks we have seen materializing to a full or lesser extent in any compliance risk and have a zero tolerance policy in 2013 were in the area of extreme weather events impacting relation to breaches of our Code of Conduct. See the our operations (e.g. floods, storms, fires), soft trading condiGovernance and compliance section for more details tions in general, adverse energy costs primarily in Europe, several HSE incidents, product claims and significant negative exchange rate fluctuations with a harmful impact on our financial results. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 23 Under the explicit understanding that this is not an exhaustive Internal External list, the major risk factors that may prevent full achievement of our strategic ambitions are listed in detail in this section. Strategic Strategic There may be current risks that the company has not fully assessed, or that are currently identified as not having • Identification of major transforming technologies • Worsening of economic conditions a significant impact on the business, but which could at • International operations a later stage develop a material impact. The company’s • risk management systems endeavor to ensure the timely discovery of such incidents. An overview of our major risk Operational Operational factors follows. The five risks that we currently assess as the • Attraction and retention of talent • Sourcing of raw materials most significant for the forthcoming five years are indicated. • Management of change • Energy pricing and emission trading rights • Production process risks • Product liability • Environmental liabilities Financial Financial • Cash flow • Retirement and healthcare benefits • Decline of asset values • Fluctuations in exchange rates Compliance Compliance • Complying with laws and regulations 24 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Internal Strategic Internal Operational – Top five risk Internal Operational Identification of major Attraction and retention Production process risks transforming technologies of talent Our success depends on the sustainable growth of our Successfully executing our strategy is, to a large extent, Risks in production processes can adversely affect our business through research, development and innovation. dependent on having the right people. results. These risks arise from areas such as personal If we are not able to identify and adopt major transformhealth and safety, process safety and product safety. ing technologies in a timely manner, this may lead to the Risk corrective actions Unlikely scenarios can involve major incidents with a high loss of our leadership positions and adversely affect our Diverse and inclusive talent development was identified impact for our organization, causing business continuity business. as a Strategic focus area in the 2013 Strategy review. risks and reputational damage. Consequently, we have developed a new global process Risk corrective actions for integrated talent management. This focuses on the Risk corrective actions The risk of missing relevant technology developments further professionalization of recruitment, a more rigorWe continuously strive to improve our safety performance. is mitigated in four ways. Firstly, we adequately support ous approach to the identification and development of Each year, we organize a company-wide Safety Day focusresearch and development with a spend of 2.6 percent leadership potential and a more transparent approach to ing on enforcing our TakeCare program. TakeCare is the of revenue (€373 million). Secondly, as defined in our career development opportunities. In addition, as part of umbrella for all existing and future safety initiatives at busicore innovation process, our key projects have detailed the overall performance improvement program, we have ness and central level. Among other initiatives, this encomtechnology roadmaps which assess relevant technology further developed the AkzoNobel Academy. This is focused passes our Life-Saving Rules program, which includes a horizons and pathways to acquire and deploy new techon building functional capability across the company and “golden principle” and eight basic safety rules that have nologies. Thirdly, we have an established and managed developing a higher level of project and change managebeen mandatory for all AkzoNobel employees and all our global open innovation capability to identify, assess (as ment skills, as well as providing a platform for the sharing contractors since April 2013. We continue with our busiopportunities or threats) and acquire the most recent and of best practices. We have also continued with the harmoness continuity planning and have appropriate risk transpromising emerging sciences and technologies. These nization of key HR administration processes to provide fer arrangements in place. To help realize our 2015 safety technology platforms are used as an integral part of our efficient service and free up time for the business partnertarget for total reportable injuries (TRR) of <2.0 incidents ideation process, where we define technology and market ing that is crucial to helping us attract, develop and retain per million hours worked, we have increased manageopportunities. Finally, we have a Chief Scientist to advise talented people. ment attention on people safety, as well as implementing and guide the Head of Supply Chain, Research and enhanced process safety (such as asset integrity) and Development and the RD&I Leadership Team on diverse occupational health standards, and improving the HSE aspects of external research and to benchmark our own audit process. See Note 7-10 of the Sustainability stateR&D capabilities. ments for more information about our safety improvements. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 25 Internal Operational – Top five risk External Strategic – Top five risk External Strategic – Top five risk Management of change Worsening of economic International operations conditions In order to implement our strategic agenda we are changOne of the principal uncertainties continues to be the We are a global business with operations in more than ing our operating model, which includes the setting up development of the global economy, which remains 80 countries. We are therefore exposed to a variety of of a Global business services function. We are also under­­fragile, and it is difficult to predict customer demand and risks, many of them beyond our control. Unfavorable taking various restructuring projects which require signifiraw material costs. Chronic fiscal imbalances may further political, social or economic developments and developcant change, as well as stakeholder management and adversely impact the global, regional or national economents in laws, regulations and standards could adversely project management expertise. Failure to successfully mies in markets where we operate. AkzoNobel is suscepaffect our business and results of operations. Our aspiexecute these initiatives could lead to industrial action and, tible to decreased growth rates within high growth markets rations to fuel growth in high growth markets will further ultimately, to not achieving our strategic ambitions. and/or continued economic and market downturn in expose us to these risks. mature markets. The effects lead to a decline of demand Risk corrective actions and deteriorating financial results, thereby not realizing our Risk corrective actions In 2013, we introduced new Core Principles and Values financial targets. We spread our activities geographically and serve many which will set in motion the behavioral changes that will sectors to benefit from opportunities and reduce the risk help to accelerate the implementation of our strategy. Senior Risk corrective actions of instability. Political, economic and legislative conditions management is involved in all critical projects that have been As a key element of our strategy, we are committed to are carefully monitored by responsible functions at corpoprioritized and are supervised by the Executive Committee bringing down our operational cost base and reducing rate, Business Area and business unit level. The Executo ensure an aligned and integrated vision and thrust complexity. This will be done through introducing and tive Committee decides on all significant investments and from the top for the company’s change agenda. Project implementing standardized core functional processes in the countries and industry segments in which AkzoNobel management and change management are both included each region across the organization, helping to reduce conducts its business. Country organizations are in in the curriculum of the AkzoNobel Academy. operational costs, as well as making the company more place in order to mitigate country specific, but business agile and competitive. We are also continuing with our generic risks. performance improvement programs in the three Business Areas and began a structured program of commercial excellence to offset the effects of decreasing economic growth rates. 26 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 External Operational External Operational External Operational Energy pricing and emission Product liability Environmental liabilities trading rights Our Specialty Chemicals business operates two energyProduct liability claims could adversely affect our compaWe use, and have used in the past, hazardous materials intensive businesses, Pulp and Performance Chemicals ny’s business and results of operations. Unlikely long-term and biological compounds in several product development and Industrial Chemicals. The latter conducts its business implications with a high impact for our organization could programs and manufacturing processes, including waste primarily in Europe. A non-level playing field for energy on follow from the use of new technologies and compounds. thereof. We have been, and can be, exposed to risks of a global level (e.g. shale gas, national policies, subsidies) accidental contamination or past practices that give rise to and emission trading rights can affect the competitive Risk corrective actions current liabilities. We could be exposed to events of nonposition of these businesses and the competitive position Quality improvement programs are in place in our different compliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforceof our customers. Business Areas. Improving our management of change ment, property damage, possible personal injury and any procedures in this area is a joint responsibility for the RD&I, resulting claims for damage. Regulations and standards Risk corrective actions Supply Chain, Marketing and Procurement functions. In are becoming increasingly stringent. We will continue to analyze and review our competiaddition, product stewardship has been incorporated into tive positions and we are proactively managing energy the company’s HSE and operational eco-efficiency agenda. Risk corrective actions usage and costs. We operate several cogeneration units Product stewardship is also integrated into product We are committed to conducting all our activities in the which enable us to make efficient use of combined heat slate decisions in the Operational Excellence program. We safest and most responsible manner. We have a specialand power. We are implementing our Carbon Policy and also have a central policy to optimize insurance coverage ist group managing these issues. Contingency plans and are working on energy efficiency programs. In addition, which relates to specific insurance programs covering assignment arrangements are in place to mitigate known we are driving to diversify our energy source portfolio to product liability. risks and regular reviews are conducted to monitor progreduce the amount of gas-based heat, for example by ress and assess financial and reputational exposure. Our investing in energy from waste and biomass. Carbon policy is to accrue and charge against earnings environmanagement plans are closely monitored and strategimental clean-up costs, damages or indemnifications cally managed. We have policies for energy contracts when it is probable that a liability has materialized and an and have long-term purchase contracts in place amount can be estimated (see Note 20 of the Financial (see Note 23 of the Financial statements). statements). AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 27 External Operational External Financial Sourcing of raw materials Retirement and healthcare benefits Prices for key raw materials can be volatile and are affected The graph below shows the percentages of our €5.4 billion Our policy is to sponsor defined contribution pensions by economic conditions. The table on the right shows our total spend in raw materials, excluding energy. and other post-retirement benefits wherever possible, but relative spend on these key raw materials, excluding energy. we have a number of defined benefit pension and healthWe may also be impacted by inability to access sufficient Breakdown of total raw material spend in % care schemes from the past. Generally, these schemes raw materials, business interruption or product discontinu(excluding Decorative Paints North America, divested in April 2013) have been funded through external trusts or foundations. ation at key suppliers. These potential circumstances may AkzoNobel is at risk from potential funding shortfalls in increase cost and expenses for raw materials and energy. these defined benefit schemes. Changes in product mix may adversely affect future results A Chemicals & intermediates 23 H I and growth. We are, to some extent, able to pass on higher B Resins 21 G A Risk corrective actions input prices to our customers, but this largely depends on C Additives 14 We practice proactive pension risk management. Our policy F market conditions. D Solvents 9 is to offer defined contribution schemes to new employees E Packaging 9 and, where appropriate, to existing employees. The most E Risk corrective actions F Titanium dioxide 8 significant defined benefit schemes are the ICI Pension B In 2013, Procurement was selected as a company-wide G Coatings specialties 8 D Fund and the AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Scheme in the core process. As part of this process, our strategic sourcH Pigments 4 C UK. Both are closed to new entrants. They are managed ing methodology includes the structural periodic review of I Other raw materials 4 and controlled by independent trustees. Changes in the all critical raw materials, aiming to bundle the purchasing value of the assets or liabilities of these defined benefit power in both product related and non-product related schemes, and therefore their funded status, and investrequirements. We use our purchasing power and long-term ment and other decisions by their in­dependent trustees, supplier relationships to acquire raw materials and safemay require additional funding from the employing entities guard their constant delivery in a sustainable manner, to and may adversely impact our business and results. Addisecure volumes and cooperate on innovation and sustaintional funding may, in the case of the UK schemes, also ability. We have an inventory of single sourced raw materials result from decisions by the UK Pension Regulator or, in and are actively pursuing plans to mitigate dependencies. certain cases, by the scheme actuary and trustee, subject We monitor markets in which we operate for opportunities to the powers of the UK Pensions Regulator. In each case, and adapt our purchasing accordingly. We also monitor our additional funding may adversely affect our business and critical value chains to understand the critical suppliers and results. We are committed to further de-risking over time. markets of our suppliers. This enables us to signal risks and For more information about our post-retirement benefit opportunities at an earlier stage. provisions, see Note 15 of the Financial statements. 28 Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2013 External Financial External Financial – Top five risk External Compliance Fluctuations in exchange rates Cash flow Complying with laws and regulations Exchange rate fluctuations can have a harmful impact on our The potential for further deterioration of economic condiWe may be held responsible for any liabilities arising out of financial results, as experienced in 2013. We have operations tions may have an impact on the free cash flow generation non-compliance with laws and regulations. in more than 80 countries and report in euros. We are particuof our businesses. Furthermore, we are potentially exposed larly sensitive to the relation between the euro and US dollar, to funding of pension schemes. This may lead to insufficient Risk corrective actions pound sterling, Swedish krona and Latin American and free cash flow generation which limits our strategic degrees We are monitoring and adapting to significant and rapid Asian currencies. of freedom. changes in the legal systems, regulatory controls, customs and practices in the countries in which we operate. These Risk corrective actions Risk corrective actions affect a wide range of areas including competition law, We have centralized treasury and a hedging policy is in Our balance sheet and debt profile are strong. We have a anti-bribery and export control and sanctions. We are place for certain currency exchange rate risks (see Note long-term senior unsecured debt rating of BBB+ by Standard dedicated to minimizing our compliance risk with special 23 of the Financial statements). At a more operational & Poor’s and Baa1 by Moody’s. We are committed to mainemphasis on the application of our Code of Conduct. We level, risks are reduced by the prevalence of local-for-local taining a strong investment grade rating. Regular review advertise the use of our company-wide complaints proceproduction, which is the norm in many of our businesses. meetings are held between rating agencies and AkzoNodure called SpeakUp!, which enables all our employees bel senior management. We will engage in restructuring of to report irregularities in relation to our Code of Conduct. under­performing parts of our portfolio if deemed strategically We provide mandatory training regarding the code to all External Financial appropriate. We have a prudent financing strategy and a employees and additional mandatory training regardstrict cash management policy, which are governed by our ing specific relevant subjects to selected employees. We centralized treasury function (see Note 23 of the Financial monitor compliance through our comprehensive annual Decline of asset values statements). Focus on cash management is stressed in our non-financial letter of representation process, as well as monthly Operational Control Cycle meetings and relevant our annual competition law compliance declaration (see metrics are included in our updated remuneration policies. the Governance and compliance section). Impairments and book losses could adversely affect our financial results. Risk corrective actions The Executive Committee continuously monitors acquisition and divestment opportunities and the management of assets held for sale. We do impairment tests for intangibles with indefinite lives (goodwill, some brands) every year and whenever an impairment trigger exists. For tangibles and other fixed assets, we do impairment tests whenever an impairment trigger exists (see Notes 7 and 8 of the Financial statements). AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Strategy 29 Business performance The following chapter gives a detailed summary of progress Business performance on our main strategic targets and other key performance indicators, as well as looking at how each of our Business Areas performed during 2013. Information on market characteristics is also provided. Overall strategic progress 32 Decorative Paints 38 Performance Coatings 48 Specialty Chemicals 60 2013 performance Strategic targets Return on sales Return on investment Net debt/EBITDA We use return on sales (ROS) as a performance indicator to We use return on investment (ROI) as a performance indicator Net debt/EBITDA reflects our strategy to maintain a solid reflect profitability relative to revenue. ROS as a target will to reflect profitability relative to invested capital. ROI as a target investment grade. focus management on delivery and quality of profits. ROS% will focus management on delivering value through returns is defined as operating income as percentage of revenue. For in excess of our cost of capital. ROI% is defined as operat• The net debt/EBITDA target is <2.0 times operating income 2012, the goodwill impairment is excluded. ing income divided by average invested capital. For operating • At year-end 2013, this ratio was 1.0 (2012: 1.4) income 2012, the goodwill impairment is excluded. • Net debt was down €769 million due to the net effect • The ROS target is 9.0 percent by 2015 of cash from operating activities, divestments, capital • ROS for 2013 was 6.6 percent (2012: 5.9 percent) • The ROI target is 14.0 percent by 2015 expenditures and dividend payments • Operating income includes net incidental gains of • ROI for 2013 was 9.6 percent (2012: 7.7 percent or • EBITDA was €1,513 million (2012: €1,597 million) due to €61 million and €348 million restructuring costs 8.9 percent if the impairment in Decorative Paints was higher restructuring costs and adverse currency effects. (2012: €292 million) excluded from invested capital for the full year) EBITDA does not include any incidental results • ROS pre-restructuring costs and incidentals increased • ROI pre-restructuring costs and incidentals increased from from 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent 10.7 percent in 2012 to 12.4 percent in 2013 • Both revenue and operating income were affected by • Invested capital was €0.8 billion lower than in 2012 due adverse currency effects and divestments to working capital management, foreign currency translation and a transfer of some businesses and assets to assets held for sale Return on sales (ROS) development Return on investment (ROI) development Net debt/EBITDA Operating income in % of revenue Operating income/average invested capital in % Ratio Decorative Paints Specialty Chemicals Decorative Paints Specialty Chemicals Performance Coatings AkzoNobel Performance Coatings AkzoNobel 12 12 25 22 21 12 10 9 10 9 20 9 9 18 8 <2.0 8 15 7 14 14 14 6 6 6 12 12 1.4 9 10 8 8 1.0 1.0 2 3 2011 2012 2013 2015 2011 2012 2013 2015 2011 2012 2013 2015 target 32 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint Resource Efficiency Index (REI) Our 2020 target is to achieve 20 percent of revenue from prodOur ambition is to reduce our cradle-to-grave carbon footprint In the chemicals industry, sustained business success will ucts and services which provide customers and consumers by 25-30 percent per ton of sales between 2012 and 2020. require product and process innovations that generate much in our downstream value chain with a significant sustainability more added value from each unit of raw materials and energy advantage compared with the most commonly available equi• This year indicates a total footprint of around 27 million used across the value chain – be it with our suppliers, in our valent commercial products or industrial processes. tons of CO2(e) and a reduction of CO2(e) per ton of sold own operations or with the users of our products. product of 2 percent • Eco-premium solutions stimulate top line and bottom line • The reduction derives mainly from reformulations and higher The Resource Efficiency Index is defined as gross profit (or gross growth opportunities sales of lower impact paints, and from power consumption margin) divided by cradle-to-grave carbon footprint – reported • In 2013, revenue from eco-premium products and services with lower carbon footprint impact in some facilities as an index. Our aim is to use this metric to drive further improvewith downstream benefits totaled €2.7 billion, or 18 percent • Other changes in product mix and higher production ments in resource efficiency across the value chain. of total revenue volumes in facilities with a less favorable energy mix have • It may appear that we are already close to realizing our limited the impact of these improvements We are reporting for the first time in 2013. A review of our perfor2020 target of 20 percent of revenue. However since this mance over the past five years reveals a gradually increasing eco-premium solution metric compares our products and trend. Contributory factors include: solutions with the mainstream in the market, our progress • Improvements in energy efficiency will be impacted by improvements in competitor offerings • Increased renewable and low carbon energy supply and changes in legislation • The ongoing switch towards waterborne coatings • Margin improvements as a result of higher value added products Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint Resource Efficiency Index in % of revenue % reduction CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 gross profit/CO2(e) indexed 20 25 30 18 106 105 111 109 17 100 0 2 2012 2013 2020 2012 2013 2020 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 target target For more details see Sustainability statements Note 4. For more details see Sustainability statements Note 5. For more details see Sustainability statements Value chain section. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 33 2013 performance Other indicators Financial overview Revenue Revenue development in % versus 2012 2013 revenue was down 5 percent, mainly due to adverse curren• Revenue in Decorative Paints declined 3 percent Increase Decrease cy effects and divestments. Operating income was €958 million compared with 2012 due to adverse currency effects and and included €61 million incidental results. Excluding these, divestments. Volumes were up 3 percent for the year with 2 operating income was €897 million (2012: €908 million excluding increases in all regions except Europe, which was flat +1% 0% -2% impairment). Net debt was €769 million lower at €1,529 million overall, reflecting the difficult trading conditions 0 -5% (2012: €2,298 million). The performance improvement program • Revenue in Performance Coatings declined 2 percent -4% exceeded targets and has now successfully been completed, compared with the previous year, due to adverse -2 one year ahead of schedule. currencies and overall flat volumes, but with continued variability between individual segments. Volumes were -4 Summary of financial outcomes down at the start of the year compared with 2012 – reflecting the difficult trading conditions – but gradually -6 In € millions 2012 2013 ∆% Volume Price/mix Divestments Exchange Total improved Revenue 15,390 14,590 (5) rates • It was a year of continued soft demand for Specialty Operating income 908 1 958 6 Chemicals, with low activity being particularly evident in ROS% 5.9 6.6 construction-related products, pulp bleaching and the Divestments Invested capital 10,062 9,281 plastics industries. In addition to the general slowdown During 2013, several divestments were concluded: ROI% 7.7 2 9.6 in demand, we had new plant start-ups and extended • The divestment of Decorative Paints North America. This maintenance stops earlier in the year, which impacted business was reported as a discontinued operation. The EBITDA 1,597 1,513 (5) production temporarily divestment resulted in a gain of €141 million and cash Capital expenditures 826 666 inflows of €779 million Net cash from operating activities 737 716 (3) Revenue in € millions • The divestment of Building Adhesives was completed on Net debt 2,298 1,529 October 1, 2013, resulting in a gain of €198 million and Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals cash inflows of €247 million Net income attributable to share(2,092) 724 holders In addition, we concluded smaller divestments, such as the 4,201 4,297 4,174 Earnings per share from total (8.82) 3.00 Primary Amides and Purate businesses, and agreed to sell operations (in €) 5,170 5,702 5,571 the German stores in Decorative Paints in 2014. In 2012, Adjusted earnings per share (in €) 2.55 2.62 Chemicals Pakistan was divested. Number of employees 50,610 49,560 5,335 5,543 4,949 1 The goodwill impairment in 2012 numbers is excluded from operating income to present comparable financial outcomes.  2 With impairment of Decorative Paints excluded from invested capital for the full year: 2011 2012 2013 8.9 percent. 34 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Operating income Invested capital Net debt and cash flows • Decorative Paints’ results include the gain of Invested capital at year-end 2013 totaled €9.3 billion, Operating activities in 2013 resulted in cash inflows of €198 million on the divestment of Building Adhesives. €0.8 billion lower than at year-end 2012. Invested capital was €716 million (2012: €737 ­million). The change is the net impact Margins improved due to margin management and lower mainly impacted by the net effect of: of higher operating income (excluding impairment) and lower raw material prices. Performance improvement programs • A decrease of operating working capital of €0.2 billion cash outflow from provisions, partly offset by lower inflow from and restructuring measures have lowered the cost base. due to working capital management. Expressed as a working capital, as 2012 had an exceptional impact. Restructuring charges were below 2012 percentage of revenue, operating working capital was • In Performance Coatings, margins were stable despite 9.9 percent (year-end 2012: 10.7 percent) Net debt decreased from €2,298 million at year-end 2012 to higher restructuring costs • A decrease of €0.4 billion due to foreign currency €1,529 million at year-end 2013 as a consequence of the net • Specialty Chemicals’ results include a non-cash translation, caused by the stronger euro impact of: impairment charge of €139 million on a business held • Qualifying certain businesses and assets as assets • Cash inflows from divestments (€313 million) and for sale. Focus on cost control and margin management held for sale discontinued operations (€675 million) was maintained in all businesses, with a comprehensive • Cash inflows from operating activities of €716 million performance improvement program being implemented at We are prioritizing our investments given the weak recovery • Capital expenditures of €666 million Functional Chemicals of the markets and our focus on cash and return on investment. • Dividend payments of €286 million (€210 million to We therefore expect our 2014 capital expenditures to be in line shareholders and €76 million to non-controlling interests) Full-year average raw material costs were down, having stawith 2013, of which 40-50 percent is related to growth. bilized during the year. We have set a cap on the ratio of net debt/EBITDA of 2.0. Capital expenditure 2013 Currently that ratio is 1.0. Our strategy is to maintain a solid The performance improvement program announced in October 100% = €666 million (4.6% of revenue) investment grade. 2011 has exceeded targets and achieved €545 million in EBITDA for the period 2011 through 2013. This successfully completes the performance improvement program a year ahead of sche­ A A Decorative Paints 26 dule. Further efficiency and cost reduction measures have B Performance Coatings 22 been identified as part of continuous improvement initiatives C Specialty Chemicals 52 which are integrated in the regular business activities. Full-year C restructuring costs were €348 million (2012: €292 million). B Operating income in € millions Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals 235 941 398 458 542 525 622 500 297 2011 2012 2013 1 Excluding goodwill impairment. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 35 Safety Workforce Outlook A company-wide HSE platform established common improveAt year-end 2013, our workforce totaled 49,560 employees Although we saw early signs of stabilization in the second half ment programs in people, process and product safety. We aim (year-end 2012: 50,610 employees). The net decrease was of 2013 in some of our businesses, the economic environto differentiate ourselves by our thoroughness in embedding due to: ment remains fragile and foreign currencies volatile. We will best practice safety processes in all our operations, using • Divestments, affecting 440 employees continue to significantly restructure our businesses in 2014 to common approaches and systems. • A decrease of 1,740 employees due to ongoing reduce our cost base further to offset the expected continued restructuring weak recovery. The company is on track to achieve its stra• We achieved significant progress in total reportable injury • An increase of 1,130 employees due to new hires, mainly tegic targets for 2015. rate towards our target of <2.0 by 2015 in high growth markets • We implemented our new Life-Saving Rules as part of a global TakeCare behavioral safety program We accelerated restructuring activities during 2013 and will • We enhanced the stringency of our behavior-based safety continue to significantly restructure our businesses in 2014 to program – more than 96 percent of our manufacturing reduce our cost base. These programs will run globally, with a sites are already consistent with the higher standards focus on mature markets. • We refocused the process safety aspect of our HSE selfassessment program in order to make improvements at Dividend high hazard sites Our dividend policy is to pay a stable to rising dividend. We will propose a 2013 final dividend of €1.12 per share, which would make a total 2013 dividend of €1.45 (2012: €1.45) per share. There will be a stock dividend option with cash dividend as default. Employee and supervised contractors total Earnings per share (EPS) total operations in € Dividend in € reportable injuries injury rate 3.6 2.04 3.1 3.00 1.45 1.45 1.45 2.4 2.3 <2.0 (8.82) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2015 target 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 36 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Putting more wind in our sails One of the key aims of our Planet Possible approach to sustainability (doing more with less) is to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. Not only will this have environmental benefits, but it will also reduce our dependency on fossil fuel markets and carbon pricing. A renewable energy supply strategy is now in place, which includes participating in large-scale energy ventures and exploring on-site renewable energy generation. One business that has been particularly active is Pulp and Performance Chemicals – which has the largest share of renewable energy in our existing portfolio. Around 60 percent of the business’ operations already run on renewable power, which could rise to 80 percent by 2020. However, as is the case throughout the company, this will need to be achieved in a cost-effective manner, supporting our other business goals. One of many ongoing projects is based in the Nordics, where the company is part-owner of the VindIn consortium, which has been set up to produce renewable energy competitively. VindIn already has 35 wind turbines in operation, with more to come over the next few years. The target is to generate 1,000 GWh annually. So far, VindIn has made substantial progress in Sweden, where two wind farms are in operation and seven more are under development. A further seven projects are also being worked on in Finland. Input Our organization How Decorative Paints creates value Energy Total energy use We continue to improve efficiency by 2,000 TJ Fresh water consumption reducing 283 production, our energy use per ton of million mand 3 are working towards improving our share of renewable energy. Employees As a leading global supplier of decorative 16,200 paints, our brands are crucial to our success. Our activities are fully focused on the Buildings and Infrastructure end-user Employee engagesegment, serving the do-it-yourself market ment score (1-5 scale) and professional painters. 3.93 Own operations Our innovation is geared towards low CO2(e) emissions Raw materials energy processes, with a strong emphasis on reducing our upstream and packaging Total reportable rate of injuries 0.1 million tons supply chain impact by changing formulations to water-borne technology. We continue to work towards raw material 1.9 Total waste Many of our brands are household names efficiency and the use of renewable raw materials. 39 kilotons and we work closely with local communities via a series of national and international initiatives, some of which involve volunteer support from our employees. Cradle-to-grave CO2(e) emissions including VOCs 4.2 million tons 38 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Output Asset value Customer value The value of our assets is €4.3 billion. We In 2013 we sold to many thousands of invested €171 million in 2013 to keep our customers. We continue to improve our facilities in good shape, as well as expanding customer focus and develop products and our manufacturing capability. solutions that help them to be successful in their markets. A nd g s a ture n c ildi tru Revenue per end-user segment: Human value Financial value A 100% Buildings and Infrastructure Bu nfras n ts I Employee safety is a key priority and we Pai ROS% at 9.5 percent includes the divestve rati e are actively driving towards a reduction in ment gain on Building Adhesives of c o the number of incidents. We highly value, De urop €198 million. Excluding this gain, ROS% and actively work on improving, employee E is 4.8 percent. ROI% excluding this gain engagement. We’re investing in training is 6.9 percent. and development and continue to work on a more diverse workforce. Revenue €4,174 million n rt atio Environmental value Operating income n spo Tra nts €398 million We continue to improve the environmental footprint of our operations Pai tive by focusing on operational eco-efficiency. e c ora ricas including €198 million gain D me on Building Adhesives A Innovation value Community value RD&I investments have resulted in We participate in community programs, 27 percent of revenue derived education programs and local sponsorships. s od from eco-premium solutions with Via our “Let’s Colour” program, we improved r Go customer benefits. around six million lives in 2013. me nsu Co nts Pai tive e c ora D sia ial A u str Ind AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 39 Decorative Paints From left to right: Peter van Campen, Jeremy Rowe, Jan-Piet van Kesteren, Liang Qi Lin, Ruud Joosten, Amit Jain, Jaap Kuiper, Kees Ekelmans, Guy Williams. “We are taking decisive action us to sharpen our distribution focus and concentrate on in the UK, where we are developing a world class decorato streamline our product range, strengthening our efficiency and profitability in Germany. We have also been taking steps to optimize our activities tive paints site. Scheduled to open in 2015, it will feature our award-winning system for harvesting rainwater, which will reduce complexity and become in France by improving the stores network that we have significantly reduce annual fresh water usage. In addition, there, further contributing to the company’s performance the global brand identity roll-out continued to make strong more competitive” improvement ambitions. progress and our “Let’s Colour” campaign gathered further Ruud Joosten momentum across the world. Member of the Executive Committee responsible for Decorative Paints Another key divestment completed in 2013 involved our Building Adhesives business, which was sold following Our focus on innovation was also stepped up, particularly with Our Decorative Paints activities had a positive year, outpera strategic review of its fit within our portfolio. The sale regards to the development of eco-premium solutions that forming 2012 by some distance, despite continued market was announced a few months after we finalized the benefit the customer. In 2013, these generated 27 percent of weakness, unfavorable exchange rates and the impact of €0.8 billion divestment of our North American Decorative revenue, supported by several new product launches across further restructuring costs. Paints business. Our focus now is on continuing to improve the the globe. Another notable achievement in the area of sustainperformance of our European activities and accelerating ability saw us reduce cradle-to-grave carbon emissions per China in particular had a very strong year, while South East profitable growth in high growth markets such as Asia and ton of product sold for the third consecutive year – this year Asia and Pacific showed signs of recovery and Latin America Latin America. We have already made good progress in by 3 percent. Safety performance was noteworthy as well. started to pick up again. Europe, however, remained chalsimplifying the organization – including the introduction of The TRR was below the company’s 2015 target of 2.0 (down lenging, with no real recovery being evident during the course an enhanced leadership structure – and plan to implement from 3.5 in 2011) something we should be particularly proud of the year. Most of the gains in the region were generated a new business model for Europe which will make us more of, although we’ll look to improve even further. through cost-cutting, working capital management and agile and better positioned to increase market penetration. margin improvement initiatives, although the UK and notably With an improved 2013 performance to build on, we will Russia performed very well. We also continued to invest throughout 2013, which proves continue to address our cost base and target profitable that we’re taking a long-term view – in Europe as well as the growth. At the same time, we’ll be working even harder Given the strategic importance of Europe to our Deco activihigh growth markets. A new €20 million plant was inaugurated to develop bigger and better sustainable innovations for ties, we are taking decisive action to streamline our product in Gwalior, India, and we announced plans to build a producour customers in order to create a leading Deco organizarange and operations, reduce complexity and become more tion facility in Chengdu, China, which will start-up in 2015. In tion which is fully focused on achieving the company’s competitive. This was highlighted by the sale in December addition, a new research center was opened in the Netherstrategic targets. of our German professional paint stores, which will enable lands, while construction work is continuing at Ashington 40 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Vision: The leading global Decorative Paints company in size and performance End-user segments Decorative Paints expected 2015 financial outcomes: Actions Buildings and Infrastructure Fix Europe Transportation Return on sales: 7.5% Processes Consumer Goods and capabilities Grow profitably in high growth markets Industrial Return on investment: 12% Leverage investments Strategic The processes are aligned in marketing, sales, focus areas with the company’s innovation processes (see the Strategy section for details) Improve supply chain These are aligned with the performance company’s strategic focus Generate more value with areas (see the Strategy The capabilities are: fewer resources section for details) Branding Distributor, wholesaler, retail management Understanding and serving professional painters Consumer inspiration Quality management Values AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 41 Decorative paints market overview End-user segment strategy context Buildings and Infrastructure Strategic direction Decorative paints makes up just under half of the world Decorative paints are primarily used in two sub-segments Already the global leader in terms of size, our vision is to market for paints and coatings. All revenue generated by the within Buildings and Infrastructure – Maintenance, renovabecome the leading global decorative paints company in size decorative paints industry stems from the Buildings and Infration and repair and New build projects. We estimate that a and performance. We are strongly focused on improving our structure end-user segment. This segment was hit hard by substantial part of our revenue (around 75 percent) is derived performance to achieve return on sales of 7.5 percent and the recent recession and still hasn’t fully recovered globally. from the former, rather than the latter. Maintenance, renovareturn on investment of more than 12 percent by 2015. tion and repair is less cyclical than New build projects, but also has generally lower growth over the full cycle. More context on Key to our success in achieving this vision of leading size and Market leadership positions each of these two sub-segments follows. performance is the implementation of a new operating model. This will be based on a simplified organization with standardized Decorative Paints Europe New build projects and simplified processes, functional excellence and optimized 1st Continental Europe Badly affected by the recent economic downturn, this segment ways of working. It will be underpinned by clear accountability Northern and Eastern Europe is beginning to regain momentum in many countries. There has and a harmonized set of key performance indicators. UK, Ireland and South Africa already been a return to growth in the high growth geo­graphies. Given our strength in many of these regions, this is a very posiWe are nearing completion of our work to carefully map out Decorative Paints Latin America tive development from an AkzoNobel perspective. However, our new model and the processes that support it, as well as 2nd Latin America we expect that growth going forward will be at lower, or even identifying responsibilities and developing a set of indices to much lower, levels than we have seen previously, particularly allow us to measure and monitor improvement versus expecDecorative Paints Asia in China. In mature markets relevant for AkzoNobel, some slight tations. We have established a program management office 1st South East Asia and Pacific recovery is visible in Europe, but the picture remains uncertain. to maximize the likelihood of successful delivery on all of the 2nd China and North Asia key components of our strategy, as outlined below. 3rd India and South Asia Maintenance, renovation and repair Looking ahead, predictions are for double digit growth in MainBeyond the implementation of our new organizational model, tenance, renovation and repair in high growth markets, but with the actions we are taking to deliver on these targets are to reduced growth rates in some other key markets, such as China fix Europe; grow profitably in high growth markets; leverage and Brazil. In mature regions, we already see a limited return to investments in marketing, sales and innovation; and improve growth, evidenced by increased housing transactions and house supply chain performance. Here is a brief look at what we prices, notably in the UK, one of our key European markets. accomplished in 2013 and what we are planning for 2014. 42 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Fix Europe Grow profitably in high growth markets Leverage investments in marketing, We successfully implemented considerable restructuringWe are proud of our strong positions in many high growth sales and innovation based cost improvements from 2008 to 2012. However, given markets, such as China, Brazil, Indonesia, Turkey, Vietnam, Branding and consumer inspiration are core capabilities for the substantial market downturn, these measures are no longer Poland and South Africa. We continued to invest in 2013 and our Decorative Paints business. To ensure that we benefit sufficient, so we are taking more stringent and comprehensive plan to grow further in 2014, and are seeing the benefits of from our scale and make our size an asset, we will continue measures to reduce costs and prepare ourselves for the future. this in terms of top line growth. to develop models regionally or globally and roll these models out in relevant countries. During 2013, good examples of this We continue to consolidate our manufacturing and distribuHowever, with lower growth rates predicted in high growth principle were the global launches of Dulux Ambiance, Dulux tion footprint, but our supply chain is only the starting point. geographies, we must also ensure that all of our growth Colours of the World and Dulux Weathershield. We are also undertaking significant organizational changes is profitable growth. Central to this will be the success we in marketing and sales in Europe and reducing the cost base, achieve in the mid-market. Our high growth market positions Furthermore, we are continuing to invest heavily in our while ensuring that our customer-facing teams are better are generally based on the premium sector, so mid-market global “Let’s Colour” brand, both commercially and through equipped to focus on addressing the needs of local customgrowth is a key component of our strategy. In order to deliver our community programs. In the UK, our “Let’s Colour” ers by using efficient platforms and solutions. In addition, this growth profitably, we must ensure that we have approprograms have led to improved share and profit, while we are we are carrying out a major program of process redesign priate value propositions, based on appropriate cost-value experiencing the same impact in China. Together, with in back office functions to drive back office consolidation trade-offs. our professional trade partners, we have rolled out successand restructuring. ful store, specification and loyalty programs and this Beyond the mid-market, most of our market-facing initia­tives will continue. In addition, we are rolling out our global web While we align our cost base to the new market reality, we are based on learning from a more global approach. So in platform across successive markets. are also maintaining a strong focus on our customers and high growth markets, we will benefit from repeatable models markets. This includes further building on one of our tradiin terms of understanding and serving professional painters tional strengths – understanding and serving professional and digital marketing. Eventually, we will also utilize the same painters – as well as consolidating our strong position in approach to back office efficiency currently being implelarge-scale retail operations and continuing to build a robust mented in Europe, as well as continuing to take a consistent approach to digital marketing. Once growth returns, we approach to supply chain efficiency and effectiveness across believe that the combination of rigorous efficiency improvethe globe. ment and these market-facing initiatives will mean that we are uniquely positioned for profitable growth. To grow profitably in high growth markets, we will need to continue attracting, developing and retaining people in what is a highly competitive labor market. To address this, we are focusing on university recruitment and offering challenging opportunities for graduates to gain experience and develop in a highly professional environment. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 43 Improve supply chain performance Generate more value with fewer resources Packaging and end-of-life Since the ICI acquisition in 2008, we have extensively restrucEmbedded sustainability is a core component of our Decorative We continue to look for ways to optimize our packaging tured our operations footprint in Europe in order to leverage Paints strategy. As is the case with all three AkzoNobel Busito ensure that it protects the product, while minimizing our scale and address the considerable market contraction ness Areas, our focus is on generating more value from fewer packaging material. We have a program of work to lightweight from the recession. Specifically, we have closed 13 manuresources as part of our Planet Possible sustainability strategy. cans and increase the amount of recycled content in cans. facturing units and nearly 50 warehouses. At the same To implement this, we are working internally across functions time, we are also investing for the future. For example, we and externally with suppliers and customers. Specific areas These two aspects are interrelated as, for instance, recycled recently completed a new factory in India, have significantly of focus are volatile organic compound (VOC) reduction, ecocontent in cans often results in less robust cans. So the chalexpanded our plant in Southern China and are planning premium solutions, packaging/end-of-life and own operations. lenge is to optimize the balance between weight and recycled a new facility in Western China. In the UK, we are consolidatcontent. We also have a number of trials underway looking at ing our manufacturing activities from Slough and Prudhoe into VOC reduction how waste paint can be used. Potential solutions range from a new, state-of-the-art greenfield plant in Ashington. All of this Traditional solvent borne products have high levels of VOCs. diverting materials to community projects to reincorporating construction is based on new, more efficient paint manufacThe introduction of new technologies such as “water in oil” leftover paint into new paints. turing technology. and improvements in water-borne products have already led to a reduction in average VOC per liter of 20 percent from Own operations We will continue to review our supply chain footprint to ensure 2009 to 2012. We continue to push for further reductions in The environmental impact of our own operations is a relawe adapt our facilities to best fit the market we serve. Once this area from both new technological innovation and market tively small amount compared with the whole value chain, current restructuring plans are complete, we plan to move education – a real challenge in some markets. but we continue to look for ways to minimize our resource away from a project mindset and pursue a continuous improveuse. This means building footprint reduction activities (which ment approach, aiming for ongoing year-on-year cost savings. Eco-premium solutions generally also result in cost savings) into our supply chain Eco-premium products with downstream benefits account for continuous improvement program. With this in mind, in 2013 we embarked on a large-scale roll27 percent of our Decorative Paints sales. Examples of such out of a training and development plan across our European products are Dulux Trade Light & Space (which makes rooms It also means ensuring that we optimize resource use in new factories to drive the “lean” (i.e. waste reduction) approach to feel brighter); Dulux Forest Breath (which has been specially build facilities. For example, our new UK site will be our most manufacturing excellence. The lead sites are already showing developed to enhance air quality); and Cetol HLS Plus, which sustainable, as it will use half the energy and generate half the good improvement from harvesting low hanging fruit. uses our “water in oil” technology to help reduce solvent use waste of the plants that it will replace. and lower emissions during application. For more information about our eco-premium solutions, see Note 4 of the Sustainability statements. 44 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Key developments 2013 Geo-mix revenue by destination Key figures in € millions Employees by region at year-end 2012 1 2013 2012 2013 Revenue 4,297 4,174 Latin America 1,800 1,800 Operating income 94 398 2 Mature Europe 8,400 7,500 ROS% 2.2 9.5 Emerging Europe 1,400 1,300 Invested capital 2,981 2,589 Asia Pacific 4,500 4,700 48% 8% 26% Capital expenditures 206 171 Other countries 900 900 Emerging Europe ROI% 2.0 13.7 Total 17,000 16,200 Asia Pacific Mature Europe 1 Excluding goodwill impairment. 2 Including the divestment gain on Building Adhesives of €198 million. Revenue breakdown by business unit Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 4% Rest of the world in % in million tons of CO2(e) 14% Scope 3 upstream % reduction CO2(e) per ton of Latin America Scope 1 & 2 sales Scope 3 downstream C 0 3 0 5.0 5 5 4.2 10 A 4 B 15 Revenue development in % versus 2012 3 20 Increase Decrease 2 25 30 1 4 A Decorative Paints Europe 60 +3% 0% -1% 0 B Decorative Paints Latin America 14 2012 2013 2 -5% C Decorative Paints Asia 26 0 -3% -2 Eco-premium solutions with Total reportable rate of injuries customer benefits per million hours -4 % of revenue Volume Price/mix Divestments Exchange Total rates 4.0 27 3.5 22 2.7 1.9 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 45 Key developments 2013 Decorative Paints Decorative Paints Europe Decorative Paints Latin America Decorative Paints Asia • Solid year under difficult market conditions • Financial performance improved considerably • The China business significantly out­per­formed Some of our customers • Markets in Western and Southern Europe were compared with 2012, while operational the market, mainly due to premium segment mostly stable or in decline, while weakening excellence was bolstered by successful growth and cost control currencies impacted our business in Eastern implementation of SAP in Brazil • Operating income increased substantially in Europe and Africa • Revenue growth in local currency was driven by South East Asia and Pacific, with 2013 being a • Despite the difficult climate, we grew our overall successful product launches, especially under particularly strong year for Indonesia, while the paints volume, with the UK, Russia, South Africa the Coral brand, and a distinctive customer market in Vietnam began to recover and the Netherlands contributing in particular loyalty approach whereby trade partners • In India, the business adapted to a change • As we continue to align to the new actively participated in the hugely successful in market dynamics to take advantage of market reality across Europe, the ongoing Tudo de Cor (Let’s Colour) program in their major growth in the mid-tier paints sector and organizational restructuring delivered significant own neighborhoods. combined this with accelerated distribution in cost reductions and, along with stronger • The 1,000th Tudo de Cor project was staged smaller towns marketing and distribution, contributed to the and involved Brazilian soccer coach Felipe • The Ambiance range was launched in China, Top raw materials overall improvement Scolari, who helped paint a hospital in his where efforts to drive our zero VOC range of • Binders/resins • We divested Building Adhesives and sold 69 of home town products is continuing • Titanium dioxide our 72 professional paint stores in Germany to • Coral – named brand of the year in Brazil – • New mass market offerings were introduced in • Packaging materials focus on our core business launched a blockbuster, water-based trim paint, Malaysia and Indonesia, while Dulux EasyClean • The Flourish brands were successfully rolled out Coralit Zero, which promotes the switch from was relaunched in South East Asia with a new Key cost drivers across all premium consumer brands in Europe solvent-based to water-based enamels campaign based around KidProof technology • Oil prices and Africa, while Dulux increased its share in • A new paint factory was opened in Gwalior, • Energy prices the UK retail and trade markets India, and we added 56 small towns to our • Steel prices • New Dutch R&D center opened distribution network Revenue in € millions Revenue in € millions Revenue in € millions 2,658 2,640 2,508 1.048 1,075 590 603 591 951 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Key brands Key brands Key brands 46 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Setting world class standards As the top ranked company in the Materials industry group -75% on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, we ensure that sustainability runs right through the company. So when we 100 million liters/ announced the construction of a £100 million world class decorative paint facility in the UK, its environmental footprint was always going to be a major factor. year A clear sign of our strategic commitment to focus our deco activities on key markets in Europe and high growth regions, the new plant is being built in Ashington in the north-east of England. Housing nine fully automated paint filling lines, it will be capable of producing up to 100 million liters of paint a The amount of paint Ashington year for sale in the UK and Europe – double what is possible will be capable of producing for sale from existing UK operations in Slough and Prudhoe. in the UK and Europe Featuring cutting-edge manufacturing technology, the new facility will not only reduce energy consumption per liter of paint produced by 60 percent, but will also deliver a minimum of 10 percent of site energy from on-site, low carbon sources such as biomass, photovoltaic panels and solar thermal water heating. -50% Designed to be one of the most sustainable plants in the world, Ashington also aims to achieve 100 percent re-use of water and 90 percent re-use of solvents, as well as reducing VOC emissions by 75 percent and waste by 50 percent. Due to become the heart of our UK deco operations, the site has targeted an “excellent” BREEAM accreditation and is scheduled to be fully operational in 2015. Input Our organization How Performance Coatings creates value Energy Total energy use We continue to improve efficiency by 5,000 TJ Fresh water consumption reducing our energy use per ton of 283 production, million mand 3 are working towards improving our share of renewable energy. Employees Our Performance Coatings businesses 21,400 are focused on all four of our end-user segments. Supplying high performance products and cutting-edge technologies Total reportable rate primarily to business to business customers, of injuries we are increasingly incorporating low energy processes and working to reduce 2.8 Own operations our carbon impact across the value chain. CO2 (e) emissions Innovation is also key to our cutting-edge Employee engagement score (1-5 scale) 0.3 million tons Raw materials product development, which is often highly technical in order to meet strict customer and packaging 3.85 Total waste specifications. Particular emphasis is placed on supplying products that offer environWe continue to work towards raw material efficiency and the use of renewable 54 kilotons mental benefits for our customers. raw materials Cradle-to-grave CO2 (e) emissions including VOCs 12.9 million tons 48 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Output Asset value Customer value D A The value of our assets is €4.1 billion. We In 2013 we sold to many thousands of invested €143 million in 2013 to keep our customers. We continue to improve our C facilities in good shape, as well as expanding customer focus and develop products and our manufacturing capability. We continue to solutions that help them to be successful in B improve process and product safety. their markets. nd g s a ture n c ildi tru Revenue per end-user segment A 24% Buildings and Infrastructure Bu nfras I Human value atin gs Financial value B 37% Transportation C 25% Consumer Goods nd o Employee safety is a key priority and we r i n e a tive C ROS% and ROI% are in line with 2012 D 14% Industrial are actively driving towards a reduction in Ma rotec and on track to achieve the strategic the number of incidents. We highly value, P targets for 2015 of 12 percent and and actively work on, improving employee 25 percent respectively. engagement. We’re investing in training and development and continue to work on a more diverse workforce. Revenue n atio €5,571 million Tra n spo rt Environmental value nd ngs t i v e a Coati o e We continue to improve the environmental om ac Aut erosp Operating income €525 million footprint of our operations by focusing on operational eco-efficiency. A Innovation value Community value in gs oat RD&I investments have resulted in We participate in a number of community C 13 percent of revenue derived from ecorial programs, education programs and local od s ust Go Ind premium solutions with customer benefits. sponsorships, including a partnership with r the Cruyff Foundation. me nsu Co gs o atin d er C ial Pow u str Ind AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 49 Performance Coatings From left to right: Rob Molenaar, AB Ghosh, Conrad Keijzer, John Wolff, Jim Rees. “It was a year of solid progress Dubai. In addition, we opened a new design center for the Meanwhile, Specialty Finishes benefited from continued in terms of becoming more cost specialty finishes market in Offenbach, Germany, and more than doubled capacity at our resin factory in Songjiang, China. strength in the consumer electronics market and sales of coatings for mobile devices. In terms of safety, the overall effective and better positioned for TRR increased from 2.6 to 2.8 incidents per million hours Marine and Protective Coatings launched new paint technolo­ worked. To address this, all of our sites have implemented organic growth” gies, including Intersleek 1100SR and Intercept next genera­ Behavior-Based Safety and Life-Saving Rules programs and Conrad Keijzer tion fouling control products. Intersleek provides better slime we con­tinue to work towards our 2015 TRR target of less Member of the Executive Committee responsible for resistance, while Intercept is a highly efficient biocidal anti­ than 2.0. Performance Coatings fouling with a controlled release over time. The Protective business was involved in a number of high profile projects To improve our cost base and drive competitiveness, we have Things got off to a weak start, with difficult market conditions during the course of the year. This included the ongoing looked hard at our production footprint – particularly in Europe in most regions (except North America) which resulted in a supply of coatings and fire protection products for Shell’s – and have announced the intended closure of our production drop in volumes in the first half of the year. Conditions recov­ Prelude, the world’s largest ever floating vessel. We are also sites in Elbeuf (France), Guarulhos (Brazil), Birmingham (US), ered somewhat as the year progressed and by the third and supplying a large quantity of protective coatings for Ichthys, Nuremberg (Germany), Gamleby (Sweden), Suzhou (China) fourth quarters our volumes improved. the world’s largest LNG project, off the coast of Australia. and Romano (Italy). In the second half of 2013, many of our high growth markets Our Automotive and Aerospace Coatings business had a experienced weakening currencies, which impacted our good year. Refinish volumes began to recover and the activity reported results and the cost base in some regions where in Aerospace was particularly encouraging, with many airlines raw materials are still predominantly imported. Several one-off placing major orders. Successes included the re-painting and costs related to restructuring also had an additional negative re-branding of the American Airlines fleet, along with important effect on our results. customer wins among the fast-growing airlines in China and the Middle East. Strategic partnerships were also secured by Despite these market challenges, we continued to make Vehicle Refinishes with several major customers, including steady progress with our growth strategy. In China, for Volkswagen, Toyota and Fiat. example, we started construction of a new powder coatings manufacturing facility in Chengdu, scheduled to open in 2014. We also broke ground for a new powder coatings facility in 50 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Vision: To be the leading coatings company from a performance perspective End-user segments Performance Coatings expected 2015 financial outcomes: Actions Buildings and Infrastructure Transportation Processes Drive overarching performance improvement Consumer Goods Industrial Return on sales: 12% and capabilities initiatives Pursue differentiated Return on investment: 25% The processes are aligned growth strategies Strategic – Outgrow the market focus areas with the company’s processes (see the organically Strategy section for details) – Improve performance These are aligned with the by driving operational company’s strategic focus excellence areas (see the Strategy The capabilities are: Deliver business-specific section for details) plans Key account management Coatings technology and product innovation Footprint in growth markets Values AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 51 End-user segment strategy context Buildings and Infrastructure Transportation Performance coatings make up slightly more than half of The largest sub-segment for our Performance Coatings Transportation is the largest end-user segment for our the world market for paints and coatings. They are used in Business Area within Buildings and Infrastructure is Building Performance Coatings Business Area. The vast majority of all four of our end-user segments, Buildings and Infrastrucproducts and components, accounting for nearly 90 percent our Transportation revenues come from the Automotive repair ture, Transportation, Consumer Goods and Industrial. Most of total revenues in the segment. We sell powder coatings, coil and Marine and air transport sub-segments, with our reveend-user segments have shown some recovery from the recescoatings, wood finishes and wood adhesives to this particular nues being roughly evenly split between the two. Although sion of 2008 to 2009, and their overall outlook is cautiously sub-segment. Protective coatings are supplied to both of the these sub-segments are approximately equal in size, they are positive. However, there are two main areas of uncertainty. other sub-segments, New build projects and Maintenance, very different in terms of their growth patterns and outlooks. Firstly, although there is growing consensus that we are now renovation and repair. Our customer base, and consequently reaching the bottom of the cycle in marine new building, the our products and revenues, are oriented towards new build We expect stable but below GDP growth in the Automoupturn has not yet occurred. Secondly, concerns remain about and larger construction projects. tive repair sub-segment. Growth will largely come from Buildings and Infrastructure and related markets (such as high growth markets, as the expected growth in mature furniture and appliances) in Europe. Analysts expect reasonable growth in most geographies geographies is low. In high growth regions, vehicle sector in all parts of Buildings and Infrastructure. Our view on the growth is somewhat above GDP growth, but this does not Additional information follows on the outlook for each of market outlook is largely consistent with this. However, we necessarily directly transfer to growth in coatings demand, as our end-user segments, along with the implications for our remain concerned about the outlook for our businesses insurance and repair rates are not yet at mature market levels. Performance Coatings Business Area. selling into sectors of the Building products and components sub-segment that are oriented towards the residential market As mentioned earlier, the outlook for the Marine business is in Europe (such as Wood Finishes and Wood Adhesives), a key issue in terms of our Performance Coatings outlook. Market leadership positions where evidence of market recovery is still limited. We will The recent late cycle drop in marine new building, combined therefore continue to take a conservative view on growth for with low freight rates, has restricted any growth in demand for Marine and Protective Coatings these businesses and have developed business plans on the marine coatings. The consensus view of analysts is that we 1st Protective coatings basis of these more cautious growth estimates. are reaching the bottom of the cycle and the sub-segment will now return to growth, but evidence of this is not yet available. Yacht coatings The aerospace business has already returned to above GDP 2nd Marine coatings growth, but the aerospace coatings market is small compared Automotive and Aerospace Coatings with marine coatings, so this has limited impact. 1st Specialty finishes In addition to the above, we have revenues in the Trans2nd Aerospace coatings portation segment coming from the Automotive OEM, parts 3rd Vehicle refinish and assembly end-user sub-segment. Our position here is Industrial Coatings limited to powder coatings (used for wheels, for example) and 1st Coil coatings specialty finishes (used for exterior and interior plastic components, such as fascias). Looking ahead, we expect moderate Wood finishes and adhesives growth as the market has now recovered from the substantial 2nd Packaging coatings downturn experienced in 2008 to 2009. Powder Coatings 1st Powder coatings 52 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Consumer Goods Industrial The majority of our Performance Coatings revenue in the ConThis is the smallest end-user segment for our Performance sumer Goods end-user segment comes from the Consumer Coatings Business Area, where we sell protective and funcdurables sub-segment, into which we sell powder coatings, tional powder coatings. As both are oriented towards the oil wood finishes, wood adhesives and specialty finishes. Nearly and gas market, the outlook is for above GDP growth as high all parts of this sub-segment have fully recovered from the oil prices and strong high growth market demand continue to recession and are now on a reasonably normal growth trajecmake a wide variety of projects economic. tory at or slightly above GDP, with production continuing to increase more rapidly in high growth geographies to serve both domestic and export markets. The exception is in furniture which, as indicated earlier, is strongly linked to housing markets. Analysts expect growth going forward in furniture to be below GDP growth levels until we see full recovery in Buildings and Infrastructure. We sell our packaging coatings into the Consumer packaged goods sub-segment. This is much more stable, because while consumers may down trade to some extent during a recession, they don’t stop buying basic necessities such as food, beverages and personal care products. The downturn therefore was very limited. Going forward, growth should continue to be stable at GDP growth levels. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 53 Strategic direction Pursue differentiated growth strategies operators to plan and budget effectively throughout The vision for our Performance Coatings business is to be the To continue growing our business while improving perforthe docking cycle leading coatings company from a performance perspective. mance levels, we will focus and prioritize our activities on • In Powder Coatings, our global scale and deep underBy 2015, our expected outcomes are to achieve a return market sectors and geographies where we have the best standing of the end-user segments are key to our on sales level of 12 percent and a return on investment of opportunities. success. As the largest powder coatings supplier in 25 percent. The actions that we are taking to deliver on these the world, Interpon offers the widest product line in the targets are: We have defined two strategic priorities for our businesses: industry. Our leading technologies and innovations • Drive overarching performance improvement initiatives • Outgrow the market organically. For parts of our business include highly durable and stylish coatings for architects; • Pursue differentiated growth strategies that are in attractive markets and where our competitive clear coats to protect aluminum wheels from corrosion • Deliver business-specific plans position is strong, we will be focusing on profitable growth for automakers; and Resicoat, a tailored product specified • Improve performance by driving operational excellence. for use by pipeline operators. We will continue leveraging Drive overarching performance improvement initiatives In parts of our business where the growth opportunities our global presence and our strong innovation pipeline We have defined improvement actions that apply to all parts are less favorable, our focus will be on improving to offer our customers the best choice and technologies of our business. These initiatives are instrumental to both profitability by driving operational excellence • In Industrial Coatings, high durability coatings, superior revenue and cost improvement. The actions include: color and styling capabilities, as well as the introduction • Continuously reducing external spend. Procured raw Deliver business-specific plans of eco-friendly solutions, are key to our success. We materials make up a significant percentage of our Each individual business will continue to develop key capabilwork with customers who are large industrial OEM Performance Coatings cost base, so it is fundamental to ity areas that will support the delivery of leading performance manufacturers where we are a key part of their supply our success that we appropriately manage our external and eco-premium solutions in the market. chain – providing them with products and solutions to spend. We will take measures to ensure continuous year• In Automotive and Aerospace Coatings, our color and make their production processes more efficient and their on-year savings by leveraging our scale and simplifying design expertise is fundamental to our success. We are customers’ products better. We continue to invest in our product designs across the full Business Area to a global leader in this area based on digitized color innovation to provide improved coatings solutions, such as maximize and capture opportunities created by similarities matching tools which allow us to effectively and chromate-free coil coatings, BPA-free packaging coatings in terms of raw materials and suppliers efficiently work with customers to provide the perfect and low-formaldehyde wood finishes and adhesives • Continuously improving our operations. We will continue color. Our state-of-the-art digitized color system was to adapt our operational footprint to the geographic shifts instrumental in the rapid and cost-effective roll-out of in demand and drive benefits through concentrating Autowave upgrades. Autowave is a technology upgrade production from several business units on to larger for vehicle refinishes coatings improving our customers’ sites. We will further improve our performance through environmental footprint through less waste and the productivity improvement techniques and reduction of increased use of water-borne technology inventory and logistics costs • In Marine and Protective Coatings, our leading anti• Drive commercial excellence to increase sales corrosion, fouling control and fire protection effectiveness. We are focusing on improving sales force technologies drive our success. We will continue to effectiveness based on best-in-class processes in key lead innovation in these areas, building on recent account management, specification selling and customer product introductions such as Intersleek 1100SR foul relationship management, as well as a harmonized release, which provides industry-leading anti-slime approach to training performance, while at the same time delivering the same level of environmental benefits as our existing Intersleek range. Another good example of this is the introduction of our Intercept antifouling range, which offers predictable linear polishing performance, enabling 54 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Key developments 2013 Geo-mix revenue by destination Key figures in € millions Employees by region at year-end 2012 2013 2012 2013 Revenue 5,702 5,571 North America 3,100 3,100 Operating income 542 525 Latin America 1,700 1,600 19% 11% 31% ROS% 9.5 9.4 Mature Europe 6,700 6,400 North America 27% Emerging Europe Invested capital 2,439 2,251 Emerging Europe 1,100 1,200 Asia Pacific Mature Europe Capital expenditures 123 143 Asia Pacific 8,100 8,200 ROI% 21.7 21.3 Other countries 600 900 Total 21,300 21,400 3% Rest of the world Revenue breakdown by business unit Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 9% in % in million tons of CO2(e) Latin America Scope 3 upstream % reduction CO2(e) per ton of Scope 1 & 2 sales A Scope 3 downstream D 0 0 0 B 15 5 C 13.0 12.9 12 10 Revenue development in % versus 2012 15 9 Increase Decrease 20 A Marine and Protective Coatings 27 6 25 2 B Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 24 0% 1% 0% -3% 3 30 C Powder Coatings 17 0 -2% D Industrial Coatings 32 0 2012 2013 -2 -4 Eco-premium solutions with Total reportable rate of injuries customer benefits per million hours -6 % of revenue Volume Price/mix Divestments Exchange Total rates 3.3 13 13 2.8 2.8 2.6 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 55 Key developments 2013 Marine and Protective Coatings Automotive and Aerospace Coatings • Revenue was 5 percent lower as a result of exchange rates and mix • Revenue was up 2 percent on 2012, driven by price/mix and volumes, partially offset by • We benefited significantly from our reorganization into global units and functional lines. adverse currencies Operating expenses were reduced compared to 2012, with the benefit of exchange rates • Volumes in the vehicle refinishes market showed recovery in the US and Canada. Latin and the higher level of efficiencies offsetting inflation America and China continued to grow, while demand in Western Europe remained weak • A strong portfolio of projects led to continued growth in Protective Coatings in the oil and • Strong customer demand was experienced in the consumer electronics and aerospace gas industry markets, driven by continued innovation and technology leadership • In North America, a new distribution model for Protective Coatings was successfully • We merged our Automotive Plastics and Specialty Finishes businesses to bring synergies implemented following the divestment of the company’s Decorative Paints North America and better customer focus to the transportation segment. This completed the integration business. We also capitalized on market growth in the Middle East and Korea of the former Schramm business and resulted in the closure of four production sites • Marine Coatings increased its business in the deep sea maintenance and repair market, • Sikkens Autowave 2.0 was launched in the vehicle refinish segment, a low VOC wateroffsetting the global decline in new build borne basecoat with best-in-class color and application performance • New product technologies were introduced in Marine Coatings (including Intersleek • We are on track to complete the construction of a new production facility for vehicle 1100SR and Intercept 7000/8000), helping AkzoNobel to regain its leadership position in refinishes, automotive plastics and aerospace coatings in Changzhou, China. Due to start fouling control innovation up in the second half of 2014, the new site near Shanghai will serve the growing market in • Yacht Coatings successfully introduced Nautical, a value brand addressing the private label China with locally manufactured products market, while additional new products were launched supporting the retail yacht market Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,299 1,321 1,577 1,495 1,165 1,398 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % • Qatar Gas • Hyundai Heavy • Boeing • Airbus • Hapag Lloyd Industries • Etihad Airways • Geely • Carnival Cruise • West Marine • Hyundai • HP C • ExxonMobil • Brunswick • General Motors • Amazon A • Shell • Toyota • Samsung • Volkswagen • Dell C A Top raw materials Top raw materials • Epoxy resins and • Copper/zinc • Pigments • Acrylic dispersions B organic solvents • Curing agents • Acrylic resins B Key cost drivers Key cost drivers A EMEA 27 A EMEA 41 • Oil feedstock chain • Metals, base chemicals prices • Metals, base chemicals prices B Americas 25 • Oil, energy prices B Americas 30 C Asia Pacific 48 C Asia Pacific 29 56 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Industrial Coatings Powder Coatings • Revenue declined 3 percent, due to adverse currencies, while overall volumes also • Revenue declined 2 percent compared with 2012, impacted by adverse currencies and declined, with growth in Coil more than offset by declines in Packaging and Wood partially offset by positive volume and price/mix • Performance improvements in Wood Finishes and Adhesives and Coil and Extrusion • Europe, the Americas and most high growth markets showed positive results with growth Coatings were offset by increased restructuring costs in volumes • Streamlining of our coil coatings manufacturing footprint in Europe was announced • In the automotive and architectural markets, we improved our leading positions, resulting involving the transfer of production to sites in Russia, Sweden and Germany in improved volumes and revenues • We continued to achieve growth in our high growth markets, with Coil Coatings and • We announced an investment to build a new powder coatings manufacturing facility in Packaging Coatings benefiting in Asia in particular Chengdu to capture growing demand in Western China • We added capacity for Packaging Coatings in India and a new resin reactor in Songjiang, • The closure of sites in Ningbo and Suzhou, China, was announced, with production being China, where we are also establishing a new Industrial Coatings RD&I center consolidated at the existing Automotive and Aerospace Coatings site in Changzhou • In Packaging Coatings, we are well positioned in leading the industry to move away from • We launched a new heat-reflective range of powder coatings for buildings, Interpon D2525 bisphenol A-based epoxy coatings Eternity, as well as new Interpon Align dry-on-dry coatings technology, which is designed to improve productivity and lower energy consumption Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,718 1,856 1,799 940 997 982 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % • IKEA • Crown • Philips • TATA • Blue Scope Steel • Rexam • Whirlpool • Mercedes-Benz • Arcelor Mittal • Ball • Bosch • TATA C C A A Top raw materials Top raw materials • Polyester and epoxy resins • Polyester and epoxy resins • Glycol, ether and aromatic solvents • Titanium dioxide • Titanium dioxide B B Key cost drivers Key cost drivers A EMEA 45 A EMEA 46 • Basic feedstock prices • Gasoline/naphtha prices • Oil/gasoline/naphtha/natural gas prices B Americas 35 B Americas 22 C Asia Pacific 20 C Asia Pacific 32 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 57 No job too big The saying goes that no job is too big, and that’s certainly the case for our Marine and Protective Coatings business and its Intersleek 900 fluoropolymer foul release coating. The product was specified for the construction of the Shell Prelude floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) facility which, once complete, will be the world’s largest floating structure. 40,000 liters Approximately 40,000 liters of Intersleek 900 was used on the 488-meter long underwater hull of the Prelude, representing the product’s biggest ever single application. Intersleek 900 was specifically designed for use in slow moving or static conditions, with its ultra-low drag making Approximately 40,000 liters of Intersleek 900 was used it the most effective foul release coating on the market. on the 488-meter long underwater hull of the Prelude, representing the product’s biggest ever single application. With its exceptionally smooth, slippery, low friction surface, Intersleek 900 stops organisms from attaching themselves to vessels, saving operators time and money at sea by cutting fuel costs and improving operational efficiency. It also prevents transfer of invasive species from one environ­ ment to another. A report produced by one of the shipping industry’s leading research bodies, Professor James Corbett’s Energy and Environmental Research Associates, recently proved that Intersleek 900 can reduce greenhouse gas and other emissions by an average of 9 percent. Weighing in at 600,000 tons, the Prelude will operate in a remote basin around 475 kilometers north-east of Broome, Western Australia, for around 25 years. It will allow Shell to produce natural gas at sea, turn it into liquefied natural gas and transfer it directly to the ships that will transport it to customers. Low friction surface prevents organisms from attaching themselves to vessels. Input Our organization How Specialty Chemicals creates value Energy Total energy use We continue to improve efficiency by redu92,000 TJ cing our energy use per ton of production, and are working towards improving our share of renewable energy. Employees We are a major producer of specialty 10,400 chemicals, supplying key products to business to business customers in all four Total reportable of our end-user segments. rate of injuries We utilize inherently high energy processes 2.2 and focus strongly on reducing carbon Total waste footprint and energy use, while saving costs in our own operations. Developing Employee engagement 64 kilotons close relationships with our customers score (1-5 scale) Raw materials – and helping them to create value – is key to our ongoing success, along with and packaging 3.87 Own operations CO2(e) emissions efficient processes, an increased focus on eco-premium solutions and renewable We continue to work towards raw material 3.5 million tons energy and a high level of innovation. efficiency and the use of renewable raw materials. Cradle-to-grave CO2(e) emissions including VOCs 9.4 million tons 60 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Output Asset value Customer value A The value of our assets is €4.4 billion. We In 2013 we sold to many thousands of invested €346 million in 2013 to keep customers. We continue to improve our B our facilities in good shape, as well as customer focus and develop products and D C expanding our manufacturing capability. solutions that help them to be successful in We continue to improve process and their markets. product safety. nd Revenue per end-user segment g s a ture n c A 18% Buildings and Infrastructure ildi tru Human value als Financial value B 6% Transportation Bu nfras I Employee safety is a key priority and we ic Excluding the impairment of €139 million, C 19% Consumer Goods C hem D 57% Industrial nal are actively driving towards a reduction in ROS% is 8.8 percent and ROI% is the number of incidents. We highly value, ctio 12.1 percent. We are on track to achieve and actively work on, improving employee Fun our 2015 targets. engagement. We’re investing in training and development and continue to work on a more diverse workforce. Revenue €4,949 million n Operating income rt atio spo €297 million n s Tra Environmental value al e mic including €139 million impairment We continue to improve the environmental ria l Ch on a business held for sale footprint of our operations by focusing on ust operational eco-efficiency. Ind e Innovation value rm anc RD&I investments have resulted in P erfo Community value and als Pulp hemic 16 percent of revenue derived from ecoWe participate in community programs, s od premium solutions with customer benefits. C education programs and local sponsorships. r Go me nsu Co m istry Che face ial Sur u str Ind AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 61 Specialty Chemicals From left to right: Knut Schwalenberg, Niek Stapel, Werner Fuhrmann, Jan Svärd, Graeme Armstrong. “We are swiftly responding to turing program is being implemented which is designed to in order to adjust our manufacturing footprint. Results were changing trends in the chemicals cut costs, drive efficiency and adjust our manufacturing footprint. By taking this action, we are not only making ourselves reasonable though, impacted mainly by softer demand and margin pressure. industry” functionally excellent, but are also preparing ourselves for the future. Because once opportunities for growth do arise, we will Industrial Chemicals also encountered a challenging business Werner Fuhrmann be well positioned to take full advantage of the initiatives we environment and had the additional burden of an extended Member of the Executive Committee responsible for Specialty Chemicals already have in place, many of which were launched in 2013. planned maintenance stop in the Rotterdam value chain. Expensive gas prices, especially in the Netherlands, had a It was a weak year for the chemical industry as a whole, For example, as well as starting up our Jupiá Chemical Island in further adverse impact. Surface Chemistry also saw weaker notably in Europe – where demand was down across the Brazil and a new facility for Bermocoll cellulose derivatives in demand, but delivered results very close to the excellent board – with volatility in supply and demand also evident in Ningbo, China, we also announced expansion plans for our 2012 performance. The business continued to build on the China. This inevitably had a negative effect on our financial Surface Chemistry business in both Ningbo and Boxing. In acquisition of Boxing Oleochemicals, which was accompaperformance. Despite the strain on operating income caused addition, a newly expanded Expancel site was inaugurated nied by a reduction in FTEs, and benefited somewhat from by the difficult market conditions, we maintained our focus on in Sweden. Our Middle East organization also grew stronger the upbeat mood in the US chemical industry. several key growth initiatives and continued to optimize our as the company continued to invest in regions where future global capabilities. growth is expected. We continue to consolidate progress in safety performance, particularly in the area of people safety, where we are From a financial perspective, in addition to volume declines, unAs we continue to strive for operational excellence, a number close to achieving the company’s 2015 TRR target of less favorable exchange rates in particular worked against us, with of improvement programs were introduced, with several of than 2.0. Several positive developments in terms of further the euro turning out to be stronger than expected and currenthem being centered on our Pulp and Performance Chemicals improving the sustainable nature of our operations should cies in South East Asia and Brazil being somewhat weaker. and Functional Chemicals businesses. Functional Chemicals also be mentioned. These include securing additional steam A higher number of one-off items, including an impairment of in particular has endured difficult conditions in recent years, supply from Twence for salt production in Hengelo, the €139 million, also adversely affected our final results, along with mainly due to the temporary over-supply in the market of Netherlands, helping to lower our CO2 emissions. In addithe revenue effect of the divestment of Chemicals Pakistan. ethylene amines. Various other products also encountered tion, we have entered into partnerships with Zeachem and difficult conditions in 2013, which forced us to introduce a Solvay for the increased purchasing of renewable raw Trading conditions were therefore very challenging and we number of initiatives designed to significantly increase the materials, while our StimWell and EcoFill products are now had to take swifter action than originally planned in order to business’ profitability. In Pulp and Performance Chemicals, being marketed commercially, helping to increase our share ensure that we achieve our 2015 ambitions. A major restruca number of closures and divestments have been concluded of eco-premium solutions that offer customer benefits. 62 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Vision: Delivering leading performance based on sustainable chemical platforms driving profitable End-user segments growth in selected Actions Buildings and Infrastructure markets Transportation Build on our strong Consumer Goods Processes and capabilities chemical platforms to deliver profitable growth Industrial Specialty Chemicals expected in selected markets Drive functional excellence 2015 financial outcomes: Strategic The processes are aligned – Productivity of supply focus areas with the company’s chain and operations processes (see the – Commercial excellence Strategy section for details) These are aligned with the – Talent management leveraging the AkzoNobel Return on sales: 12% company’s strategic focus areas (see the Strategy The capabilities are: process Return on investment: 15% section for details) Reduce organizational Understanding customcomplexity and cost er needs and delivering customer value proposiCommercialize product tions innovation and deliver process innovation Management of integrated value chains Capitalize on industry changes Continuous technological advancement, including automation Engineering and project management Values AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 63 End-user segment strategy context Industrial Buildings and Infrastructure We supply specialty chemicals to all four of our end-user Accounting for nearly 60 percent of revenues, the Industrial Our specialty chemicals are used throughout the supply chain segments, based largely (80 percent of our revenues) on five end-user segment is by far the largest for our Specialty that serves the construction industry. Primarily through the salt/ main value chain platforms. These platforms are: salt/chlorine, Chemicals Business Area. All five of our platforms supply chlorine platform and organic peroxides platform, we supply surfactants, ethylene oxide, bleaching chemicals and organic this end-user segment, with our main revenue streams salt, chlorine, initiators and various other products used in the peroxides. The outlook for the end-user segment relevant for coming from: manufacture of plastics that are, in turn, used to make doors, our value chain platforms is described as follows. • Sales from our surfactant and ethylene oxide platforms windows and other construction material plastics. Together, into the oil, gas, mining and agricultural industries. The all these products generate approximately 20 percent of our outlook for these industries is quite positive, as continued Specialty Chemicals Business Area revenues. In this segment, Market leadership positions increases in wealth in high growth areas is driving we are expecting a return to growth in Europe, although the demand. With high oil prices, many oil and gas projects recovery is not yet secure. Growth will continue in high growth Functional Chemicals are economic. There is also considerable demand for regions, but at a lower level than we have seen historically. 1st Chelates and micronutrients products that facilitate oil production, such as our chelates Organic peroxides and surfactants. Similar trends are evident in most mining and agricultural industries Industrial Chemicals • Sales from our bleaching chemicals platform into the 1st Chlorine merchant (Europe) parts of the pulp and paper industry that use chemical Monochloroacetic acid (MCA) bleaching. Pulp and paper is rather stable in terms of demand and is growing well today in South America Pulp and Performance Chemicals and Asia and we expect this trend to continue 1st Bleaching chemicals • Sales from our salt/chlorine platform and organic Colloidal silica dispersions peroxides platform into a wide variety of chemical processes. A particular area of focus is the plastics Surface Chemistry industry, into which we supply salt, chlorine, initiators 1st Industrial applications and various other products Agricultural applications 64 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Consumer Goods Strategic direction Build on our strong chemical platforms Most of the 19 percent of Specialty Chemicals revenues The vision for our Specialty Chemicals business is to deliver The Specialty Chemicals business is inherently more capital generated by the Consumer Goods end-user segment comes leading performance based on sustainable chemical plat­ intensive than our other two Business Areas, so if we are to from our surfactants and ethylene oxide platforms. These forms driving profitable growth in select markets. Our achieve the expected improvements in return on investment, products are used in a wide variety of consumer packaged expected outcomes for 2015 are to achieve a return on sales we must carefully allocate our capital to the opportunities that goods applications, including personal care products, cleanlevel of 12 percent and a return on investment of 15 percent. have the greatest potential for profitable growth. ing, dishwashing and fabric softeners. The expected growth To achieve these ambitions we will: in demand for these end-uses is at, or slightly above, GDP • Build on our strong chemical platforms to deliver profitable Although we are positive about the robust outlook for the growth in mature markets, but above GDP growth levels in growth in selected markets markets that we serve and are confident about our competihigh growth geographies. Products such as hair condition• Drive functional excellence tive position in these markets, we must evaluate which of the ers, fabric softeners and dishwasher detergent are clearly not ––Productivity of supply chain and operations platforms provide us with the most promising opportunities necessities and may even require the purchase of domestic ––Commercial excellence and then differentially direct our capital into the best opportuappliances before they can be used, so the penetration of ––Talent management leveraging the AkzoNobel process nities for profitable growth. these end-uses continues to increase. • Reduce organizational complexity and cost • Commercialize product innovation and deliver process We have defined two main approaches: Transportation innovation • In parts of our business where there are attractive market At just over 5 percent of our Specialty Chemicals revenues, • Capitalize on industry changes growth opportunities and we have a strong competitive Transportation is the smallest end-user segment. As is the case More details on what we achieved in 2013, and our plans for position, we aim to outgrow the market. We will do this in Buildings and Infrastructure, we sell a wide variety of prod2014 in terms of each of these actions, follow. based on organic growth. We will also ensure that ucts, generally used in the manufacture of automotive plastics, while we grow we will leverage our scale so that we not primarily via our salt/chlorine and organic peroxides platforms. only grow in terms of revenue, but we also simultaneously Over recent years, these businesses have benefited from improve our margins through better leverage of scale. market recovery following the economic downturn, but these For example, in bleaching chemicals, we are investing markets are now growing steadily at roughly GDP growth rates. for growth in sodium chlorate chemical islands in Brazil, while in surfactants, we are investing for growth in more attractive end-user markets • In other chemical platforms (for example the salt/chlorine chain), where the markets are more mature or offer us less growth potential, we also intend to improve our profitability, but we will do so on the basis of driving operational excellence. We will still invest in these businesses, particularly in terms of process technology. Growth investments will be selectively reviewed, such as our current investment in Frankfurt, or for performance improvement (for example in automation) AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 65 Drive functional excellence • Talent management leveraging the AkzoNobel process. Capitalize on industry changes To reach our return on sales expectations, we need to At AkzoNobel level, we are implementing a disciplined Over the last decade, we have aggressively invested in builddevelop best-in-class capabilities in vital functional areas. approach to diverse and inclusive talent development ing production facilities in high growth countries such as To leverage our scale and create these capabilities effectively based on a consistent talent management process. At China and Brazil, with the objective of aligning our capabiliand efficiently, we will do this in a consistent manner across Specialty Chemicals Business Area level, we will address ties with changes in the market. Clearly, we must continue the Business Area. specific areas of concern, including the need to continue to ensure that we adapt to emerging industry developments. to migrate our employee base to high growth geographies This includes additional geographic shifts, as well as shifts in Key areas of functional focus are: the supply base, such as increasing availability of shale gas • Improvement in productivity of the supply chain and Reduce organizational complexity and cost and greater availability of renewable raw materials, including operations. As part of the company’s overall performance We have carried out substantial restructuring to date as our energy, as well as feedstocks. By taking a comprehensive improvement program, we have conducted over 70 site industry environment has changed, closing or divesting more view at the Business Area level, we will be able to ensure that improvement projects, with savings up to €5 million than ten factories, including those considered non-core busiwe continue to stay ahead of the market, as we have done per site. In addition to cost reductions, we achieved nesses, as well as realigning our sites in mature markets. with our capacity additions in China. significant improvements in operational eco-efficiency, Going forward, we will continue restructuring in line with the thereby lowering our carbon footprint. We have also company’s functional excellence approach, as well as reviewestablished a Lean Six Sigma platform within the Business ing the structure in multi-site organizations and reducing nonArea as part of a company-wide chemicals production product related spend. system designed to further optimize certain processes in operations. We will also launch programs for increased Commercialize product innovation and deliver focus on yield, waste and quality to cut costs and optimize process innovation resource use. We will do this by creating a center of We have already delivered significant process improvements excellence for training and implementation of best practice in all of our platforms, including in electrolysis and the salt processes for supply chain activities as the next step in manufacturing process in the salt/chlorine platform, and the roll-out of our production system offered our customers continuous initiator dosing in the • Commercial excellence. We have already introduced organic peroxides platform. In addition, we regularly intro­duce a margin management program in all our Specialty new products that provide a variety of benefits, including Chemicals businesses. This program includes stan­ energy reduction and functional process improvement. One dardized customer needs segmentation and pricing tools, example is Ecosel AsphaltProtection, an additive to de-icing as well as a product and service portfolio management brine which reduces winter damage to road surfaces by up process based on a rigorous assessment of cost-toto 50 percent. One of our newest products, it has also been serve. Our next steps are to create a common customer classified as an eco-premium solution with downstream feedback process and develop and implement a sales benefits. Going forward, we will continue to standardize force productivity improvement program. Sales force and improve processes and introduce new products in new improvements will be based on implementation of applications to help generate more value from fewer resources standardized sales processes, aligned incentive systems across all of the value chains that we serve. and training programs 66 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Key developments 2013 Geo-mix revenue by destination Key figures in € millions Employees by region at year-end 2012 2013 2012 2013 Revenue 5,543 4,949 North America 1,800 1,800 Operating income 500 297 1 Latin America 1,000 1,000 22% 5% 17% ROS% 9.0 6.0 Mature Europe 5,500 5,500 44% North America Emerging Europe Invested capital 3,528 3,355 Emerging Europe 100 100 Asia Pacific Mature Europe Capital expenditures 484 346 Asia Pacific 2,300 2,000 ROI% 13.6 8.2 Total 10,700 10,400 1 Including €139 million impairment on a business held for sale. 2% Rest of the world 10% Revenue breakdown by business unit Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint in % in million tons of CO2(e) Latin America Scope 3 upstream % reduction CO2(e) per ton of Scope 1 & 2 sales D Scope 3 downstream A 0 2 0 C 5 10 9.5 9.4 10 B 8 15 Revenue development in % versus 2012 20 6 Increase Decrease 25 A Functional Chemicals 37 4 30 -2% B Industrial Chemicals 23 0 -11% C Pulp and Performance Chemicals 20 2 -2 -1% D Surface Chemistry 20 0 -6% 2012 2013 -4 -6 Eco-premium solutions with Total reportable rate of injuries customer benefits per million hours -8 % of revenue -2% -10 3.5 16 16 2.8 -12 2.2 1.8 Volume Price/mix Divestments Exchange Total rates 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 67 Key developments 2013 Functional Chemicals Industrial Chemicals • It was a challenging year financially, mainly due to weak demand in Europe, although • Revenue was on a par with 2012, reflecting the ongoing difficult economic conditions in markets in North America and Asia strengthened towards the end of the year Europe, our primary market • Business performance was boosted by internal cost-cutting programs and restructuring • Chlor-Alkali was impacted by technical issues at major customers, along with an extended activities at various production sites maintenance shut-down at its largest plant, while MCA was in line with expectations, • Plans were announced to phase out production of organic peroxides at our Deventer despite a more competitive environment in China site in the Netherlands by the end of 2016 • Salt performed well in core markets, but suffered from the loss of gas storage proceeds • Dissolvine StimWell stimulation technology was firmly established in the oil and gas from previous years and higher steam costs industry due to its environmental and performance benefits, while our Dissolvine • Two expansion projects were concluded, at Taixing, China, for MCA, and Rotterdam, the GL chelate was recognized by the US EPA with a Design for the Environment label, Netherlands, for DME recognizing the product as being a safer ingredient • We introduced Ecosel BioCare, an anti-caking agent for road salt, and secured the supply • A new production facility for Bermocoll cellulose derivatives was started up in of 25 MWh base load electricity from a biomass incinerator in Delfzijl, the Netherlands, for Ningbo, China a seven-year period, which will result in a CO2 reduction of 130,000 tons per year • The sale of the Primary Amides business and related manufacturing assets in Korea was completed Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,188 1,173 Rexolin® 1,917 1,963 1,872 1,165 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % • Dow • FMC • Bayer • BASF • Warwick • Huntsman • Yara • Lyondell-Basell • Shin-Etsu B C • Procter & Gamble • Henkel C A Top raw materials Top raw materials • Ammonia, ethylene, • Chloroformates • Fuels (for cogeneration) • Acetic acid methane and propylene • Sulfur, salt, cellulose B • Power A Key cost drivers Key cost drivers A EMEA 42 A EMEA 91 • Ethylene • Salt • Oil, gas and coal prices • Sulfur • Energy B Americas 30 • Methanol prices B Americas 5 C Asia Pacific 28 C Asia Pacific 4 68 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Pulp and Performance Chemicals Surface Chemistry • Volumes for most product lines started slowly, but recovered substantially in all areas in • Operating income held up well compared with 2012 the second half of the year • Unexpected supply chain and production issues at some US and Chinese sites impacted • The Bleaching Chemicals business saw somewhat lower volumes in North America, but volumes and revenues, but significant effort has been put into strengthening output and this was offset by growing volumes in South America, while Europe was slightly higher the reliability of our supply chain than 2012 and Asia was stable • Several performance improvement actions were launched as part of a renewed strategy for • Colloidal Silica continued its growth in high added value and differentiated segments, the business while Expancel, our expandable microspheres business, grew its revenue according to • Signed long-term development agreements with key customers in the agro segment plan versus 2012. Paper Chemicals saw some volume pressure, but was able to increase • Began debottlenecking projects at our sites in the US and Europe which will increase its margins capacity by 20 to 30 percent • The Jupiá Chemical Island in Três Lagoas, Brazil, was inaugurated and a new Expancel • Announced a significant investment in China to boost capacity and improved operational plant in Sundsvall, Sweden, also started production excellence at manufacturing sites in Boxing and Ningbo • A number of smaller, non-core businesses were divested during 2013 • Launched Berol LS, which delivers superior degreasing performance in an organic, • Powered by electricity generated from renewable biomass, our Chemical Islands in Brazil solvent-free solution continue to provide customers with an innovative and sustainable solution to meet their • Completed the OneSAP project without impacting customers, a major accomplishment in operational needs a challenging setting Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,116 1,153 1,085 1,012 1,036 945 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % • APP • Stora Enso • Elementis • Potash Corporation • BillerudKorsnäs • SCA • GE of Saskatchewan • Domtar • Smurfit Kappa C • Monsanto • Southern Clay C • Fibria • Suzano • Procter & Gamble • Unilever A • Georgia Pacific A Top raw materials Top raw materials • Energy • Rosin • Animal fats and • Starch (corn, potato, • Salt • Sodium silicate B vegetable oils tapioca) B Key cost drivers Key cost drivers A EMEA 39 A EMEA 31 • Energy prices and logistic costs • Biofuels, food prices • Propylene prices B Americas 46 • Ethylene prices • Oil and gas prices B Americas 55 C Asia Pacific 15 C Asia Pacific 14 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Business performance 69 Making roads safer Winter can play havoc with road pavements, resulting in dangerous driving conditions and hefty repair bills for road authorities. So anything that can help prevent cracks and what’s known as raveling (loss of material from the surface) is likely to make roads considerably safer while also saving money. Our Industrial Chemicals business has already commercialized Ecosel BioCare, a 100 percent biodegradable anticaking agent for de-icing salt which avoids the use of ferrocyanide, so addressing environmental concerns. Now, our scientists have developed another new product in the Ecosel range of innovative additives for salt, which is known as Ecosel AsphaltProtection. Due to be commercialized in 2014 after being tested with partners in various European countries, the new product – which is also fully biodegradable – is an additive for de-icing brine which prevents the development of frost damage to road surfaces. It works by slowing the freezing process, resulting in soft, slushy ice rather than hard, abrasive ice. Test results obtained from Austria, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands have shown that use of Ecosel Asphalt­Protection prevents up to 50 percent of raveling develop­ment caused by frost – leading to substantial savings in mainte­nance and repair budgets, less disturbance to traffic and lifetime extension of asphalt, not to mention safer Ecosel AsphaltProtection slows the freezing process, and better conditions for drivers. resulting in soft, slushy ice rather than hard, abrasive ice. 100% fully Prevents the development biodegradable of frost damage to road surfaces Our leadership In this section we introduce our Board of Management and Executive Committee, as well as our Supervisory Board. We also present the Report of the Supervisory Board and provide detailed overviews of their activities during 2013. Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 74 Statement of the Board of Management 76 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 78 Our Supervisory Board 79 Report of the Supervisory Board 81 Our leadership Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 3 5 7 1 4 2 6 Ton Büchner (4) of ICI plc. He was appointed CFO in 2008 to lead and Secretary four years later. From 2003 to 2007, he held Since then, he has held various management positions CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management integrate the finance function and oversee the delivery of professorships in company law at the Universities of within both Decorative Paints and Specialty Chemicals. and the Executive Committee (1965, Dutch) the ICI acquisition synergies. Groningen and Tilburg in the Netherlands. In 2008, he was appointed Managing Director of Deco­ rative Paints North and Eastern Europe, located in Prior to joining AkzoNobel in 2012, Ton Büchner was He has lived and worked in the UK, the Netherlands, Outside AkzoNobel, Dumoulin is a member of various Warsaw, Poland. Three years later he became Managing President and CEO of Sulzer Corporation, a position he France and the US and is a Fellow of the Association Legal Professional Associations in both the Netherlands Director for Pulp and Performance Chemicals, located took up in 2007. of Corporate Treasurers, as well as holding the MCT in and abroad. He is a member of the Board of Directors in Gothenburg. treasury, risk and corporate finance. of the CPR International Institute for Conflict Prevention An engineer by training, he earned his Master of Science & Resolution, and a Board member of both the A graduate of the Amsterdam Free University, where in Civil Engineering at Delft University of Technology, the Marten Booisma (1) Dutch Association for Securities Law and the Dutch he gained a Masters in economics, he has lived and Netherlands. He also has a Master of Business Admi­ Member of the Executive Committee responsible Association for Listed Companies (VEUO). He was also worked in the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden. nistration from IMD in Lausanne and attended the for Human Resources (1966, Dutch) a member of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Stanford Executive Program in Palo Alto, California, US. Monitoring Committee from 2007 to 2009. Conrad Keijzer (3) Marten Booisma joined AkzoNobel in October 2013 Member of the Executive Committee responsible His early career was spent in the oil and gas construction from Royal Ahold, where he was Chief Human Resource Werner Fuhrmann (7) for Performance Coatings (1968, Dutch) industry involving roles at Allseas Engineering in Europe Officer, a position he took up in 2007. He has extensive Member of the Executive Committee responsible and AkerKvaerner in South East Asia. He then joined experience in corporate HR and is highly skilled at for Specialty Chemicals (1953, German) Conrad Keijzer joined AkzoNobel in 1994 as Market Sulzer in 1994, working in a range of operations before improving HR processes and developing an effective Development Manager in the company’s Industrial his appointment to the executive committee as a organization. Before joining the Executive Committee, Werner Chemi­ cals business, after graduating from Twente divisional president in 2001. Fuhrmann held various positions in the field of University of Technology with a Masters degree in He joined Ahold Europe in 1999 and held a number of finance, including Controller of AkzoNobel’s Specialty industrial engineering. He has lived and worked in the Netherlands, Singapore, important management positions, which included being Chemicals business. He was appointed General Malaysia, China, Switzerland and the US. responsible for overall HR strategy in Europe. Earlier in Manager of Chelates and Sulphur Products in 2000, Since then, he has held various management positions his career he worked for both Unilever and Shell. before becoming Managing Director of Industrial within the Performance Coatings and Specialty Chemi­ Keith Nichols (6) Chemicals in 2005, a position he held until he took on cals Business Areas. In 2004, he was appointed Global CFO and Member of the Board of Management Educated in the Netherlands, the UK and the US, he is his current role in 2011. Director for Automotive Plastic Coatings. Then in and the Executive Committee (1960, British) a Supervisory Board member at Raet. 2008 he served as Managing Director for AkzoNobel Outside of AkzoNobel, he is Chairman of the Dutch Packaging Coatings and two years later as Managing Keith Nichols joined AkzoNobel in December 2005 Sven Dumoulin (2) Association of the Chemicals Industry (VNCI), and Director for AkzoNobel Industrial Coatings. from Corus Group plc, where he held the position of General Counsel and Member of the Executive a Board member of both the European Chemicals Group Treasurer. Prior to joining Corus in 2004, he held Committee (1970, Dutch) Association (Cefic) and American Chemisty Council. Outside of AkzoNobel, he is a Board member of CEPE a number of senior finance positions within the TNT (the European Council of Paint and Printing Ink Post Group, including that of CFO, and before that with Sven Dumoulin joined AkzoNobel as General Counsel Ruud Joosten (5) producers). WPP plc, BET plc and Storehouse plc. in 2010 and is responsible for legal, compliance, Member of the Executive Committee responsible intellectual property and legacy mana­gement. for Decorative Paints (1964, Dutch) He has lived and worked in the Netherlands, Mexico, Having brought extensive international finance expe­ the US, Spain and Germany. rience to AkzoNobel, he played a key role in the He holds a PhD in law from the University of Groningen Ruud Joosten joined AkzoNobel in 1996 as International divestment of the company’s pharmaceutical operations and worked as a lawyer with a large Dutch firm prior to Marketing Manager for the Decorative Paints business. in 2007, and in financing and completing the acquisition joining Unilever in 2003, where he was appointed Group 74 Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Statement of the Board of Management The Board of Management’s authority schedules, as well as specific measures, such as a opinion and conclusions with the Audit Committee, the Super­ statement on the financial risk management system, a system of controls and a system of visory Board and the external auditor. letters of representation by responsible management at various statements, the management levels within our company. Outlook report and internal controls. Although we saw early signs of stabilization in the second half All these processes and procedures are aimed at a reason­ of 2013 in some of our businesses, the economic environment able level of assurance that we have identified and managed remains fragile and foreign currencies volatile. We will continue We have prepared the AkzoNobel Report 2013, and the the significant risks of our company and that we meet our to significantly restructure our businesses in 2014 to reduce undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, operational and financial objectives in compliance with appli­ our cost base further to offset the expected continued weak in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards cable laws and regulations. The individual components of the recovery. The company is on track to achieve its strategic priori­ (IFRS), as adopted by the EU and additional Dutch disclosure above set of internal controls are in line with the COSO Enter­ ties for 2015. requirements for annual reports. prise Risk Management Framework. With respect to support to, and monitoring of, compliance with laws and regulations, To the best of our knowledge: including our Code of Conduct, a Compliance Committee Amsterdam, February 19, 2014 • The financial statements in this AkzoNobel Report 2013 has been established. Internal Audit provides assurance to The Board of Management give a true and fair view of our assets and liabilities, the Board of Management whether our internal risk manage­ Ton Büchner our financial position at December 31, 2013, and of the ment and control systems, as designed and represented by Keith Nichols result of our consolidated operations for the financial management, are adequate and effective. year 2013 • The management report in this AkzoNobel Report 2013 While we routinely work towards continuous improvement of includes a fair review of the development and performance our processes and procedures regarding financial reporting, of the businesses and the position of AkzoNobel, and the Board of Management is of the opinion that, as regards the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a financial reporting risks, the internal risk management and whole, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties control systems: that we face • Provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial reporting in this Report 2013 does not contain any errors The Board of Management is responsible for the establishment of material importance and adequate functioning of internal controls in our company. • Have worked properly during the year 2013 Consequently, the Board of Management has implemented a broad range of processes and procedures designed to provide For a detailed description of the risk management system control by the Board of Management over the company’s oper­ with regard to the strategic, operational and compliance risks ations. These processes and procedures include measures and the principal risks identified, reference is made to the Risk regarding the general control environment, such as a Code management chapter in the Strategy section, as well as the of Conduct including business principles and a corporate Compliance and integrity management chapter of the Gover­ complaints procedure (SpeakUp!), corporate directives and nance and compliance section. We have discussed the above 76 Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Learning to be the best Every company wants to establish a competitive edge, even more so when the economy makes life difficult and doing business becomes extra challenging. But how do you meet this challenge and get that all-important advantage over your competitors? At our Automotive and Aerospace Coatings business, one answer has been to train salespeople to clearly communicate how a product can meet a customer’s needs and beat the competition more in terms of value than price. Introduced this year in Asia, the new sales training program – which employs an approach known as blended learning – has been highly successful. Blended learning is different from traditional one-off training events because it combines workshops, role-playing, e-learning and take-home assignments in a single course which takes two months to complete. This approach was used recently in China and India for a Value Proposition Selling program, which involved participants putting their knowledge into practice for four weeks immediately after the course had been completed. Not only does this approach prompt employees to start applying their newly acquired knowledge straight away, but it also encourages them to take a more active role in their career development. In turn, it leads them to commit more fully to their role and take more responsibility for their performance. The programs also offer a very tangible demonstration of AkzoNobel’s commitment to developing the talents of its people. And initial evidence suggests that it is paying off. In the four weeks following the completion of one course in India, the sales staff added several new customers and increased sales at existing customers. Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 2013 was an inspiring year for in particular has helped us to further develop key customer-­ the Executive Committee and all employees for their dedica­ AkzoNobel. Although we experien­ driven actions. Remuneration has also been aligned with announced targets in order to drive performance towards tion and hard work for the company in 2013. The Supervisory Board experienced this during a combined visit with the Execu­ ced constant headwinds due to the achieving the strategy. In addition, the performance improve­ tive Committee to Turkey. Country visits are important for our economic environment, the year ment program we announced in 2011 continued to do well during the course of 2013, with more than the €500 million in understanding of the local businesses and people and they support us in performing our governance tasks. was notable for the roll-out of our EBITDA that we originally targeted being delivered a year early. As a result of this acceleration, I am confident that AkzoNobel Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Supervisory Board new company strategy. It was also will continue to embed a culture of continuous improvement members for their commitment and support during the year. I the year in which AkzoNobel was and operational excellence. believe that the Supervisory Board is a strong and united team with a wide range of experience and expertise that will continue once again ranked number one in I am particularly proud that AkzoNobel was again ranked in to serve the company well. In April 2014, I will reach the end of the Materials industry group on first place on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (in the newly my third and final term as a member of the Supervisory Board. named Materials industry group), the eighth consecutive year As per the 2014 AGM, I will therefore hand over the Chairman­ the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. we have been ranked in the top three. The ranking underlines ship. A thorough process has been followed to prepare my the fact that sustainability is at the heart of our strategy and successor and I am confident that the new Chairman will lead The challenging economic conditions persisted through­ emphasizes our shared belief that sustainability is business the company into an exciting new era. out 2013 and I do not expect an early improvement in the and business is sustainability. With this strategy, we have been trends facing our end-user market segments. I am convinced, creating more value for all our stakeholders. however, that our CEO Ton Büchner, together with his dedicat­ ed team, will be able to drive AkzoNobel through these difficult The following pages provide a detailed overview of the Super­ economic circumstances. The acceleration of the performance visory Board’s activities during the reporting year. Relevant improvement program and the strategy announced in February information concerning myself and my fellow Supervisory 2013 are clearly the right focus for the company to have. Board members is also provided. Our corporate governance, Karel Vuursteen remuneration policy, compliance and integrity management Chairman of the Supervisory Board With the additions of Conrad Keijzer, Ruud Joosten and Marten and shareholder relations are covered in the Governance and Booisma to the Executive Committee, we have a committed compliance section. I hope it will give you a good understand­ and enthusiastic team with excellent strategic knowledge and ing of the framework under which the company operates. At operational skills which will be of great benefit to the company AkzoNobel, we believe that good corporate governance is as we look to make swift progress on our strategic agenda. integral to the structures and processes that the Supervisory Board, Board of Management and Executive Committee have The new strategy of building on leading market positions and put in place in order to achieve our strategic objectives. focusing on four end-user segments, as well as concentrat­ ing on organic growth, operational excellence and sustainabil­ On behalf of my fellow members of the Supervisory Board, I ity, has been in place for a year now. Our end-user approach would like to thank the CEO, the CFO, the other members of 78 Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Our Supervisory Board Karel Vuursteen Uwe-Ernst Bufe Sari Baldauf Dolf van den Brink Peggy Bruzelius (1941, Dutch) Chairman (1944, German) Deputy Chairman (1955, Finnish) (1948, Dutch) (1949, Swedish) Initial appointment 2002 Initial appointment 2003 Initial appointment 2012 Initial appointment 2004 Initial appointment 2007 Current term of office 2010–2014 Current term of office 2011–2015 Current term of office 2012–2016 Current term of office 2012–2016 Current term of office 2011–2015 Former CEO of Heineken; Deputy Former CEO of Degussa AG; member of Former member of the Group Executive Former member of the Managing Board Former CEO of ABB Financial Services; Chairman and member of the Board the Supervisory Board of Umicore SA. Board of Nokia Oyj; non-executive director of ABN AMRO Bank; Chairman of the former Executive Vice-President of SEB; of Directors of Heineken Holding N.V.; of F-Secure Oyj; Chairman of the Board of Supervisory Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance non-executive director of Axfood AB, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fortum Oyj; Supervisory Board member at B.V., Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. Lundin Petroleum AB, Skandia Mutual Life TOMTOM N.V. Daimler AG and Deutsche Telekom. and Center Parcs Europe N.V.; Supervisory Insurance and Diageo plc; Chairman of Director of Legal & General Nederland N.V., Lancelot Asset Management AB. • Chairman of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Remuneration Committee KBC Bank and De Heus Nederland B.V. • Member of the Remuneration Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Audit Committee • Chairman of the Audit Committee Antony Burgmans Sir Peter Ellwood Louis Hughes Ben Verwaayen (1947, Dutch) (1943, British) (1949, American) (1952, Dutch) Initial appointment 2006 Initial appointment 2008 Initial appointment 2006 Initial appointment 2012 Current term of office 2010–2014 Current term of office 2012–2016 Current term of office 2010–2014 Current term of office 2012–2016 Former Chairman and CEO of Unilever Former Chairman of ICI plc; former Group Former President and COO of Lockheed Former CEO of Alcatel-Lucent; former N.V. and plc; non-executive director of BP Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group. Martin; former Executive Vice-President of Chief Executive/Chairman of the Board’s plc; member of the Supervisory Boards of General Motors; Chairman of InZeroSystems Operating Committee BT group; non• Member of the Audit Committee SHV Holdings N.V., Jumbo Group Holding LLC; member of the Board of Directors of executive director of Akamai Technologies, B.V. and AEGON N.V.; Chairman of the ABB Group and Alcatel-Lucent SA; executive Inc and Bharti Airtel Ltd. Supervisory Boards of TNT Express N.V. advisor of Wind Point Partners. • Member of the Remuneration Committee and Intergamma B.V. • Member of the Audit Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Chairman of the Remuneration Committee AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Our leadership 79 A different class of product As part of our ongoing efforts to supply more sustainable products to customers, we are increasingly steering our innovation towards the development of what we call ecopremium solutions (EPS). We define these as products that offer a significant sustainability advantage compared with the most commonly available equivalent commercial products. One such example is our crystal metallic UV topcoats – sup­plied by our Wood Finishes and Adhesives business – which are used to coat panels for a variety of commercial applications, including schools, airports and restaurants. Not only does the product meet our criteria for qualifying as an EPS (see Note 4 of the Sustainability statements), but it’s also an example of an EPS with direct downstream benefits. The advantages of the product can be highlighted by customer James Hardie, who used the 100 percent UV system to replace a competitor’s 2K isocyanate coating which had a VOC content of more than 60 percent. Not only does the coatings system we provided contain zero VOCs, but it is also non-flammable and significantly more durable for chemical and abrasion resistance. In addition, our customer was also able to cut their solvent emissions by more than 50 percent, reduce their handling of isocyanate, slash their reject rates from 12 percent to 0.2 percent and achieve an increase in their productivity with an instant cure UV process, more than offsetting the energy increase of UV curing in comparison to air drying. Looking ahead, we have a clear 2020 target to achieve 20 percent of revenue from products and services that provide customers and consumers with a significant sustainability advantage. Report of the Supervisory Board Main 2013 activities Supervisory Board attendance record The Supervisory Board is confident that the following table Succession planning resulting Chairman selection and Senior executive succession in shows all members made adequate time available to give suffi­ in one new Supervisory Board preparation for succession as the Executive Committee, cient attention to the company. If Supervisory Board members member candidate, to be of the 2014 AGM resulting in Marten Booisma are unable to attend a Supervisory Board or committee meeting, proposed for election at the becoming the new ExCo they inform the Chairman stating the reason. They also have 2014 AGM, in order to broaden member responsible for the opportunity to discuss any agenda items with the Chairman Human Resources, effective and chairmen of the committees. Attendance is expressed as the financial knowledge base of October 1, 2013 the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible the Supervisory Board to attend. The annual internal evaluation The Supervisory Board visited Finalization of monitoring of Supervisory Board attendance record concluded that the Supervisory Istanbul and Gebze in Turkey, the performance improvement Board and its committees providing members with a program following its successSB AC RC NC continue to operate effectively greater understanding of our ful acceleration in 2013 Karel Vuursteen 7/7 – 3/3 2/2 local business and their Sari Baldauf 7/7 – 3/3 2/2 customers Dolf van den Brink 7/7 8/8 – – Peggy Bruzelius 6/7 7/8 – – Uwe-Ernst Bufe 7/7 – – – Antony Burgmans 6/7 – 3/3 2/2 Sir Peter Ellwood 7/7 8/8 – – Meetings Louis Hughes 7/7 7/8 – – The Supervisory Board held seven meetings during 2013. Six Ben Verwaayen 7/7 – 3/3 2/2 meetings were plenary sessions with the full Executive Commit­ The table indicates the meeting attendance for the Supervisory Board (SB), the Audit Committee (AC), the Remuneration Committee (RC) and the Nomination Committee (NC). tee present for all or part of the meetings. One meeting was held without the full Executive Committee present, only the Board of Management attended that meeting. All Supervisory Board meetings were preceded or succeeded by an execu­ tive session of the Supervisory Board, with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) being invited to four of these meetings. An atten­ dance overview of the Supervisory Board and its committees can be seen on this page. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board prepared the meetings with the Corporate Secretary and discussed matters such as the agendas with the CEO. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Our leadership 81 Supervisory Board activities nized that AkzoNobel has, over the past decade, built a strong The outcome of the enterprise risk management session held One of the main activities of the Supervisory Board in 2013 foundation for sustainability and is recognized as a leader in its by the Executive Committee was presented to the Supervisory was Supervisory Board member succession planning. Sir industry, demonstrated by the number one position in the Materi­ Board and risk corrective actions were identified to address the Peter Ellwood has decided to step down at the 2014 AGM. als industry group on the 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. top ten risks. Further details are included in the Risk management The Nomination Committee engaged the services of an execu­ The Supervisory Board considers it of key importance that the chapter and the Strategy section. tive search agency to assist with the succession. In order to company maintains and strengthens this leadership position. The identify a potential candidate, the agency employed a rigorous Supervisory Board therefore supports and is fully behind the 2020 All Supervisory Board members participated in the annual search process after first gaining a thorough understanding of sustainability strategy and the Planet Possible concept, a next compliance training session in which the General Counsel AkzoNobel’s strategic ambitions, the specific leadership roles and level approach to sustainability which is fully focused on creating and an external law firm provided an overview of AkzoNobel’s competencies needed to meet those ambitions and the culture more value from fewer resources. compliance framework and gave competition law compliance of our organization. As a result, it is the Supervisory Board’s inten­ training. Supervisory Board members are also given the possibility tion to nominate Mr. Byron Grote for election to the Supervisory In September 2013, the Supervisory Board, Board of Manage­ to enroll in AkzoNobel’s online compliance training modules on an Board at the 2014 AGM. The new member will bring additional ment and Executive Committee visited some of the company’s ongoing basis. financial knowledge and as such be an appropriate successor businesses in Turkey. This included meetings with local manage­ for Sir Peter Elwood. The new Supervisory Board member will ment, customers and other stakeholders, as well as a visit to the A thorough operational planning process followed, resulting in partici­pate in a tailored induction program covering AkzoNobel’s Decorative Paints site in Gebze. The visit provided a clear over­ a 2014 budget and operational plan, which was reviewed and governance and businesses and will also join the ongoing train­ view of the country from a market segmentation perspective, approved by the Supervisory Board. ing program in which all Supervisory Board members participate. which helped the Supervisory Board to place the Turkish busi­ ness in a structured way in the company’s new strategy. It was The three members with Business Area responsibilities provi­ Mr. Vuursteen will reach the end of his 12-year maximum tenure, also an excellent opportunity for the Supervisory Board to liaise ded regular updates to inform the Supervisory Board on safety, of which the last five years were as Chairman of the Supervisory and engage with local management and to learn more about the competitive behavior, projects and year-to-date financials. Board. A diligent and careful approach was adopted in order to politico-economic view of Turkey. In 2013, the Supervisory Board moved to a digital meeting identify, select and prepare the new Chairman for his role and platform. This will help improve governance by facilitating responsibilities as of the 2014 AGM. Another key area of attention during the year was the company’s communi­­ca­tions and enabling a timely view of current and historic performance improvement program, which is focused on achiev­ company information. Considerable time was devoted to discussing the company’s ing operational and functional excellence and is fundamental to strategy and reviewing strategic options with the CEO. Business the delivery of our 2015 targets in a challenging market environ­ Area, business unit and functional strategies were presented to ment. The program was closely monitored by three Supervisory the Supervisory Board following the strategic review sessions Board members, who held five meetings with the CEO or Chief at company level with the Executive Committee. In 2013, these Financial Officer (CFO), the program director and the Corporate included the presentation of the Powder Coatings business’ Director of Control. During these meetings, the progress of the strategy, while both the Legal function and Integrated Supply ­ program was reviewed and discussed in detail, while representa­ Chain gave strategy updates. The Board of Management kept the tives from the various work streams were also invited to attend Supervisory Board regularly informed of intended organizational on several occasions to provide detailed overviews of their areas changes, appointments of senior managers and major contracts. of responsibility. In addition to providing reports on the prog­ ress made, discussions were held about embedding the results The Supervisory Board reviewed the 2013 sustainability perfor­ achieved and the quality of implementation. The results of these mance data through the sustainability dashboard, providing meetings were reported back to, and discussed with, the full performance indicators for safety performance, eco-efficiency Supervisory Board. As a result of the successful acceleration of improvement and employee engagement, including diversity and the program in 2013, monitoring by Supervisory Board members inclusion and talent management. The Supervisory Board recog­ of the program ended as of January 1, 2014. 82 Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Financial statements and profit allocation Board evaluation Audit Committee The financial statements of Akzo Nobel N.V. for the financial To assess its effectiveness, the Supervisory Board carried The Audit Committee held eight meetings during 2013. year 2013 were audited by KPMG Accountants N.V. The out an internal performance evaluation of itself, its individual The roles and responsibilities and composition of the Audit Board of Management submitted the financial statements, members, its Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are set out in the Corporate governance statement. together with the report of the Board of Management, the Committee, the Chairman and the chairmen of these commit­ Issues discussed in Audit Committee meetings were reported report and management letter of the external auditor to the tees. The process consisted of Supervisory Board members back to the full Supervisory Board in subsequent meetings of Supervisory Board. completing a confidential questionnaire. The Audit Committee this Board. also carried out an internal performance evaluation of itself and The financial statements, the report and management letter of invited the other meeting participants to complete the confiden­ Main 2013 activities the external auditor were discussed extensively with the audi­ tial questionnaire. tors by the Audit Committee, in the presence of the CEO and Review of the effectiveness of internal controls over CFO, and by the full Supervisory Board with the full Board of In a separate meeting without the Board of Management, the financial reporting including internal audit findings Management. Based on these discussions, the Supervisory full Supervisory Board discussed the results of the evaluation Review of the 2013 annual report and financial Board is of the opinion that the 2013 financial statements of questionnaires. The Supervisory Board also discussed the statements Akzo Nobel N.V. meet all requirements for correctness and functioning of the Board of Management and the performance Review of AkzoNobel’s dividend direction transparency, and that they form a good basis to account for of its individual members. The evaluation of the Chairman the supervision provided (see the Financial statements section). was discussed by the Supervisory Board in the Chairman’s The Audit Committee monitors the follow-up by management absence. The Audit Committee invited the Board of Manage­ Assessment of the economic crisis and the company’s of the recommendations reported by the external auditor. ment and other meeting participants to join part of the evalua­ contingency planning tion discussion. These discussions were recorded and conclu­ External auditor independence The Supervisory Board recommends that the Annual General sions and actions were discussed and confirmed at the next Meeting of shareholders (AGM) adopts the financial statements meeting of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee. Appointment of new lead auditor as presented in this Report 2013 and, as proposed by the Board of Management, approve the allocation of €352 million for the Items addressed were overall performance and composition payment of dividend. This is consistent with the company’s of the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee and the other External auditor tender process aim to provide a stable to rising dividend. The proposed total committees, strategic issues and key areas for 2014. Other dividend for 2013 on each of the common shares outstanding points discussed were the nature and impact of the discus­ is €1.45 and it is proposed that this amount, less the interim sions, strategy oversight, risk management and internal control Results/financial statements dividend of €0.33 – which was paid in November 2013 – be and succession planning. We are pleased to confirm that our Before each announcement of the quarterly results and annual made payable on May 28, 2014. The dividend will, at the share­ internal evaluation concluded that the Supervisory Board and financial statements, the Audit Committee reviewed the finan­ holder’s discretion, be paid either in cash or in shares. In addi­ its committees continued to operate proficiently. The Supervi­ cial results and consulted on the reports and press releases to tion, we request that the AGM discharge the members of the sory Board was positive about the progress made in a number be published and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Commit­ Board of Management of their responsibility for the conduct of of important areas, such as succession planning and coaching tee. Supervisory Board members in general participated in this business in 2013 and the members of the Supervisory Board of the new Executive Committee members. Improvement areas part of the Audit Committee meeting. for their supervision in 2013. are diversity and training. The Supervisory Board intends to use an external facilitator in the evaluation process every third year. The last external evalu­ ation took place in 2011. We will once again use an external consultancy firm for the 2014 Board evaluation. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Our leadership 83 Risk management and internal control arrangements External auditor Evaluation The Audit Committee reviewed AkzoNobel’s overall approach KPMG Accountants N.V., AkzoNobel’s external auditor, The Supervisory Board evaluated the performance of the to risk management and control, its processes, outcomes and re­ported in depth to the Audit Committee on the scope and Audit Committee and the Audit Committee carried out a selfdisclosure. It also reflected on the deteriorating market condi­ outcome of the annual audit of the financial statements, includ­ assessment of its performance. Both concluded that the Audit tions in Europe and the US and discussed contingency plan­ ing the consolidated financial statements and the company Committee is performing effectively. Reference is made to the ning. During 2013, the Audit Committee discussed: financial statements. paragraph on the Board evaluation in this chapter. • Internal control procedures and report • InControl assurance statement The Audit Committee held independent meetings with the • Operating working capital management. In several external auditor during the year and reviewed and challenged meetings, the Audit Committee discussed OWC to identify the external auditor’s approach to auditing the company, improvement actions engagement letter, fees, risk assessment and audit plan. Other • HSE and sustainability audits and summary of findings topics discussed included: • Risk management • Hard close (as part of making the year-end process more • Internal audit reports and planning efficient, and in order to highlight important issues for • Post investment reviews the annual financial statements, as well as giving timely • Treasury strategy attention to important issues, AkzoNobel performed a • Tax strategy hard close as of October 31, 2013. Aligned with this, the • Litigation and claims external auditor also performed certain procedures in • Compliance with primary and secondary legislation respect of the financial outcomes as of the same date) (internal framework, monitoring and processes and • The quality of external audit compliance reports) • Impact of new IFRS rules • Information management strategy The Audit Committee performed the annual review of the In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the annual opera­ adequacy of the Audit Committee charter, as well as evaluating tional plan (including budget), AkzoNobel’s dividend directions the services of the external auditor, and continues to closely and proposals. On fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in rela­ monitor international discussions on auditor independence. tion to risk management and internal control arrangements, the Both processes were concluded and, as a result, the Audit Audit Committee met regularly with senior executives and is Committee has recommended to the Supervisory Board not fully satisfied with the key decisions taken. to propose a change in the external auditor’s appointment until 2016. In that year, based on Dutch regulations, the company Internal audit function is required to change its audit firm. The tender process and The Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit plan and selection of a new firm was concluded in 2013, and the chosen strategy and agreed its budget and resource requirements. auditors will be proposed by the Supervisory Board to the AGM An evaluation of the performance and quality of the internal in April 2014. Based on auditor independence requirements, audit function was also carried out, with members being satis­ the lead auditor in charge of the AkzoNobel account is changed fied with the effectiveness of the function. The Audit Commit­ every seven years. KPMG’s current lead partner, Mr. Weusten, tee also met independently with the Corporate Director of has held this position since July 2007. He will be succeeded Internal Audit during the year and discussed the results of the by Mr. Van Leeuwen, who will take over in April 2014. Further audits performed. details on the external auditor can be found in the Corporate governance statement. 84 Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Gratitude The Remuneration Committee held three meetings in 2013. The The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2013. The All members of the Supervisory Board would like to express roles and responsibilities and composition of the Remuneration roles and responsibilities and composition of the Nomination their gratitude to the Board of Management and the other Committee are set out in the Corporate governance statement. Committee are set out in the Corporate governance statement. members of the Executive Committee, as well as all employ­ The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of ees around the world, for their dedication and hard work for the members of the Board of Management and the Executive The Nomination Committee made several recommendations the company in 2013. Committee. Recommendations were made on the remunera­ to the Supervisory Board during 2013. These included the tion and personal targets for members of the Board of Manage­ appointment of Messrs. Joosten and Keijzer as members of Amsterdam, February 19, 2014 ment and the other members of the Executive Committee. the Executive Committee as of the 2013 AGM. The Supervisory The Supervisory Board Proposals for the remuneration of Mr. Booisma were reviewed Board supported and approved these recommendations. and discussed with the CEO. The committee also reviewed the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board and the Together with the CEO, the Committee also devoted consid­ pension plan of the Executive Committee. Based on the recom­ erable time to senior executive succession planning. After a mendation of the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory thorough selection process, with the assistance of an execu­ Board intends to propose a change in the annual fixed remu­ tive search agency, a recommendation was made by the neration at the 2014 AGM. Nomination Committee – following proposals by the CEO – for the succession of Mrs. Oudeman. Important selection criteria Further details on the remuneration policy and its imple­ included a proven track record, global business experience mentation for 2013 are outlined in the Remuneration report and team spirit. The appointment was subsequently approved chapter in the Governance and compliance section. Infor­ by the Supervisory Board. Mr. Booisma was appointed as mation on the remuneration of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee member responsible for Human Supervisory Board can be found in Note 22 of the Consolidated Resources as of October 1, 2013. financial statements. For CFO succession, a thorough selection process has been initiated, reviewing external and internal candidates. In addition, the Nomination Committee successfully identified Mr. Byron Grote to succeed Sir Peter Ellwood as a member of the Supervisory Board and devoted considerable time to discussing the Chairman succession and short and long-term Supervisory Board member succession. Based on the advice of the Nomination Committee, the Supervisory Board recom­ mends the appointment of Mr. Grote as a member of the Supervisory Board at the AGM in 2014. As the Chairman will retire as per the 2014 AGM, the Nomination Committee recommended the Supervisory Board to limit the number of Supervisory Board positions from nine to eight members. The Supervisory Board also recommends the reappointment of Messrs. Burgmans and Hughes at the 2014 AGM. It is the intention of the Supervisory Board to appoint Mr. Burgmans as Chairman of the Supervisory Board after the 2014 AGM. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Our leadership 85 Governance and compliance In this section, we outline our corporate governance structure and explain the remuneration of our Board of Management. Information about compliance and integrity management and AkzoNobel on the capital markets is also included. Corporate governance statement 88 Compliance and integrity management 97 Remuneration report 101 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 107 Governance and compliance Corporate governance statement Shareholders Our corporate governance framework is governed by the following regulations: Major external regulations Supervisory Board • Dutch Civil Code • Dutch Act on financial supervision and other applicable securities laws Board of Management • NYSE Euronext Amsterdam listing rules • Dutch Corporate Governance Code Executive Committee Major internal regulations • Articles of Association • Business Code of Conduct • Share Dealing Rules • Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Functions Business Area Business Area Business Area Countries Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Board • Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and the Executive Committee Business units Business units Business units • Directives and rules • Authority rules 88 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 AkzoNobel aspires to high The company’s management and supervision structure is and guidelines are part of the company’s directives framestandards of corporate organized in a so-called two-tier system, comprising a Board of Management, solely composed of executive directors, and work, which set out internal rules for employees. governance. We consistently a Supervisory Board, solely composed of non-executive direcThe company’s Articles of Association were most recently tors. The Supervisory Board supervises the Board of Manageamended and adopted at the 2012 AGM, inter alia to comply enhance and improve our ment and ensures that external experience and knowledge with changes in Dutch legislation such as the Securities Giro corporate governance are embedded in the company’s conduct. The two Boards are Act (Wet giraal effectenverkeer) and the Act on Management independent of each other and are accountable to the Annual and Supervision (Wet bestuur en toezicht). standards and framework, General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) for the performance emphasizing transparency, of their functions. The Supervisory Board confirms that, throughout the year, the company complied with the Code. The Code contains in accordance with applicable Akzo Nobel N.V. is a public limited liability company (Naamloze principles and best practices for Dutch companies with listed laws and regulations. Vennootschap) established under the laws of the Netherlands. shares. Deviations from the Code – currently the company Its common shares are listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam. deviates from the Code’s provisions III.3.5 and IV.1.1 – are AkzoNobel has a sponsored level 1 ADR program and ADRs explained in accordance with the Code’s “apply or explain” can be traded on the international OTCQX platform in the US. principle. With the exception of those aspects of our governance structure which can only be amended with the approval Our corporate governance framework is based on the of the AGM, the Board of Management and the Supervisory requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch CorpoBoard may make adjustments to the way the Code is applied rate Governance Code adopted in 2003 and amended in as described below, if this is considered to be in the interests of 2008 (the Code), applicable securities laws, the company’s the company. If adjustments are made, they will be published Articles of Association and the rules and regulations appliand reported in the annual report for the relevant year. cable to companies listed on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. These are complemented by several Board of Management and Executive Committee internal procedures, such as the Business Code of Conduct General and the Share Dealing Rules. These procedures include a The Board of Management is entrusted with the management risk management and control system, as well as a system of of the company and, as of January 1, 2011, operates in the assurance of compliance with laws and regulations, including context of an Executive Committee. The Executive Commita complaints procedure. tee comprises the members of the Board of Management, currently the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial To safeguard consistency and coherence for the whole orgaOfficer (CFO), business leaders and leaders with functional nization, the Executive Committee has established directives, expertise, allowing both the functions and the Business Areas including rules which provide a set of mandatory internal rules to be represented at the highest level in the company. The and regulations that must be adhered to. The Business Code functions currently represented in the Executive Committee of Conduct, Business Principles, directives, rules, manuals are HR and Legal. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 89 In performing its duties, the Executive Committee is guided The Managing Directors of our business units, the Country Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and by the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprises, Directors and the Corporate Functional Directors in charge of the Executive Committee taking into consideration the relevant interests of the compathe different functions, report to individual Executive CommitThe tasks and responsibilities, as well as internal procedural ny’s stakeholders. Among other responsibilities, the members tee members with specific responsibility for their activities and matters for the Executive Committee, are addressed in the of the Executive Committee define the strategic direction, performance. Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and Executive establish the policies and manage the company’s day-to-day Committee. These rules have been reviewed and approved by the operations. The Board Committee Pensions, chaired by the CFO, overSupervisory Board and are available on our corporate website. sees the general pension policies (to be) implemented in the The members of the Board of Management remain jointly and various pension plans of the company. Representative authority, including the signing of documents, individually accountable for all decisions made by the Execuis vested in at least two members of the Board of Managetive Committee. All Executive Committee decisions require The company has a Sustainability Council, which advises ment jointly. The Board of Management has appointed corpoa majority of the members of the Board of Management. the Executive Committee on strategy developments. It also rate agents, including members of the Executive Committee The Board of Management can decide to reserve decisions monitors the integration of sustainability into management who are not also members of the Board of Management. The for the Board of Management. The Board of Management processes and oversees the company’s sustainability targets list of authorized signatories is publicly available. is accountable for its performance to a separate and indeand overall sustainability performance. The council is chaired pendent Supervisory Board. The Board of Management is by the CEO and includes representatives from the Executive Appointment also answerable to the shareholders of the company at the Committee, Managing Directors from our businesses and Board of Management members are appointed to, and AGM. The Executive Committee members who are not also Corporate Directors of Strategy, Human Resources, Sustainremoved from, office by the AGM. The other members of the a member of the Board of Management report to the CEO. ability and HSE, Supply Chain/Research and Development, Executive Committee are appointed by the CEO, subject to Sourcing, and Communications. Progress regarding sustainthe approval of the Supervisory Board. The CEO leads the Executive Committee in its overall manageability objectives, development, target setting and implement of the company to achieve its performance goals and mentation is reviewed quarterly by the Executive Committee Members of the Board of Management are appointed for fourobjectives. He is the main point of liaison with the Superviand semi-annually by the Supervisory Board, and is verified year terms (or less), with the possibility of reappointment at sory Board. The CFO is specifically responsible for overseeing annually by KPMG Sustainability (part of KPMG Advisory the expiry of each term. This is in line with the Code. AkzoNobel’s finances. N.V.). Our sustainability framework is further explained in Note 1 of the Sustainability statements. The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has the right to The company has organized its activities into three Business make binding nominations for the appointment of members Areas: Decorative Paints, Performance Coatings and SpecialThe company has a Compliance Committee to support the of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. The ty Chemicals. Each Business Area is represented by a responExecutive Committee with its responsibility in assuring and priority shares are held by the Foundation Akzo Nobel. The sible member of the Executive Committee. To manage our managing compliance, and with its reporting to the SuperviBoard of the Foundation Akzo Nobel consists of members business in a more operational way, an Operational Control sory Board. The Compliance Committee systematically identiof the Supervisory Board who are not members of the Audit Cycle is conducted once per month. For each Business Area, fies material compliance risks, assists in assurance of compliCommittee. In deviation of the Code (provision IV.1.1), the there are Operational Review Meetings which provide a forum ance with laws, regulations and ethical standards, monitors Articles of Association state that the AGM cannot cancel for a more in-depth operational discussion on subjects relecompliance and reports findings and recommendations to the the binding nature of a nomination by the holders of priority vant to the Business Area. In addition, Functional and Country Executive Committee. The Compliance Committee consists shares for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Review Meetings are held to review upcoming proposals and of the General Counsel (chair), Corporate Secretary, Senior Board or the Board of Management. progress on the respective functional agendas. Twice per year Legal Counsel and Corporate Directors of Internal Audit, in each Operational Review Meeting, the functional agendas Control, Compliance, Human Resources and Sustainability As the company subscribes to the Code’s principles in of Sustainability, Human Resources, Commercial Excellence, and HSE. Our compliance and integrity management system general, members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, Development and is explained in more detail in the Compliance and integrity Management are, in normal circumstances, appointed on the Innovation are discussed. management chapter. basis of a non-binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. 90 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 The Board of the Foundation Akzo Nobel has confirmed its Pursuant to the Act on Management and Supervision that Remuneration intention to use its binding nomination rights only in cases came into force on January 1, 2013, a board of management In line with the remuneration policy adopted by the AGM, and circumstances it considers exceptional, such as in the of a large Dutch public company, or “Naamloze Vennoot­ the remuneration of the members of the Board of Manageevent of a (threatened) hostile takeover. (Reference is made schap”, such as Akzo Nobel N.V., has a balanced compoment is determined by the Supervisory Board on the advice to the description of anti-takeover provisions and control). In sition if it consists of at least 30 percent female and 30 of its Remuneration Committee. The Supervisory Board normal circumstances, resolutions to appoint a member of percent male members. If a board of management does not also decides on the remuneration of the other members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management will therefore have such a balanced composition, it must explain why in the Executive Committee on the proposal of the CEO. The require a simple majority of the votes cast by shareholders. its annual report. It must also set out how the company has composition of the remuneration of Board of Management Shareholders that meet the requirements laid down in the tried to create a balanced composition, and explain how it members, and the remuneration policy itself, are described Articles of Association are also entitled to nominate Superwill try to get to such a balanced composition in the future. in the Remuneration report and the Financial statements (see visory Board or Board of Management members for appointThe law does not describe how this rule should be applied in Note 22). The service contracts of the members of the Board ment. According to the Articles of Association, such appointa board consisting of two people and whether a board that of Management do not contain change of control provisions ments will require a two-thirds majority, representing at least consists of two male or two female members is deemed not and are compliant with the Code. The main elements of the 50 percent of the outstanding share capital. to have a balanced composition. In the event that candidates service contracts of Board of Management members are for new appointments to the Board of Management must be available on our corporate website. Although a deviation from provision IV.1.1 of the Code, the selected, the Supervisory Board will duly consider the relevant Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are of the diversity standards and requirements for an international listed Supervisory Board opinion that these provisions will enhance the continuity of the company. General company’s management and policies. The Supervisory Board’s overall responsibility is to supervise Conflict of interest the policies adopted by the Board of Management and the Members of the Executive Committee are not allowed to hold The handling of (potential) conflicts of interest between the Executive Committee and oversee the general conduct of the more than one supervisory board membership or non-execucompany and members of the Board of Management is business of the company. This specifically includes supervision tive directorship in another listed company. This is more stringoverned by the Articles of Association and the Rules of of the achievement of the company’s operational and financial gent than the Code (provision II.1.8) and the Act on ManageProcedure for the Board of Management and Executive objectives, the corporate strategy designed to achieve the ment and Supervision, which allows members of a board of Committee. A member of the Board of Management and objectives, the design and effectiveness of the internal risk management two such supervisory board memberships or the other members of the Executive Committee shall not management and control systems, the main financial paramnon-executive directorships. The exception to this rule is that participate in the discussions and decision-making on a eters, compliance with applicable laws and regulations and in the 18 months prior to their retirement, Executive Commitsubject or transaction in relation to which he has a conflict risk factors. The Supervisory Board also provides the Board of tee members are allowed to hold more than one such superviof interest with the company. Decisions to enter into transManagement and Executive Committee with advice. In fulfillsory board membership or non-executive directorship in order actions under which members have conflicts of interest that ing their duties, members of the Supervisory Board are guided to allow them to prepare for retirement, provided that this does are of material significance to the company – and to the by the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprise, not interfere with the performance of their tasks as members relevant Board of Management or Executive Committee taking into consideration the relevant interests of the compaof the Executive Committee. Furthermore, an exception can member – require the approval of the Supervisory Board. ny’s stakeholders. Major investments, acquisitions and funcbe made for an executive joining the Executive Committee. Any such decisions involving members of the Board of tional initiatives are subject to Supervisory Board approval. However, a maximum of two supervisory board memberManagement will be recorded in the annual report for the ships or non-executive directorships will apply. Acceptance relevant year, with reference to the conflict of interest and Composition of external supervisory board memberships or non-executive a declaration that the relevant best practice provisions of The Supervisory Board endorses the principle that the compodirectorships in other listed companies by members of the the Code have been complied with. In 2013, no transacsition of the Supervisory Board is such that the Supervisory Executive Committee is subject to approval of the Supervisory tions were reported under which a member of the Board of Board members are able to act critically and independently of Board, for which authority has been delegated to the ChairManagement had a conflict of interest that was of material one another and of the Board of Management and the Execuman of the Supervisory Board. significance to the company. tive Committee. Each Supervisory Board member is capable AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 91 of assessing the broad outline of the overall strategy of the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board more often if, in specific circumstances, including but not company and its businesses and carrying out its duties propThe Supervisory Board is governed by its Rules of Procedure, limited to reasons of succession planning, this is considered erly. The Supervisory Board – which currently consists of nine which are available on the company’s corporate website. The to be in the company’s interest. members – is constituted in a balanced manner to reflect the Rules of Procedure include the profile and the Charters of the nature and variety of the company’s businesses, their internaCommittees and sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the In 2013 no (re)appointments to the Supervisory Board were tional spread and the desirability to have available expertise Supervisory Board. proposed to the AGM. For 2014, one appointment and in fields such as finance, economic, societal, environmental two re-appointments to the Supervisory Board are currently and legal aspects of international business, government and The Chairman of the Supervisory Board determines the scheduled to be proposed to the AGM. public administration. Consequently, the current members agenda, chairs the meetings of the Supervisory Board, monihave a diverse and appropriate mix of knowledge and experitors the proper functioning of the Supervisory Board and its Induction and training ence of the markets in which AkzoNobel operates, as well committees, arranges for the adequate provision of informaFollowing appointment to the Supervisory Board, members as insights from different markets and non-operational areas. tion to its members and acts on behalf of the Supervisory receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individA list of current Supervisory Board members, including their Board as the main contact for the Board of Management and ual needs. This includes an information package containbiographies, is given in the Our leadership section. Executive Committee. He also initiates the evaluation of the ing relevant information on the company and its corporate functioning of the Supervisory Board and its committees, governance and compliance systems, as well as meetings With reference to the Act on Management and Supervision its individual members and the functioning of the Board of with senior management and functional leaders. This enables mentioned earlier, a supervisory board of a large Dutch public Management. He additionally chairs the AGM. The Chairman them to build up an understanding of AkzoNobel’s businesses company (such as Akzo Nobel N.V.) has a balanced composiof the Supervisory Board is Mr. Vuursteen. and strategy, and the key risks and issues the company faces. tion if it consists of at least 30 percent female and 30 percent Throughout the year, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board male members. The Supervisory Board understands that the The Supervisory Board is assisted by the Corporate Secreensures that regular updates on AkzoNobel’s businesses, current gender balance does not meet this depiction of a tary. All members have access to the advice and services of legal matters, social and corporate governance, environmenbalanced composition because only two of its nine members the Corporate Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that tal, accounting, investor relations matters and compliance are are female. However, a further aim of the Supervisory Board procedures are followed and that the Supervisory Board acts provided to the Supervisory Board. – which its members believe is currently being met – is that in accordance with its statutory obligations under the Articles at least one-third of the members should meet the diversity of Association. Independence of the Supervisory Board criteria of gender (female) and/or nationality (outside of the Each member of the Supervisory Board meets the indepenEuropean Union). This is in compliance with provision III.3.1 of Resolutions of the Supervisory Board must be adopted by dence requirements as stated in the Code provisions III.2.1 the Code, which ensures that its composition better reflects absolute majority of the votes cast. The Chairman, or in his and III.2.2 and has completed an annual independence quesboth society at large and the markets in which the company absence the Deputy Chairman, shall cast the deciding vote in tionnaire addressing the relevant requirements for indepenoperates. When nominating and selecting new candidates for the event of a tie. dence. the Supervisory Board in the future, these requirements will be taken into account. AkzoNobel feels that gender is only Appointment Conflict of interest one part of diversity and that Supervisory Board members Members of the Supervisory Board are nominated, appointed The Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure include will continue to be selected on the basis of their wide-ranging and dismissed in accordance with procedures which are the detailed provisions on how to deal with conflicts of interest and experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight. Our same as those previously outlined for the members of the potential conflicts of interest between members of the Supercurrent Supervisory Board represents six nationalities, all of Board of Management. As a general rule, based on a rotation visory Board and the company. A member of the Supervisory whom bring with them experience from a diverse range of schedule (available on our corporate website), a Supervisory Board shall not participate in the discussions and decisioninternational business, professional and non-profit organizaBoard member’s tenure is four years. In principle, members making on a subject or transaction in relation to which he/she tion backgrounds. are eligible for re-election twice, each time for a period not has a conflict of interest with the company. Decisions to enter exceeding four years. However, in deviation from the Code into transactions under which Supervisory Board members (provision III.3.5), a member can be nominated for re-election have conflicts of interest that are of material significance to 92 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 the company, and to the relevant Supervisory Board member, Director Control, Corporate Director Internal Audit and the performance of the members of the Board of Management require the approval of the Supervisory Board. Any such decilead partner of the external auditor, KPMG, attend all regular and the Executive Committee. The committee also reviews sions will be recorded in the annual report for the relevant year, meetings. After every Audit Committee meeting, members the remuneration package of the members of the Supervisory with reference to the conflict of interests and a declaration that hold a separate meeting with only the internal auditor present, Board and prepares proposals for adjustments if necessary. the relevant best practice provisions of the Code have been and a separate meeting with only the external auditor present. The Remuneration Committee consists of four members and complied with. In 2013, no transactions were reported under Other members of management attend as and when requestis chaired by Mr. Burgmans. Ms. Baldauf, Mr. Verwaayen and which a member had a conflict of interest which was of mateed. The General Counsel reports to the Audit Committee on Mr. Vuursteen are the other members of the committee. rial significance to the company. compliance related matters at every regular meeting of the committee. The chairman of the Audit Committee initiates the Further information on the work of the committees is set out Remuneration evaluation of the functioning of the Audit Committee and its in the Report of the Supervisory Board, while details of the Supervisory Board members receive a fixed annual remuneraindividual members, without the Board of Management being remuneration of all Supervisory Board members are set out in tion and attendance fee, which is determined by the AGM. present. Note 22 of the Financial statements. More information on the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board can be found in Note 22 to the Financial Nomination Committee Auditors statements. The Nomination Committee focuses on drawing up selection The external auditor is appointed by the AGM on proposal criteria and appointment procedures for Supervisory Board and of the Supervisory Board. The current appointment is for Committees Board of Management members. The committee assesses the an indefinite period of time and is reviewed every four years The Supervisory Board has established three committees: the size and composition of both Boards, evaluates the functioning by the Audit Committee. The same committee advises the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuof the individual members, makes proposals for appointments Supervisory Board, which communicates the results of this neration Committee. Each committee has a charter describand reappointments and supervises the Board of Management assessment to the AGM. The Audit Committee and the Board ing its role and responsibilities and the manner in which it on the selection of senior management. The committee also of Management annually report their dealings with the external discharges its duties and reports to the full Supervisory Board. considers nominations of Executive Committee members who auditor to the Supervisory Board and discuss the auditor’s These charters are included in the Supervisory Board Rules of are not also a member of the Board of Management. When independence. During 2013, in addition to the annual internal Procedure, published on the company’s corporate website. selecting candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board, quality review on services provided by the external auditor, The committees report on their deliberations and findings to account is taken of the need for a balanced representation of the Audit Committee kept a close eye on national and internathe full Supervisory Board. The committee members’ attenknowledge of the markets in which the company operates and tional discussions on auditor independence. As a result, the dances in 2013 are shown in the Report of the Supervisory the need for insight from different markets and non-operaAudit Committee has recommended to the Supervisory Board Board. tional areas. Higher female and other diversity representation not to propose a change in the external auditor’s appointment are also actively being pursued. The Nomination Committee until 2016. In that year, pursuant to the Dutch Audit ProfesAudit Committee consists of four members and is chaired by Mr. Vuursteen. sion Act (Wet op het accountantsberoep), the audit firm of a The Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in overMs. Baldauf, Mr. Verwaayen and Mr. Burgmans are the other so-called public interest entity (such as a listed company) will seeing the quality and integrity of the accounting, auditing, members of the Nomination Committee. have to be replaced if the audit firm performed the statutory reporting and risk management practices of the company, audits of the company for a period of eight consecutive years. as well as the company’s compliance with legal and regulaRemuneration Committee For AkzoNobel, this means that it has to change its auditor tory requirements, the qualifications, performance and indeThe Remuneration Committee is responsible for making starting no later than January 1, 2016, it being noted that the pendence of the external auditor and the performance of the proposals to the Supervisory Board on the remuneration policy company’s current audit firm can finalize its audit in respect of internal audit function. The chairman of the Audit Commitfor the Board of Management, for overseeing the remunerathe financial year 2015 after the January 1, 2016, date. The tee is Mr. Van den Brink. The Audit Committee consists of tion of its individual members and the remaining members of tender process and selection of a new firm was concluded in three other members – Mr. Hughes, Mrs. Bruzelius and Sir the Executive Committee and for overseeing the remuneration 2013. The selected auditors will be proposed by the SuperviPeter Ellwood – all of whom have accounting and financial schemes for AkzoNobel executives involving the company’s sory Board to the AGM in April 2014. This new appointment management expertise. As a rule, the CEO, CFO, Corporate shares. The committee conducts the periodic review of the will be for a defined period as required by law. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 93 Based on auditor independence requirements, the lead We have strict procedures for internal and disclosure controls The Board of Management, Executive Committee and Superauditor in charge of the AkzoNobel account is changed every and auditor independence. The Disclosure Committee monivisory Board members require authorization from the General seven years. KPMG’s current lead partner, Mr. Weusten, has tors the procedures established by the company and advises Counsel prior to carrying out any transactions in respect of held this position since July 2007. He will be succeeded by the Executive Committee to ensure adequate and timely AkzoNobel securities, even in a so-called open period. In Mr. Van Leeuwen, who will take over in April 2014. The current disclosure of material financial and non-financial information. relevant cases, the General Counsel can prohibit carrying out lead auditor is present at the AGM and may be questioned transactions in respect of other companies’ securities. with regard to his statement on the fairness of the financial An Internal Control committee is responsible for maintaining statements. The external auditor attends all meetings of the the company’s internal control framework. The awareness Share classes and major shareholders Audit Committee, as well as the meeting of the Supervisory of the company-wide internal control framework and selfAkzoNobel has three classes of shares: common shares, Board at which the financial statements are approved. He assessment process was improved in 2013 by publishing and cumulative preferred shares and priority shares. Common receives the financial information and underlying reports of the distributing the AkzoNobel control framework in an infographshares are traded on the Euronext Amsterdam stock quarterly figures and is given the opportunity to comment and ic format (see the following page). An area of continued focus exchange. Common shares are also traded over-the-counter respond to this information. in 2013 was the control standards for our key IT systems and on OTCQX (organized by Pink Sheets) in the US in the form making more use of automated controls in these systems. of American Depositary Receipts (each American DeposiNon-audit services tary Receipt representing one-third of a common share). On One area of particular focus in corporate governance is the We also have a company-wide compliance monitoring tool in December 31, 2013, a total of 242,625,535 common shares independence of the auditors. The Audit Committee has place to discuss and monitor progress with respect to compliand 48 priority shares had been issued. By December 31, been delegated direct responsibility for the compensation ance-related issues. More detail on the so-called non-financial 2013, MFS Investment Management held more than 5 percent and monitoring of the auditors and the services they provide letter of representation process is available in the Compliance of the company’s share capital. to the company. Pursuant to the Audit Profession Act, the and integrity management chapter. auditors are prohibited from providing the company with The priority shares are held by the Foundation Akzo Nobel. services in the Netherlands other than “audit services aimed Reference is made to the Statement of the Board of ManageThe Foundation’s Board consists of members of AkzoNobel’s to provide reliability concerning the information supplied by ment in the Our leadership section for the statements in Supervisory Board who are not members of the Audit the audited client for the benefit of external users of this inforrespect of the internal risk management and control systems. Commit­tee. The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has mation and also for the benefit of the Supervisory Board, as the nomination rights for the appointments of members of the referred to in the reports mentioned.” The company has taken Code of Conduct and complaints procedure Board of Management and of the Supervisory Board, as well the position that no additional services may be provided by AkzoNobel has established a comprehensive Code of Conduct as the right to approve amendments to the Articles of Assothe external auditor and its global network that do not meet and complaints procedure, pursuant to which employees ciation of the company. these requirements, unless local statutory requirements so have the possibility of reporting alleged irregularities within the dictate. In order to anchor this in our procedures, the Supervicompany. More information can be found in the Compliance No cumulative preferred shares have been issued to date. It sory Board adopted the AkzoNobel Rules on External Auditor and integrity management chapter. has been communicated that the cumulative preferred shares Independence and Selection and the related AkzoNobel Audit merely have a financing function, which means that if necesCommittee Pre-approval Guidelines. All these documents Share Dealing Code sary, and possible, they will be issued at or near to the prevailhave been revised and are available on the company’s corpoMembers of the Board of Management, the Executive ing quoted price for common shares. rate website. Committee and the Supervisory Board are subject to the AkzoNobel Share Dealing Rules, which limit their opportuThe Annual General Meeting of shareholders held on April 26, Risk management and internal control nities to trade in AkzoNobel securities. In accordance with 2013, authorized the Board of Management for a period of 18 Internal control and risk management systems are in place. Dutch law and regulations, transactions in AkzoNobel shares months after that date – subject to approval from the SuperOur risk management system is explained in more detail in the carried out by Board of Management, Executive Committee visory Board – to issue shares in the capital of the company Strategy section. and Supervisory Board members are, as and when required, up to a maximum of 10 percent of the issued share capital (or notified to the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets. 20 percent in case of a merger or acquisition) and to restrict 94 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 The AkzoNobel control framework provides reasonable assurance in achieving busi­ness goals, including strategic, operational and reporting goals, as well as 3. Responding to risk those covering compliance. Internal control is not only about policies and Achieving our targets can be threatened procedures, but also relates strongly to people. by all possible risks. What these risks are, where they come from and how to handle them is a dynamic and ongoing process. 2. Setting objectives Clear targets are vital for internal control. These align our vision, strategy and day-today business activities. 4. Control activities Controls are executed everywhere, at all levels of the company and in all stages of business processes. 1. Control environment The control environment provides the foundation. On the one hand, it gives organizational structure and assigns responsibillities. On the other, it shows commitment to the company’s values 5. Monitoring activities and to all employees. Monitoring activities give feedback on the quality of the business processes. The four lines of defense : • Business management • Corporate departments • Internal audit • External audit 6. Information and communication Nothing happens without information and communication between people. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 95 or exclude the pre-emption rights for existing shareholders for proposals must be adequately substantiated and must be bid will be made without any agreement having been reached those shares. At the same meeting, the Board of Managesubmitted in writing, or electronically, to the company’s head in relation to such a bid with the company. ment was given a mandate to acquire up to a maximum of office in Amsterdam at least 60 calendar days in advance of 10 percent of the issued share capital of the company. the meeting. The draft minutes of the Annual General Meeting The same shall apply if one shareholder, or more shareholders of shareholders (in Dutch) are made available on the compaacting in a concerted way, hold a substantial percentage of Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) ny’s corporate website within three months of the meeting the issued common shares of the company without making Currently, General Meetings of shareholders are held at least date. The final and duly signed minutes are made available an offer. Or if, in the opinion of the Board of the Foundation once a year. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders online within six months of the meeting date. Akzo Nobel, the exercise of the voting rights by one shareis convened by public notice. The agenda, the notes to the holder or more shareholders, acting in a concerted way, is agenda and the procedure for attendance – including the The Annual General Meeting of shareholders approves or materially in conflict with the interests of the company. In such record date and the procedure for granting a proxy to a third adopts, as the case may be, among other matters: cases, the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, party – are published in advance and posted on the compa• The financial statements in accordance with their statutory responsibility, will evaluate ny’s website. In 2013, the Shareholders’ Communication • Dividends (not interim dividends) all available options with a view to serving the best interests Channel was used for the final time to distribute the agenda • The election of members of the Board of Management of the company, its shareholders and other stakeholders. The and to allow shareholders who hold their shares through an and the Supervisory Board Board of the Foundation Akzo Nobel has reserved the right to associated bank to participate in proxy voting at the meeting. • The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory make use of its binding nomination rights for the appointment The Shareholders’ Communication Channel was terminated Board of members of the Supervisory Board and of the Board of as of December 31, 2013. However, AkzoNobel will contin• Changes to the remuneration policy for the Board of Management in such circumstances. ue to provide “remote voting” possibilities for shareholders, Management among others by means of e-voting. • Other important matters such as major acquisitions or the In the event of a hostile takeover bid or other action which sale of a substantial part of the company as required the Board of Management and Supervisory Board consider Holding shares in the company on the record date determines by law to be adverse to the company’s interests, the two Boards the right to exercise voting rights and other rights relating to • The authorization of the Board of Management to issue reserve the right to use all available powers (including the right the Annual General Meeting of shareholders, notwithstanding new shares to invoke a response time in accordance with provisions IV.4.4 the subsequent sale of shares thereafter. The notes to the and II.1.9 of the Code), while taking into account the relevant agenda contain all relevant information with respect to the Anti-takeover provisions and control interests of the company and its affiliate enterprise and stakeproposed resolutions. All resolutions are made on the basis According to provision IV.3.11 of the Code, the company is holders. of the “one share, one vote” principle (assuming an equal par required to provide an overview of its actual or potential antivalue for each class of shares). All resolutions are adopted by takeover measures, and to indicate in what circumstances it absolute majority, unless the law or the company’s Articles of is expected that they may be used. The priority shares may be Association stipulate otherwise. considered to constitute a form of anti-takeover measure. In relation to the right of the Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares The Annual General Meeting of shareholders reviews the to make binding nominations for appointments to the Board annual report and decides on adoption of the financial stateof Management and the Supervisory Board, the Foundation ments and the dividend proposal, as well as on the discharge Akzo Nobel has confirmed that it intends to make use of such of the members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of rights in exceptional circumstances only. These circumstancManagement. In deviation from the Act on Corporate Goveres include situations where, in the opinion of the Board of nance (Frijns) that came into force on July 1, 2013, holders of the Foundation, the continuity of the company’s management common shares in aggregate representing at least 1 percent and policies is at stake. This may be the case if a public bid for of the total issued capital may submit proposals for the the common shares of the company has been announced, or agenda of the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. These has been made, or the justified expectation exists that such a 96 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Compliance and integrity management A strong compliance framework is one of the essential AkzoNobel Code of Conduct foundations of good corporate governance and social The Code of Conduct serves as the common reference document which reflects our strategic values and sets out responsibility. Based on a comprehensive Code of our fundamental principles and rules for doing business. The code applies equally to our corporate actions and the Conduct, AkzoNobel’s framework is supported by behavior of individual employees, regardless of the market implementation processes, monitoring and control segment, function or country in which we operate. The Code of Conduct, Business Principles, directives, rules, manuals procedures, and is assessed by the Supervisory Board. and guidelines are part of the company’s directives frameIn everything we do, we aim for the highest standards work, which set out internal rules for employees. Available in 27 languages, the code is regularly distributed in paper form of performance and behavior. Our conduct must be and widely available online. exemplary wherever we operate. AkzoNobel is subject to local, regional and international laws and regulations, regulatory controls and customs and practices in the countries in which we do business. Our legal and Compliance framework compliance experts are monitoring and adapting to significant and rapid changes in a wide range of legal and compliance areas, to ensure that the code and our internal regulations HSE & Treatment of remain suited for purpose and are properly applied. Competition law Anti-bribery Export control Sustainability employees Code of Conduct for joint ventures, acquisitions and our supply chain We make sure that all employees – including those at joint ventures we operate and at newly acquired companies – are Share dealing Privacy Information security Human rights Fraud aware of, and comply with, laws and regulations that are relevant to their specific role, as well as the Code of Conduct and related internal regulations. In those joint ventures we do not control, we encourage our partners to consistently apply the values and principles reflected in our code when doing business. AkzoNobel expects employees of newly acquired companies to adhere to the Code of Conduct in their daily actions and to live up to our strategic values, our fundamental principles AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 97 and rules for doing business. They receive extensive trainto their manager, the relevant business level compliance visory Board. The Compliance Committee consists of the ing, which enables them to fully acquaint themselves with the committee, the compliance department, or the corporate General Counsel (chair), Corporate Secretary, Senior Legal compliance framework and the code. Compliance Committee. A global reporting helpline is availCounsel and Corporate Directors of Internal Audit, Control, able to our employees 24 hours a day to report confidenCompliance, Human Resources and HSE and Sustainability. We want to do business with suppliers who share our values tially – and, if desired, anonymously – potential breaches and principles. Our Vendor Policy, designed to help ensure a of the code. These reporting mechanisms are part of the Business unit management and corporate staff departments sustainable supply chain, specifically states our desire to do complaints procedure and are described in our SpeakUp! are responsible and accountable for raising awareness and business with partners who endorse our ethical and social policy and manual. All alleged breaches of the code that are compliance within their respective businesses and departand environmental standards as formulated in the code. brought to the attention of the compliance department are ments. We have appointed business compliance officers and Vendors confirm that they conduct their business in investigated. set up compliance committees in each of the businesses. accordance with core compliance principles through the The compliance officer assesses the main risks, improves AkzoNobel Vendor Policy Declaration. In addition, in 2013 In 2013, a total of 151 alleged breaches of the Code of and monitors compliance and its effectiveness and ensures we joined Together for Sustainability, an initiative designed to Conduct were reported, both through SpeakUp! and other training of the relevant employees. The compliance officers develop and implement a global audit program to assess and channels. The divestment of Decorative Paints North America also ensure that alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct improve sustainability practices within the supply chains of the in April 2013 had a significant impact on the overall number are investigated and findings and lessons learned are reported ­chemical industry. See Note 6 of the Sustainability statements of Code of Conduct matters reported, compared with to the relevant business management team, who then take for more details. previous years. Of the 151 matters reported, 57 were appropriate action. sub­stantiated, with 24 still under review. Nine were managed Code of Conduct training, communication by the Compliance Committee as they met certain criteria. Compliance and integrity reporting and monitoring and awareness By subject, around 54 percent of the matters investigated AkzoNobel has developed a set of corporate reporting and We appreciate that raising awareness through effective in 2013 related to business integrity; around 41 percent monitoring tools to manage compliance and integrity at the communication and training is pivotal to strengthening our related to treatment of employees and approximately company. The compliance department manages these tools compliance framework, and assists us in protecting the 5 percent related to HSE concerns. Company-wide, and reports on outcome and effectiveness to the Compliance company and our employees against economic and reputa43 employees were dismissed on grounds related to breaches Committee. tional harm. Communication on the Code of Conduct starts of the Code of Conduct. Other sanctions and ­­ reme­ dial for new employees from the moment they join AkzoNobel and actions in substantiated matters included: review of proce­ Complaints procedure (SpeakUp!) includes online and classroom training. Around 95 percent of dures (eight); warnings (four); coaching (three); sus­pen­sion As mentioned earlier, this is the internal system, available 24 our employees have completed the Code of Conduct training (one); and probation (one). Although none of the issues hours a day, which encourages employees to report alleged module. Each year, all employees must confirm their awarereported were material, we are aware of the need to continue breaches of the Code of Conduct. The system is also available ness of the code as part of the annual performance appraisal conducting root cause analyses and take appro­priate actions. for temporary employees, third parties with whom AkzoNobel discussions. The compliance training curriculum also offers has a business relationship (such as customers, suppliers and specialized training to improve critical competencies and Compliance governance agents) and members of the general public. skills to a designated group of employees on topics such as The compliance department, in close collaboration with the competition law, anti-bribery, export control, privacy, fraud Compliance Committee, provides an adequate compliance Competition law compliance declaration awareness, anti-harassment and trade secrets. framework and ensures its enforcement via various methods. Employees who meet defined criteria, such as contact These methods include the application of monitoring and with customers or suppliers, confirm their compliance with Code of Conduct corporate complaints procedure reporting tools, developing the compliance training curricucompetition law as articulated in our Competition Law (SpeakUp!) lum and managing the corporate complaints procedure as Compliance Manual through an annual declaration. Any We value an open dialog with our employees worldwide on a whole, including root cause analyses. The Compliance possible concerns are reported to the General Counsel and our core principle of integrity. Our employees are encouraged Committee assists the Executive Committee in its ultimate appropriate actions are taken. In 2013, 12,700 employees to report potential issues regarding the Code of Conduct responsibility to report to the Audit Committee of the Super­ signed this declaration. 98 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Integrity management Non-financial letter of representation (NFL) At the end of the year, the Managing Director of each busi2010 2011 2012 2013 ness signs the NFL to confirm compliance with the Code of Conduct and other corporate non-financial requirements. Code of Conduct reporting The outcome is reviewed with the responsible member Code of Conduct number of alleged breaches reported 260 245 295 151 of the Executive Committee and General Counsel and Code of Conduct breakdown of alleged breaches the results are reported to the Board of Management and Health & Safety 22 18 42 8 the Audit Committee. Outstanding actions are followed Business integrity 122 112 152 82 up in each business and progressed in quarterly reviews. Treatment of employees 113 112 101 61 The outcome of the NFL process, in combination with the Other 3 3 0 0 ­ internal control self-assessment process, forms the basis Code of Conduct investigation for the Statement of the Board of Management in this Report 2013. Code of Conduct alleged breaches investigated (in %) 100 100 100 100 Code of Conduct alleged breaches handled by the Compliance Committee 23 24 24 9 (in numbers) Share Dealing Code Statement Code of Conduct alleged breaches handled by the relevant businesses 237 221 271 142 Members of the Board of Management, Executive Commit(in numbers) tee and Supervisory Board, along with certain designated Substantiated Code of Conduct breaches (within year) 170 149 163 57 employees, are made aware of their obligations under the Substantiated Code of Conduct breaches (total, including breaches substantiated 170 149 178 -* AkzoNobel Share Dealing Code. in a later year) Number of dismissals for Code of Conduct breaches within year 118 99 131 43 2013 overview Dismissals for Code of Conduct breaches (total, including employees dismissed 120 108 139 -* Training in a later year) Our training program and curriculum is a cornerstone of Compliance monitoring our compliance program. In 2013, we focused in particuCompetition Law Compliance Declaration 13,000 14,400 15,900 12,700 lar on strengthening our anti-bribery compliance framework (number of confirmations) by introducing a refreshed online anti-bribery training for Non-financial letter of representation 100 100 100 100 designated employees. More than 13,000 employees have (% of operational managers) completed the course. This program provides guidance on Code of Conduct training the ban on facilitation payments and sets out norms on gifts Code of Conduct trained (% online employees) 95 95 96 95 and hospitality. *By definition this number is not yet known. We continue to emphasize competition law compliance in the training curriculum. The Executive Committee and Supervisory Board received competition law training in 2013. In addition, the Managing Director of each business met with competition counsel to discuss recent trends and developments in competition law compliance. Sensitive Country Program The Sensitive Country Program was implemented in 2013. Under this program, a small team – consisting of the General AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 99 Counsel, another member of the Executive Committee and For more information on stakeholder engagement and our the Director of Compliance – meets on a quarterly basis. They safety, environmental and supplier processes, please turn to review the extent to which the company does business in the Sustainability statements. countries recognized by monitoring groups such as Transparency International and Freedom House to have significant issues with regards to sanctions and export controls, corruption, human rights, political stability and safety and security. Based on this analysis, we take appropriate action regarding trade with customers in specific countries, including enhanced internal review and the imposition of additional restrictions such as bans. The Sensitive Country Program supplements our export control framework, which contains procedures and training that provide up-to-date guidance for employees on regulatory and enforcement activities, especially those coming from the US and the EU and including rules with extra-territorial effect. Our established global network of business-based export control officers plays a key role in ensuring export control/ sanction compliance. Business and human rights The Code of Conduct also sets out our approach to human and labor rights. Our approach is based on, and confirms, our support for the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the key conventions of the International Labor Organization and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and continue to integrate principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption into our strategy and operations. As a critical element of being a socially responsible company, our businesses and employees are required to respect the human rights of other employees and the communities in which we operate. This is reflected in our Code of Conduct, our global HSE standards, and our Vendor Policy for suppliers. We pay particular attention to the company’s presence and operations in emerg­ing markets, as compliance frameworks risk being less advanced in these regions compared with mature economies. 100 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Remuneration report This report describes our The remuneration and the individual contracts of the members The total remuneration package of the members of the Board remuneration policy and the of the Board of Management are determined by the Supervisory Board, within the framework of the remuneration policy. of Management consists of: remuneration paid to members The remuneration policy was first adopted by the Annual • Base salary General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) in 2005 and has • Performance-related short-term incentive (STI), of the Board of Management since been amended several times, most recently in 2013. with shareholding requirement related share in 2013. The performance share plan for the Board of Management matching opportunity was approved by the AGM in 2004. It has been amended • Performance-related long-term incentive (LTI) in the several times since then, in accordance with article 2:135 of form of shares the Dutch Civil Code, most recently in 2013. The share match• Post-employment benefits ing plan for the Board of Management was approved by the • Other benefits AGM in 2011. Our remuneration policy, including all structures and policies related to the remuneration and employment The various elements of the remuneration package are contracts of the members of the Board of Management, is in set out in more detail below. line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the Code). Base salary The first part of this report describes the remuneration policy The base salary is determined by the Supervisory Board. as it has been adopted over time, while the second part describes the implementation of the policy in 2013. Short-term incentive (annual bonus) The target STI is 100 percent of the base salary for the CEO Remuneration policy and 65 percent of the base salary for any other member. The Our remuneration policy has the objective of providing remuSTI is linked to financial targets (70 percent), as well as the neration in a form which will attract, retain and motivate individual and qualitative targets of the members of the Board members of the Board of Management as top managers of a of Management (30 percent). The specific targets are determajor international company, while protecting and promoting mined annually by the Supervisory Board. In respect of the the company’s objectives. The aim is to provide remuneration financial targets, the Supervisory Board can choose two to at the median level of the external market. three financial metrics and determine their relative weighting from the following list: • EBITDA • EBIT • Operating income (OPI) • Net income (to shareholders) • Operating cash flow (OCF) • Return on investment (ROI) AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 101 These metrics are as used and/or defined in the company’s These performance metrics apply as of 2013. In respect of Other benefits annual report from time to time (subject to minor adjustments grants made prior to 2013, half of the conditional share grant Other benefits – such as a company car and allowances – are if required in order to provide a better indicator of manageis linked to AkzoNobel’s relative sustainability performance determined by the Supervisory Board. ment’s performance). and half to AkzoNobel’s relative TSR performance. Claw back and value adjustment The Supervisory Board sets the performance ranges each Shareholding requirements and share matching The Supervisory Board may claw back variable pay compoyear, i.e. the values below which no payout will be made (the The CEO and any other member of the Board of Management nents paid to members of the Board of Management in the threshold), the “at target” value and the maximum at which are required to build up, over a five-year period from the date of event that such variable pay components were based on the payout will be capped, it being noted that the STI awards appointment, and then hold, at least three times respectively one financial information which is shown within a certain period of will not exceed 150 percent of the base salary for the CEO time their gross base salary in AkzoNobel shares for the duration time to be materially incorrect. and 100 percent of the base salary for any other member of of their tenure as member of the Board of Management. the Board of Management. Pursuant to the rules of the performance share plan and proviBoard members are expected, for these purposes, to use sion II.2.10 of the Code, the Supervisory Board has the power Long-term incentive both their long-term incentive and short-term incentive in the to adjust the outcomes of the STI or the LTI vesting schedules The LTI consists of performance-related shares. Under the manner set out below. if, given the circumstances, this would reflect a fairer measure performance share plan, shares are conditionally granted of performance, provided that targets, in the opinion of the to the members of the Board of Management. Vesting of Board members who have not yet achieved their minimum Supervisory Board, are not more easy or difficult to be satisthese shares is conditional on the achievement of perforshareholding are required to invest one-third of the short-term fied. mance targets during a three-year period. Achievement of incentive they receive (net after tax and other deductions) in the performance targets is determined by the Supervisory AkzoNobel shares. As further encouragement to build up the Loans Board in the first quarter of the year following the three-year minimum holding requirement, Board members who invest The company does not grant personal loans to its Board performance period. The number of vested shares is up to a second third of their short-term incentive in shares members. adjusted for dividends paid over the three-year performance will have such shares matched by the company, one on one, period. The retention period for the shares expires five years after three years from the date of purchase of the shares, on Implementation of the remuneration policy in 2013 after the conditional grant. the condition that the Board member still holds these shares The Supervisory Board ensures that the remuneration policy, and showed a sustained performance during the three-year and its implementation, are aligned with the company’s objecBecause sustainability is considered key to our long-term period, as determined by the Supervisory Board. tives. Both the policy itself, and the checks and balances future, 30 percent of the conditional share grant is linked to applied in its execution, are designed to avoid incidents where AkzoNobel’s relative sustainability performance, which is Board members who continue to invest their short-term incenmembers of the Board of Management – and senior execumeasured as the company’s average position in the Robetives in whole, or in part, in shares after the minimum holding tives for whom similar incentive plans apply – act in their own coSAM ranking during the three-year performance period. requirement has been reached, will have the opportunity to interest, take risks that are not in line with our strategy and risk The remaining 70 percent of the conditional grant of shares have such shares matched subject to the same conditions. appetite, or where remuneration levels cannot be justified in is split equally between AkzoNobel’s relative total shareholder However, such shares will be matched with one share to every any given circumstance. return (TSR) performance compared with the companies in a two shares thus acquired and no shares will be matched to defined peer group, and the development in ROI during the the extent that shares were purchased with more than twoTo ensure that remuneration is linked to performance, a signifperformance period. The TSR peer group and the vesting thirds of the Board member’s net annual short-term incentive. icant proportion of the remuneration package is variable and schemes are determined by the Supervisory Board. In each dependent on the short and long-term performance of the indicase, the maximum at vesting is 150 percent of the relevant Post-employment benefits vidual Board member and the company. Performance targets part of the conditional grant. Members of the Board of Management receive a contribumust be realistic and sufficiently stretching and – particularly tion towards pension and similar retirement benefits, as deterwith regard to the variable remuneration components – the mined by the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board ensures that the relationship between 102 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 the chosen performance criteria and the strategic objectives Base salary Upon its ex-post review of the relationship between the applied, as well as the relationship between remuneration and The base salaries of members of the Board of Management chosen performance criteria and the strategic objectives performance, are properly reviewed and accounted for, both increased by 2.26 percent in 2013. applied, and of the relationship between remuneration and ex-ante and ex-post. performance, the Supervisory Board, given the importance of Short-term incentive (annual bonus) the link between the variable remuneration and the company’s In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the The objectives of the short-term incentive in 2013 were to performance improvement program and strategic ambitions, Remuneration Committee, before setting the targets to be reward performance on ROI, OPI and OCF, to measure indidecided not to make any adjustment to the financial metrics. proposed for adoption by the Supervisory Board, has carried vidual and collective performance and to encourage progout scenario analyses of the possible financial outcomes ress in the achievement of long-term strategic objectives. Long-term incentives of meeting target levels, as well as maximum performance On the outcome of the short-term incentive elements (ROI, The objectives of our long-term incentive plan are to encourlevels, and how they may affect the level and structure of the OPI, OCF and personal targets), the Supervisory Board age long-term sustainable economic and shareholder value remuneration of the members of the Board of Management. applies a reasonableness test in which the actual ambition creation – both absolute and relative to competitors – and to level of the performance targets is assessed critically in light align Board of Management interests with those of shareholdWe aim to maintain overall remuneration levels that are at of the assumptions made at the beginning of the year. It also ers, as well as ensuring retention of the members of the Board the median level of the external market. For benchmarking includes an assessment of the progress made with the strateof Management. Performance-related shares are considered purposes, a peer group has been defined by the Supervisory gic objectives under prevailing market conditions. to provide a strong alignment with shareholders’ interests. Board. The peer group currently consists of the following companies: The target ROI, OPI and OCF have been determined by the Stock option plan Supervisory Board. Qualitative targets are set and assessed Stock options were conditionally granted for the last time in • Royal Ahold • Royal KPN by the Supervisory Board in the context of the medium-term 2007 and vested for the last time in 2010. As the total option • Arkema • Lafarge objectives of the company. AkzoNobel will not disclose all the term is seven years, the last stock options that vested under • Clariant • Royal Philips targets as they are considered commercially sensitive informathe stock option plan can be exercised until the expiration • Royal DSM • Randstad tion. However, the targets for 2013 included goals set in reladate in 2014. • Heineken • Reckitt Benckiser tion to delivering on the performance improvement program. • Henkel • Solvay The exercise price of the stock options is the NYSE Euronext ROI, OPI and OCF are based on the company’s financial Amsterdam opening price on the first day after the Annual The Remuneration Committee consults professional indepenresults in constant currencies. ROI was calculated by deterGeneral Meeting of shareholders that the AkzoNobel share dent remuneration experts to ensure an appropriate comparimining the ratio of operating income over invested capital is quoted ex-dividend in the year in which the options were son. It further reviews the impact on pay differentials within using the numbers as reported. OPI was calculated as the conditionally granted. the company, which is taken into account by the Supervisory number reported for IFRS purposes, in constant currencies. Board when the overall remuneration is determined. When OCF was calculated as EBITDA minus the change in operPerformance share plan other benefits are granted, the Supervisory Board ensures ating working capital, capital expenditure as approved and In line with the remuneration policy, as applicable in previous that these are in line with market norms. remaining incidentals. In 2013, the performance against the grant years, vesting of 50 percent of the shares conditionally targets set for ROI, OPI and OCF was as follows: granted in 2011 under the performance share plan (in respect For communication purposes, the table Compensation overof which the performance period ended on December 31, view members of the Board of Management 2013 (see next 2013 performance on financial measures 2013) was linked to AkzoNobel’s relative sustainability perforpage) presents an overview of the remuneration of the members mance by taking AkzoNobel’s average position in the RobeMeasure Payout as % of target of the Board of Management who were in office in 2013. RefercoSAM ranking. ROI 55% ence is made to Note 22 of the Financial statements for more OPI 81% details. The implementation of the remuneration policy in 2013 OCF 66% will be a separate agenda item at the 2014 AGM. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 103 For all conditional grants made in 2011, the relevant vesting This peer group is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the AkzoNobel’s TSR performance over the period 2011 to 2013 scheme has been determined by the Supervisory Board as companies in the group remain appropriate peers. Occasionally, resulted in a tenth position within the ranking of the peer follows: changes need to be made, particularly if one of the companies group companies. This ranking did not result in any vesting of in the peer group is taken over. The Supervisory Board will see shares for the TSR part of the share plan. Average position in RobecoSAM ranking during to it that, to the extent reasonably possible, a replacement has performance period no impact on the company’s relative TSR ranking. Based on AkzoNobel’s combined sustainability and TSR Vesting (as % of half of performance, the final vesting percentage of the 2011 condiRank conditional grant) The following vesting scheme has been applied in respect of tional grant after including the dividend yield during the perfor1 150% the conditional grants made in 2011: mance period (determined to be 10.09 percent), equalled 2 125% 77.98 percent. 3 100% TSR vesting scheme for the conditional grants 4–6 75% This resulted in a total vesting of 77.98 percent of the shares 7 – 10 50% Vesting (as % of half of that were conditionally granted in 2011. Upon its ex-post 11 – 15 25% Rank conditional grant) review of the relationship between the chosen performance Below 15 0% 1 150% criteria and the strategic objectives applied, and of the relation2 135% ship between remuneration and performance, the Supervisory 3 120% AkzoNobel ranked first in 2013 and 2012 and second in 2011 Board, given the importance of the link between the variable 4 100% in the relevant RobecoSAM ranking. As a result, AkzoNobel’s remuneration and the company’s strategic ambitions, decided 5 75% sustainability performance over the period 2011 through 2013 not to make any correction in respect of the definitive award. resulted in a vesting of 141.7 percent for this part of the long6 50% term incentive. 7 25% The number of performance-related shares conditionally 8 – 11 0% granted under the 2013 plan amounted to 24,200 for the CEO For the 2011 award, the remaining 50 percent was linked to AkzoNobel’s relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance compared with the companies in a defined peer Compensation overview members of the Board of Management 2013 group. Leif Darner 1 Ton Büchner Keith Nichols Board member Tex Gunning 1 Chief Executive Chief Financial Performance Board member Independent external specialists conduct an analysis to in € Officer Officer Coatings Decorative Paints calculate the number of shares that will vest according to the Base salary 820,000 616,000 200,700 200,700 TSR ranking. In order to adjust for changes in exchange rates, Short-term incentive 630,900 308,100 – – all local currencies are converted into euros. The relative TSR Share awards 2 807,700 857,900 996,900 1,367,600 performance is compared with a peer group as determined by Post-employment benefits 291,600 221,800 – – the Supervisory Board. Other post-employment benefits 3 – – 58,900 58,900 Other emoluments 4 8,100 228,900 2,500 2,700 The peer group currently consists of the following companies: Other compensation 5 – 73,600 50,700 – Total remuneration 2,558,300 2,306,300 1,309,700 1,629,900 • Arkema • PPG Industries • DuPont • RPM Industrial 1 U  ntil April 26, 2013. • Kansai Paint • Sherwin-Williams 2 Costs relating to share awards (Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan) are non-cash and relate to the expenses following IFRS2. 3 Other post-employment benefits refers to payments intended for building up retirement benefits other than those included in Post-employment benefits. • Kemira OYJ • Solvay 4 Other emoluments refers to social security cost. For Mr. Nichols this refers to the employer’s contribution in the UK. • Nippon Paint • Valspar Corporation 5 Other compensation refers to compensation for living expenses and home leave allowances (Mr. Darner & Mr. Nichols). 104 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 and 18,200 for the CFO. The former members of the Board decided that where, in the event of a takeover, the payout Pension contributions of Management who left the company during 2013 received under the performance share plan is between 100 percent The contributions for the members of the Board of Managepro-rata conditional grants under the plan. and 150 percent, it will, at its discretion – taking into account ment are defined as a percentage of income as determined the performance of the company prior to the takeover bid by the Supervisory Board. Currently, they are based on age. The above vesting schemes apply in respect of conditional – decide whether the projected outcome is fair and may In principle, the premiums are paid over the base salary in share grants made until 2013. As of 2013, the relative weightdecide to adjust the vesting upwards or downwards within the current year (which may include base salary payments to ing is ROI performance 35 percent, TSR ranking 35 percent the bandwidth mentioned. This does not affect the discretion Board members who step down or have agreed to step down and SAM ranking 30 percent. No further amendments have the Supervisory Board has to correct the variable remuneraprior to their regular retirement age for effective succession been made to the sustainability and TSR schemes. The tion of the Board of Management upwards or downwards in planning as described under Employment agreements) and Supervisory Board has set the ROI metric applied in the LTI exceptional circumstances. It is noted that a takeover would the short-term incentive of the previous year. The premiums for 2013 and to be achieved by the end of 2015 as follows: not influence the RobecoSAM sustainability ranking of the will therefore vary depending on the performance during the company nor the ROI performance and therefore the Superprevious year and the age of the Board member. External ROI vesting scheme of conditional grant series 2013-2015 visory Board will in such event primarily take into account the reference data can be used in determining market competiVesting (as % of company’s TSR performance. tive levels of pension arrangements. Performance 35% of conditional grant) ≥ 16.5% 150% Claw back and value adjustment The pension entitlements at pension age depend on the premi14.0% to 16.5% linear In 2013 there was no cause for a claw back or value adjustums received and the investment results during the period. 14.0% 100% ment by the Supervisory Board. Depending on whether the pension entitlements qualify as a 12.5% to 14.0% linear pension under the Dutch Pension Act, they are reported as 12.5% 50% Shareholding requirements and share matching “post-employment benefits” (pension) or “other post-employ< 12.5% 0% Reference is made to the table under Note 22 of the Finanment benefits” (similar post-employment benefits). cial statements for the number of shares that were held at A performance between the above points will be measured year-end 2013 and 2012 by the members of the Board of Leaving arrangements and other special remuneration on a linear scale. Management. In the table below, an overview is given of paid during 2013 the shares acquired by the relevant members of the Board In 2013, Mr. Darner stepped down from the Board of ManageIn accordance with provision II.2.13d of the Code, the schedof Management in 2013 that would, subject to the condiment. Details regarding his leaving arrangements were disclosed ule at the end of this remuneration report sets out for 2008 tions of the share matching plan, qualify for matching by the in the previous annual report. Mr. Gunning retired from his posionwards (i) the number of at target shares conditionally company. tion with the company. granted; (ii) the number of shares which have vested; (iii) the number of shares held by members of the Board of ManageQualifying shares Employment agreements ment at the end of the lock up period; (iv) the face value at the Qualifying shares acquired Agreements for members of the Board of Management are conditional share grant, at vesting and at the end of the lock Board members in 2013 concluded for a period not exceeding four years in accordance up period respectively. Ton Büchner 1,429 with the Code. After the initial term, re-appointments may take Keith Nichols – place for consecutive periods of up to four years each. The notice In accordance with the company’s Articles of Association, period by the Board member is subject to a term of three months; the Code and the rules of the performance share plan, the Shares obtained by members of the Board of Management notice by the company shall be subject to a six-month term. number of shares to be conditionally granted to members under the performance share plan are taken into account for of the Board of Management is determined by the Supervishare ownership purposes (but not for matching purposes) Members of the Board of Management normally retire in the sory Board, within the limits of the remuneration policy and as soon as they have become unconditional. This includes year that they reach the age of 62. The employment agreethe maximum number of shares as adopted and approved, vested shares that are to be retained during the blocking ments allow the Supervisory Board to request a Board respectively, by the AGM. The Supervisory Board has period of two years after vesting. member to resign between the age of 60 and the regular AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 105 retirement age for effective succession planning within the Remuneration policy planned by the Supervisory Board 2014, the Supervisory Board will consider a more challenging Board. In such an exceptional situation, the Board member for the next financial year and subsequent years performance range as stated in the table below. concerned will be entitled to the “fixed” remuneration compoNo changes in the remuneration policy are currently forenent until the date of retirement. seen. The Supervisory Board will continue to closely monitor ROI performance range series 2014-2016 whether the policy and its implementation are in line with the Threshold Target Maximum Reference is made to Note 22 of the Financial statements for objectives of the company. The metrics applied for the STI in Payout opportunity 50% 100% 150% an overview of the payments made to former Board members 2013 (ROI, OPI, OCF) will continue to be applied in 2014. As Target 13% 15% 17% in 2013. regards the ROI metric for the long-term incentive awards in Valuation 1 shares Board of Management Unconditional shares, vested Board Member Conditional share grant Number of vested shares End of lock up period Value at grant Value at vesting (5 years after grant) Series Number in € Number in € Number Value in € Keith Nichols Series 2008 2010 8,733 478,481 – – – – Series 2009 2011 27,400 806,656 19,125 714,510 9,563 538,779 Series 2010 2012 18,300 849,120 13,471 670,115 6,738 NA Series 2011 2013 18,600 864,714 14,504 817,171 – NA Conditional shares, not vested Conditional share Vesting at min Vesting at max Board Member grant at target performance performance Series Number Value at grant in € Number Number Ton Büchner Series 2012 2014 31,900 1,191,784 – 47,850 Series 2013 2015 24,200 1,203,829 – 36,300 Matching shares 2012 (vesting 2016) 10,810 403,862 – 10,810 Matching shares 2013 (vesting 2016) 1,429 71,086 – 1,429 Keith Nichols Series 2012 2014 23,900 892,904 – 35,850 Series 2013 2015 18,200 905,359 – 27,300 1 Values based on the share price on January 1 of the relevant financial year (face value). 106 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 AkzoNobel on the capital markets Proposed dividend of €1.45 per Close dialog with the capital markets Dividend paid in € per share share (on a par with 2012) We attach great value to maintaining an open dialog with the financial community in order to promote transparency. Interim dividend Final dividend Management gave presentations at a number of industry Settlement of $500 million bond conferences during the year, as well as holding meetings with 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.08 which matured at the end of 2013 investors and analysts. In February, a strategy update was issued to reinforce the vision of leading market positions deliv1.05 ering leading performance.  Dividend policy AkzoNobel’s dividend policy is to pay a stable to rising dividend 0.30 0.32 0.33 0.33 0.33 each year. Cash dividend is default, stock dividend is optional. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total proposed dividend of €1.45 per share The Board of Management proposes a dividend of €1.45 per Share price performance common share. AkzoNobel’s shares will be trading ex-diviOur share price increased 12 percent in 2013, underperformdend as of May 2, 2014. In compliance with the listing requireing both the DJ Stoxx Chemicals and AEX indices. The share ments of Euronext Amsterdam, the record date will be May 6, price performance relative to these indices for a one-year 2014. The dividend as proposed to the 2014 Annual General period is shown in the graph on the following page. Meeting of shareholders will be payable as of May 28, 2014. The dividend paid over the last five years is shown in the graph on this page. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 107 Share price performance 2013 Analyst recommendations in % Key share data AkzoNobel share price in € 2011 2012 2013 AkzoNobel Year-end (share price in €) 37.36 49.75 55.71 AEX index C Year-high (share price in €) 53.74 49.75 56.08 DJ Stoxx Chemicals index A Buy 41 Year-low (share price in €) 29.25 35.16 42.65 60 A B Hold 31 Year-average (share price in €) 42.2 42.23 49.32 DJ Stoxx C Sell 28 Average daily trade (in € millions) 47.5 39.6 39.8 55 AEX Average daily trade 1.1 0.9 0.8 Akzo (in millions of shares) 50 B Number of shares outstanding at 234.7 239.0 242.6 year-end (in millions) 45 Market capitalization at year-end (in 8.8 11.9 13.5 Listings € billions) 40 AkzoNobel’s common shares are listed on the stock ex­­­ Net income per share (in €) 2.04 (8.82)* 3.00 change of Euronext Amsterdam. AkzoNobel is included in Dividend per share (in €) 1.45 1.45 1.45 31 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sept 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 31 Dec 13 the AEX Index, which consists of the top 25 listed companies Dividend yield (in %) 3.4 3.4 2.9 in the Netherlands, ranked on the basis of their turnover in * As restated. the stock market and free float. The AkzoNobel weight in the Analyst recommendations AEX index was 4.43 percent at year-end 2013. In 2013, 206 At year-end 2013, AkzoNobel was covered by 29 equity million AkzoNobel shares were traded on Euronext Amsterbrokers and the following analyst recommendations were dam (2012: 241 million). AkzoNobel has a sponsored level 1 applicable (see diagram next column): ADR program and ADRs can be traded on the international OTCQX platform in the US. The 3:1 ratio (ADR:ORD) became effective from January 2, 2012 onwards. See the table below for stock codes and ticker symbols: Euronext ticker symbol AKZA ISIN common share NL0000009132 OTC ticker symbol AKZOY ISIN ADR US0101993055 Sedol code 5458314 108 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Distribution of shares 2013 AkzoNobel in key sustainability indices Bonds For the eighth year in a row, AkzoNobel was included in the The proceeds from the divestment of the North American Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World). In 2013, Decorative Paints business enabled the repayment of the we retained the number one ranking in the newly named $500 million bond which matured at the end of 2013. For a full E F Materials industry group. We were also once again representoverview of our bonds, please see the Bond & Credit InformaA North America 47 B UK/Ireland 12 ed in the Carbon Disclosure Project, with an improved rating tion in the Investors section of our corporate website. C The Netherlands 12 D for transparency of reporting and performance. The Carbon A Disclosure Project represents more than 500 institutional Debt maturity* in € millions (nominal amounts) D Rest of Europe 14 E Rest of world 3 investors, with over $60 trillion in assets under management. € Bonds £ Bonds F Undisclosed 12 C In addition we qualified for the Climate Disclosure Leadership B Index (CDLI Benelux) during 2013, and became the leader in 825 800 the Sustainalytics chemicals industry ranking. 750 622 Distribution of shares 2012 Broad base of international shareholders AkzoNobel, which has a 100 percent free float, has a broad 300 base of international shareholders. Based on an independent E shareholder ID carried out in August 2013, the chart on the A North America 45 F left shows the geographical spread. Around 9 percent of the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 B UK/Ireland 12 company’s share capital is held by private investors, most of * At the end of Q4 2013. C The Netherlands 12 D A whom are resident in the Netherlands. D Rest of Europe 16 For more information, please refer to www.akzonobel.com/ E Rest of world 3 Credit rating and outlook investors F Undisclosed 12 C AkzoNobel is committed to maintaining a strong investment B grade rating. Regular review meetings are held between rating agencies and AkzoNobel senior management. See table for present rating and outlook. Rating agency Long-term rating Outlook Moody’s 1 BAA1 Negative Standard & Poor’s 2 BBB+ Stable 1 Rating affirmed on July 31, 2013. 2 Rating affirmed on Jan 22, 2014. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Governance and compliance 109 Financial statements Consolidated statement of income 112 Company financial statements 155 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 112 Note A General information 155 Consolidated balance sheet 113 Note B Financial non-current assets and provisions 157 for subsidiaries Consolidated statement of cash flows 114 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 115 Note C Trade and other receivables 157 Segment information 116 Note D Cash and cash equivalents 157 Note E Shareholders’ equity 157 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Note F Long-term borrowings 158 Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies 117 Note G Short-term debt 158 Note 2 Scope of consolidation 124 Note H Financial instruments 159 Note 3 Operating income 126 Note I Contingent liabilities 159 Note 4 Employee benefits 126 Note J Auditor’s fees 159 Note 5 Financing income and expenses 128 Note 6 Income tax 129 Other information Note 7 Intangible assets 131 Independent auditor’s report 160 Note 8 Property, plant and equipment 133 Profit allocation and distributions 161 Note 9 Investments in associates and joint ventures 134 Note 10 Other financial non-current assets 134 Note 11 Inventories 135 Note 12 Trade and other receivables 135 Note 13 Cash and cash flows 136 Note 14 Group equity 136 Note 15 Post-retirement benefit provisions 138 Note 16 Other provisions 144 Note 17 Long-term borrowings 144 Financial statements Note 18 Short-term borrowings 145 Note 19 Trade and other payables 145 Note 20 Contingent liabilities and commitments 146 Note 21 Related party transactions 147 Note 22 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 147 and the Board of Management Note 23 Financial risk management 150 Consolidated statement of income Consolidated statement of comprehensive income In € millions Note 2012 1 2013 In € millions 2012 1 2013 Profit/(loss) for the period (2,029) 792 Continuing operations Revenue 15,390 14,590 Other comprehensive income Cost of sales 3 (9,591) (8,951) Items that will not be reclassified to statement of income: Gross profit 5,799 5,639 Post-retirement benefits (1,298) (200) Impairment 3 (2,106) (139) Income tax 249 (64) Selling expenses 3 (3,192) (3,023) Net effect (1,049) (264) General and administrative expenses 3 (1,275) (1,345) Research and development expenses 3 (384) (373) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to statement of income: Other operating income/(expenses) 3 (40) 199 Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 34 (510) (6,997) (4,681) Cash flow hedges (7) (2) Operating income (1,198) 958 Income tax 5 (7) Financing income 5 59 32 Net effect 32 (519) Financing expenses related to pensions 5 (3) (21) Other financing expenses 5 (261) (211) Other comprehensive income for the period (1,017) (783) Results from associates and joint 9 13 14 ventures Comprehensive income for the period (3,046) 9 Profit/(loss) before tax (1,390) 772 Comprehensive income attributable to Income tax 6 (203) (111) Shareholders of the company (3,093) (20) Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (1,593) 661 Non-controlling interests 47 29 Discontinued operations Comprehensive income for the period (3,046) 9 Profit/(loss) for the period from 2 (436) 131 discontinued operations Profit/(loss) for the period (2,029) 792 Attributable to Shareholders of the company (2,092) 724 Non-controlling interests 63 68 Profit/(loss) for the period (2,029) 792 Earnings per share, in € Continuing operations Basic 14 (6.98) 2.46 Diluted 14 (6.98) 2.44 Discontinued operations Basic 14 (1.84) 0.54 Diluted 14 (1.84) 0.54 Total operations Basic 14 (8.82) 3.00 Diluted 14 (8.82) 2.98 1 Restated for the revised IAS 19. 112 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Consolidated balance sheet at year-end, before allocation of profit In € millions Note January 1, 2012 1 Year-end 2012 1 Year-end 2013 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 7 7,392 4,454 3,906 Property, plant and equipment 8 3,705 3,739 3,589 Deferred tax assets 6 907 1,146 1,071 Investment in associates and 9 198 185 183 joint ventures Other financial non-current assets 10 1,559 1,297 965 Total non-current assets 13,761 10,821 9,714 Current assets Inventories 11 1,924 1,545 1,426 Current tax assets 6 98 91 86 Trade and other receivables 12 2,937 2,698 2,536 Cash and cash equivalents 13 1,635 1,752 2,098 Assets held for sale 2 – 921 203 Total current assets 6,594 7,007 6,349 Total assets 20,355 17,828 16,063 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders’ equity 14 9,031 5,764 5,594 Non-controlling interests 529 464 427 Group equity 9,560 6,228 6,021 Non-current liabilities Post-retirement benefit provisions 15 1,728 1,942 1,237 Other provisions 16 664 735 701 Deferred tax liabilities 6 541 434 389 Long-term borrowings 17 3,035 3,388 2,666 Total non-current liabilities 5,968 6,499 4,993 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 18 494 662 961 Current tax liabilities 6 413 390 220 Trade and other payables 19 3,369 3,242 3,218 Current portion of provisions 16 551 455 601 Liabilities held for sale 2 – 352 49 Total current liabilities 4,827 5,101 5,049 Total equity and liabilities 20,355 17,828 16,063 1 Restated for the revised IAS 19. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 113 Consolidated statement of cash flows In € millions Note 2012 1 2013 Profit/(loss) for the period (2,029) 792 Income from discontinued operations 2 436 (131) Adjustments to reconcile earnings to cash generated from operating activities Amortization/depreciation 7, 8 625 616 Impairment losses 7, 8 2,106 139 Financing income and expenses 5 205 200 Results from associates and joint ventures 9 (13) (14) Pre-tax result on divestments 28 (246) Income tax 6 203 111 Changes in working capital 13 251 (13) Changes in provisions 13 (703) (395) Interest paid (231) (228) Income tax paid 6 (209) (230) Other changes 68 115 Net cash from operating activities 737 716 Capital expenditures 8 (826) (666) Interest received 48 38 Dividends from associates and joint ventures 9 9 10 Acquisition of consolidated companies 2 (94) (34) Proceeds from divestments 2 216 347 Other changes (79) (24) Net cash from investing activities (726) (329) Proceeds from borrowings 17, 18 1,583 249 Borrowings repaid 18 (1,013) (502) Acquisition of non-controlling interests 2 (51) – Issue of shares for stock option plan 4 8 13 Dividends (256) (286) Net cash from financing activities 271 (526) Net cash used for continuing operations 282 (139) Cash flows from discontinued operations 2 (53) 675 Net change in cash and cash equivalents of continued and discontinued operations 229 536 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 13 1,335 1,558 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6) (74) Cash and cash equivalents 1,558 2,020 1 Restated for the revised IAS19. 114 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to shareholders of the company Other (statutory) Additional Cash flow Cumulative reserves and Subscribed paid-in hedge translation undistributed Shareholders’ Non-controlling In € millions share capital capital reserve reserve profit equity interests Group equity Balance at January 1, 2012 469 47 (9) 4 8,520 9,031 529 9,560 Profit/(loss) for the period – – – – (2,092) (2,092) 63 (2,029) Transfer to goodwill – – (8) – – (8) – (8) Reclassification into the statement of income – – 19 39 – 58 – 58 Other comprehensive income – – (18) 12 (1,299) (1,305) (16) (1,321) Tax on other comprehensive income – – (1) 6 249 254 – 254 Comprehensive income – – (8) 57 (3,142) (3,093) 47 (3,046) Dividend paid 7 121 – – (342) (214) (42) (256) Equity-settled transactions – – – – 43 43 – 43 Issue of common shares 2 6 – – – 8 – 8 Acquisitions and divestments – – – – (11) (11) (70) (81) Balance at December 31, 2012 1 478 174 (17) 61 5,068 5,764 464 6,228 Profit for the period – – – – 724 724 68 792 Transfer to goodwill – – (2) – – (2) – (2) Reclassification into the statement of income – – 19 (65) – (46) – (46) Other comprehensive income – – (19) (406) (200) (625) (39) (664) Tax on other comprehensive income – – – (7) (64) (71) – (71) Comprehensive income – – (2) (478) 460 (20) 29 9 Dividend paid 6 133 – – (349) (210) (76) (286) Equity-settled transactions – – – – 46 46 – 46 Issue of common shares 1 12 – – – 13 – 13 Acquisitions and divestments – – – – 1 1 10 11 Balance at December 31, 2013 485 319 (19) (417) 5,226 5,594 427 6,021 1 Restated for the revised IAS 19. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 115 Segment information Our Decorative Paints businesses supply a full range of interior industry and we serve a large range of customers including producers, can makers and vehicle bodyshops. Our Specialty and exterior decoration and protection products for both the ship and yacht builders and architects, consumer electronics Chemicals products are used in a wide variety of everyday professional and do-it-yourself markets. Our Performance and appliance companies, steel manufacturers, the products such as ice cream, soups, disinfectants, plastics, Coatings businesses are represented in most markets of this construction industry, furniture makers, aircraft, bus and truck soaps, detergents, cosmetics, paper and asphalt. Information per Business Area Amortization and Revenue from third parties Group revenue depreciation Incidentals Operating income ROS% In € millions 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 2013 Decorative Paints 4,246 4,131 4,297 4,174 (176) (162) (2,120) 198 (2,012) 398 2.2 9.5 Performance Coatings 5,635 5,532 5,702 5,571 (131) (138) – – 542 525 9.5 9.4 Specialty Chemicals 5,372 4,787 5,543 4,949 (306) (308) (24) (121) 500 297 9.0 6.0 Corporate and other 137 140 (152) (104) (12) (8) (26) (16) (228) (262) – – Total 15,390 14,590 15,390 14,590 (625) (616) (2,170) 61 (1,198) 958 5.9 6.6 Invested capital Total assets Total liabilities Capital expenditures ROI% In € millions 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 2013 Decorative Paints 2,981 2,589 5,777 4,315 2,059 1,987 206 171 2.0 13.7 Performance Coatings 2,439 2,251 4,011 4,062 1,364 1,593 123 143 21.7 21.3 Specialty Chemicals 3,528 3,355 4,774 4,388 1,215 983 484 346 13.6 8.2 Corporate and other 1,114 1,086 2,345 3,095 6,610 5,430 13 6 – – Assets held for sale – – 921 203 352 49 – – – – Total 10,062 9,281 17,828 16,063 11,600 10,042 826 666 7.7 9.6 Regional information Intangible assets and property, Revenue by region of destination plant and equipment Invested capital Capital expenditures In € millions 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 The Netherlands 745 765 880 834 1,175 1,174 110 94 Germany 1,258 1,176 507 523 747 725 69 87 Sweden 486 473 433 396 518 424 70 38 UK 901 887 1,006 1,021 1,342 1,286 68 74 Other European countries 3,647 3,531 1,269 910 1,588 1,223 85 66 US and Canada 2,294 2,155 1,081 1,002 1,748 1,730 70 62 Brazil 987 925 524 465 558 557 123 70 Other Latin American countries 636 628 84 74 170 140 16 13 China 1,621 1,643 1,610 1,563 1,364 1,295 135 104 India 371 353 152 138 122 116 16 17 Other Asian countries 1,716 1,380 570 481 525 461 55 23 Other regions 728 674 77 88 205 150 9 18 Total 15,390 14,590 8,193 7,495 10,062 9,281 826 666 1 Excluding goodwill impairment. 116 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Notes to the Consolidated 1 Note 1: Summary of significant accounting policies financial statements General information • recognizing actuarial gains and losses in other Akzo Nobel N.V. is a company headquartered in the comprehensive income, thus removing the corridor Netherlands. The address of our registered office is method that was applied so far Strawinskylaan 2555, Amsterdam. We have filed a list of • calculating the expected return on plan assets in the subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, statement of income using the discount rate for the drawn up in conformity with sections 379 and 414 of Book defined benefit obligation, instead of applying an expected 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, with the Trade Registry of rate of return on plan assets Amsterdam. • recognizing administration costs as expense as incurred, with the exception that administration costs related to We have prepared the Consolidated financial statements management of plan assets, which are recorded in other of Akzo Nobel N.V. in accordance with International comprehensive income Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the • recognizing past service costs in the statement of income European Union. They also comply with the financial in full as incurred reporting requirements included in Section 9 of Book 2 of The effect of the implementation of the amendments to the Netherlands Civil Code, as far as applicable. IAS 19 is disclosed in Note 15. On February 19, 2014, the Board of Management Other changes authorized the financial statements for issue. The financial Other accounting pronouncements, including IFRS 13 statements as presented in this report are subject to the “Fair Value Measurement” and amendments to IAS 1 adoption by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. “Presentation of Financial Statements”, which became effective for 2013, had no material impact on our Consolidation Consolidated financial statements. The Consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Akzo Nobel N.V. and its subsidiaries. Discontinued operations (Note 2) Subsidiaries are companies over which Akzo Nobel N.V. A discontinued operation is a component of our business has directly and/or indirectly the power to control the that represents a separate major line of business or financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits. In geographical area of operations that has been disposed of assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The a view to resale. Classification as a discontinued operation financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the Consolidated financial statements from the date that criteria to be classified as held for sale. When an operation control commences until the date that control ceases. is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative Non-controlling interests in equity and in results are statements of income and statement of cash flows are presented separately. Transactions between consolidated reclassified as if the operation had been discontinued from companies and intercompany balances are eliminated. the start of the comparative period. Accounting policies, as set out below, have been applied consistently for all periods presented in these Consolidated Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if it is financial statements and by all subsidiaries. highly probable that the carrying value will be recovered through a sale transaction within one year rather than Change in accounting policies through continuing use. When reclassifying assets and Employee benefits liabilities as held for sale, we recognize the assets and The amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, effective liabilities at the lower of their carrying value or fair value January 1, 2013, have been applied in our 2013 financial less selling costs. Assets held for sale are not depreciated statements. The amendments include: but tested for impairment. Impairment losses on assets AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 117 and liabilities held for sale are recognized in the statement of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and other balance sheet date. Resulting foreign currency differences of income. investments, as long as paid in cash, are included in cash are included in the statement of income. Non-monetary from investing activities. Acquisitions or divestments of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are The North American Decorative Paints business, divested subsidiaries are presented net of cash and cash equivalents translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate in 2013, was classified as a discontinued operation in 2012 acquired or disposed of, respectively. Acquisitions of at acquisition date. and 2013. non-controlling interests are reported in cash from financing activities. Cash flows from derivatives are recognized in the The assets and liabilities of entities with other functional Use of estimates statement of cash flows in the same category as those of currencies are translated into the functional currency The preparation of the financial statements in compliance the hedged items. of the parent entity, using the exchange rates at the with IFRS requires management to make judgments, balance sheet date. The income and expenses of estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in Earnings per share entities with other functional currencies are translated the financial statements. The estimates and assumptions We present basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for into the functional currency, using the exchange rates at are based on experience and various other factors that our common shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing transaction date. Foreign exchange differences resulting are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances the profit or loss attributable to holders of our common from translation into the functional currency of investments and are used to judge the carrying values of assets and shares by the weighted average number of common shares in subsidiaries and of intercompany loans of a permanent liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is calculated by nature with other functional currencies are recorded as The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed dividing the profit or loss attributable to holders of common a separate component (cumulative translation reserves) on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates shares by the weighted average number of common shares within other comprehensive income. These cumulative are recognized in the period in which the estimate is outstanding, including the effects for potentially dilutive translation adjustments are reclassified (either fully or revised or in the revision period and future periods, if the common shares, which comprise of stock options and partly) to the statement of income upon disposal (either changed estimates affect both current and future periods. performance-related shares granted to employees. fully or partly) or liquidation of the foreign subsidiary to The most critical accounting policies involving a higher which the investment or the intercompany loan with a degree of judgment and complexity in applying principles Operating segments permanent nature relates to. Before being consolidated, of valuation and for which changes in the assumptions We determine and present operating segments (“Business the financial statements of subsidiaries established in and estimates could result in significantly different results Areas”) on the information that internally is provided to hyperinflationary countries are adjusted for the effects of than those recorded in the financial statements are the the Executive Committee, the body that was our chief changing prices of the local currency. following: operating decision maker during 2013. Operating results • Business combinations (Note 2) of a Business Area have been reviewed regularly by the Foreign currency differences arising on the re-translation • Accounting for income tax (Note 6) Executive Committee to make decisions about resources of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net • Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and to be allocated to the Business Area and assess its investment in a foreign operation are recognized in the equipment (Note 7, 8) performance, and for which discrete financial information is cumulative translation reserves (in other comprehensive • Accounting for post-retirement benefits (Note 15) available. Business Area results reported to the Executive income), to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the • Provisions (Note 16) Committee include items directly attributable to a Business extent that the hedge is ineffective, such differences are Area as well as those items that can be allocated on a recognized in the statement of income. When the hedged Statement of cash flows reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly part of a net investment is disposed of, the associated We have used the indirect method to prepare the statement corporate assets and corporate costs and are reported in cumulative amount in other comprehensive income is of cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies have been Business Area “Corporate and other”. reclassified to the statement of income as an adjustment translated at transaction rates. Exchange rate differences to the transaction result. affecting cash items are presented separately in the Translation of foreign currencies statement of cash flows. Receipts and payments with Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into respect to income tax are included in cash from operating the functional currency using the foreign exchange activities. Interest payments are included in cash from rate at transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities operating activities, while interest receipts are included denominated in foreign currencies are translated into in cash from investing activities. The costs of acquisition the functional currency using the exchange rates at the 118 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Exchange rates of key currencies at reporting date of AA-rated corporate bonds that have reported in operating income, in as far as they are not The principal exchange rates against the euro used in maturity dates approximating the terms of our obligations. recorded in other comprehensive income. preparing the balance sheet and the statement of income are: When the calculation results in a benefit to AkzoNobel, Other employee benefits (Note 4, 16) the recognized asset is limited to the present value of Other long-term employee benefits include long-service or Balance sheet Statement of income economic benefits available in the form of any future sabbatical leave, jubilee or other long-service benefits, and 2012 2013 2012 2013 refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions other employee benefits payable more than 12 months US dollar 1.319 1.378 1.285 1.328 to the plan. In order to calculate the present value of after the related service is rendered. These provisions are Pound sterling 0.816 0.834 0.811 0.850 economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum measured at present value, using actuarial assumptions. Swedish krona 8.593 8.836 8.705 8.647 funding requirements that apply to any plan. An economic The discount rate is the yield at reporting date of AA-rated Chinese yuan 8.217 8.399 8.109 8.209 benefit is available if it is realizable during the life of the corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating plan, or on the settlement of the plan liabilities. The effect the terms of our obligations. The calculation is performed of these so-called asset ceiling restrictions and any using the projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains Revenue recognition changes therein, are recognized in other comprehensive and losses are recognized in the statement of income in Revenue is defined as the revenue from the sale and income. the period in which they arise. delivery of goods and services and royalty income, net of rebates, discounts and similar allowances, and net of sales In certain countries we also provide post-retirement An accrual is recognized for the amounts expected to tax. Revenue is recognized when the significant risks and benefits other than pensions to our employees. These be paid under short-term bonus or profit sharing plans rewards have been transferred to a third party, recovery of plans are generally not funded. Valuations of the obligations if a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and under these plans are carried out by independent actuaries past services provided exists and the obligation can be possible return of goods can be estimated reliably and based on the projected unit credit method. The costs estimated reliably. there is no continuing management involvement with the related to such plans primarily consist of the present value goods. For revenue from sales of goods these conditions of the benefits attributed on an equal basis to each year of Share-based compensation (Note 4) are generally met at the time the product is shipped and service and the interest on this obligation with reference to We have a performance-related share plan, under which delivered to the customer, depending on the delivery employee service in previous years. shares are conditionally granted to certain employees. The conditions. Service revenue is generally recognized as fair value of the performance-related shares granted is services are rendered. Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating our recognized as an expense with a corresponding increase obligation with reference to a plan, are recognized in in shareholders’ equity. The fair value is measured at Post-retirement benefits (Note 4, 15) other comprehensive income. When the benefits of a plan grant date and amortized over the period during which Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized improve, the portion of the increased benefits related to the employees become unconditionally entitled to the in the statement of income as incurred. past service by employees is recognized as an expense in performance-related shares. Amortization is accelerated the statement of income immediately. in the event that employment is terminated with retention Most of our defined benefit pension plans are funded of share entitlements before the end of the vesting with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust We recognize gains and losses on the curtailment or period. The fair value of the performance-related shares or foundation. Valuations of both funded and unfunded settlement of a defined benefit plan when the curtailment for which vesting is based on the company’s ranking for plans are carried out by independent actuaries based on or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment sustainability and performance, is the value of the Akzo the projected unit credit method. Pension costs primarily comprises any resulting change in the fair value of plan Nobel N.V. common share on the date of the grant. The represent the increase in the actuarial present value of assets and change in the present value of defined benefit fair value for the TSR-linked vesting condition is measured the obligation for projected pension benefits based on obligation. using the Monte Carlo simulation model. This Monte Carlo employee service during the year and the interest on this model takes into account expected dividends, as well obligation with respect to employee service in previous Interest on the defined benefit obligation for both pensions as the market conditions expected to impact our TSR years, net of the expected return on plan assets. The and other post-retirement benefits net of the return on performance in relation to selected peers. The amount discount rate used in determining the present value of the plan assets is included in financing expenses related to recognized as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual obligations and the return rate on plan assets is the yield pensions. Other charges and benefits recognized are number of performance-related shares that vest, except AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 119 when forfeiture or extra vesting of performance-related Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities have been acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent shares is due to a TSR performance that differs from the offset in cases where there is a legally enforceable right for liabilities. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair performance anticipated at the grant of the performancesuch set off and they relate to income taxes levied by the value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and related shares, because this is a market performance same taxation authority on the same taxable entity, or on liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. condition. different taxable entities which intend either to settle current Acquisition related costs are expensed as incidental tax on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be items on the line other operating income/(expenses) in Income tax (Note 6) realized simultaneously. the statement of income. Any contingent consideration Income tax expense comprises both current and deferred to be transferred will be recognized at fair value at the tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. In determining Measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities is acquisition date. the amount of current and deferred tax we also take into based upon the enacted or substantially enacted tax account the impact of uncertain tax positions and whether rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in If the cost of an acquisition is less than the fair value of additional taxes and interest may be due. Income tax is which temporary differences are expected to be reversed. the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized in the statement of income, unless it relates Non-refundable dividend tax is taken into account in the recognized directly in the statement of income. The effects to items recognized in other comprehensive income. The determination of deferred tax liabilities to the extent of of all transactions with non-controlling interests income tax consequences of dividends are recognized earnings expected to be distributed by subsidiaries in the are recorded in equity if there is no change in control; when a liability to pay the dividend is recognized. foreseeable future. If separate tax rates exist for distributed these transactions will not result in goodwill. Goodwill and undistributed profit, the current and deferred taxes are related to an investment in associates and joint ventures In the balance sheet, current tax includes the expected measured at the tax rate applicable to undistributed profit. is included in the carrying value of that investment. tax payable and receivable on the taxable income for the Deferred tax is not discounted. year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at Intangible assets with a finite useful life, such as licenses, reporting date, as well as any adjustments to tax payable Research cost and preparation and start-up expenses know-how, brands, customer relationships and intellectual and receivable with respect to previous years. Research cost and preparation and start-up expenses are property rights, are capitalized at historical cost and charged to the statement of income as incurred. amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful Deferred tax is recognized using the balance sheet life of the assets, which generally ranges from 10 to 40 method, providing for temporary differences between Government grants years. Development and software costs are capitalized if the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial Government grants related to costs are deducted from the costs can be measured reliably, the related product or reporting and the amount used for taxation purposes. We the relevant cost to be compensated in the same period. process is technically and commercially feasible, sufficient do not recognize deferred tax for the following temporary Emission rights granted by the government are recorded future economic benefits will be generated and sufficient differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial at cost. A provision is recorded if the actual emission is resources are available to complete the development. recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither higher than the emission rights granted. Government The expenditures capitalized include the cost of materials, accounting nor taxable profit, and differences related to grants to compensate for the cost of an asset are consultancy, licenses, direct labor and overhead costs investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will deducted from the cost of the related asset. that are directly attributable to preparing the asset for its probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax intended use. Capitalized development and software costs assets are recognized for unused tax losses, tax credits Intangible assets (Note 7) are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is Intangible assets are valued at cost less accumulated useful life of related assets, which generally is up to five probable that future taxable profits will be available against amortization and impairment charges. All intangible assets years. Amortization methods, useful lives and residual which they can be utilized. The nature of the evidence are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication values are reassessed annually. supporting the recognition of the deferred tax assets is that the intangible asset may be impaired. In addition, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as Property, plant and equipment (Note 8) future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. The goodwill and certain brands, are not amortized, but tested Property, plant and equipment are valued at cost less amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable, could for impairment annually. accumulated depreciation and impairment charges. change in the near term if future estimates of projected Costs include expenditures that are directly attributable taxable income during the carry forward period are revised. Goodwill in a business combination represents the excess to the acquisition of the asset, including financing of the consideration paid over the net fair value of the expenses of capital investment projects under 120 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 construction. Government grants to compensate specific to the assets. If the carrying value of an asset or agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic, for the cost of an asset are deducted from the cost its cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable financial and operating decisions. of the related asset. amount, an impairment loss is recognized in the statement of income. The assessment for impairment is performed at Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, the lowest level of assets generating largely independent the equity method and are initially recognized at cost. based on the estimated useful life. In the majority of cases cash inflows. For goodwill and other intangible assets The Consolidated financial statements include our share the useful life of plant equipment and machinery is ten with an indefinite life, we have determined this to be at of the income and expenses of the associates and joint years, and for buildings ranges from 20 to 30 years. Land business unit level (one level below segment). We allocate ventures for the period that we have significant influence is not depreciated. In the majority of cases residual value is impairment losses in respect of cash-generating units first or joint control, whereby the result is determined using our assumed to be insignificant. Depreciation methods, useful to goodwill and then to the carrying amount of the other accounting principles. When the share of losses exceeds the lives and residual values are reassessed annually. assets on a pro rata basis. interest in the investee, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued, unless Parts of property, plant and equipment that have Except for goodwill, we reverse impairment losses if and we have incurred legal or constructive obligations on behalf different useful lives are accounted for as separate to the extent we have identified a change in estimates of the investee. Loans to associates and joint ventures are items of property, plant and equipment. Costs of major used to determine the recoverable amount. We only carried at amortized cost less impairment losses. maintenance activities are capitalized as a separate reverse to the extent that the carrying value of the asset component of property, plant and equipment, and does not exceed the carrying value that would have The results from associates and joint ventures consist of our depreciated over the estimated useful life. Maintenance been determined, net of amortization or depreciation, if share in the results of these companies, interest on loans costs which cannot be separately defined as a component no impairment loss had been recognized. Reversals of granted to them and the transaction results on divestments of property, plant and equipment are expensed in the impairment are recognized in the statement of income. of associates and joint ventures. Unrealized gains and losses period in which they occur. Gains and losses on the sale arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures of property, plant and equipment are included in the Leases (Note 8, 20) are eliminated to the extent of our interest in the investee. statement of income. Lease contracts in which we have substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Inventories (Note 11) We have identified conditional asset retirement obligations Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net at a number of our facilities that are mainly related to plant the lower of its fair value and the present value of minimum realizable value. Costs of inventories comprise all costs of decommissioning. We recognize these conditional asset lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred retirement obligations in the periods in which sufficient asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting in bringing the inventories to the present location and information becomes available to reasonably estimate policy applicable to the asset. Minimum lease payments condition. The costs of conversion of inventories include the cash outflow. made under finance leases are apportioned between the direct labor and fixed and variable production overheads, interest expenses and the reduction of the outstanding and take into account the stage of completion. The costs Impairments (Note 7, 8) liability. The interest expenses are recognized as other of inventories are determined using the weighted average We assess the carrying value of intangible assets and financing expenses over the lease term. cost formula. Net realizable value is the estimated selling property, plant and equipment whenever events or price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Payments made under operating leases are recognized cost of completion and selling expenses. amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over for goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are Equity (Note 14) useful life, we review the carrying value annually in the recognized over the term of the lease. When share capital recognized as equity is repurchased, the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of an asset or its amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and Associates and joint ventures (Note 9) attributable cost, is net of any tax effects, and is recognized its fair value less costs to sell, whereby estimated future Associates are those entities in which we have significant as a deduction from equity. Dividends are recognized as a cash flows are discounted to their present value. The influence, but no control, over the financial and operational liability in the period in which they are declared. discount rate used reflects current market assessments policies. Joint ventures are those entities over whose of the time value of money and, if appropriate, the risks activities we have joint control, established by contractual AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 121 Provisions (Note 16) • Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables (Note 12) We recognize provisions when a present legal or • Long-term and short-term borrowings Trade and other receivables are measured at amortized constructive obligation as a result of a past event exists, • Trade and other payables. cost, using the effective interest method, less any and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits is impairment losses. An allowance for impairment of trade required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured Derivative financial instruments (Note 23) and other receivables is established if the collection of a at net present value and take into account legal fees. Derivative financial instruments include forward exchange receivable becomes doubtful. The expected future cash outflows are discounted at contracts and commodity contracts, as well as non-closely appropriate pre-tax interest rates, reflecting current market related embedded derivatives included in normal Such receivable becomes doubtful when there is objective assessments of the time value of money and, if applicable, business contracts. All derivative financial instruments evidence that we will not be able to collect all amounts the risks specific to the liability. The increase of provisions are recognized at fair value on the balance sheet. Fair due according to the original terms of the receivables. as a result of the passage of time is recognized in the values are derived from market prices and quotes from The amount of the allowance is the difference between statement of income under other financing expenses. dealers and brokers, or are estimated using observable the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of Provisions for restructuring are recognized when a detailed market inputs. When determining fair values, credit risk for estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original and formal restructuring plan has been approved, and our contract party as well as for AkzoNobel is taken into effective interest rate. An impairment loss is recognized in the restructuring has either commenced or has been account. the statement of income, as are subsequent recoveries of announced publicly. We do not provide for future operating previous impairments. costs. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancy are Changes in the fair value of forward exchange and recognized if we have made an offer encouraging voluntary commodity contracts are recognized in the statement Cash and cash equivalents (Note 13) redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted of income, unless cash flow hedge accounting or net Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value and and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. investment hedge accounting is applied. In that case, the include all cash balances and short-term investments that effective part of the fair value changes is deferred in other are directly convertible into cash. Changes in fair values A provision for warranties is recognized when the comprehensive income and released to the related specific are included in financing income. underlying products or services are sold. The provision is lines in the statement of income or balance sheet at the based on historical warranty data and a weighting of all same time as the hedged item. Long-term and short-term borrowings possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. (Note 17, 18, 23) Both at the hedge inception and at each reporting date, Long-term borrowings are measured at amortized cost, In accordance with our environmental policy and we assess whether the derivatives used are highly effective applying the effective interest rate method. Short-term applicable legal requirements, we recognize a provision in offsetting changes in fair values or highly probable cash borrowings are measured at amortized cost, using for environmental clean-up cost when it is probable that a flows of hedged items. When a derivative is not highly the effective interest method. The interest expense on liability has materialized and the amount of cash outflow effective, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. borrowings is included in other financing expenses. The can be reasonably estimated. In the event a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, fair value of borrowings, used for disclosure purposes, is amortization of fair value hedge adjustments is included in determined on the basis of listed market price, if available. Financial instruments financing income and expense. When a cash flow hedge If a listed market price is not available, the fair value is Regular purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities relationship is terminated, the fair value changes deferred calculated based on the present value of principal and are recognized on trade date, which is the date we commit in other comprehensive income (in equity) are released to interest cash flows, discounted at the interest at the to purchase or sell the asset. The initial measurement of all the statement of income only when the hedged transaction reporting date, taking into account AkzoNobel’s credit risk. financial instruments is fair value. Except for derivatives, the is no longer expected to occur. Otherwise these will be initial measurement of financial instruments is adjusted for released to the statement of income at the same time as Trade and other payables (Note 19) directly attributable transaction costs. We have the following the hedged item. Trade and other payables are measured at amortized cost, categories of financial instruments: using the effective interest method. Other financial non-current assets (Note 10) • Derivative financial instruments Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost • Other financial non-current assets using the effective interest method, less any • Trade and other receivables impairment losses. 122 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 New IFRS accounting standards IFRS and interpretations thereof not yet in force which may apply to our consolidate financial statements for 2014 and beyond have been assessed for their potential impact. The most important are the following: Other new IFRS accounting standards Endorsed by the Standard Published Implementation date in the standard European Union Anticipated impact IFRS 9 November 12, 2009 and Tentative implementation date of January 1, Postponed IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and Financial subsequent amendments 2017 liabilities. This standard encompasses an overall change of accounting principles for Instruments on December 16, 2011 and financial instruments and will eventually replace IAS 39 – the current standard on financial November 19, 2013 instruments. As its scope will be further expanded during the next years, we will review the effects of a comprehensive standard on financial instruments and consider adoption when appropriate. IFRS 10 May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 This standard introduces an amended concept of control to determine whether an investee Consolidated Financial postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier should be consolidated. An investor controls an investee when the investor is exposed, or Statements adoption permitted has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. This standard will not materially affect our Consolidated financial statements. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 This standard addresses the accounting of joint arrangements and eliminates proportionate postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier consolidation. We will apply this standard as from 2014 and have assessed that there will adoption permitted not be a material impact on our Consolidated financial statements. IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 This standard contains the disclosure requirements for interests in subsidiaries, joint in Other Entities postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier ventures, associates and other unconsolidated interests. It may affect some disclosures in adoption permitted our Consolidated financial statements as from 2014. Amendments to IAS 28, May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 The revised standard addresses the criteria and measurement for investments on which the Investments in Associates postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier investor has joint control or significant influence. No material impact on our Consolidated and Joint Ventures adoption permitted financial statements is expected. Amendment to IAS 19 June 27, 2013 July 1, 2014, with earlier adoption permitted Not yet endorsed This amendment gives further guidance on the accounting for employee contributions to Employee benefits (Employee post-retirement benefit plans and will become effective for our 2015 Consolidated financial contributions) statements. The effect of this standard will be assessed in 2014. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 123 2 Note 2: Scope of consolidation During 2013, the divestment of the Building Adhesives Changes in scope of consolidation business was completed. In addition, we concluded North Latin Other counsmaller divestments, such as the Primary Amides and Number of subsidiaries 2012 Europe America America Asia Pacific tries 2013 Purate businesses, and agreed to sell the German stores Consolidated companies as of 435 224 22 29 103 18 396 in Decorative Paints, with completion expected in 2014. January 1 No acquisition in 2013, individually nor in total, was First-time consolidations 9 4 – – – 2 6 deemed material in respect of IFRS 3 disclosure requireDeconsolidations (48) (23) (3) (2) (9) – (37) ments. Consolidated as of December 31 396 205 19 27 94 20 365 In 2012, the acquisition of Boxing Oleochemicals in Specialty Chemicals and the divestment of Chemicals Balance sheet Decorative Paints North America at divestment date Pakistan were completed. In € millions April 1, 2013 Intangible assets 375 We have filed a list of subsidiaries, associated companies Property, plant and equipment 188 and joint ventures, drawn up in conformity with sections Financial non-current assets 5 379 and 414 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, with the Trade Registry of Amsterdam. Inventories 189 Receivables 217 Discontinued operations Non-current liabilities and provisions (90) During 2013, the divestment of the North American Current liabilities (188) Decorative Paints business was completed and resulted Net assets and liabilities 696 in €779 million net cash inflows and a transaction gain after tax of €141 million, both reported in discontinued Cash received 791 operations. Cash disposed of (12) Net cash inflow 779 Deal result divestment Decorative Paints North America In € millions 2013 Net cash inflow 779 Net assets and liabilities (696) Liabilities assumed and costs allocated to the deal (10) Realization cumulative translation reserves 65 Tax on the divestment 3 Deal result 141 124 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Discontinued operations Assets and liabilities held for sale In € millions 2012 2013 In € millions 2012 2013 Revenue 1,190 281 Property, plant and equipment 187 50 Expenses (1,255) (294) Intangible assets 377 111 Impairment (372) – Other assets 357 42 Results from operating activities (437) (13) Total assets 921 203 Income tax 20 7 Total non-current liabilities 159 25 Results from operating activities after tax (417) (6) Total current liabilities 193 24 Gain on the divestment of Decorative Paints North America – 138 Total liabilities 352 49 Income tax on the divestment – 3 Deal result – 141 At year-end 2013, we qualified certain businesses and Results related to discontinued operations in previous years (16) (36) assets as held for sale. At year-end 2012, assets held for Tax related to discontinued operations in previous years (3) 32 sale related to Decorative Paints North America. Profit for the period (436) 131 Cash flows from discontinued operations In € millions 2012 2013 Net cash from operating activities (27) (87) Net cash from investing activities (26) 762 Net cash from discontinued operations (53) 675 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 125 3 Note 3: Operating income 4 Note 4: Employee benefits Operating income €545 million in EBITDA for the period 2011 through 2013. Salaries, wages and other employee benefits in • Decorative Paints’ results include the gain of This successfully completes the performance improvement operating income €198 million on the divestment of Building Adhesives. program a year ahead of schedule. Further efficiency and In € millions 2012 2013 Margins improved due to margin management and cost reduction measures have been identified as part of Salaries and wages (2,354) (2,268) lower raw material prices, both for the full year and the continuous improvement initiatives which are integrated in Pension and other post-retirement cost (248) (268) fourth quarter. Performance improvement programs and the regular business activities. Other social charges (416) (414) restructuring measures have lowered the cost base. Total (3,018) (2,950) Restructuring charges were below the previous year Full-year restructuring costs were €348 million (2012: • In Performance Coatings, margins were stable despite €292 million) with €204 million in Q4 (2012: €115 million). higher restructuring costs • Specialty Chemicals’ results include a non-cash Average number of employees impairment charge of €139 million on a business held Revenue and cost by nature During the year 2012 2013 for sale. Focus on cost control and margin management Decorative Paints 17,200 16,800 was maintained in all businesses, with a comprehensive In € millions 2012 2013 Performance Coatings 21,700 21,300 performance improvement program being implemented Revenue 15,390 14,590 Specialty Chemicals 11,800 10,600 at Functional Chemicals Variable selling cost (709) (714) Corporate and other 1,500 1,500 Materials and energy (7,552) (6,959) Full-year average raw material costs were down, having Total 52,200 50,200 Amortization and depreciation (625) (616) stabilized during the year. Employee benefits (3,018) (2,950) The average number of employees working outside Impairment (2,106) (139) Performance improvement program the Netherlands was 45,000 (2012: 47,100). Other costs (2,578) (2,254) The performance improvement program announced in Operating income (1,198) 958 October 2011 has exceeded targets and achieved Number of employees At year-end 2012 2013 Costs per category 2012 2013 Decorative Paints 17,000 16,200 Employee Employee Performance Coatings 21,300 21,400 In € millions benefits Amortization Depreciation Incidentals benefits Amortization Depreciation Incidentals Specialty Chemicals 10,800 10,400 Cost of sales (991) (6) (329) (20) (998) (7) (343) – Corporate and other 1,500 1,600 Impairment – – – (2,106) – – – (149) Total 50,600 49,600 Selling expenses (1,090) (118) (78) – (943) (94) (75) – General and administrative (722) (30) (38) – (772) (36) (36) (15) expenses At year-end 2013, we employed 49,560 staff for ongoing Research and development (244) (8) (18) – (237) (7) (18) – expenses activities (year-end 2012: 50,610 employees). The net Other operating income/ 29 – – (44) – – – 225 decrease was due to: (expenses) Subtotal (3,018) (162) (463) (2,170) (2,950) (144) (472) 61 • Divestments, affecting 440 employees Discontinued operations – (26) (40) – – – – – • A decrease of 1,740 employees due to ongoing Total (3,018) (188) (503) (2,170) (2,950) (144) (472) 61 restructuring • An increase of 1,130 employees, due to new hires in high growth markets. 126 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Share-based compensation weighting changed to 35 percent for both TSR and ROI over the three-year vesting period. The fair value was Share-based compensation relates to the performanceand 30 percent for SAM. €50.89 per performance-related share (without a holding related share plan as well as the share matching plan. restriction) conditionally granted in 2013 (2012: €40.38). Charges recognized in the 2013 statement of income for The shares of the series 2010-2012 have vested and were share-based compensation amounted to €43 million and delivered to the participants in 2013. The share price of a common AkzoNobel share at yearare included in salaries and wages (2012: €43 million). end amounted to €56.34 (2012: €49.75). For further The conditional shares of the series 2011-2013 vested as details on our performance-related share plan, see the Performance-related share plan follows: Remuneration report. Under the performance-related share plan, a number • our TSR performance over the period 2011-2013 of conditional shares are granted to the members of resulted in a 10th position within the ranking of the peer Share–matching plan the Board of Management, members of the Executive group companies. This did not result in vesting of The members of the Board of Management and the Committee and executives each year. The number of conditional shares members of the Executive Committee are eligible to participants of the performance-related share plan at year• the average position in the RobecoSAM benchmark participate in the share–matching plan. Under certain end 2013 was 689 (2012: 656). resulted in a 1.33rd position within the ranking. As a conditions, members who invest part of their short-term result, the conditional shares of the 2011-2013 series incentives in AkzoNobel shares may have such shares The conditional grant of shares up to the series vested for 70.83 percent (series 2010-2012: matched by the company. The investment in AkzoNobel 2012–2014 is linked for 50 percent to the ranking of the 66.67 percent), including dividend shares of 10.09 shares in 2013 resulted in a total of 2,820 potential company in the RobecoSAM benchmark (SAM) and the percent, the final vesting percentage amounted to 77.98 matching shares at year-end (2012: 12,005). remaining 50 percent to the relative TSR performance of percent (series 2010-2012: 73.61 percent) the company compared with a peer group. As from the The fair value of the potential matching shares at the date series 2013-2015, return on investment (ROI) was added The fair value of the performance-related share plan of the share investment is amortized as a charge against as an additional performance measure. Subsequently, the at grant date is amortized as a charge against income income over the three-year vesting period. The fair value was €40.67 per potential matching share in 2013 (2012: €39.72). Performance-related shares Balance per Balance at Vested on January 1, Granted in Vested in Forfeited in Dividend in December January 1, Series 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 1 31, 2013 2014 2010 – 2012 537,000 – (537,000) – – – – 2011 – 2013 891,339 2,588 – (277,846) 24,943 641,024 641,024 2012 – 2014 1,074,284 31,999 – (24,901) 31,853 1,113,235 – 2013 – 2015 – 753,713 – (12,400) 21,646 762,959 – Total 2,502,623 788,300 (537,000) (315,147) 78,442 2,517,218 641,024 1 Equivalent in shares related to accumulated dividend, which is included in the balances on balance sheet date. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 127 5 Note 5: Financing income and expenses Stock option plans For stock options exercised during 2013, the weighted Financing income and expenses Prior to 2008, performance-related stock options were average of the actual share price at date of exercise In € millions 2012 2013 granted to members of the Board of Management and amounted to €50.43 (2012: €43.21). A number of Financing income 59 32 executives. We have not purchased own shares in 0.5 million outstanding stock options are non-dilutive but Financing expenses (239) (221) connection with the stock option plan. The stock options could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the Net interest on net debt (180) (189) are equity-settled and all exercisable. future. Other interest movements Financing expenses related to pensions (3) (21) Stock options Interest on provisions (29) (8) Outstanding Outstanding Other items 7 18 Exercise per January Exercised in Expired in Forfeited in at December Net other financing charges (25) (11) Year of issue price in € 1, 2013 2013 2013 2013 31, 2013 Expiry date Net financing expenses (205) (200) 2006 46.46 357,636 (287,090) (70,546) – – April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 496,489 – – (2,900) 493,589 April 26, 2014 Total 854,125 (287,090) (70,546) (2,900) 493,589 Net financing expenses for the year decreased by €5 million, from €205 million to €200 million. Significant variances are: Number and weighted average exercise price stock options • Net interest on net debt increased by €9 million to €189 million (2012: €180 million), mainly due to lower Weighted average exercise Number of options price in € return on investments held in an escrow account • Financing expenses related to pensions increased Balance at January 1, 2012 1,203,977 49.15 by €18 million to €21 million (2012: €3 million after Forfeited during the period (107,875) 46.45 restatement) due to lower discount rates reducing the Exercised during the period (241,977) 34.36 interest income on plan assets Balance at December 31, 2012 854,125 53.69 • Interest on provisions decreased by €21 million to Forfeited during the period (73,446) 46.95 €8 million (2012: €29 million) due to higher discount Exercised during the period (287,090) 46.46 rates in 2013 Balance at December 31, 2013 493,589 58.89 • Other items increased by €11 million to €18 million (2012: €7 million), mainly due to capitalized interest and a 2012 goodwill adjustment A reduction of €12 million (2012: €8 million) was included in the interest expenses of capital investment projects under construction. The average interest rate used for capitalization of these borrowing costs was 5.6 percent (2012: 6.1 percent). 128 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 6 Note 6: Income tax Pre-tax income from continued operations amounted to a Effective consolidated tax rate Income tax recognized directly in equity profit of €772 million (2012: loss €1,390 million). The net in % 2012 1 2013 In € millions 2012 2013 tax charges related to continuing operations are included Corporate tax rate in the Netherlands 25.0 25.0 in the statement of income as follows: Current tax for Effect of tax rates in other countries 3.8 5.7 Currency exchange differences on 4 (7) Tax exempt income/non-deductible 2.7 (3.2) intercompany loans of a permanent expenses nature Classification of current and deferred tax result Non-taxable income from investment in (0.6) (0.5) 4 (7) associates and joint ventures In € millions 2012 2013 Changes in enacted tax rates 0.3 (0.9) Deferred tax for Current tax expense for Recognition of previously unrecognized (0.7) (14.1) Share-based compensation – 3 The year (257) (147) deferred tax assets Hedge accounting (1) – Adjustments for prior years 31 6 Current year losses for which no 1.3 1.7 Currency exchange differences on 2 – deferred tax asset was recognized intercompany loans of a permanent (226) (141) Current year profits compensated with (0.1) 0.0 nature Deferred tax expense for losses for which no deferred tax assets Post-retirements benefits 249 (64) was recognized Origination and reversal of temporary 20 (74) 250 (61) differences and tax losses Under/(over)-provided in prior years (4.4) (0.8) Total 254 (68) Re-recognition of deferred tax assets 5 97 Non-refundable withholding taxes 4.0 1.5 Changes in tax rates (2) 7 Effective consolidated tax rate 31.3 14.4 23 30 1 Excluding impairment. Unrecognized deferred tax assets Total (203) (111) In € millions 2012 2013 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Capital losses 267 – The total tax charge, including discontinued operations In the deferred tax asset for other provisions (€263 million), Tax losses 21 41 was €69 million (2012: €186 million). an amount of €141 million (2012: €189 million) is related to interest expense carried forward. From the total amount Deductible temporary differences 190 135 Effective tax rate reconciliation of recognized net deferred tax assets, €916 million (2012: Total 478 176 The effective income tax rate based on the consolidated €827 million) is related to entities that have suffered a loss statement of income is 14 percent. The tax line includes a in either 2013 or 2012 in the tax jurisdiction to which a non-cash gain as a result of the recognition of €123 million deferred tax asset relates, and where utilization is dependent of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets and several on future taxable profit in excess of the profit arising from the non-taxable items. Excluding these effects, the tax rate is reversal of existing taxable temporary differences. 30 percent. The effective tax rate in 2012 – excluding the impairment loss on intangibles of €2,106 million – was affected The loss carryforward recognized in the balance sheet and by several adjustments relating to prior years. In addition, the its usage will have a decreasing impact on the cash tax geographical mix of taxable income affected the tax charge. rate in coming years. The impact of non-refundable withholding tax on the tax rate is dependent on our relative share in the profit of subsidiaries Expiration year of loss carryforwards recognized in the balance sheet in countries that levy withholding tax on dividends and on In € millions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Later Unlimited Total the timing of the remittance of such dividends. This impact is expected to increase in the coming years. Based on Total loss carryforwards 18 27 44 86 59 202 2,318 2,754 the Dutch tax system there is only a limited credit for such Loss carryforwards not recognized in (12) (19) (29) (36) (45) (6) (20) (167) deferred tax assets taxes. The tax rate for 2012 was impacted by an anticipated Total recognized 6 8 15 50 14 196 2,298 2,587 extraordinary dividend that was received in 2013. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 129 Movement in deferred tax in 2012 Net balance Net balance Changes in Acquisitions/ Recognized in Recognized in December 31, In € millions January 1, 2012 exchange rates divestments income equity Held for Sale 2012 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets (701) 12 (6) 65 – 83 (547) 71 618 Property, plant and equipment (94) – 10 28 – 9 (47) 84 131 Inventories 29 – – – – (5) 24 27 3 Trade and other receivables 14 – – 9 – (2) 21 26 5 Share-based payments 12 – – 3 – – 15 15 – Post-retirement benefit provisions 176 (7) – (164) 316 (25) 296 606 310 Restructuring provisions 15 – – 14 – (2) 27 28 1 Other provisions 313 (4) – (25) – (7) 277 320 43 Other items 178 (2) – 9 – (4) 181 214 33 Net operating loss carryforwards 839 (1) (1) 105 1 – 943 943 – Deferred tax assets not recognized (415) 9 1 (6) (67) – (478) (478) – Tax assets/liabilities 366 7 4 38 250 47 712 1,856 1,144 Set-off of tax – – – – – – – (710) (710) Net deferred taxes 366 7 4 38 250 47 712 1,146 434 Movement in deferred tax in 2013 Net balance Net balance Changes in Acquisitions/ Recognized in Recognized in December 31, In € millions January 1, 2013 exchange rates divestments income equity Held for Sale 2013 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets (547) 35 – 10 – 9 (493) 88 581 Property, plant and equipment (47) 7 – (13) – 1 (52) 66 118 Inventories 24 (1) (3) 16 – 1 37 40 3 Trade and other receivables 21 (2) (1) (5) – – 13 20 7 Share-based payments 15 – – (1) 3 – 17 17 – Post-retirement benefit provisions 296 (1) (8) (109) 4 – 182 279 97 Restructuring provisions 27 (1) – – – – 26 26 – Other provisions 277 (11) (7) (12) – – 247 263 16 Other items 181 (4) (4) 27 – – 200 252 52 Net operating loss carryforwards 943 (20) – (242) – – 681 681 – Deferred tax assets not recognized (478) 2 – 368 (68) – (176) (176) – Tax assets/liabilities 712 4 (23) 39 (61) 11 682 1,556 874 Set-off of tax – – – – – – – (485) (485) Net deferred taxes 712 4 (23) 39 (61) 11 682 1,071 389 130 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 7 Note 7: Intangible assets Intangible assets Customer Other In € millions Goodwill Brands lists intangibles Total Balance at January 1, 2012 Acquisition cost 4,890 2,514 1,256 431 9,091 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 141 141 Accumulated amortization/impairment (1,025) (160) (463) (192) (1,840) Carrying value 3,865 2,354 793 380 7,392 Movements in 2012 Acquisitions through business combinations 58 1 16 7 82 Other investments – including internally developed intangibles (6) – – 79 73 Transfer to assets held for sale (96) (180) (76) (25) (377) Divestments (40) – (2) (1) (43) Impairment (2,450) (27) (6) – (2,483) Amortization 1 – (19) (112) (57) (188) Changes in exchange rates 21 (11) (18) 6 (2) Total movements (2,513) (236) (198) 9 (2,938) Balance at December 31, 2012 Acquisition cost 4,102 2,226 1,030 445 7,803 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 166 166 Accumulated amortization/impairment (2,750) (108) (435) (221) (3,514) Carrying value at year-end 2012 1,352 2,118 595 389 4,454 Movements in 2013 Acquisitions through business combinations 7 – 9 – 16 Other investments – including internally developed intangibles 1 – – 29 30 Transfer to assets held for sale – – (76) (35) (111) Divestments – – – (2) (2) Disposals – – – (5) (5) Impairment (139) (5) (3) (8) (155) Amortization – (13) (75) (56) (144) Changes in exchange rates (42) (105) (21) (9) (177) Total movements (173) (123) (166) (86) (548) Balance at December 31, 2013 Acquisition cost 3,966 2,113 854 360 7,293 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 196 196 Accumulated amortization/impairment (2,787) (118) (425) (253) (3,583) Carrying value at year-end 2013 1,179 1,995 429 303 3,906 1 Including Decorative Paints North America. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 131 Goodwill and other intangibles per segment Brands with indefinite Other intangibles with finite Goodwill useful lives useful lives Total intangibles In € millions 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Decorative Paints 17 22 1,881 1,785 398 319 2,296 2,126 Performance Coatings 686 663 – – 330 302 1,016 965 Specialty Chemicals 649 494 – – 493 321 1,142 815 Total 1,352 1,179 1,881 1,785 1,221 942 4,454 3,906 Average revenue growth rates per forecast period Other intangibles include licenses, know-how, intellectual For virtually all business units, a terminal value was calcu­ property rights and development cost. Both at year-end lated using a long-term average market growth rate that did In % per year 2014-2018 2019-2023 2012 and 2013, there were no purchase commitments not exceed 2 percent. The estimated pre-tax cash flows are Decorative Paints 6.2 4.2 for individual intangible assets. No intangible assets were discounted to their present value using a pre-tax weighted Performance Coatings 4.8 3.2 registered as security for bank loans. average cost of capital. The discount rates are determined Specialty Chemicals 3.5 2.3 for each business unit and range from 7.7 percent to 13.5 Impairment percent, with a weighted average of 9.2 percent. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment per business unit (one level A sensitivity test on growth assumptions as well as the below segment level) in the fourth quarter or whenever an pre-tax weighted average cost of capital confirms comfor­ impairment trigger exists. table headroom in all businesses. As a result, no impairment charge was recognized in relation to the The impairment test is based on cash flow projections annual impairment test this year. As a result of classifying of the five-year plan. The key assumptions used in the a business as held for sale in Specialty Chemicals, an projections are: impairment charge of €139 million was recognized in • Revenue growth: based on actual experience, analysis 2013. of market growth and the expected market share development In 2012, a non-cash impairment charge against our • Margin development: based on actual experience Decorative Paints assets was recognized. In Europe, and management’s long-term projections we recognized an impairment charge of €1,948 million and in South America an amount of €158 million. The Revenue growth and margin development projections are total of €2,106 million is disclosed on a separate line in extrapolated beyond this five-year explicit forecast period the consolidated statement of income. The impairment for another five years with reduced growth rates. of Decorative Paints North America of €372 million is included in results from discontinued operations. 132 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 8 Note 8: Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditures • In Decorative Paints, we are investing in high growth Construction Plant in progress Assets not markets and in creating efficiency in Europe equipment and used in the • In Performance Coatings, we are investing in multiple Buildings and Other prepayments production projects, with the largest being the increase in the In € millions and land machinery equipment on projects process Total production capacity of the Automotive and Aerospace Balance at January 1, 2012 Coatings business in China to meet rising demand Cost of acquisition 2,330 5,906 750 428 28 9,442 • In Specialty Chemicals, we are investing in facilities Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,087) (4,074) (556) – (20) (5,737) being built in Brazil as part of the Chemicals Island Carrying value 1,243 1,832 194 428 8 3,705 concept with Suzano and Eldorado. The plant in Jupiá, supplying the world’s largest pulp mill Eldorado, became Movements in 2012 operational earlier in the year. We are also investing in Acquisitions through business combinations 7 19 1 4 – 31 our chlorine plant in Frankfurt, Germany, to convert to Transfer to assets held for sale (82) (88) – (15) (2) (187) membrane electrolysis technology Divestments 5 (64) (5) (22) 1 (85) Capital expenditures 1 62 327 91 371 1 852 Impairments Transfer between categories 31 64 2 (100) 3 – In 2013, impairment charges have been recognized for an Depreciation 1 (89) (345) (68) – (1) (503) amount of €67 million (2012: €34 million). The impairment Impairment (10) (11) (6) (5) (2) (34) charges have been recognized in cost of sales and in Changes in exchange rates (10) (14) 5 (21) – (40) other operating income. The impairment charges are Total movements (86) (112) 20 212 – 34 related to restructuring activities, mainly in Europe. Balance at December 31, 2012 Financial lease Cost of acquisition 2,295 5,943 818 648 30 9,734 The carrying value of the property, plant and equipment Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,138) (4,223) (604) (8) (22) (5,995) financed by hire purchase and leasing and not legally Carrying value at year-end 2012 1,157 1,720 214 640 8 3,739 owned by the company was €51 million (2012: €52 million) Movements in 2013 of which €46 million is related to buildings and land, Acquisitions through business combinations 2 1 – – – 3 €1 million to plant equipment and machinery and €4 Transfer to assets held for sale (23) (24) (3) (1) – (51) million to other equipment. Divestments (22) (33) (6) 3 (1) (59) Capital expenditures 47 178 53 387 1 666 Transfer between categories 66 267 17 (351) 1 – Depreciation (75) (321) (75) – (1) (472) Impairment (30) (34) (2) (1) – (67) Changes in exchange rates (57) (76) (1) (35) (1) (170) Total movements (92) (42) (17) 2 (1) (150) Balance at December 31, 2013 Cost of acquisition 2,214 5,963 797 646 60 9,680 Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,149) (4,285) (600) (4) (53) (6,091) Carrying value at year-end 2013 1,065 1,678 197 642 7 3,589 1 Including Decorative Paints North America. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 133 9 Note 9: Investments in associates and joint ventures 10 Note 10: Other financial non-current assets At year-end 2013, the carrying value of investments in Other financial non-current assets associates amounted to €90 million (2012: €83 million) In € millions 2012 2013 and in joint ventures to €93 million (2012: €102 million). Loans and receivables 287 256 In 2013, the results from associates and joint ventures Other than financial instruments 1,010 709 amounted to a profit of €14 million (2012: €13 million). Total 1,297 965 No significant contingent liabilities existed related to associates and joint ventures, see Note 20. The most significant associates and joint ventures of The loans and receivables include the subordinated loan of AkzoNobel are: Metlac Holdings Brl (49 percent), Metlac €88 million (2012: €75 million) granted to the ­­Pension Fund Spa (44 percent), Delesto B.V. (50 percent), Eka Chile SA APF in the Netherlands and the non-current part of an (50 percent), Fort Amanda Specialties LLC (50 percent) escrow account of the AkzoNobel ­­ (CPS) Pension Scheme and I.C. Insurance Holdings Ltd (49 percent). in the UK amounting to €100 million, invested in bonds and cash. Under certain conditions, the minimum annual funding of this pension fund from the escrow account is Summary of financial information on a 100 percent basis £25 million (€29 million). The current portion of the escrow account is reported as other receivable within trade and Associates Joint ventures other receivables. In € millions 2012 2013 2012 2013 Condensed statement of income Other financial non-current assets include an amount of Revenue 126 143 545 543 €483 million related to pension plans in an asset position Income before tax 18 21 14 11 (2012: €841 million). Net income 12 14 9 8 Condensed balance sheet Current assets 116 123 183 193 Non-current assets 77 78 158 119 Total assets 193 201 341 312 Current liabilities 41 47 89 86 Non-current liabilities 28 21 49 38 Shareholders’ equity 124 133 203 188 Total liabilities and equity 193 201 341 312 134 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 11 Note 11: Inventories 12 Note 12: Trade and other receivables Of the total carrying value of inventories at year-end 2013, Trade and other receivables Allowance for impairment of trade receivables €67 million is measured at net realizable value (2012: In € millions 2012 2013 In € millions 2012 2013 €50 million). In 2013, €31 million was recognized in the Trade receivables 2,174 2,087 Opening balance 108 100 statement of income for the write-down of inventories Prepaid expenses 72 54 Additions charged to income 46 40 (2012: €39 million), while €26 million of write-downs were Tax receivables other than income tax 172 166 Release of unused amounts (18) (22) reversed (2012: €28 million). There are no inventories subject to retention of title clauses. Receivables from associates and 31 27 Acquisition (3) (1) joint ventures Utilization (25) (19) Forward exchange and commodity 16 15 Transfer to assets held for sale (6) (1) contracts Inventories Currency exchange differences (2) (6) Other receivables 233 187 Closing balance 100 91 In € millions 2012 2013 Total 2,698 2,536 Raw materials and supplies 520 430 Work in progress 81 75 Trade receivables are presented net of an allowance for The addition to and release of the allowance for Finished products and goods for resale 944 921 impairment of €91 million (2012: €100 million). In 2013, impairment have been included in the statement of income Total 1,545 1,426 €40 million of impairment losses were recognized in the under selling expenses. statement of income (2012: €46 million). The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables Ageing of trade receivables mentioned above. We do not hold any collateral for trade receivables. We do not have a significant customer In € millions 2012 2013 concentration. Performing accounts receivable 1,903 1,852 Past due accounts receivables and not impaired < 3 months 226 185 3 – 6 months 11 8 > 6 months 3 4 Impaired accounts receivables 131 128 Allowance for impairment (100) (91) Total trade receivables 2,174 2,086 With respect to the trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 135 13 Note 13: Cash and cash flows 14 Note 14: Group equity Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow and net debt Composition of share capital at year-end Operating activities in 2013 resulted in cash inflows of In € millions 2012 2013 Authorized Subscribed €716 million (2012: €737 ­million). The change is the net In € share capital share capital Short-term investments 301 765 impact of higher operating income (excluding impairment) Priority shares (48 with nominal value 19,200 19,200 Cash on hand and in banks 1,451 1,333 and lower cash outflow from provisions partly offset by of €400) Included under cash and cash 1,752 2,098 lower inflow from working capital, as 2012 had an Cumulative preferred shares (200 400,000,000 – equivalents in the balance sheet exceptional impact. million with nominal value of €2) Debt to credit institutions (194) (78) Common shares (600 million with 1,200,000,000 485,251,070 Total per cash flow statement 1,558 2,020 nominal value of €2) Net debt decreased from €2,298 million at year-end 2012 to €1,529 million at year-end 2013 as a consequence of the Total 1,600,019,200 485,270,270 Short-term investments almost entirely consist of cash net impact of: loans, time deposits, marketable private borrowings and • Cash inflows from divestments (€313 million) and marketable securities immediately convertible into cash. For discontinued operations (€675 million) Outstanding common shares more information on credit risk management, see Note 23. • Cash inflows from operating activities of €716 million • Capital expenditures of €666 million Number of shares 2012 2013 At December 31, 2013, an amount of €115 million in cash • Dividend payments of €286 million (€210 million to Outstanding at January 1 234,688,341 239,047,452 and cash equivalents was restricted (2012: €119 million). shareholders and €76 million to non-controlling interests) Issued in connection to stock 4,359,111 3,578,083 options exercised and performanceRestricted cash is defined as cash that cannot be accessed related shares granted centrally due to regulatory or contractual restrictions. Balance at year-end 239,047,452 242,625,535 Changes in working capital Weighted average number of common shares In € millions 2012 2013 Trade and other receivables (18) (181) Number of shares 2012 2013 Inventories 108 (7) Issued at January 1 234,688,341 239,047,452 Trade and other payables 161 175 Issued common shares during 2,551,704 2,180,576 the year Total 251 (13) Shares for basic earnings per 237,240,045 241,228,028 share for the year Changes in provisions Effect of dilutive shares 1 For stock options 12,233 5,647 In € millions 2012 2013 For performance-related shares 2,113,705 2,060,997 Post retirement provisions (593) (417) For share-matching plan 12,005 14,825 Restructuring provisions 9 55 Shares for diluted earnings 239,377,988 243,309,497 Other provisions (119) (33) per share Total (703) (395) 1 For 2012, all potentially dilutive shares were non-dilutive due to the loss. 136 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Subscribed share capital Non-controlling interests For further details on subscribed share capital, see 2012 2013 Note E in the Company financial statements. Equity stake Equity stake Group equity Partner % € mln % € mln Other components of shareholders’ equity AkzoNobel Swire Paints (Shanghai) Swire Pacific Limited, China 30.00 170 30.00 167 Changes in fair value of derivatives comprise the effective Limited,Shanghai, China portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value Akzo Nobel India Ltd, Kolkata, India Privately held, India 27.04 73 27.04 53 of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged PT ICI Paints Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia PT DWI Satrya Utama, Indonesia 45.00 38 45.00 27 transactions that have not yet occurred. Tax related ICI Paints (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, Privately held, Malaysia 40.05 33 40.05 29 to cash flow hedges was €nil (2012: €1 million negative). Malaysia AkzoNobel Swire Paints (Guanzhou) Limited, Swire Pacific Limited, Industrial 46.00 36 46.00 41 Cumulative translation reserves comprise all foreign China Development Co. Ltd of Guanzhou, exchange differences arising from the translation of China the financial statements of foreign operations, as well International Paint (Korea) Ltd, Busan, SouthNoroo Holdings, South Korea 40.00 24 40.00 19 Korea as from the translation of intercompany loans with a permanent nature and liabilities and derivatives that Kayaku Akzo Corp, Tokyo Japan Nippon Kayaku Co., Ltd., Japan 25.00 10 25.00 8 hedge the net investments in a foreign subsidiary. Akzo Nobel Kemipol AS, Izmir, Turkey Privately held, Turkey 49.00 14 49.00 15 Tax related to exchange differences arising on translation Marshall Boya, Dilovasi-Kocaeli, Turkey Marshal Employees' Foundation, 11.75 6 11.75 5 Privately held, Turkey of foreign operations were €7 million negative AkzoNobel Boya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (PC), Privately held, Turkey 25.00 6 25.00 4 (2012: €6 million positive). Izmir, Turkey Akzo Nobel Pakistan Limited Privately held, Pakistan 24.19 16 24.19 9 Equity-settled transactions include the stock option AkzoNobel OmanSAOC Omar Zawawi establishment LLC – 50.00 10 program and the performance-related share plan Others 38 40 whereby options or shares are granted to the Board Total 464 427 of Management, Executive Committee and other executives. For details of the share-based compensation, see Note 4. Tax related to equity settled transactions was €3 million positive in 2013 (2012: €nil). AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 137 15 Note 15: Post-retirement benefit provisions Post-retirement benefit provisions relate to defined benefit The most significant risks that we run in relation to and the transfer to PPG of the Canadian pension and pension and other post-retirement benefits, including defined benefit plans are that investment returns fall short other post-retirement plans of Decorative Paints and healthcare or welfare plans. We have a number of defined of expectations, decline in discount rates, that inflation former ICI benefit pension plans. The largest pension plans are the ICI exceeds expectations, and that retirees live longer than • In September 2013, former employees with vested Pension Fund (ICIPF) and the AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension expected. The assets and liabilities of the funded plans benefits in the US were offered the opportunity to take Scheme (CPS) in the UK which together account for are held outside of the company in a trust or a foundation, their benefits as a single lump sum immediately. Some 83 percent of defined benefit obligations (DBO) and which is governed by a board of fiduciaries or trustees, 4,200 participants elected to take the cash sum 91 percent of plan assets. Other pension plans include the depending on the legal arrangements in the country reducing our liabilities by $113 million (€85 million) at a largely unfunded plans in Germany, the plans in the US and concerned. The primary objective with regard to the settlement loss of €4 million. This followed a similar certain other smaller plans in the UK. The benefits of these investment of pension plan assets is to ensure that each exercise in December 2012 pension plans are based primarily on years of service and individual plan has sufficient funds available to satisfy future • In December 2013, AkzoNobel settled pension employees’ compensation. The funding policy for the plans benefit obligations in accordance with local legal and entitlements of approximately 9,400 retirees and is consistent with local requirements in the countries of legislative requirements. For this purpose, we work closely beneficiaries in the US by purchasing annuities from establishment. We also provide certain healthcare and life with plan fiduciaries to develop strategic asset allocation insurance company MetLife for an amount of $675 million insurance benefits to retired employees, mainly in the US strategies. Asset liability modelling (ALM) studies are carried (€490 million) thereby reducing the liabilities by and the Netherlands. out periodically to analyse and understand the trade-off $655 million (€475 million) with a €15 million settlement between expected investment returns, volatility of outcomes loss. To enable this transaction, AkzoNobel made a Valuations of the obligations under the plans are carried and the impact on cash contributions. We aim to strike a top-up contribution of $168 million (€127 million) out regularly by independent qualified actuaries. We accrue cautious balance between these factors in order to agree for the expected costs of providing such post-retirement affordable contribution schedules with plan fiduciaries. In addition, during 2012 and 2013 certain pension plans benefits during the service years of the employees. Plan assets principally consist of long-term interesthave been curtailed, which were not material. All of these Governance of the benefit plans is the responsibility of the earning investments and (investment funds with holdings actions generally will reduce expenses and employer Board Committee Pensions, a technical committee to the primarily in) quoted equity securities. Our largest plans contribution requirements into those plans in future years. Board of Management. This committee provides oversight use derivatives (such as index futures, currency forward of the costs and risks of the plans including oversight of contracts and swaps) to reduce volatility of underlying The remaining pension plans primarily represent defined the impact of the plans on the company in terms of cash variables, for efficient portfolio management and to improve contribution plans. This includes, among others, the flow, pension expenses and the balance sheet, by the the liability matching characteristics of the assets. However, Pension Fund APF in the Netherlands and the 401k development and maintenance of policies on benefit design, derivatives are not used to gear our funds. Limits have been Plan in the US. The ITP2 plan in Sweden is financed funding, asset allocation and assumption setting. set on the use of derivatives which are periodically subject through insurance with the Alecta insurance company to review for compliance with the pension fund’s investment and is classified as a multi-employer defined benefit plan. Pension plans strategy. CPS has entered into an insurance contract with AkzoNobel does not have access to sufficient information Almost all of the defined benefit plans have been closed SwissRe to hedge longevity risk in respect of a portion of its from Alecta to enable a defined benefit accounting to new members since the early to mid-2000s, although pensioners (see the table at the end of this note). treatment and hence it is accounted for as a defined in many plans long-serving employees continue to accrue contribution plan. Contributions in 2013 were €10 million benefits. For plans in the US, benefit accrual is frozen In line with our pension/investment strategy, we seek to (2012: €10 million). Alecta’s target funding ratio in 2013 and employees participate in defined contribution plans reduce risk in our pension plans over time. In 2013, our was 140 percent although the actual ratio at September for future service. In countries where plans are closed, North American pension liabilities were significantly reduced 2013 stood at 153 percent. There are also a small number new employees are eligible to join a defined contribution by the following actions: of multi-employer plans in the US in which AkzoNobel arrangement. In countries in high growth markets, pension • As a result of the Decorative Paints North America participates with annual contributions totaling less than schemes currently are not material. Unless mandated by divestment in 2013, at the end of 2012 post-retirement €1 million. These are also accounted for as defined law, it is our policy that any new plans are established as balance sheet provisions of €107 million were classified contribution plans. The expenses of plans classified as defined contribution plans. as held for sale. The sale on April 1, 2013, resulted in defined contribution plans in AkzoNobel totaled €172 million the remeasurement and curtailment of US pension and in 2013 (2012: €180 million). other post-retirement liabilities (at a loss of €18 million) 138 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Other post-retirement benefit plans Reconciliation balance sheet AkzoNobel provides certain healthcare and life insurance 2012 2013 benefits to retired employees, mainly in the US and the Plan Funded Plan Funded In € millions DBO assets status DBO assets status Netherlands. The risks to which the US healthcare plans Balance at the beginning of the period (15,345) 14,605 (740) (16,674) 15,378 (1,296) expose AkzoNobel include the risk of future increases in the cost of healthcare which would increase the cost of Statement of income maintaining the plans. The benefit payments to retirees Current service cost (61) – (61) (68) – (68) under the Dutch plan are frozen. Both plans expose Past service cost/curtailments (8) – (8) 13 – 13 AkzoNobel to the risk of a further decline in long-term Settlements 66 (58) 8 584 (602) (18) corporate bond rates, which increases the plan obligations, Net (interest)/income on net defined benefit (liability)/asset (707) 704 (3) (602) 581 (21) and longevity risk as the plans generally pay lifetime Cost recognized in statement of income (710) 646 (64) (73) (21) (94) benefits. Remeasurements Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability experience 22 – 22 (92) – (92) Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability financial assumption changes (1,418) – (1,418) 9 – 9 Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability demographic assumption changes (2) – (2) 17 – 17 Return on plan assets greater/(less) than discount rate – 104 104 – (128) (128) Remeasurement effects recognized in other comprehensive income (1,398) 104 (1,294) (66) (128) (194) Cash flow Employer contributions – 767 767 – 568 568 Employee contributions (6) 6 – (5) 5 – Benefits and administration costs paid from plan assets 1,055 (1,055) – 962 (962) – Net cash flow 1,049 (282) 767 957 (389) 568 Other Acquisitions/divestments/transfers 37 (25) 12 319 (266) 53 Changes in exchange rates (307) 330 23 349 (326) 23 Total other (270) 305 35 668 (592) 76 Balance at the end of the period (16,674) 15,378 (1,296) (15,188) 14,248 (940) Asset restriction – – (2) – – (2) Medicare receivable – – (3) – – (2) Net balance sheet provision (16,674) 15,378 (1,301) (15,188) 14,248 (944) In the balance sheet under Other financial non-current assets 841 483 Post-retirement benefit provisions (1,942) (1,237) Current portion of provisions (93) (184) Liabilities (107) (6) Net balance sheet provision (1,301) (944) AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 139 In addition to the expenses, administrative expenses are Cash flows DBO at funded and unfunded pension plans incurred, especially for the UK pension funds, of €12 In 2014, we expect to contribute €394 million to our In € millions 2012 2013 million (2012: €11 million), which are included in operating defined benefit pension plans. This includes €96 million of Wholly or partly funded plans 15,934 14,591 income. In addition, we directly incurred asset management regular pension contributions and €298 million for top-ups, Unfunded plans 347 295 expenses of €6 million (2012: €5 million), which have been of which £25 million (€30 million) will be paid out of the Total 16,281 14,886 included in other comprehensive income, as was the CPS escrow account (see explanation at the end of this €1 million reduction of the restriction of asset recognition note). We expect to pay a further €23 million for other in 2012. post-retirement benefit plans. No allowance is made for any special one-off contributions that may arise in relation Interest costs on DBO for both pensions and other to new de-risking opportunities, like for example the post-retirement benefits together with the interest income pensioner settlement with MetLife in the US in 2013. on plan assets comprise the net financing expenses on post-retirement benefits of €21 million (2012: €3 million), The figures in the table below are the estimated future see Note 4. benefit payments to be paid from the plans to beneficiaries over the next ten years. Plan assets Other postretirement 2012 2013 In € millions Pensions benefits In € millions Total % of total Total % of total 2014 892 23 Equities 2,328 15 1,824 13 2015 890 23 Debt fixed interest government bonds 2,795 18 2,635 18 2016 898 23 Debt index-linked government bonds 2,760 18 2,816 20 2017 904 23 Debt corporate and other bonds 5,001 33 4,339 30 2018 911 22 Cash and cash equivalents 924 6 1,117 8 2019-2023 4,650 104 Other 1,570 10 1,517 11 Total 15,378 100 14,248 100 The equities and debt assets in the table above have drug benefits for retirees, as well as a federal subsidy quoted prices in active markets, although most are held to sponsors of post-retirement healthcare plans, which through funds comprised of such instruments which are both began on January 1, 2006. We have recognized not actively traded themselves. Other plan assets include this reimbursement right as an asset under other financial certain assets that are not quoted in active markets, such non-current assets, measured at fair value amounting as real estate, insurance policies and private equity. Other to €2 million at year-end 2013 (year-end 2012: assets included unquoted securities totalling €531 million €3 million). (December 31, 2012: €557 million, of which €229 million is invested in real estate (December 31, 2012: €249 million). Pension balances recorded under other financial Plan assets did not directly include any of AkzoNobel’s non-current assets (December 31, 2013: €483 million; own transferable financial instruments, nor any property December 31, 2012: €841 million) could be recognized occupied by or assets used by the company. under IFRIC14 because economic benefits are available in the form of future refunds from the plan or reductions in In the US, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement future contributions to the plan, either during the life of the and Modernization Act of 2003 introduced prescription plan or on the (final) settlement of the plan liabilities. 140 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Key figures and assumptions by plan 2012 2013 Other Other postOther Other postICIPF CPS pension retirement ICIPF CPS pension retirement In € millions or % UK UK plans benefits Total UK UK plans benefits Total Percentage of total DBO 59% 19% 20% 2% 63% 20% 15% 2% Defined benefit obligation at year-end (9,738) (3,147) (3,396) (393) (16,674) (9,576) (3,051) (2,259) (302) (15,188) Fair value of plan assets at year-end 10,523 2,804 2,051 – 15,378 10,007 2,941 1,300 – 14,248 Plan funded status 785 (343) (1,345) (393) (1,296) 431 (110) (959) (302) (940) Restriction on asset recognition – – (2) – (2) – – (2) – (2) Medicare receivable – – – (3) (3) – – – (2) (2) Amounts recognized on the balance sheet 785 (343) (1,347) (396) (1,301) 431 (110) (961) (304) (944) Percentage of total current service cost 15% 21% 51% 13% 13% 22% 56% 9% Current service cost 9 13 31 8 61 9 15 38 6 68 Employer contributions 433 146 159 29 767 170 91 281 26 568 Discount rate 4.1% 4.1% 3.4% 3.5% 3.9% 4.3% 4.4% 3.9% 4.2% 4.2% Rate of compensation increase 3.6% 3.8% 2.3% – 3.4% 4.3% 4.4% 2.9% – 4.1% Inflation 2.6% 2.8% 1.5% – 2.4% 3.3% 3.4% 2.1% – 3.2% Pension increases 2.6% 2.3% 1.5% – 2.3% 3.1% 2.4% 1.9% – 2.7% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year 5.9% 5.9% 5.5% 5.5% Rate to which cost trend rate is assumed to decline 3.8% 3.8% 3.8% 3.8% Year that rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2019-2032 2019-2032 2019-2032 2019-2032 Life expectancy (in years) Currently aged 60 Males 26.7 26.5 24.2 24.1 26.1 26.8 26.7 25.0 24.9 26.5 Females 29.3 28.4 27.1 26.3 28.6 29.3 28.4 28.1 26.7 28.9 Currently aged 45, from age 60 Males 27.8 27.7 25.3 24.4 27.2 28.0 27.9 26.6 26.0 27.7 Females 30.6 29.7 28.2 26.3 29.8 30.5 29.6 29.6 27.3 30.1 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 141 Sensitivity of DBO to change in assumptions The effect on DBO shown allows for an alternative value for each assumption while the other actuarial assumptions Other Other postICIPF CPS pension retirement remain unchanged. Whilst this table illustrates the overall In € millions UK UK plans benefits Total impact on DBO of the changes shown, the significance of Discount rate: 0.5% decrease 632 266 167 16 1,081 the impact and the range of reasonably possible alternative Price inflation: 0.5% increase 1 368 168 92 – 628 assumptions may differ between the different plans that Life expectancy: 1 year increase from age 60 412 105 59 5 581 comprise the total DBO; in particular the plans differ in Healthcare cost trend rate: 0.5% increase – – – 7 7 benefit design, currency and average term, meaning that different assumptions have different levels of significance Maturity information for different plans. The sensitivity analysis is intended to Weighted average duration of DBO (years) 13.0 17.1 14.4 9.5 13.9 illustrate the inherent uncertainty in the evaluation of the 1 The sensitivity to price inflation assumption includes corresponding changes to all inflation-related assumption compensation DBO under market conditions at the measurement date. increases, pensions in payment and pensions in determent. Its results cannot be extrapolated due to non-linear effects that changes in the key actuarial assumptions may have on the overall total DBO. Furthermore, the analysis does not indicate a probability of such changes occurring and it does not necessarily represent our view of expected future changes in DBO. Any management actions that may be taken to mitigate the inherent risks in the post-retirement defined benefit plans or changes in asset values are not reflected in this analysis. The sensitivities in the table only apply to the DBO and not to the net amounts recognized in the balance sheet. Movements in the fair value of plan assets would, to some extent, be expected to offset movements in the DBO resulting from changes in the given assumptions. 142 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Effect of the implementation of the revised IAS 19 In € millions ICIPF CPS In € millions Original Restated Type of plan Defined benefit, based upon years of service and final salary Balance sheet January 1, 2012 Benefits Retirement pension for employee Dependants pensions on death of employee/ pensioner Deferred tax assets 813 907 Options for ill health early retirement Other financial non-current assets 1,187 1,559 Pension increases (main benefit section) Annually linked to UK RPI with a maximum of 5 Annually linked to UK CPI with a maximum of Post-retirement benefit provisions 1,156 1,831 percent 5 percent Deferred tax liabilities 567 541 Plan structure Plans are set up under a trust and are tax approved Shareholders’ equity 9,212 9,031 Governance Trustee directors: Non-controlling interests 531 529 5 member nominated 5 member nominated 1 independent (Law Debenture) 5 company nominated Statement of income 2012 5 appointed with the agreement of Law 1 independent (Law Debenture) Operating income (1,244) (1,198) Debenture Financing expenses related to pensions (65) (3) Regulatory framework The plans are tax approved and assets are held in trust for the benefit of participants. The trustees have a legal duty to manage the trust in the best interests of participants. Investment strategy is Income tax (172) (203) controlled by the trustees in consultation with the company. Profit/(loss) for the period (2,106) (2,029) Funding basis A plan specific basis must be agreed with each trustee board in accordance with UK Regulations. Attributable to The basis is not the same as the IFRS calculation as it uses more prudent assumptions about life Shareholders of the company (2,169) (2,092) expectancy and the discount rates reflect prudent estimates of the expected return on assets actually held, thus the trustees’ investment strategies will impact the discounted value of liabilities. Non-controlling interests 63 63 Frequency of funding reviews Every three years Earnings per share from total operations (in €) Latest valuation March 31, 2011 March 31, 2012 Basic (9.14) (8.82) Deficit at previous valuation £1.0 billion (€1.2 billion) £220 million (€264 million) allowing for the escrow account Diluted (9.14) (8.82) Recovery plan £178.5 million (€214 million) per annum to 2017 £42 million (€50 million) per annum to 2018 Statement of comprehensive income 2012 inclusive paid in January each year inclusive, plus £25 million (€30 million) per annum to 2017 from the escrow account paid in March Actuarial gains and losses, and other items relat– (1,298) each year ing to pensions and other post-retirement benefits Next funding review March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 Exchange differences arising on translations of 8 34 foreign operations Estimated funding deficit at December 31, 2013 £1.1 billion (€1.3 billion) £0.25 million (€0.3 million) Income tax relating to other comprehensive – 249 Strategic asset allocation income Matching 80% 58% Return seeking 20% 42% Other comprehensive income for the period 6 (1,017) Other Not applicable Longevity hedge contract with SwissRe to cover Comprehensive income for the period (2,100) (3,046) 40% of pensioner liabilities Attributable to Escrow account Not applicable Pre-funded account established in 2007 to fund existing deficit. It pays a minimum of £25 million Shareholders of the company (2,146) (3,093) per annum to CPS until it is exhausted (no later Non-controlling interests 46 47 than 2017). Value at year-end 2013 is £108 million (€130 million) Balance sheet December 31, 2012 Membership Deferred tax assets 830 1,146 Active 459 753 Other financial non-current assets 1,748 1,297 Deferred 10,713 19,992 Pensioner 49,765 20,659 Post-retirement benefit provisions 1,126 2,142 Total 60,937 41,404 Deferred tax liabilities 442 420 Shareholders’ equity 6,892 5,764 Non-controlling interests 465 464 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 143 16 Note 16: Other provisions 17 Note 17: Long-term borrowings Movements in other provisions Long-term borrowings In € millions 2012 2013 Restructuring Environmental Debt issued 3,289 2,458 In € millions of activities costs Other Total Debt to credit institutions 10 48 Balance at January 1, 2013 184 424 489 1,097 Other borrowings 89 160 Additions made during the year 191 7 158 356 Total 3,388 2,666 Utilization (111) (48) (65) (224) Amounts reversed during the year (26) (24) (17) (67) Unwind of discount 1 (4) 8 5 The amounts due within one year are presented under Acquisitions/divestments – (1) (4) (5) short-term borrowings. For details on the exposure to Transfer to Liabilities held for sale – (8) (1) (9) interest rate and foreign currency risk, see Note 23. During Changes in exchange rates (3) (17) (15) (35) 2013, the average effective interest rate on debt issued Balance at December 31, 2013 236 329 553 1,118 was 5.3 percent (2012: 5.6 percent). Non-current portion of provisions 75 283 343 701 Debt issued Current portion of provisions 161 46 210 417 Balance at December 31, 2013 236 329 553 1,118 In € millions 2012 2013 7 3/4 % 2008/14 (€825 million ) 823 – 7 1/4 % 2009/15 (€621 million) 630 626 Provisions for restructuring of activities Other provisions 8 % 2009/16 (£250 million) 305 299 Provisions for restructuring of activities comprise accruals Other provisions relate to a great variety of risks and for certain employee benefits and for costs which are commitments, including provisions for claims, antitrust 4 % 2011/18 (€800 million) 792 793 directly associated with plans to exit or cease specific cases and other long-term employee benefits, such as 2 5/8 % 2012/22 (€750 million) 739 740 activities and closing down of facilities. For all restructuring long-service leave and jubilee payments. Other – – provisions a detailed formal plan exists and the imple­ Total 3,289 2,458 men­tation of the plan has started or the plan has The majority of the cash outflows related to other been announced before the balance sheet date. Most provisions are expected to be within one to five years. In restructuring plans are expected to be completed within calculating the other provisions, a pre-tax discount rate Aggregated maturities of long-term borrowings two years from the balance sheet date. of on average 3.5 percent has been used. In € millions 2015 – 2018 After 2018 Debt issued 1,718 740 Provisions for environmental costs Current portion of provisions Debt to credit institutions 22 26 For details on environmental exposures, see Note 20. Current portion of post-retirement benefit provisions Other borrowings 119 41 (€184 million) and other provisions (€417 million) adds up Total 1,859 807 to €601 million (2012: €455 million). 144 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 18 Note 18: Short-term borrowings 19 Note 19: Trade and other payables We have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit, Short-term borrowings Trade and other payables which has been extended in 2013 with an additional year In € millions 2012 2013 In € millions 2012 2013 to 2018. At year-end 2013 and 2012, this facility had not Debt to credit institutions 194 78 Suppliers 1,990 1,944 been drawn. At year-end 2013 and 2012, none of the Current portion of long-term borrow468 883 Amounts payable to employees 258 361 borrowings was secured by collateral. ings Derivatives 38 42 Total 662 961 Taxes and social security contributions 230 216 Financial lease liabilities are included in other borrowings and aggregated €51 million (2012: €52 million). An amount Prepayments by customers 156 184 of €6 million will mature within one year and €18 million will In 2013, a bond of $500 million matured. In January 2014, Dividends 19 14 mature in the period 2015 through 2018 and €27 million a bond totaling €825 million will mature and is classified as Payable to related parties 32 32 after 2018. a short-term borrowing. Other liabilities 519 425 Total 3,242 3,218 We have US dollar and euro commercial paper programs in place, which can be used to the extent that the equivalent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility is not used. We had no commercial paper outstanding at year-end 2013 and 2012. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 145 20 Note 20: Contingent liabilities and commitments Environmental matters to the Hydrogen Peroxide infringement in the 1990’s. outcome will not materially affect our consolidated financial We are confronted with substantial costs arising out CDC Project 13 SA has initiated civil proceedings against position but could be material to our results of operations of environmental laws and regulations, which include AkzoNobel and other companies before the Amsterdam or cash flows in any one accounting period. obligations to eliminate or limit the effects on the District Court in relation to the Sodium Chlorate environment of the disposal or release of certain wastes infringements in the 1990’s. These claims are disputed. Commitments or substances at various sites. Proceedings involving An appeal by the company is pending with the General Purchase commitments for property, plant and environmental matters, such as the alleged discharge of Court against the decision by the European Commission equipment aggregated €93 million (2012: €89 million). chemicals or waste materials into the air, water, or soil, are to impose fines on the company for violations of EU pending against us in various countries. In some cases competition laws regarding Heat Stabilizers. Maturity operational lease contracts this concerns sites divested in prior years or derelict sites In € millions 2012 2013 belonging to companies acquired in the past. AkzoNobel has provided various indemnities and Due within one year 127 106 guarantees in respect of past divestments to the relevant Due between one and five years 266 215 It is our policy to accrue and charge against earnings purchasers and their permitted assigns (if applicable), which in general are capped in time and/or amount (in Due after more than five years 170 126 environmental clean-up costs when it is probable that a liability has materialized and an amount is reasonably proportion to the value received). In connection with the Total 563 447 estimable. These accruals are reviewed periodically and Organon BioSciences divestment to Schering-Plough, adjusted, if necessary, as assessments and clean-ups AkzoNobel has limited its maximum exposure to claims The 2012 numbers have been restated to exclude the proceed and additional information becomes available. to €850 million. The provided guarantees and indemnities operational lease commitments of the North American Environmental liabilities can change substantially due to have varying maturity periods. AkzoNobel has received Decorative Paints business. the emergence of additional information on the nature or various claims under such indemnities and guarantees. In extent of the contamination, the geological circumstances, some instances, AkzoNobel has been named as a direct Lease payments during 2013 amounted to €127 million. the necessity of employing particular methods of defendant despite the divestments. Guarantees related to associates and joint ventures at remediation, actions by governmental agencies or private year-end 2013 totaled €9 million (2012: €10 million). parties, or other factors. Cash expenditures often lag A number of other claims are pending, all of which are behind the period in which an accrual is recorded by a contested. We are also involved in disputes with tax number of years. authorities in several jurisdictions. The provisions for environmental costs accounted for in Provisions are recognized when an outflow of economic aggregated €329 million at year-end 2013 (2012: benefits for settlement is probable and the amount is €424 million). The provision has been discounted using an reliably estimable. It should be understood that, in light average pre-tax discount rate of 3.9 percent (2012: of possible future developments, such as (a) potential 2.9 percent). While it is not feasible to predict the outcome additional lawsuits, (b) possible future settlements, and (c) of all pending environmental exposures, it is reasonably rulings or judgments in pending lawsuits, certain cases possible that there will be a need for future provisions for may result in additional liabilities and related costs. At this environmental costs which, in management’s opinion, point in time, we cannot estimate any additional amount based on information currently available, would of loss or range of loss in excess of the recorded amounts not have a material effect on the company’s financial with sufficient certainty to allow such amount or range of position but could be material to the company’s results amounts to be meaningful. Moreover, if and to the extent of operations in any one accounting period. that the contingent liabilities materialize, they are typically paid over a number of years and the timing of such Claims and litigations payments cannot be predicted with confidence. AkzoNobel is – together with others – involved in civil While the outcome of said cases, claims and disputes proceedings initiated by Cartel Damages Claims HP cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe, based SA/NV before the Dortmund Court in Germany in relation upon legal advice and information received, that the final 146 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 21 Note 21: Related party transactions 22 Note 22: Remuneration of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management We purchased and sold goods and services to various The members of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Supervisory Board members is not dependent on the related parties in which we hold a 50 percent or less Committee are considered key management personnel. results of the company. equity interest (associates and joint ventures). Such Total compensation to key management personnel transactions were conducted at arm’s length with terms amounted to €15.4 million (2012: €24.1 million), which We do not grant share-based compensation to our Super‑ comparable with transactions with third parties. In 2013, includes €1.3 million related to the Dutch crisis tax visory Board members, neither do we provide loans. Travel a significant related party transaction was a €99 million (of which €0.9 million related to members of Board of expenses and facilities for members of the Supervisory gas supply (2012: €115 million) to Delesto, a joint venture Management). An amount of €7.0 million related to shortBoard are borne by the company and reviewed by the of AkzoNobel and Essent. Delesto transforms gas into term employee benefits (2012: €10.4 million), €1.2 million Audit Committee. The shares in the company owned by steam and electricity. The steam is used in our production to post-employment benefits and other post-employment Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term processes and the electricity is sold to the market. compensation (2012: €1.5 million) and €5.8 million to investment in the company. share-based compensation (2012: €8.1 million). During 2013, we considered the members of the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board to be the key Supervisory Board Shares held by the members of the Supervisory management personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related Members of the Supervisory Board receive a fixed Board parties”. For details on their remuneration, as well as on remune­ration: €100,000 for the Chairman, €60,000 for the Number of shares at year-end 2012 2013 shares and options held by members of the Supervisory Deputy Chairman and €50,000 for the other members. Karel Vuursteen 400 400 Board or Board of Management, see Note 22. In the Members of committees receive an extra compensation. Sari Baldauf – – ordinary course of business, we have transactions with Members living outside the Netherlands receive an Uwe-Ernst Bufe 500 500 various organizations with which certain of the members attendance fee dependent on the country of residence. Dolf van den Brink 500 500 of the Supervisory Board or Executive Committee are Members who are resident in the Netherlands do not Peggy Bruzelius 500 500 associated, but no related party transactions were effected receive an attendance fee except for meetings held Antony Burgmans 500 500 in 2013. Likewise, there have not been any transactions outside the Netherlands. Peter Ellwood 500 500 with members of the Supervisory Board or Executive Louis Hughes 500 538 Committee, any other senior management personnel or In accordance with the Articles of Association and good any family member of such persons. Also no loans have corporate governance practice, the remuneration of Ben Verwaayen – – been extended to members of the Supervisory Board or Executive Committee, any other senior management personnel or any family member of such persons. Supervisory Board Total Committee Employer’s Total For related party transactions with pension funds, see remuneration Remuneration Attendance fee allowance fees charges remuneration Note 10 and 15. In € 2012 2013 Karel Vuursteen, Chairman 121,100 100,000 5,000 15,000 3,900 123,900 Sari Baldauf 1 52,400 50,000 17,500 10,000 – 77,500 Uwe-Ernst Bufe, Deputy Chairman 78,600 60,000 17,500 – – 77,500 Dolf van den Brink 72,500 50,000 5,000 20,000 – 75,000 Peggy Bruzelius 94,500 50,000 15,000 15,000 17,300 97,300 Antony Burgmans 67,500 50,000 5,000 15,000 – 70,000 Peter Ellwood 84,900 50,000 17,500 15,000 3,900 86,400 Louis Hughes 93,600 50,000 30,000 15,000 3,900 98,900 Ben Verwaayen 1 52,400 50,000 17,500 10,000 3,000 80,500 Total 717,500 510,000 130,000 115,000 32,000 787,000 1 As of May, 2012. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 147 Board of Management operating cash flows (30 percent) and the individual Post-employment benefits and other postThe individual contracts of the members of the Board of and qualitative targets of the members of the Board of employment compensation Management are determined by the Supervisory Board Management (30 percent). For more information, see the Other post-employment compensation are payments to within the framework of the remuneration policy adopted Remuneration report. a person intended for building up retirement benefits other by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. We do not than those included in Post-employment benefits. Pension provide loans to members of the Board of Management. Other short-term benefits contributions were calculated over the 2013 remuneration. For more detailed information on the decisions of the Other short-term benefits include employer’s charges and These amounts together with the contributions over Supervisory Board with respect to the individual contracts other compensations. Employer’s charges refer to social the 2013 short-term incentives are included in the of the members of the Board of Management, see the contributions and healthcare contributions. The social post-employment benefits and other post-employment Remuneration report. charges of Mr. Nichols (€228,900) related to employer’s compensation. contribution in the UK. The other costs for Mr. Nichols Short-term incentive (€73,600) and Mr. Darner (€50,700) related to living Share-based compensation The short-term incentives for 2013 are linked to return on expenses and home leave allowances. The costs for share-based compensation are non-cash investment (20 percent), operating income (20 percent), and related to the performance-related share plan and the share matching plan following IFRS 2. The fair value of the performance-related share plan at grant date is Board remuneration 2012 amortized as a charge against income over the three-year Other postvesting period. The fair value amounted to €41.28 per Postemployment Share-based performance-related share conditionally granted in 2013 Short-term Other shortemployment compensacompensaTermination Total remufor those members of the Board of Management facing a In € Salary incentives term benefits benefits tion tion benefits neration two year holding restriction (2012: €32.43) and €50.89 for Ton Büchner 534,700 170,900 5,700 – 128,900 399,500 – 1,239,700 those members whose holding restriction will lapse after Keith Nichols 602,000 224,500 182,400 109,100 78,000 880,400 – 2,076,400 the end of their Board member’s term (2012: €38.79). The Leif Darner 602,000 200,100 689,500 229,500 – 1,248,600 796,300 3,766,000 fair value for the shares related to the share-matching plan Tex Gunning 602,000 200,100 584,600 236,700 – 951,300 – 2,574,700 amounted to €40.67 (2012: €39.72). Total 2,340,700 795,600 1,462,200 575,300 206,900 3,479,800 796,300 9,656,800 Former members of the Board of Management In 2013, charges for former members of the Board of Board remuneration 2013 Management amounted to €4.8 million (2012: €18,000) Other postmainly due to taxation on excessive pay (‘Belastingheffing Short-term Other shortPost-employemployment Share-based Total excessieve beloningsbestanddelen’) and Dutch crisis tax. In € Salary incentives term benefits ment benefits compensation compensation remuneration Ton Büchner 820,000 630,900 8,100 – 291,600 807,700 2,558,300 Keith Nichols 616,000 308,100 302,500 – 221,800 857,900 2,306,300 Leif Darner 1 200,700 – 53,200 58,900 – 996,900 1,309,700 Tex Gunning 1 200,700 – 2,700 58,900 – 1,367,600 1,629,900 Total 1,837,400 939,000 366,500 117,800 513,400 4,030,100 7,804,200 1 Until April 26, 2013. 148 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Performance-related shares Number of performance-related shares With regard to the performance related shares granted Balance at Balance at Vested on to the members of the Board of Management in 2011, January 1, Granted Vested Forfeited Dividend December January 1, the final vesting percentage of the series 2011-2013 Series 2013 in 2013 in 2013 in 2013 in 2013 31, 2013 2014 equaled 70.83 percent (series 2010-2012: 66.67 percent), Ton Büchner 2012 – 2014 33,099 – – – 967 34,066 – including dividend shares 77.98 percent (series 20102013 – 2015 – 24,200 – – 707 24,907 – 2012: 73.61 percent). The members of the Board of Management will retain the shares for a minimum period Keith Nichols 2010 – 2012 13,471 – (13,471) – – – – of two years after vesting or (if shorter) for the duration of 2011 – 2013 19,895 – – (5,973) 582 14,504 14,504 their tenure as member of the Board of Management. 2012 – 2014 24,799 – – – 724 25,523 – 2013 – 2015 – 18,200 – – 531 18,731 – Share-matching plan The members of the Board of Management are required Leif Darner 2010 – 2012 13,471 – (13,471) – – – – to buy AkzoNobel shares. Under certain conditions, 2011 – 2013 19,895 – – (5,973) 582 14,504 14,504 such shares may be matched by the company. See 2012 – 2014 24,799 – – – 724 25,523 – the Remuneration report for further details on individual 2013 – 2015 – 6,067 – – 177 6,244 – arrangements. Tex Gunning 2010 – 2012 13,471 – (13,471) – – – – 2011 – 2013 19,895 – – (5,973) 582 14,504 14,504 2012 – 2014 24,799 – – – 724 25,523 – 2013 – 2015 – 6,067 – – 177 6,244 – Shares held by the Board of Management Number of potential matching shares Number of shares at year-end 2012 2013 Year of share Balance at Ton Büchner 10,810 16,243 investment Potential match Matched in 2013 Forfeited in 2013 year-end 2013 Keith Nichols 16,632 21,870 Ton Büchner 2012 10,810 – – 10,810 2013 1,429 – – 1,429 Tex Gunning 2012 1,002 (1,002) – – 2013 702 (702) – – Stock options Outstanding at Exercise January 1, Forfeited Exercised in Outstanding at Year of issue price in € 2013 in 2013 2013 year-end 2013 Expiry date Keith Nichols 2006 46.46 3,000 – 3,000 – April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 3,750 – – 3,750 April 26, 2014 Leif Darner 2006 46.46 13,000 – 13,000 – April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 13,000 – – 13,000 April 26, 2014 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 149 23 Note 23: Financial risk management Financial risk management framework Maturity of liabilities and cash outflows rating. Generally, we do not require collateral in respect of Our activities expose us to a variety of financial risks: market Between financial assets. Investments in cash and cash equivalents risk (including: currency risk, fair value interest rate risk Less than one Over 5 and transactions involving derivative financial instruments and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are In € millions 1 year and 5 years years are entered into with counterparties that have sound inherent to the way we operate as a multinational with a credit ratings and good reputation. Derivative transactions At year-end 2012 large number of locally operating subsidiaries. Our overall are concluded mostly with parties with whom we have Borrowings 656 1,794 1,548 risk management program seeks to identify, assess, and – if contractual netting agreements and ISDA agreements in Interest on borrowings 211 332 121 necessary – mitigate these financial risks in order to minimize place. We set limits per counterparty for the different types Finance lease liabilities 6 17 29 potential adverse effects on our financial performance. Our of financial instruments we use. We closely monitor the Trade and other payables 3,242 – – risk mitigating activities include the use of derivative financial acceptable financial counterparty credit ratings and credit instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Board of FX contracts (hedges) limits and revise where required in line with the market Management is ultimately responsible for risk management. Outflow 2,380 – – circumstances. We do not expect non-performance by the We centrally identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks , and Inflow (2,417) – – counterparties for these financial instruments. Due to our monitor compliance with the corporate policies approved geographical spread and the diversity of our customers, by the Board of Management, except for commodity risks, Other derivatives we were not subject to any significant concentration of which are subject to identification, evaluation and hedging in Outflow 12 14 – credit risks at balance sheet date. The credit risk from the businesses. We have treasury hubs located in Brazil, Asia Inflow – – – trade receivables is measured and analyzed at a local and the US that are primarily responsible for regional cash Total 4,090 2,157 1,698 operating entity level, mainly by means of ageing analysis, management and short-term financing. We do not allow for see Note 12. At year-end 2013 extensive treasury operations at subsidiary level directly with Borrowings 955 1,841 780 external parties. Generally, the maximum exposure to credit risk is Interest on borrowings 134 269 70 represented by the carrying value of financial assets in the Finance lease liabilities 6 18 27 Liquidity risk management balance sheet. Trade and other payables 3,218 – – The primary objective of liquidity management is to provide for sufficient cash and cash equivalents at all times and FX contracts (hedges) At year-end 2013, the credit risk was €4.9 billion any place in the world to enable us to meet our payment Outflow 2,433 – – (2012: €4.7 billion) for cash, loans and trade and other obligations. We aim for a well-spread maturity schedule of Inflow (2,431) – – receivables. Our credit risk is well spread amongst both our long-term borrowings and a strong liquidity position. global and local counterparties. Our largest counterparty Other derivatives At year-end 2013, we had €2.1 billion available as cash risk amounted to €270 million at year-end 2013. and cash equivalents (2012: €1.8 billion), see Note 13. In Outflow 15 11 – addition, we have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving Inflow – – – Foreign exchange risk management credit facility, which has been extended in 2013 with an Total 4,330 2,139 877 Trade and financing transactions additional year to 2018. At year-end 2013 and 2012, We operate in a large number of countries, where we have this facility had not been drawn. We have US dollar and clients and suppliers, many of whom are outside of the euro commercial paper programs in place, which can be Credit risk management local functional currency environment. This creates currency used to the extent that the equivalent portion of the €1.8 Credit risk arises from financial assets such as cash exposure which is partly netted out on consolidation. billion multi-currency revolving credit facility is not used. and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments We had no commercial paper outstanding at year-end with a positive fair value, deposits with financial The purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is 2013 and 2012. The table shows our cash outflows per institutions, and trade receivables. We have a credit to protect us from the risk that the functional currency net maturity group. The amounts disclosed in the table are the risk management policy in place to limit credit losses cash flows resulting from trade or financing transactions contractual undiscounted cash flows. due to non-performance of financial counterparties and are adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Our customers. We monitor our exposure to credit risk on policy is to hedge our transactional foreign exchange rate an ongoing basis at various levels. We only deal with exposures above predefined thresholds from recognized financial counterparties that have a sufficiently high credit assets and liabilities. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied 150 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 by exception. Derivative transactions with external parties are Price risk management fixed at year-end 2012 to 75 percent fixed at year-end bound by overnight limits per currency. Commodity price risk management 2013. During 2013, no interest rate swap contracts were We use commodities, gas and electricity in our production outstanding. In general, forward exchange contracts that we enter into processes and we are particularly sensitive to energy price have a maturity of less than one year. When necessary, movements. Fair value hedges closed out in previous years resulted in forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity. an adjustment to the carrying amount of a bond of which Currency derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. Our Chlor Alkali activity in the Netherlands mitigates price €12 million was amortized and recognized as income on risks related to electricity by concluding electricity futures the interest line (2012: €13 million). to gradually cover the expected use over future periods. Hedged notional amounts at year-end We apply cash flow hedge accounting to these futures. The effective interest rate on issued debt (excluding hedge All contracts qualified as effective for hedge accounting. results) over 2013 was 5.6 percent (2012: 6.0 percent). Buy Sell Buy Sell The fair value of the contracts outstanding at year-end Combined with the amortization of interest rate swaps In € millions 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 amounted to a loss of €4 million, net of tax (year-end closed out in 2011, the effective interest rate on issued US dollar 273 616 267 684 2012: a loss of €10 million, net of tax), which are expected debt was 5.3 percent (2012: 5.6 percent). Pound sterling 68 541 67 665 to affect profit within the next three years. In order to Swedish krona 275 58 302 30 hedge the oil price risk, we have entered into oil/gas Capital risk management Other 273 517 270 379 swap contracts. At the end of 2013, there are contracts Our objectives when managing capital are to safeguard Total 889 1,732 906 1,758 outstanding, however, with a marginal fair value. The fair our ability to satisfy our capital providers and to maintain value of the contracts at the year-end 2012 was €4 million a capital structure that optimizes our cost of capital. For loss, net of tax. We did not apply hedge accounting in this we maintain a conservative financial strategy, with the Investments in foreign subsidiaries, associates relation to these contracts. objective to remain a strong investment grade company and joint ventures as rated by the rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Net investment hedge accounting is applied on hedges of In order to hedge the price risk of electricity that is used for Poor’s. The capital structure can be altered, among others, pound sterling net investments in foreign operations which the Specialty Chemicals plants in Sweden and Finland, we by adjusting the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, were hedged by a £250 million bond. During 2013, the entered into future contracts on the power exchange Nord return capital to capital providers, or issue new debt or hedge was fully effective. Pool Spot, based on expected use of electricity over the shares. period 2014–2017. We apply cash flow hedge accounting In 2011, 2012 and 2013 we applied cash flow hedge to these contracts in order to mitigate the accounting Consistent with other companies in the industry, we accounting of CNY793 million for an acquisition of which mismatch that would otherwise occur. The effective part of monitor capital headroom on the basis of funds from CNY90 million was still outstanding at the end of 2013. the fair value of these contracts amounted to a €16 million operations in relation to our net borrowings level (FFO/ There was no material gain/loss in 2012 and 2013 on the loss net of tax recorded in equity (2012: €10 million net NB-ratio). The FFO/NB-ratio for 2013 at year-end effective hedges. deferred loss), which are expected to affect profit within amounted to 0.56 (2012: 0.30). Funds from operations are the next four years. All hedges were effective in 2013 based on net cash from operating activities after tax, which The foreign exchange and interest rate risks related to and 2012. is adjusted, among others, for the elimination of changes divestments completed in 2013 amounting to $56 million in working capital, additional payments for pensions and and CAD190 million were hedged in 2012 using forward Interest rate risk management for the effects of the underfunding of pension and other contracts and cash flow hedge accounting was applied. We are partly financed with debt in order to obtain more post-retirement benefit obligations. Net borrowings is The loss on the effective hedges amounted to €3 million efficient leverage. Fixed rate debt results in fair value calculated as a total of long and short-term borrowings (2012: €5 million gain). There was no cash flow hedge interest rate risk. Floating rate debt results in cash flow less cash and cash equivalents, adding an after-tax reserve related to divestments outstanding at the end of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt maturing within one amount for the underfunding of pension and other post2013 (2012: €3 million gain). year is treated as floating rate debt. The fixed/floating retirement benefit obligations and lease commitments. In rate of our outstanding bonds shifted from 90 percent 2013, a bond of $500 million matured. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 151 Fair value of financial instruments Fair value per financial instruments category and IAS 39 categories Carrying value per IAS 39 Loans, receivables and other liabilities are recognized category at amortized cost, using the effective interest method. Loans and We estimated the fair value of our long-term borrowings receivables/ At fair value Total Carrying Out of scope other through carrying based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar In € millions amount of IFRS 7 liabilities profit or loss value Fair value issues or on the current rates offered to us for debt with similar maturities. 2012 year-end Other financial non-current assets 1,297 977 320 – 320 335 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, Trade and other receivables 2,698 244 2,438 16 2,454 2,454 trade receivables less allowance for impairment, shortCash and cash equivalents 1,752 – – 1,752 1,752 1,752 term borrowings and other current liabilities approximate Total financial assets 5,747 1,221 2,758 1,768 4,526 4,541 fair value due to the short maturity period of those instruments. Long-term borrowings 3,388 – 3,388 – 3,388 3,713 Short-term borrowings 662 – 662 – 662 678 The only financial instruments accounted for at fair value Trade and other payables 3,242 1,240 1,990 12 2,002 2,002 through profit or loss are derivative financial instruments Total financial liabilities 7,292 1,240 6,040 12 6,052 6,393 and the short-term investments included in cash. The fair value of foreign currency contracts, swap contracts, 2013 year-end forward rate agreements, oil contracts and gas and Other financial non-current assets 965 674 291 – 291 301 electricity futures was determined by valuation techniques Trade and other receivables 2,536 220 2,301 15 2,316 2,316 using market observable input (such as foreign currency Cash and cash equivalents 2,098 – – 2,098 2,098 2,098 interest rates based on Reuters) and by obtaining quotes Total financial assets 5,599 894 2,592 2,113 4,705 4,715 from dealers and brokers. Long-term borrowings 2,666 – 2,666 – 2,666 2,837 The following valuation methods for financial Short-term borrowings 961 – 961 – 961 965 instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss are Trade and other payables 3,218 1,258 1,944 16 1,960 1,960 distinguished: Total financial liabilities 6,845 1,258 5,571 16 5,587 5,762 • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) • Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable) Level 1 fair valuation methods were used for €2.6 billion of the long-term borrowings and €0.8 billion of the shortterm borrowings. All other fair values were determined using level 2 fair valuation methods, except for €87 million level 3 (discounted cash flow) fair valuation. 152 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Gross amounts of financial instruments in the statement Amount under of financial Offset in Net balance master netting In € millions Note position balance sheet sheet amount agreement Net amount 2012 year-end Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 12 16 – 16 (9) 7 Commodity contracts used for hedging 7 (7) – – – Total financial assets 23 (7) 16 (9) 7 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 19 12 – 12 (9) 3 Commodity contracts used for hedging 33 (7) 26 – 26 Total financial liabilities 45 (7) 38 (9) 29 2013 year-end Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 12 15 – 15 (7) 8 Commodity contracts used for hedging 13 (13) – – – Total financial assets 28 (13) 15 (7) 8 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 19 16 – 16 (7) 9 Commodity contracts used for hedging 39 (13) 26 – 26 Total financial liabilities 55 (13) 42 (7) 35 Master netting agreements We enter into derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each counterparty on a single day in respect of transactions outstanding in the same currency may be aggregated into a single net amount that is payable by one party to the other. In certain circumstances e.g. when a credit event such as a default occurs, all outstanding transactions under the agreement may be terminated, the termination value is assessed and a net amount is payable in settlement of the transactions. The table sets out the carrying amounts of recognized financial instruments that are subject to above agreements. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 153 Sensitivities Sensitivity object Sensitivity, measured at year-end 2013 Hypothetical impact Foreign currencies: We perform foreign currency sensitivity analysis A 10 percent strengthening of the euro versus Profit: €5 million (2012: profit €4 million). Equity: by applying an adjustment to the spot rates US dollar €nil (2012: €nil) prevailing at year-end. This adjustment is based on observed changes in the exchange rate in the A 10 percent strengthening of the euro versus the Profit: €2 million (2012: profit €5 million). Equity: past and management expectation for possible Pound sterling €nil (2012: €nil) future movements. We then apply the expected possible volatility to revalue all monetary assets A 10 percent strengthening of the euro versus Profit: €2 million (2012: profit €1 million). Equity: and liabilities (including derivative financial instruSwedish krona €nil (2012: €nil) ments) in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary in its balance sheet Net investment hedge accounting is applied to at year-end. GBP250 million, which results in a sensitivity on equity of €nil. Commodity prices: We perform our commodity price risk sensitivElectricity price Specialty Chemicals ity analysis by applying an adjustment to the Netherlands: forward rates prevailing at year-end. This A 10 percent change in the forward price of Equity: €12 million (2012: €10 million) adjustment is based on observed changes electricity (€5 per MWh) as compared with the We apply cash flow hedge accounting to the fair in commodity prices in the previous year and market prices value changes of electricity futures. management expectations for possible future Electricity price Specialty Chemicals movements. We then apply the expected volaSweden and Finland: tility to revalue all commodity-derivative finanA 10 percent change in the forward price on the Equity: €6 million (2012: €10 million) cial instruments in the applicable commodity in Nord Pool exchange electricity (€3.16 per MWh) We apply cash flow hedge accounting to the fair our balance sheet at year-end. For the purpose as compared with market prices value changes of electricity futures. of this sensitivity analysis, the change of the Oil price Specialty Chemicals Netherlands price of the commodity is not discounted to and Denmark: the net present value at balance sheet date. A 10 percent change in price of oil (€ 8 per barrel) Profit: € 6 million (2012: €8 million) as compared with market prices. Over the full term of the (partially long-term) contracts, net impact on profit will be €nil. Interest rates: We perform interest rate sensitivity analysis A 100 basis points increase of EURIBOR interest Profit: €2 million (2012 profit: €6 million) by applying an adjustment to the interest rate rates curve prevailing at year-end. This adjustment is based on observed changes in the interest A 100 basis points increase of US LIBOR interest Profit: €2 million (2012 loss: €4 million) rate in the past and management expectation rates for possible future movements. We then apply the expected possible volatility to revalue all A 100 basis points increase of GBP LIBOR interProfit: €1 million (2012 loss: €nil) interest bearing assets and liabilities. est rates 154 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Company financial statements A Note A: General information Statement of income The financial statements of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. have been prepared using the option of section 362 of Book 2 of In € millions 2012 1 2013 the Netherlands Civil Code, meaning that the accounting Net income from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (2,231) 680 principles used are the same as for the consolidated Other net income 139 44 financial statements. Foreign currency amounts have Total net income/(loss) (2,092) 724 been translated, assets and liabilities have been valued, and net income has been determined in accordance with the principles of valuation and determination Balance sheet as of December 31, before allocation of profit of income presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated financial statements. Subsidiaries of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. are In € millions Note 2012 1 2013 accounted for using the equity method. Assets As the financial data of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. are included in Non-current assets the Consolidated financial statements, the statement of Financial non-current assets B 13,358 13,822 income of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. is condensed in conformity Total non-current assets 13,358 13,822 with section 402 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Current assets The remuneration paragraph is included in Note 22 of the Trade and other receivables C 80 66 Consolidated financial statements. Cash and cash equivalents D 473 1,084 Total current assets 553 1,150 Total assets 13,911 14,972 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed share capital 478 485 Additional paid-in capital 174 319 Change in fair value of derivatives (17) (19) Other statutory reserves 264 275 Cumulative translation reserves 61 (417) Actuarial gains and losses (1,231) (1,495) Other reserves 8,205 5,802 Undistributed profit (2,170) 644 Shareholders’ equity E 5,764 5,594 Non-current liabilities Provisions for subsidiaries B 454 490 Long-term borrowings F 7,345 8,533 Total non-current liabilities 7,799 9,023 Current liabilities Other short-term debt G 348 355 Total current liabilities 348 355 Total equity and liabilities 13,911 14,972 1 Restated for the revised IAS19. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 155 Movement in shareholders' equity Statutory reserves Other Cumulative Actuarial Subscribed Additional Cash flow Statutory translation gains and Other Undistributed Shareholders' In € millions share capital paid-in capital hedge reserve reserves reserves losses reserves results equity Balance at January 1, 2012 469 47 (9) 240 4 (181) 8,061 400 9,031 Changes in fair value of derivatives – – (8) – – – – – (8) Changes in exchange rates in respect of subsidiaries, – – – – 57 – – – 57 associates and joint ventures Post-retirement benefits – – – – – (1,050) – – (1,050) Net income – – – – – – – (2,092) (2,092) Comprehensive income – – (8) – 57 (1,050) – (2,092) (3,093) Dividend paid 7 121 – – – – – (342) (214) Equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 43 – 43 Issue of common shares 2 6 – – – – – – 8 Addition to other reserves – – – 24 – – 112 (136) – Acquisition of non-controlling interests – – – – – – (11) – (11) Balance at December 31, 2012 1 478 174 (17) 264 61 (1,231) 8,205 (2,170) 5,764 Changes in fair value of derivatives – – (2) – – – – – (2) Changes in exchange rates in respect of subsidiaries, – – – – (478) – – – (478) associates and joint ventures Post-retirement benefits – – – – – (264) – – (264) Net income – – – – – – – 724 724 Comprehensive income – – (2) – (478) (264) – 724 (20) Dividend paid 6 133 – – – – – (349) (210) Equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 46 – 46 Issue of common shares 1 12 – – – – – – 13 Addition to other reserves – – – 11 – – (2,450) 2,439 – Acquisition of non-controlling interests – – – – – – 1 – 1 Balance at December 31, 2013 485 319 (19) 275 (417) (1,495) 5,802 644 5,594 1 Restated for the revised IAS19. 156 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 B Note B: Financial non-current assets and provisions for subsidiaries C Note C: Trade and other receivables Movements in financial non-current assets Trade and other receivables In € millions 2012 2013 Subsidiaries Receivables from subsidiaries 25 11 Other financial Receivable from associates and joint 14 15 non‑current ventures In € millions Share in capital Loans 1 assets Total FX contracts 6 4 Balance at January 1, 2012 10,560 5,289 90 15,939 Other receivables 35 36 Acquisitions/capital contributions 156 – – 156 Total 80 66 Divestments/capital repayments – – (2) (2) Net income from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (2,231) – – (2,231) Post-retirement benefits (1,050) – – (1,050) Equity-settled transactions 35 – – 35 Change in fair value of derivatives 3 – – 3 D Note D: Cash and cash equivalents Loans granted – 1,856 – 1,856 Repayment of loans – (1,422) – (1,422) Changes in exchange rates 78 6 – 84 Dividend/other changes (153) – (7) (160) Cash and cash equivalents Transfer to provision for subsidiaries 150 – – 150 In € millions 2012 2013 Balance at December 31, 2012 7,548 5,729 81 13,358 Short-term investments 21 645 Acquisitions/capital contributions 1,436 – – 1,436 Cash on hand and in banks 452 439 Net income from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 680 – – 680 Total 473 1,084 Post-retirement benefits (264) – – (264) Equity-settled transactions 39 – – 39 Change in fair value of derivatives (2) – – (2) Loans granted – 1,385 – 1,385 E Note E: Shareholder’s equity Repayment of loans – (2,282) – (2,282) Changes in exchange rates (468) (14) – (482) Dividend/other changes (95) – 13 (82) Change to provisions for subsidiaries 36 – – 36 Subscribed share capital Balance at December 31, 2013 8,910 4,818 94 13,822 The holders of common shares are entitled to receive 1 Loans to these companies have no fixed repayment schedule. dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. The holders of the priority shares are entitled to dividend of 6 percent per share or the statutory interest in the Netherlands, whichever is lower, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. They are entitled to 200 votes per share (in accordance with the 200 times higher nominal value per share) at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. In addition, the holders of priority shares have the right to draw up binding lists of nominees for appoint­ment to the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management; amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of the Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 157 Priority shares may only be transferred to a transferee the revised IAS19. In this respect, we consider negative Debt issued designated by a Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares and reserves for actuarial gains as restricted. In € millions 2012 2013 against payment of the par value of the shares, plus interest 7 1/4 % 2009/15 (€975 million) 630 626 at the rate of 6 percent per annum or the statutory interest in Statutory reserves have been recognized following section 8 % 2009/16 (£250 million) 305 299 the Netherlands, whichever is lower. There are no restrictions 373 paragraph 4 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. 4% 2011/18 (€800 million) 791 793 on voting rights of holders of common or priority shares. At the Annual General Meeting of shareholders of April The Articles of Association set out procedures for exercising 26, 2001, an amendment to the Articles of Association Total 1,726 1,718 voting rights. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders was approved whereby the par value of the priority has in 2013 resolved to authorize the Board of Management shares was decreased to €400 and of the common We have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit for for a period of 18 months (i) to issue shares (or grant rights shares and the cumulative preferred shares to €2. As which in 2013 the maturity has been extended with an to shares) in the capital of the company up to a maximum the revised nominal values are lower than the original additional year to 2018. At year-end 2013 and 2012, of 10 percent, which in case of mergers or acquisitions can par values, in accordance with section 67a of Book 2 this facility had not been drawn. At year-end 2013 be increased by up to a maximum of 10 percent, of the total of the Netherlands Civil Code, we recognize a statutory and 2012, none of the borrowings was secured by number of shares outstanding (and to restrict or exclude the reserve of €61 million for this reduction in subscribed collateral. pre-emptive rights to those shares) and (ii) to acquire shares share capital. Statutory reserves also include €26 million in the capital of the company, provided that the shares that for capitalized development costs, as well as the reserves will at any time be held will not exceed 10 percent of the relating to earnings retained by subsidiaries, associates, issued share capital. The issue or repurchase of shares and joint ventures after 1983. G Note G: Short-term debt requires the approval of the Supervisory Board. Dividend We held no common shares at year-end 2013 or 2012. We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on April Earnings per common share are calculated by dividing 29, 2014 a 2013 final dividend of €1.12 per share, which Short-term debt net income by the weighted average number of common would make a total 2013 dividend of €1.45 per share In € millions 2012 2013 shares outstanding during the year. (2012: €1.45). During 2013, we paid the 2012 final Current portion of long-term 58 32 dividend of €1.12 and the 2013 interim dividend of €0.33. borrowings Of the shareholders’ equity of €5.6 billion, an amount of There will be a stock dividend option with cash dividend as Debt to subsidiaries 8 29 €4.8 billion (2012: €5.0 billion) was unrestricted and default. FX contracts 10 9 available for distribution – subject to the relevant provisions Borrowings from associates and 27 28 of our Articles of Association and Dutch law. Shareholders’ joint ventures equity at year-end 2012 has been restated to reflect Short-term bank loans 3 4 F Note F: Long-term borrowings Debt related to pensions 8 8 Debt related to other suppliers 68 56 Unrestricted reserves at year-end Other liabilities 166 189 In € millions 2012 2013 Total 348 355 Long-term borrowings Shareholders’ equity at year-end 5,764 5,594 Subscribed share capital (478) (485) In € millions 2012 2013 We have US dollar and euro commercial paper programs Subsidiaries’ restrictions to transfer (181) (182) Debt issued 1,726 1,718 in place, which can only be used to the extent that the funds Debt to subsidiaries 5,619 6,725 equivalent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency Statutory reserve due to capital (61) (61) Other borrowings – 90 reduction revolving credit facility is not used. We had no paper Total 7,345 8,533 outstanding at year-end 2013 and 2012. Reserve for development costs (16) (26) Cash flow hedge reserve – – Unrestricted reserves 5,028 4,840 For the fair value of the debenture loans, see Note 23 of the notes of the Consolidated financial statements. 158 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 H Note H: Financial instruments J Note J: Auditor’s fees At year-end 2013, Akzo Nobel N.V. had outstanding foreign Auditor's fees exchange contracts to buy currencies for a total of €0.9 Network Network billion (year-end 2012: €0.9 billion), while contracts to sell In the outside the In the outside currencies totaled €1.7 billion (year-end 2012: €1.7 billion). Netherlands Netherlands Total Netherlands the Netherlands Total The contracts mainly related to US dollars, Pound sterling In € millions 2012 2013 and Swedish krona, and all have maturities within one year. Audit 2.9 8.2 11.1 3.0 6.8 9.8 These contracts offset the foreign exchange contracts Audit-related 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.5 concluded by the subsidiaries, and the fair value changes Tax – 0.2 0.2 – 0.1 0.1 are recognized in the statement of income to offset the fair Other services – – – – – – value changes on the contracts with the subsidiaries. For Total 3.1 8.5 11.6 3.2 7.2 10.4 information on risk exposure and risk management, see Note 23 of the consolidated financial statements. Amsterdam, February 19, 2014 I Note I: Contingent liabilities The Board of Management Ton Büchner Keith Nichols Akzo Nobel N.V. is parent of the group’s fiscal unit in the The Supervisory Board Netherlands, and is therefore liable for the liabilities of said Karel Vuursteen fiscal unit as a whole. Sari Baldauf Uwe-Ernst Bufe Akzo Nobel N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts joint Dolf van den Brink and several liability for contractual debts of certain Dutch Peggy Bruzelius consolidated companies (section 403 of Book 2 of the Antony Burgmans Netherlands Civil Code). These debts, at year-end 2013, Peter Ellwood aggregating €0.6 billion (2012: €0.5 billion), are included in the Louis Hughes consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, at year-end 2013, Ben Verwaayen guarantees were issued on behalf of consolidated companies for an amount of €2.4 billion (2012: €2.9 billion). The debts and liabilities of the consolidated companies underlying these guarantees are included in the consolidated balance sheet or in the amount of long-term liabilities in respect of operational lease contracts as disclosed in Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements. Guarantees relating to associates and joint ventures amounted to €9 million (2012: €10 million). AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 159 Other information Independent auditor’s report An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit information as required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b h To the Supervisory Board and the Annual General Meeting evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the has been annexed. Further, we report that the report of the of shareholders of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. financial statements. The procedures selected depend Board of Management as set out on pages 1 to 110, to on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial Report on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement of the financial statestatements as required by Section 2:391 sub 4 of the We have audited the accompanying financial statements ments, whether due to fraud or error. In making those Netherlands Civil Code. 2013 of Akzo Nobel N.V., Amsterdam, as set out on risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control pages 111 to 159. The financial statements include the relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of Amsterdam, February 19, 2014 Consolidated financial statements and the Company the financial statements in order to design audit proceKPMG Acountants N.V. financial statements. The consolidated financial statements dures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveE.H.W. Weusten RA 31, 2013, the consolidated statement of income, ness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used flows for the year then ended and the notes, comprising and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by a summary of the significant accounting policies and management, as well as evaluating the overall presentaother explanatory information. The Company financial tion of the financial statements. We believe that the audit statements comprise the company balance sheet as at evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to December 31, 2013, the company statement of income provide a basis for our audit opinion. for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory Opinion with respect to the Consolidated information. financial statements In our opinion, the Consolidated financial statements give Management’s responsibility a true and fair view of the financial position of Akzo Nobel Management is responsible for the preparation and fair N.V. as at December 31, 2013 and of its result and its presentation of these financial statements in accordance cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with with International Financial Reporting Standards as International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation Netherlands Civil Code. of the report of the Board of Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Opinion with respect to the Company Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal financial statements control as it determines is necessary to enable the In our opinion, the Company financial statements give a preparation of the financial statements that are free from true and fair view of the financial position of Akzo Nobel material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. N.V. as at December 31, 2013 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Auditor’s responsibility Netherlands Civil Code. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our Report on other legal and regulatory requirements audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Pursuant to the legal requirements under Section 2:393 Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with sub 5 at e and f of the Netherlands Civil Code, we have ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial whether the report of the Board of Management, to the statements are free from material misstatement. extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the 160 Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Profit allocation and distributions Profit allocation and distributions Article 44 44.7 Article 43 Cash dividends by virtue of paragraph 4 of article 20, 43.6 article 42, or article 43 that have not been collected The Board of Management shall be authorized to within five years of the commencement of the second determine, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, day on which they became due and payable shall revert what share of profit remaining after application of the to the company. provisions of the foregoing paragraphs shall be carried to reserves. The remaining profit shall be placed at the Proposal for profit allocation disposal of the Annual General Meeting of shareholders, With due observance of Dutch law and the Articles of with due observance of the provisions of paragraph 7, it Association, it is proposed that net income of €724 million being provided that no further dividends shall be paid on is carried to the other reserves. Furthermore, with due the preferred shares. observance of article 43, paragraph 7, it is proposed that dividend on priority shares of €1,152 and on common 43.7 shares of €352 million (to be increased by dividend on From the remaining profit, the following distributions shall, shares issued in 2013 before the ex-dividend date) will to the extent possible, be made as follows: be distributed. Following the acceptance of this proposal, the holders of common shares will receive a dividend of (a) to the holders of priority shares: 6 percent per share or €1.45 per share of €2, of which €0.33 was paid earlier the statutory interest referred to in paragraph 1 of article as an interim dividend. The final dividend of €1.12 per 13, whichever is lower, plus any accrued and unpaid share (which under the conditions to be published by the dividends company and at the shareholders’ election will be paid (b) to the holders of common shares: a dividend of such either in cash or in stock) will be made available from May an amount per share as the remaining profit, less the 28, 2014. aforesaid dividends and less such amounts as the Annual General Meeting of shareholders may decide to carry to Special rights to holders of priority shares reserves, shall permit. The priority shares are held by “Stichting ­­Akzo Nobel” (Foundation ­­Akzo Nobel), whose board is composed of the 43.8 members of the Supervisory Board who are not members Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this of the Audit Committee. They each have one vote on the article and of paragraph 4 of article 20, the holders of board of the Foundation. common shares shall, to the exclusion of everyone else, be entitled to distributions made from reserves accrued by The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has the right virtue of the provision of paragraph 7b of this article. to draw up binding lists of nominees for appointment to the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management. 43.9 Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to Without prejudice to the provisions of article 42 and the approval of this meeting. paragraph 8 of this article, the Annual General Meeting of shareholders may decide on the utilization of reserves only on the proposal of the Board of Management approved by the Supervisory Board. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Financial statements 161 Sustainability statements Consolidated Sustainability statements 164 Additional sustainability information Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda 165 In this report Note 2: Reporting principles 167 Case studies 2 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement 169 Chairman’s statement 6 Strategy and targets 14 Value chain 171 Risk management 22 Note 4: Products and solutions 173 Business performance 31 Note 5: Climate change 174 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 78 Note 6: Supply chain 176 Report of the Supervisory Board 81 Corporate governance statement 88 Safety 180 Compliance and integrity management 97 Note 7: People health and safety 181 Remuneration report 101 Note 8: Process safety 182 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 107 Note 9: Product stewardship 183 Note 10: HSE management 184 On our website (www.akzonobel.com/sustainability) you will find additional information on processes, detailed data and contacts to support: Employees 186 Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda Note 11: Our people 186 Note 2: Reporting principles Note 12: Restructuring 189 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement Note 13: Community 189 Notes 4-6: Value chain processes and performance Notes 7-10: Safety performance Environment 191 Notes 11-13: Employee/community performance Note 14: Energy 192 Notes 14-19: Environmental performance Note 15: Greenhouse gas emissions 193 Note 16: Local air quality 193 This Sustainability statements section of the Report 2013 is separate from, and does not in any way form part of, the company’s annual financial report (“jaarlijkse Note 17: Raw materials efficiency 194 financiële verslaggeving”) as defined in article 5:25c of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. This section contains summarized key performance Note 18: Water 195 indicators (KPIs) relating to sustainability performance. Further information on Note 19: Soil and ground water remediation 196 AkzoNobel’s sustainability strategy, activities and results can be found on our corporate website: www.akzonobel.com/sustainability Sustainability statements Independent assurance report 197 Consolidated Sustainability statements Sustainability topics have been integrated into Planet Possible all sections of the AkzoNobel Report 2013. In order to secure our own business success – and that of our customers – we have to create more value from fewer This summary focuses on sustainability processes resources. To help us achieve this, we have adopted a strategy called Planet Possible, which is our commitment and activities that span our businesses. to doing more with less. A fuller overview of our sustainability strategy, activities and results can be found in the We believe the planet can support nine billion people by Sustainability section of our corporate website: www.akzonobel.com/sustainability 2050, but only if we take the right approach and understand the changes that will be needed. So we’re looking to engage with partners who believe in our strategy and have Consolidated Sustainability statements the same commitment to finding opportunities where there don’t appear to be any. Welcome to Planet Possible. Ambition Target Target Note 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2015 2020 Our strategic sustainability objectives are shown in the table Value chain opposite and are explained in detail throughout this section. Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits 4 – – 17 18 – – 20 (% of revenue) Value chain Eco-premium solutions (% of revenue) 4 21 22 22 24 – 30 – Details of our focus areas across the value chain can be Carbon footprint cradle-to-grave per ton of 5 – – 0 2 – – 25–30 found in Notes 4–6 of this section. These cover aspects product (% reduction from 2012) of Sustainable business, Resource efficiency and Capable Safety engaged people. Total reportable injury rate employees/supervised 7 3.6 3.1 2.4 2.3 2.2 <2.0 <1.0 contractors (per million hours) These focus areas are underpinned by strong existing Significant loss of containment (Level D) 8 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 foundations, which have been built up over many years: REACH compliance second phase (%) 9 8 44 83 100 100 100 100 Employees Safety: Details of our objectives and performance for people, Employee engagement (ViewPoint score 11 3.56 3.74 3.80 3.88 – >4 – process and product safety can be found in Notes 7–10. 1–5 scale) % of internal promotion into executive level 11 74 80 70 75 – 80 – Employees: Our objectives and performance in talent % of female executives 11 12 13 15 16 – 20 >20 management, employee engagement, diversity and % of executives from high growth markets 11 12 13 13 14 – 20 >20 inclusion and community involvement are in Notes 11–13. Environment Environmental: Information regarding our environmental Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure 14–18 7 11 13 24 20 30 – objectives and performance for our own operations can be (% reduction from 2009) found in Notes 14–19. Sustainable fresh water management (% of manu18 48 74 83 85 80 100 100 facturing sites) Integrity: Our sustainability activities are underpinned Greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production 15 267 256 257 222 – 245 <245 (own operations, in kg) by integrity management. For details of our compliance objectives and performance, please refer to the Governance and compliance section. 164 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 1 Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda Strategic focus opportunities against global trends – population growth Our 2020 targets are based on creating more value from Our sustainability agenda incorporates economic, and the new middle class, urbanization, long-term fewer resources (measured by a new Resource Efficiency environmental and social aspects across the value chain. constraints of natural resources and climate change – and Index): how these will impact our key market segments by 2050. • Sustainable business: Creating business value The importance of sustainability to running our business We express the outcome as a commitment to creating through products and solutions which provide both is firmly integrated into the AkzoNobel strategy, both more value from fewer resources across the value chain. functionality and other sustainability benefits, as well as in the strategic focus areas and the core principles We are using Planet Possible as an overall description of cost savings from operational efficiencies. underlying our new company values (safety, integrity and our related programs. We are committed to making our Target: 20 percent revenue from eco-premium solutions sustainability). Sustainability helps us to enhance our products and operations more sustainable. As well as with a downstream benefit by 2020 existing business, create new business opportunities and driving our own success, putting sustainability at the heart • Resource efficiency: Accelerating material and energy minimize risks. of everything we do means our customers and employees efficiency across the value chain. – not to mention the planet – will also benefit. For details, Target: reduction in cradle-to-grave carbon footprint per In 2012, we developed a new focus to our sustainability see the Strategy section of this Report 2013. ton of sales of 25–30 percent from 2012 to 2020 strategy by reviewing our sustainability risks and • Capable, engaged people: Engaging our people and partnering with our suppliers and customers to deliver significant changes. Overall objectives being defined By focusing on the full value chain, we will drive business, resource and engagement benefits These targets are underpinned by strong programs for safety (people, process and product safety/stewardship), employees (employee practices/development and community involvement), environmental management and integrity management. We have specified key performance indicators with 2020 Raw materials Own operations Customer operations End-user End-of-life targets to supplement or replace our 2015 targets. Other short-term and long-term ambitions are set at functional Energy/resource benefits in use and business level. The Notes in the Sustainability statements and other elements of this report illustrate our Sustainable Cost savings Cost savings Improve revenue Improve revenue and margin performance against these goals. business and margin Sustainability framework Resource Reduced material Reduced Reduced material and Reduced material and Our new sustainability strategy is a natural next step efficiency and energy use energy use energy use in customer energy use in product use from our sustainability framework, which maps out a processes, application progression towards sustainability. The framework has three levels, which include environmental, economic and Capable, Engaged Engaged Engaged Engaged customers social aspects: engaged suppliers employees customers and users • Invent: integrate sustainable value propositions people • Manage: include sustainability in all aspects of the value chain Foundations: HSE, product stewardship, employee practices, community involvement, Code of Conduct • Improve: continue to comply and ensure our license to operate AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 165 The Improve level, with an emphasis on risks – working on We have established a Sustainability Council, which and sustainability, including a group focusing on lifecycle integrity, governance and compliance with our standards and advises the Executive Committee on strategy developand sustainability assessments. In 2012, we formed a applicable laws and regulations – is now part of the compliance ments, monitors the integration of sustainability into team of senior Business Area representatives to work with framework (see the Governance and compliance section). management processes and oversees the company’s the central group and the business teams to ensure effecThe current strategy focuses on creating opportunities for sustainability targets and overall performance. The council, tive roll-out of the new strategy. value creation through process excellence, innovation and which meets quarterly, is chaired by the CEO and includes talent development, alongside continued integration of representative Managing Directors from our Business The Managing Director of each business defines their respecsustainability in all aspects of the value chain. Areas, as well as the Corporate Directors of Strategy, tive non-financial targets and reports on progress every Supply Chain/Research and Development, Sourcing, six months. All businesses have also appointed a sustainManagement structure Human Resources, Sustainability and HSE, and ability focal point to support the embedding of sustainability The Executive Committee has overall responsibility for Communications. The Council maintains an external throughout their operations. They bring together an approsustainability. They monitor the sustainability performance perspective, with input from value chain partners and priate team to develop and implement the sustainability of each Business Area through the operating and control thought leaders during regular meetings, in addition to agenda for the business. Focal points from across the cycle using dashboards, which specify indicators against company involvement in leading external organizations. company have regular meetings to exchange best practices strategic objectives. and identify opportunities for further development. The Corporate Director of Sustainability and HSE reports directly to the CEO and has an expertise team for HSE Meanwhile, each function in the value chain has identified focus areas for sustainability, with targets where appropriate. Sustainability framework Functional management teams, such as HR, Supply Chain and RD&I (which are made up of both corporate and busiLevel of development Environmental Economic Social ness representatives), are in place to support the implementation of functional strategy, including the sustainability Invent elements. The compliance framework and the manageCarbon policy Eco-premium Leadership ment structure for integrity and compliance aspects is Integrate sustainable value solutions training detailed in the Governance and compliance section under propositions Compliance and integrity management. Eco-premium Required Eco-efficiency Supportive Operational Market Management processes Manage Zero VOC eco-analysis analysis supplier visits eco-efficiency propositions We include key sustainability issues in our corporate, Include sustainability in all aspects business and functional processes – strategy and plan­ Market Investment Sales and of the value chain research R&D decisions Sourcing Manufacturing marketing ning, risk management and internal control, com­pliance, the operational review cycle, as well as in our internal audit and external assurance processes. Each year there are Improve two dedicated sustainability sessions in the Operational Environmental/product Integrity Stretched safety Review Meetings. Continue to comply and ensure stewardship targets a license to operate We set global standards for health and safety, environ­ mental protection, product stewardship and compliance, Examples of sustainability activity including social and labor aspects. Corporate compliance Value chain aspects and audit processes are supplemented by specialist 166 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 2 Note 2: Reporting principles functional audits. These standards are also the basis of Reporting scope Reporting boundaries our supplier management processes and investment This Report 2013 combines our financial and sustainability The AkzoNobel Report 2013 integrates sustainability assessments. Where there are specific sustainability risks reporting and is addressed to readers interested in both aspects of our processes and business operations in each or issues of concern to stakeholders, we develop position areas. In particular, we seek ways of linking sustainability section, in particular the How we create value infographics, papers and an improvement plan owned by a subject performance to business results in areas such as and the Strategy, Business performance and Governance matter expert. operational eco-efficiency, carbon emission reduction, and compliance sections. eco-premium solutions and people development and Overall progress in embedding sustainability is monitored engagement. This Sustainability statements section summarizes the using an annual self-assessment benchmark completed global, cross-business elements of the sustainability by each business, which reflects the content of the The information in this Report offers an update on our agenda and company performance. It includes quantitative sustainability framework and management processes. implementation of the ten principles of the United Nations and qualitative information relating to the calendar year In 2013, we added performance requirements to this Global Compact (UNGC). More sustainability information 2013 and comparative data for 2012, 2011 and 2010. We assessment. Three businesses each year are reviewed by is available on our corporate website, including: an index report on consolidated data from entities where AkzoNobel an internal audit team, with all assessment results being of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 indicators; is the majority shareholder (more than 50 percent) and joint reviewed at company level. additional development work against the new G4 ventures where we have management control, but exclude guidelines; and a summary of our UNGC communication all data from entities where we have minority ownership, or The results show that sustainability management process of progress. no management control. and performance levels are “in place” or “mostly in place” apart from a couple of elements in two businesses The topics in this Report 2013 were selected on the Comparability which are undergoing significant organizational change. basis of the sustainability aspects of our strategy, the GRI Previously, our policy was to report acquisitions within During the year, there were encouraging improvements guidelines and input from various external stakeholders. one calendar year. From 2010, we report from the date of in the areas involving R&D/eco-premium solutions and These include our engagement with: purchase, recognizing that reporting improvements may be in our carbon management activities. Processes around • Shareholders required at these facilities. Recent significant changes: Code of Conduct, people/process and product safety, • Customers • 2013 data includes the results of the divestment of manufacturing and risk management remain at a high • Employees Chemicals Pakistan. We include data from Decorative level, though businesses need to maintain focus in order to • Rating organizations, notably RobecoSAM – the rating Paints North America until April 1, 2013, when it achieve the performance levels set by our targets. agency for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices – and was divested the Carbon Disclosure Project • 2012 data includes the Boxing Oleochemicals We strive to empower all employees to contribute and • Sustainability organizations such as the World Business acquisition and our new facilities at Ningbo, both be accountable for our sustainability performance, using Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), in China training and other engagement processes, including Forum for the Future and the International Integrated • 2011 data includes the acquisition of the Schramm/ business and site level activity, as well as web-based Reporting Council SSCP businesses resources. This responsibility continues to be anchored in the personal targets and remuneration packages of Reporting policies Our value chain (cradle-to-grave) carbon footprint managers and employees. Since 2009, half (from 2013 Materiality is measured per metric ton of product sales leaving onwards 30 percent) of the conditional grant of shares We have used the principle of materiality to assess the AkzoNobel. In 2012, the definition of product was clarified for Board members and all executives is based on topics to include in this Report 2013, which are current to reduce variability in the indicator. It now excludes sold AkzoNobel’s performance in the RobecoSAM assessment and important for the company and key stakeholders. The by-products and sold energy. Previous years’ data has over a three-year period. (See Remuneration report in the results are plotted in the matrix graph on the next page. been restated on the same basis. For our own operations, Governance and compliance section). environmental impact and improvements are quoted A summary of the process is available on our website. relative to production quantity, i.e. the product volumes AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 167 leaving every manufacturing plant. In 2013, we carried out Materiality matrix a review of our key value chains, including the downstream applications, used in our cradle-to-grave footprint reporting. We now include the climate impact of VOCs in our overall Economic carbon footprint targets. The 2012 data has been restated Environmental Materiality for stakeholders Social to provide a sound baseline for our 2012-2020 targets. We identify issues that affect comparability in the text or footnotes. Reporting process and assurance high Process safety The reporting period is 2013. Data has mainly been obtained from our financial management reporting systems, corporate HR information management systems, corpoCarbon emissions Products and services rate compliance information reporting systems and the Supply chain issues AkzoNobel corporate reporting systems for health, safety Health and safety and environment performance indicators, each of which Training and education Talent management have associated approval and verification processes. These Product labelling Product H&S processes continue to be updated and improved. Data Employment International operations Strategy collection for the newer value chain reporting aspects is Non-discrimination Stakeholder engagement Freedom of association Climate change costs carried out using standard templates and procedures. More Forced labor Env mgmt system Environmental protection Innovation medium Supplier assessment (HR) Renewable materials details on all reporting processes are available on Local communities Energy use Water Effluent, waste Materials Political lobbying Product stewardship our website. Compliance (soc) Social mgmt system Air emissions Compliance, fines Supplier assessment (soc) Supplier engagement Employee engagement GMO Diversity and inclusion Anti-trust Recruitment/retention We are confident in the overall reliability of the data reported, but recognize that some of the information is Market segments Indirect economic Impacts subject to an element of uncertainty, inherent to limitations Bio-diversity Transport impact Supplier assessment (env) associated with measuring and calculating data. Senior Integrity Customer privacy Employee benefits Stakeholder engagement managers approved the content and the quantitative data Animal testing Market presence Supplier assessment (lab) Public policy Customer engagement Ethics/integrity used in the Sustainability statements section relating to Security practices Compliance Child/forced labor Indigenous rights International operations Anti-corruption their respective areas of responsibility. The integration of Equal remuneration Labor/mgmt relations Land remediation sustainability in day-to-day business is part of our routine internal audit process. low Financial crisis Energy pricing/supply Driving safety The Sustainability statements section has been reviewed VOC in product Compliance (product) by independent, external auditors. The Assurance report, including the scope of the audit, can be found in the Indelow medium high pendent assurance report at the end of this section. Materiality for AkzoNobel 168 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 3 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement Our approach Our commitment and primary partners network. For this, AkzoNobel is participating in a Private The aim of our stakeholder engagement is to learn from We support a number of charters and external organizations Public Partnership with NGOs, the Dutch Ministry of key financial, social and environmental stakeholder groups to demonstrate our commitment to sustainability issues. Foreign Affairs and other leading companies. A particular and in collaboration to develop leading sustainability These include the UN Global Compact – we are an active milestone was the fortification of fish and soya sauce with solutions relevant to: member of the Global Compact Netherlands Network Ferrazone in Cambodia. • Our stakeholder needs and a signatory of the Caring for Climate platform – the • Implementation of strategic targets UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the key AkzoNobel has been a strategic global partner of the • Management of risks and opportunities conventions of the International Labor Organization; Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in the paint industry the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; the since 2010, which we proudly display on packaging Our key stakeholders are employees, customers, Responsible Care® Global Charter; and the CEO Water for our wood care products. In 2013, in the middle of suppliers, investors, communities, specific sustainability/ Mandate, where we are represented on the steering our five-year cooperation agreement with the FSC, we research organizations and NGOs. This section includes group. In order to contribute to, and keep up to date with, emphasized the value of our relationship during FSC’s some highlights. More details can be found on our website important developments in sustainability, we participate in In Good Company global conference. This year also and in the Strategy section and other chapters of this meetings and task forces as a member of organizations saw increased awareness of the AkzoNobel-sponsored Report 2013: including the WBCSD, Forum for the Future, True Price and Smallholder Support Program with the launch of the Small • Communities: Note 13 of this section the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition. Community Label Option (SCLO). We continued to raise • Customers: Business performance section FSC’s awareness inside, as well as outside, AkzoNobel • Employees: Note 11 of this section Customers and products through the widest ever geographic coverage of the • Investors: Governance and compliance section Our customers are increasingly looking for products and FSC Friday event. As well as strengthening the link on a • Suppliers: Note 6 of this section solutions that will make their business more sustainable. global level, we will also be increasing the ten active local • Specific sustainability/research organizations and In order to continuously improve our product offering, we partnerships we currently have in the Netherlands, UK, NGOs: Note 3 of this section encourage customers to challenge us and work together Germany, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Brazil, Russia, the with us on this. There are many specific examples in Nordics, Argentina and Poland, year on year. In 2014, for Stakeholder engagement in 2013 the various case studies and the Business performance example, we will look into setting up local partnerships in Our stakeholder engagement activities are linked to our section of this Report 2013. In addition, we are in the Belgium, South Africa and the Far East. sustainability and business strategy, because becoming process of improving our methods to monitor customer radically resource efficient is a huge challenge which we engagement and customer satisfaction. This activity will be In addition, linked to our Pulp and Performance Chemicals can’t accomplish alone. Investing in strategic, ongoing further developed in 2014. business, we co-signed a leadership statement on forest dialog and partnering with our key stakeholders is an certification which was issued through the WBCSD Forest important driver for realizing our targets. We have some notable NGO partnerships linked to Solutions Group, committing to addressing the world’s product areas, such as Ferrazone, a bioavailable iron need for increased sustainable management of natural In 2013, we launched a new concept which captures the source to fight global anemia. Through the Amsterdam forests and plantations. essence of the company’s strategy to deliver more value Initiative on Malnutrition (AIM), the Global Alliance for from fewer resources. Known as Planet Possible, it’s not Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and the project Smarter Futures, Suppliers and sourcing only designed to help drive innovation and promote radical our Ferrazone iron fortificant is making an important Working together with suppliers is crucial to our value efficiency, but will also inspire employees, customers and contribution to the Millennium Development Goals of chain approach to sustainability. Our key supplier contracts suppliers and build on AkzoNobel’s consistently high the United Nations. In 2013, approximately 25 million include sustainability aspects and we held detailed ranking on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. people benefited from programs to fortify staple foods discussions to identify joint development areas with some with Ferrazone, for example in Africa, Asia and food aid in of our biggest suppliers. One specific project is a detailed refugee camps. Activities during the year included support review of titanium dioxide with value chain partners in order for the AIM secretariat, as well as a QC/QA laboratory to identify joint improvement opportunities. Another project AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 169 focuses on the introduction of renewable raw materials in Energy and climate Shareholders, analysts and indices our supply chains in collaboration with selected partners. Our renewable energy strategy is focused on making a We continuously developed our engagement with clear commitment to sustainable energy transition, while shareholders on sustainability aspects by taking part In 2013, AkzoNobel joined Together for Sustainability (TfS), maintaining cost competitiveness. For our energy-intensive in conferences and meetings during the year, as well a chemical sector initiative which is designed to create businesses, we are pursuing opportunities to participate as answering questions in telephone briefings and more sustainable supply chains. TfS is a collaboration in large energy ventures. An important proof point of this questionnaires. Questions during 2013 focused on founded by the Chief Procurement Officers of BASF, Bayer, strategy was the announcement of an investment in wind financial and environmental benefits from sustainability Evonik, Henkel, Lanxess and Solvay and aims to build power in the Nordics region via the VindIn consortium in activity and solutions for customers, raw materials supply the industry’s standard for sustainable supply chains. The 2013. and carbon policy, as well as safety and development and TfS program utilizes high quality third party sustainability training of employees. Sustainability aspects of business assessments and audits in order to measure the supplier’s In the field of lifecycle management, we co-chair the are also included in many analyst and general shareholder sustainability performance against a pre-defined set of WBCSD Chemicals Sector Working Group. Together presentations. See also the AkzoNobel on the capital industry best practice criteria. with peers, we have developed two chemical sector markets chapter in the Governance and compliance guidelines to drive consistent and comparable reporting section. To enhance the importance and development of of both the environmental footprint of chemical products sustainable value chains, we again supported the and carbon avoided emissions. This is the first time During 2013, we achieved the number one position on the organization of the International Supply Management that a group of companies has developed a consensus Dow Jones Sustainability Index in the Materials industry Congress in Amsterdam. This was a joint initiative with approach on these topics. It is a global effort which also group. This further builds on our good track record IDH (the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative), PwC, NEVI involved relevant stakeholders in the process of developing with DJSI, having been included in the top three for the (Dutch knowledge network for purchasing and supply a harmonized approach toward the calculation of eighth consecutive year. We continued to be included management), Rabobank, Shell and Unilever. The event environmental impacts along the value chain. in the FTSE4Good index and took part in the Carbon is a meeting point for sharing knowledge, experience Disclosure project. We were also ranked number one in and best practices across supply chain professionals, Developing good practice the Sustainalytics benchmark for chemical companies. NGOs and thought leaders. The focus for 2013 was on We demonstrate commitment to protecting our planet In the Netherlands, we achieved a number two position innovation and integration. Our CEO was the keynote and embracing the incorporation of natural capital in in the Transparency benchmark, which means we have speaker, presenting our sustainability approach of creating our company to ensure our business is sustainable as it been ranked in the top three for three consecutive years. more value from fewer resources across the value chain. grows. Therefore, we continue to develop our biodiversity In addition, as part of the company’s internal launch of priorities, working with the International Union for Together for Sustainability, our sustainability performance Engaging employees Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) business engagement was assessed by EcoVadis, a third party service provider During 2013, we continued to engage employees from network Leaders for Nature. In 2013, there was continued for CSR assessments. We achieved a rating which places around the world on the theme of sustainability through focus on identifying hot spots in some of our key value AkzoNobel among the best performing suppliers globally the launch of our Planet Possible concept, which we chains in order to identify initial areas for action. in our segment. will continue to build on during 2014. In our Decorative Paints business, employees participated in a sustainability To help us in further developing integrated reporting and challenge, which helped build understanding of the transparency, AkzoNobel is one of the pilot companies for importance of the subject and our performance in the the International Integrated Reporting Council program to area, as well as stimulating teams and individuals to create a forward-looking company reporting framework. participate in achieving the targets. Employees are also We also provide company input to the Technical Task actively involved with sustainability through local Green Force. We have included the learnings from this program Teams and community activities around the world. into this Report 2013. 170 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Value chain The objective of our new strategy is to create more value • Value for society through the positive impact of our drive new business models in the materials and energy from fewer resources – right across the value chain. products in our end-user segments intensive industry sectors. In the chemicals industry, • Value for our business by focusing on our end-user sustained business success will require product and • Value for our customers by providing products which segments – delivering growth and profitability process innovations that generate much more added value have excellent functionality and generate resource/ from each unit of raw materials and energy used across energy benefits ahead of competitive products Resource Efficiency Index the value chain – be it with our suppliers, in our own • Value for the environment through more effective use of The adoption of a Resource Efficiency Index as a key operations or with the users of our products. natural resources, and a significant reduction in specific financial indicator results from the conviction that global greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain population growth and increasing resource constraints will The Resource Efficiency Index is defined as gross profit (or gross margin) divided by cradle-to-grave carbon footprint – reported as an index. Key performance indicators – value chain The index development was based on input from a range Ambition Target Target of financial analysts and environmental specialists and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2015 2020 wide internal consultation. Carbon footprint Carbon footprint cradle-to-grave per ton of product – – 0 2 – – 25-30 • We selected gross profit as an indicator of added value (% reduction from 2012) as it is comparatively stable and captures the effects of Carbon footprint cradle-to-gate per ton of product 1 3 1 4 5 10 – (% reduction from 2009)1 efficiency improvements Carbon footprint own operations (Mton CO2(e)) 5.2 4.8 4.7 3.9 – <4.6 <4.6 • Carbon footprint is a good proxy for resource efficiency Products across our value chains Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits – – 17 18 – – 20 (% of revenue) Eco-premium solutions total (% of revenue) 21 22 22 24 – 30 – Resource Efficiency Index VOC in product (% reduction from 2009) <5 6 10 – – – – gross profit/CO2(e) indexed Raw materials and suppliers Critical PR2 spend covered by supplier management – – 69 80 80 90 – 106 105 111 109 100 framework (% of spend) Product related suppliers signed Vendor Policy 91 95 97 96 96 96 – (% of spend) NPR3 suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) – 77 80 83 80 80 – Suppliers on SSV program since 2007 266 304 373 392 – – – 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Own operations Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure 7 11 13 24 20 30 – REI 2009-2013 reflects the performance of AkzoNobel and is based on a constant (% reduction from 2009) portfolio – as of the end of 2013. REI 2009-2011 is indicative and has been approximated. Cradle-to-grave carbon data for 2009-2011 is based on: 1 2010-2012 restated due to KVC review. • Cradle-to-gate carbon data as measured and reported 2 Product related (raw materials and packaging). • Gate-to-grave carbon data has been extrapolated based on 2012 data, adjusted 3 Non-product related. for product volumes in 2009-2011 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 171 The Resource Efficiency Index will be a long-term indicator Eco-efficiency analysis (EEA) is our standard assessment extension of our sustainable fresh water risk for AkzoNobel. Although margin variability may affect method, based on a combination of lifecycle assessments assessment work) performance in any given year, the trend must clearly be and lifecycle costing. Assessment work is carried out by • Sourcing of renewable raw materials (an area under upwards. A review on our performance over the past five business and corporate specialists and is based on ISO development with our new strategy) years reveals a gradually increasing trend. Many factors 14040-44 and a corporate lifecycle assessment database. • Product assessments for our eco-premium solutions have contributed to this, some of which are: (which already include land use) • Improvements in energy efficiency Value chain impacts • Increased renewable and low carbon energy supply While we focus on carbon footprint as a proxy for raw • The ongoing switch towards waterborne coatings material and energy efficiency, our lifecycle assessment • Margin improvements as a result of higher value considers a range of impacts. Examples from 2013 added products include: To continue to drive further improvements in resource Raw materials efficiency across the value chain, we will start measuring We have worked with value chain partners to gain a better the REI on an ongoing basis as of this year. understanding of the value chain impact of titanium dioxide (TiO2) and the main variables which affect carbon footprint. Lifecycle assessment The main drivers appear to be energy source and TiO2 coLifecycle thinking is the basis for all our sustainability work. product/plant configuration rather than the process route. It is included in many of our processes, including: Biodiversity Product development and eco-premium Working alongside the IUCN Leaders For Nature program, solution assessment our focus during 2013 was on three pilots to identify The eco-premium solutions concept includes sustainability hotspots in our value chains and case studies to raise aspects along the value chain. It encourages the awareness of our reliance on stewardship of eco-systems development of more innovative, sustainable products. in our operations. We used the LCA impact assessment We continuously aim to reduce the environmental footprint tool ReCiPe to review pilot cases from three business units. of our product value chains. According to the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment, the Carbon footprint assessment main drivers for biodiversity impact are habitat change We measure the carbon footprint of all our key value (land use change), over-exploitation, invasive alien species, chains (376 in 2013) using a full cradle-to-grave, or pollution and climate change. For our pilots, the main screening, lifecycle assessment. impacts were up and downstream of our operations, with the main drivers being land use/transformation and Marketing propositions climate impact. We are developing environmental product declarations for some products, as part of our marketing activity. This has given some initial focus areas for activity, which align well with our overall sustainability programs, Investment decisions for example: Since 2008, it has been mandatory to include an • Continued focus on climate change (an important eco-efficiency assessment for investment proposals element of the new strategy) exceeding €5 million. • Water use and discharge in water scarce areas (an 172 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 4 Note 4: Products and solutions Eco-premium solutions producing environmental innovations in the form of and gas industries to formulate more environmentallyEco-premium solutions (EPS) are a fundamental driver of new and improved products, new and cleaner or lower friendly stimulation fluids our strategy for creating more value from fewer resources footprint processes and customer applications with less • Berol ECO/AMC-1: US EPA approved concentrated and we continue to measure the proportion of revenue environmental impact. blends of surfactants that can be formulated into that they generate. In future, we will focus on the tangible solvent-free industrial degreasing products, enabling us downstream benefits that our products and services In 2013, revenues from eco-premium products and services to meet customer and regulatory demands deliver to customers. This includes improving their with downstream benefits totaled €2.7 billion, or 18 percent • Intersleek 1100 SR: Biocide-free fouling control coating resource efficiencies, as well as the environmental impact of total revenue. It may appear that we are already close which enables ship owners to achieve reduced drag, of their manufacturing processes and products or services to realizing our 2020 target of 20 percent of revenue. improved fuel efficiency and lower CO2 emissions in use and end-of-life. In due course, these improvements However, since this eco-premium solution metric compares • Interpon Align: Dual layer powder coating (i.e. primer will begin to impact the sustainable development of the our products and solutions with the mainstream in the and topcoat) requiring a single curing step which market segments in which we operate. market, our progress will be impacted by improvements in enables customers to coat substrates using less energy competitor offerings and changes in legislation. • LaDox: Nonylphenol ethoxylate-free peroxide initiators Our 2020 target is to achieve 20 percent of revenue from that allow manufacturers of emulsion explosives for products and services which provide customers and Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits mining to avoid using a chemical of environmental consumers in our downstream value chain with a in % of revenue concern in their production processes significant sustainability advantage, compared with the Target most commonly available equivalent commercial products Eco-premium solutions in % of revenue or industrial processes. This is in addition to our target of 20 Target 17 18 increasing revenue share from eco-premium solutions (with 30 benefits at any stage of the value chain) to 30 percent 24 21 22 22 by 2015. Both are challenging goals because the 18 assessments are made against equivalent mainstream or 2012 2013 2012 2015 2020 standard commercial products, and as such is an upward moving target, as both we and our competitors Eco-premium solutions are measured using a quantitative analysis or a qualitative 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 assessment of performance in seven categories: toxicity, energy efficiency, use of introduce new and more sustainable products into natural resources/raw materials, emissions and waste, land use/footprint, risks (e.g. the market. accidents) and health and well-being (added in 2013). The eco-premium solution Revenue from all eco-premium solutions (with benefits must be significantly better than currently available solutions in at least one criterion, and not significantly worse in any. A solution with downstream benefits accrues its anywhere in the value chain) were €3.6 billion, or Eco-premium solutions stimulate top line and bottom line sustainability benefit to our customer, the use phase, or in end-of-life. 24 percent of total revenue. EPS revenues achieved growth opportunities because they provide improvements by Specialty Chemicals, Performance Coatings and in areas such as raw material use (e.g. lower carbon The reported 2013 KPI figure for eco-premium solutions Decorative Paints were 26 percent, 13 percent and footprint, reduced volume or environmentally beneficial with downstream benefits represents the combined 35 percent, respectively. alternatives); production and application (e.g. less revenues achieved by Specialty Chemicals (16 percent), pollution and waste from manufacturing processes, lower Performance Coatings (13 percent) and Decorative Paints energy consumption during application); and product (27 percent). performance (e.g. coatings that enable reduced energy consumption or surface-active chemicals that enable Innovations introduced to the market in 2013 which water-based formulations). illustrate the new downstream sustainability benefit target include: Driven by customer, market and societal needs, more • Dissolvine StimWell: Chelating agent derived from than two-thirds of our RD&I output is channeled towards natural resources which enables customers in the oil AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 173 5 Note 5: Climate change VOC in products Our Carbon Policy and cradle-to-gate carbon footprint 15 percent from our own direct and indirect emissions We continue to focus on implementing our volatile organic intensity targets have been in place since 2009. In our from energy consumption (Scope 1 and 2), and 45 percent compound (VOC) reduction projects on a regional basis 2020 sustainability strategy, carbon footprint takes an even from the use and end-of-life phase (Scope 3 downstream). using the comprehensive model we created in 2009 in more important role – not only for its measure of impact order to track and quantify the progress of our projects. on climate change, but also because we are using it as a Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint Our sales forecasts now show that the balance of growth proxy for how efficiently we are using raw materials and in million tons of CO2(e) is shifting. energy in our products (see Value chain page). Scope 3 upstream % reduction CO2(e) per ton of sales Scope 1 & 2 Target Scope 3 downstream First observed last year, we see increased growth in waterCarbon footprint cradle-to-grave borne wall paint products in all regions globally. We are, Our target is to reduce our cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 0 2 0 however, experiencing a slower transition to a low VOC by 25-30 percent per ton of sales between 2012 and 2020. 5 content portfolio in China, where consumer demand for The cradle-to-grave footprint adds the impact from our 30 27.5 10 low VOC content products has historically been lower, with customer applications and end-of-life of our products to the 26.5 the market more favorable towards a product portfolio that cradle-to-gate measure we have used since 2009. We also 25 15 is on average higher in VOC content. include the impact from VOC emissions in our improvement 20 20 ambitions. We will achieve this through innovative products/ 25 15 With regards to our Decorative Paints products, we are solutions, technology and energy management and by 30 10 25-30 introducing reformulated products with much reduced creating more value from fewer resources. and virtually zero VOC content. This reduction trend will 5 continue in the future. Our Performance Coatings business This year indicates a total footprint of around 27 million 0 is also achieving a declining average VOC content, despite tons of CO2(e) and a reduction of CO2(e) per ton of sold 2012 2013 2020 the significant technical challenges involved in maintaining product of two percent since 2012. The cradle-to-grave The carbon footprint of the six main greenhouse gases is measured from cradle-to-grave based on the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and Lifecycle Assessment product performance while reducing VOC content. assessment indicates that around 40 percent is from raw ISO 14040-44. 2012 data has been restated to reflect changes in value chain models materials extraction and processing (Scope 3 upstream), and include the impact from VOC emissions. We are keenly aware, however, that although we are making technological progress, we must also keep up with the market and match our product offering to customer AkzoNobel carbon footprint in million tons of CO2(e) demand. As mentioned earlier, the Chinese coatings market is not migrating as quickly as other regions towards low or zero VOC products. We have key projects in place 11 4 <1 8 3 to mitigate the absolute output of VOCs, and as our global sales mix will increasingly shift towards China, we will monitor the situation carefully. Despite the changes in our global sales mix, we continue to see results from our RD&I projects, and will continue to measure and analyze the VOC content of our products Raw materials Production Transport of goods Customer use Product and packaging on an annual basis. Our evaluation for 2012 shows that and packaging inc. energy disposal/recycling compared with our starting position in 2009, we have realized a 10 percent reduction in average VOC content Product related carbon footprint based on 376 key value chains. Impact from VOC emissions included about 3 million tons CO2(e). Raw materials and packaging category includes across our coatings and paints product ranges. other Scope 3 upstream activities, e.g. RM transport, energy related activities. Excludes non-product categories, e.g. employee travel, capital goods, investments. 174 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 The reduction derives mainly from reformulations and mainly in downstream use and end-of-life treatment of sold the entire value chain, for our suppliers and for higher sales of lower impact paints and from power products. 2012 data is restated on the same basis. our customers. consumption with lower carbon footprint impact in some facilities. Other changes in product mix and higher Management Regional differences in energy pricing related to existing production volumes in facilities with a less favorable energy Through the value chain focus in our strategy, company and future national and regional regulations and subsidies mix have limited the impact of these improvements. targets and product development, we aim to use raw creates a non-level playing field for energy on a global level. materials produced in energy and material efficient processes Shale gas is influencing not only the energy market, but Cradle-to-grave footprint per Business Area to produce products which are energy and material efficient also the markets of some major raw materials. The move in million tons CO2(e) for our customers. For our own operations, we continue to to renewable energy varies across regions and jurisdictions. 2012 2013 focus on improving energy efficiency and managing the fuel We are monitoring this with the new renewable electricity Decorative Paints 5.0 4.2 mix of our energy intensive businesses. indicator, as it is an important driver for footprint reduction Performance Coatings 13.0 12.9 Our businesses have developed quantified carbon (see Environment: Renewable energy). We are managing Specialty Chemicals 9.5 9.4 these risks by monitoring price developments, forecasting management plans which identify specific improvement opportunities and programs. These include: around energy supply and spreading production in Scope 3 emissions • Material strategies for key raw material groups different regions. We have assessed all Scope 3 categories according to (e.g. solvents and resins) (see Supply chain) the GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard. The results are • Joint activities with suppliers to reduce the footprint Renewable raw materials summarized in the table on this page. Impact from VOC of key raw materials (see Supply chain) Renewable raw materials are an important component emissions is included: about three million tons CO2(e), • Renewable raw materials (see Supply chain) of our sustainability strategy, since a considerable share • Energy strategy including renewable energy of AkzoNobel’s carbon footprint is embodied in the raw All Scope 3 categories million tons CO2(e) (see Environment) materials we buy. We have successfully progressed the • Site programs to improve yields, reduce waste and implementation of the renewable chemicals and white biotech 2012 2013 improve energy efficiency (see Environment) strategy by setting up novel supply chain partnerships (see Purchase goods and services* 10 10 • Reformulations using lower footprint raw materials Supply chain: Renewable raw materials). Capital goods 0.7 0.8 (see Products and solutions) Fuel and energy-related activities* 0.4 0.3 External engagement • New curing developments to reduce energy use during Upstream transportation* 0.1 0.1 product application (see Products and solutions) In addition to activities to reduce energy use and greenhouse Waste generated in operations* 0.2 0.1 gas emissions in our value chain, we participate in different Business travel 0.2 0.2 These plans are summarized at a company level to business initiatives, such as the WBCSD Chemicals Sector Employee commuting 0.1 0.1 manage and follow up carbon reduction targets. We have project Reaching Full Potential, which sets guidelines for Upstream leased assets <0.01 <0.01 also developed additional common metrics, for example, reporting of avoided emissions. Our carbon management Downstream transportation* 0.2 0.2 percentage of renewable raw materials, percentage of and performance is reported through the Carbon Disclosure Processing and use of sold products* 8 8 renewable electricity/heat, to monitor progress on important Project. End-of-life treatments of sold products* 3 3 development activities. Downstream leased assets <0.01 <0.01 More information on our assessment method for carbon Franchises <0.02 <0.02 Energy risk management footprint can be found in the Reporting principles section. Investments 0.4 0.4 Energy pricing is seen as the most significant climate Total 23 23 change risk for AkzoNobel. This is not only related to the competitiveness of our energy-intensive businesses, but also * Included in cradle-to-grave product footprint. to the impact energy pricing has for all our businesses, along AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 175 6 Note 6: Supply chain Working with our suppliers in order to create a sustainable Supplier management supply base and deliver customer benefits, as well as Ambition Ambition Ambition improving resource efficiency, is a fundamental requirement 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015 of our strategy. This means that we have to work together Critical PR1 spend covered by supplier management frame– – 69 80 80 85 90 effectively. We have supplier management programs in work (% of spend) place that support both performance improvement and Product related suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) 91 95 97 96 96 96 96 opportunities for joint developments. NPR2 suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) – 77 80 83 80 80 80 Suppliers on SSV program since 2007 3 266 304 373 392 – – – We have identified two supplier segments for particular Third party online sustainability assessments – – – – – 200 400 attention, based on the potential risks and opportunities. Third party on-site sustainability audits – – – – – 20 40 • Critical suppliers are those in high growth countries 1  R = Product related (raw materials and packaging). P 2 NPR = Non-product related. where we want to build a long-term, mature supply 3 SSV program targets are included in the new Critical PR spend coverage KPI. base. Selection may be based on risks associated with labor conditions, environmental performance or business integrity, or security of supply of important materials Four supplier management processes are now in place to In 2014 we will also have the assessments and audits from • Key suppliers are selected because of their importance support continuous improvement of suppliers, to prioritize the Together for Sustainability initiative to further secure to the business – spend or dependency – as well as the improvement activities across our supply base and to our critical spend coverage. Each of these processes is potential for partnership and joint innovation accelerate delivery of our corporate sustainability goals. further explained below. Supplier management In 2012, we announced a new KPI we would report from Vendor Policy In 2013, we reviewed our supplier sustainability initiatives. 2013: the critical PR (Product related) spend covered Covers 96 percent of the product related (PR) spend and 83 In order to improve the alignment between our initiatives by the supplier management framework. This KPI gives percent of the non-product related (NPR) spend, including all for critical as well as key suppliers, we have enhanced and a better view of the spend impact of the capability and critical suppliers and key suppliers. Our aim is to have all our formalized our sustainable supply framework, as capacity building efforts with our suppliers. We have suppliers comply with the AkzoNobel Vendor Policy, which reflected below: reached our ambition to cover 80 percent of our critical includes our Code of Conduct, confirming their compliance PR spend in 2013. with environmental, social and governance factors. Sustainable supply We have defined critical spend as all PR spend (raw Supplier Support Visits materials and packaging) from high growth countries. The SSV program is designed to develop long-term local Supplier development Spend is considered to be covered by this metric if one suppliers by raising their capability and performance. It of the following conditions is met: includes all critical suppliers and represents 24 percent Supplier Key supplier Together for 1. The supplier is part of our key supplier process. of our PR spend in high growth countries. Introduced in Support Visits management Sustainability 2. The supplier is part of our Supplier Support Visits 2007, the visits focus on critical suppliers and are carried program program and has been followed up according to the out by teams from Procurement and HSE. The SSV program guidelines. program remains highly successful, with 392 supplier sites Vendor Policy/Code of Conduct 3. The supplier has a signed Vendor Policy, delivers less visited to date. Of all SSV, 47 percent have resulted in a than €5 million from high growth countries and is not developmental score, which means actions have been classified as a critical supplier (and therefore part of the formulated and discussed with the supplier. Follow-up Supplier Support Visits program). visits are arranged to verify implementation and progress. 176 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Greening the supply chain We’ve been making our manufacturing processes more sustainable for some time now, but there are certain limitations in terms of how far we can improve. Especially when you consider that over 90 percent of the carbon footprint linked to the paint and coatings that we sell doesn’t relate to our own operations. It comes from the raw materials that we buy and how the coatings are applied. This makes our target of achieving a 25-30 percent reduction in the carbon footprint of our products by 2020 a particularly challenging one. Because we can’t get there by simply improving our own operations. Which is why we’re looking to work with partners such as Solvay. One of the main raw materials used to produce epoxy resins (used in our epoxy coatings) is epichlorohydrin. It is conventionally produced out of oil via a relatively energy intensive process. But Solvay has developed an alternative method which uses glycerin (a biodiesel production by-product) as a feedstock, and in turn consumes significantly less energy and water. The fact that we normally buy epoxy resins – and not epichlorohydrin – could have been a stumbling block. But we overcame that by striking an innovative deal whereby AkzoNobel guarantees to buy volumes of glycerine-based epichlorohydrin (or Epicerol®) indirectly via the epoxy resins we purchase from Solvay’s customers. Via a “book and claim” approach, an independent third party verifies how much bio-based product is in our supply. The benefit for AkzoNobel and our customers is a bio-based and lower footprint raw material in our coatings, with exactly the same performance, without incurring extra costs. For Solvay, it’s a major commitment to their product and confirms their commercial intuition. Key supplier management • Provides third party verification of AkzoNobel activities capacity and supply cover, supplier selection and sourcing Covers 45 percent of our global PR spend. In 2013, as against industry best practices plans per region, “make” versus “buy” and renewable part of our operational effectiveness program, we further materials. They are also an instrumental tool in reducing developed our key supplier management process. The As part of the annual TfS assessment, the quality of our the footprint of our global value chains. We continuously previous process focused primarily on suppliers of value corporate supplier management activities is verified against review these strategies in an integrated cross-functional today. In the updated process, we have defined and industry best practice. Our 2013 Supplier Management Project Management Office, run monthly, to embed the identified 51 suppliers that are critical to AkzoNobel both score puts us among the best performing companies overall process and strategy. This process also ensures now and in the future and manage them in a differential assessed by EcoVadis globally in our industry category. that we have taken into account interdependencies with a way. These suppliers are essential to supporting us in forward-looking perspective, including sustainability. realizing our strategic objectives. With many of these key Our Supplier Sustainability Framework provides an overall suppliers we also have a formal key supplier agreement in approach to quantifying supplier progression and delivery Complexity reduction place, underpinning the aims of the key supplier process. against key performance elements in both high growth and So-called slates of raw materials in key areas of spend mature markets. are being developed. These slates define a core list of Together for Sustainability (TfS) preferred materials/suppliers. Health and sustainability We joined this global initiative in the fourth quarter of 2013. Collaborative initiatives aspects, such as product safety and environmental Implementation of the program will impact all supplier We are a founding member of the International Supply concerns, are key criteria applied. The objective is to segments, including product related and non-product Chain Management Congress in Amsterdam. In 2013, migrate our materials/suppliers over time on to these core related suppliers. TfS is an industry initiative made up of we were again part of the leadership for the organization, materials, making our value chain less complex and more seven leading European chemical companies, and will sponsorship and support of the congress, which is sustainable. The slate approach gives clear information expand further. It aims to improve sustainability practices recognized as a valuable contributor to the development on potential business opportunities to improve our value within the global supply chains of the chemical industry, of sustainability thinking and supply chain processes. chains – lower cost, improved sustainability and building on established global principles such as the reduced risk. United Nations Global Compact and the Responsible Strategies going forward Care® Global Charter. With TfS, our aim is to implement The procurement strategy for the next few years is to Renewable raw materials effective, leading edge practices across the industry. move further beyond availability-price-synergy towards Renewable raw materials are an important component We are implementing standardized global assessments cross-functional sourcing, integration and value chain of our sustainability strategy, as a considerable share of and on-site audits to monitor and improve sustainability orientation. Buying on price will move towards total cost of AkzoNobel’s environmental footprint is embodied in the practices in our supply chains. ownership, while selected supplier relationships will move raw materials we buy. Over the next few years, we expect towards cooperation and partnering. We see this as a way to see the first commercial scale production facilities of Global implementation of Together for Sustainability will to leverage the size and scope of our global business, our new renewable raw materials come online. In order to provide the following benefits: position with suppliers and to drive competitive advantage. lead the deployment of these materials in our markets, we • Supplements our existing SSV program by ensuring are setting up partnerships across the supply chain. This continued development of critical suppliers in high A cross-functional approach with our key suppliers is supports the emergence of a new bio-based industry, and growth markets now set as the standard in our updated key supplier at the same time enables AkzoNobel to tap into alternative • Confirms compliance to our Vendor Policy standards management process. This enables us to structure the feedstock sources, to be able to offer more sustainable and Code of Conduct across a selected global supplier cooperation regarding joint sustainability and innovation products, and to reduce the cradle-to-grave portfolio topics with our key suppliers. carbon footprints. • Strengthens our risk identification and mitigation processes During the year, we continued the development and • Further integrates auditable corrective action planning implementation of our raw material strategies. These into the supplier development process included elements such as material resource planning, 178 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 In 2013, we announced partnerships for several of our key In addition to these announced partnerships, we have • The AkzoNobel Academy now offers a full Lean Six raw materials: a number of projects in the pipeline to further improve Sigma curriculum for the supply chain, operations and • Bio-based solvents in Latin America: This partnership the sustainability of our supply chain. In order to monitor other functions in the company with Solvay-Rhodia targets volumes of up to 10 kilotons progress on the increasing use of renewable raw materials, per year of bio-based solvents by 2017 we have also introduced a new KPI. In 2013, 13 percent Safety, inventory levels and eco-efficiency have improved • Algae-derived fatty acids: Together with biotech of all our organic raw materials came from renewable throughout the company. The sustainability agenda has company Solazyme, we are investigating options (bio-based) sources (2012: 13 percent). This is 5 percent also been updated, with more focus on material efficiency for new sources of tailored fatty acids. We are also of total volume of raw materials purchased, i.e. including throughout the full value chain. Continuous reduction considering a supply agreement for “drop-in” matches other raw materials such as salt, minerals and clays. of both energy usage and carbon footprint remains an to conventional oleochemicals as of 2014 in Brazil, for integral part of our strategy going forward, including the use in surfactants and decorative paint applications Logistics, distribution and car lease implementation of renewable energy. In addition, pilot • Bio-based epichlorohydrin: In partnership with As part of our performance improvement program, we sites have been selected for a detailed assessment of Solvay, we plan to increase the use of bio-based have started to manage warehousing and logistics at a solar energy. epichlorohydrin to 20 percent of AkzoNobel’s global regional AkzoNobel level. This will result in a reduction of indirect use by 2016 (see case studies) warehouses and combined transport solutions. It will also Investment decisions • Cellulosic-based acetic acid: Together with biorefinery have a positive effect on our footprint. All our major investment proposals (more than €5 million) developer ZeaChem, we are exploring the potential for a require a sustainability evaluation alongside the financial case. large-scale facility in Europe producing acetic acid (and We are involved with Smartway in the US and Green This includes assessments at different stages in the project derivatives) from cellulosic sugars (e.g. from forestry Freight Europe in the EU, focusing on CO2 reduction. development. At the point of application for capital, the waste) requirements include an eco-efficiency assessment, as well The carbon emission ambition for our own passenger car as a full review of health and safety, process and product fleet is 130 g/km. In Europe, we reduced from 143 g/km safety, natural resource/raw material requirements and enviTotal volume of raw materials in % per source in 2011 to 136 g/km in 2012 and 132 g/km in 2013. ronmental impacts. The proposals are reviewed by subject matter experts, who give input to the Executive Committee, Operations management to provide a strong basis for the investment decision. 13%* Excellence in supply chain management and A *13 percent of organic manufacturing operations remains a key focus area for raw materials are from AkzoNobel. The 2013 program delivered a number of renewable sources. operational improvements in the full supply chain. For B example, standardized processes and production systems based on Lean Six Sigma methodologies are being C implemented globally. We will continue rolling out the program to all the company’s manufacturing facilities. Highlights of recent improvements include: • More than 75 manufacturing sites have started to embed continuous improvement processes and have A Renewable raw materials (bio-based) 5 implemented Lean Six Sigma projects B Fossil-derived materials (petrochemicals) 35 • Sales and operations planning processes have been C Inorganic materials (e.g. salt, minerals, clays) 60 standardized to deliver the required customer service and working capital improvements AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 179 Safety Key performance indicators – safety Ambition Ambition Target 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015 People Total reportable injury rate employee/supervised 3.6 3.1 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.0 <2.0 contractors (per million hours) Manufacturing sites with behavior-based safety 72 76 76 96 100 100 100 program (% of sites) Life-Saving Rules implemented (% of sites) – – – 100 100 – – Process Regulatory actions (Level 3) 4 0 3 8 0 0 0 Significant loss of containment (Level D) 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 Product Priority substances with management plan (%) – 23 42 62 60 80 100 REACH compliance second phase (%) 8 44 83 100 100 100 100 Management Safety incidents (Level 3) 10 8 3 0 0 0 0 Management and reassurance audits 61 66 61 56 – – – Our company-wide common HSE platform established training in the company’s expectations and the required will be provided to business teams. Responsibility for common improvement programs in people, process competencies for HSE leadership. A single system for implementing these programs lies with the businesses, and product safety. We aim to differentiate ourselves HSE performance reporting has been in place for several with leading units providing experience and best practice by our thoroughness in embedding best practice years and a new single system for reporting incidents and which can be shared with others in order to accelerate safety processes in all our operations, using common analyzing incident trends has now been introduced. progress. approaches and systems. Behavior-based safety has now been implemented at nearly all manufacturing locations During 2014, AkzoNobel will extend behavior-based During 2013, management focus and employee engage­ and an annual review of the program’s effectiveness will be safety selectively to non-production work locations and ment at every level delivered a reduction of >15 percent in mandatory from 2014. A common set of Life-Saving Rules groups, including stores, warehouses, laboratories and the number of injuries. Particular contributions to meeting (LSR) has been introduced for all employees. Breaches of technical service teams, using a risk-based approach. our milestones came from the risk-based approaches of these rules, resulting in injuries or safety incidents, have Those who drive on company business will be included our behavior-based safety program, and the focus and led to application of the maximum disciplinary sanction in a company-wide program of training based on safe support for sites that have consistently fallen short in terms allowed under local legislation. driving behavior, including awareness training, e-learning of performance. and practical training according to distances covered. The global approach to managing the risk of priority Following pilot programs in 2013, a process safety substances has resulted in lists of phased out and management framework will be introduced at high hazard restricted substances being applied to all product sites. A product stewardship maturity framework will be ranges. Key line managers have now received refresher established and training in product stewardship principles 180 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 7 Note 7: People health and safety Overall performance indicators for people safety show that Specialty Chemicals is at the 2013 ambition of Employee health we continue to structurally improve towards targets set for 2.2 (2012: 1.8). The Performance Coatings TRR slightly As well as ensuring a safe working environment and 2015. The 2015 TRR target of <2.0 has been derived from increased to 2.8 (2012: 2.6) healthy working conditions, we also foster employee a top quartile safety performance peer analysis. • The overall downward trend in reportable injuries health and well-being, as well as managing illness-related coincides with both the implementation of our Lifeabsenteeism. Employee and contractor safety Saving Rules at all our facilities, and the global roll-out of The general downward trend in reportable injuries from the people, process and product safety programs that Employee health 2010 onwards continued in 2013. Most notable was the are part of the common HSE platform. Implementation 2011 2012 2013 decrease in the total reportable injury rate of independent was complemented by a strong focus on compliance Total illness absence rate 2.0 2.0 2.1 contractors, reversing the recent increase. and operational discipline, performance monitoring Occupational illness rate 0.3 0.2 0.1 and enforcement if necessary. We will need to continue Wellness Checkpoint use >8,800 >11,300 >13,700 • The TRR for employees and supervised contractors focusing on continuous improvement through these decreased to 2.3 (2012: 2.4) programs in order to achieve the 2015 target of a • The breakdown per Business Area shows that the TRR TRR of less than 2.0 for employees and supervised • The total illness absence rate has slightly increased for Decorative Paints decreased to 1.9 (2012: 2.7) contractors over 2012 (2.0 percent). It now stands at 2.1 percent. which is below the TRR 2015 ambition and the TRR for • During 2013, 96 percent of our manufacturing sites We continue to monitor this indicator for the whole implemented behavior-based safety. This program company, aiming to stay at or below a level around raises safety awareness through peer-to-peer employee 1.9 percent Employee and supervised contractors total interaction. Obstacles for safe behavior are subsequent­ • The occupational illness rate for employees and super­ reportable injuries injury rate ly removed. The behavior-based safety program applies vised contractors stands at 0.1 illnesses per million Target to employees and supervised contractors, as behavior hours worked (2012: 0.2). Through implementing HSE in routine operations within both categories falls under standards and guidance notes, i.e. on laboratory safety 3.6 3.1 the direct supervision of AkzoNobel line management. and occupational hygiene risk management, we further 2.4 2.3 Independent contractors hired for non-routine tasks are try to eliminate occupational illnesses from occurring 2.0 managed under contract conditions and in standardized • Our health risk appraisal tool, the Wellness Checkpoint, company project management processes. The is appreciated and is being used by an increasing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 behavior-based safety program will continue to be rolled number of employees and their families. By the end of out in non-manufacturing locations in 2014 2013, almost 14,000 people had joined the program • There were no employee or contractor fatalities during since its launch in 2008 Independent contractors total reportable the year. However, three reported safety incidents injuries injury rate (see HSE management) involved severe injuries to independent contractors 4.2 3.5 • The downward trend extended to the TRR of indepen­ 3.5 3.0 dent contractors. Following an increase over the last two years, the rate dropped again to 3.5 in 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 The total reportable rate (TRR) is the number of injuries, including fatalities, resulting in a lost time case, restricted work or requiring medical treatment by a competent medical practitioner per million hours worked. In line with OHSA guidelines, super­ vised contractors are reported with employees, since day-to-day management is by AkzoNobel. Independent contractors are managed by their own companies. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 181 8 Note 8: Process safety Distribution and motor vehicle incidents AkzoNobel uses “loss of primary containment’’ as a main indicator for the safety culture on site We have identified distribution and motor vehicle incidents indicator of process safety performance at its manufac­ • Current performance confirms the need for full as a risk to employee and contractor safety. turing sites. implementation of two common HSE platform projects focused on process safety performance improvement, Distribution incidents Loss of containment incidents specifically process safety management, and the embedding of our self-assessment questionnaire 2010 2011 2012 2013 improvement processes Road 82 67 44 44 Levels Sea 5 3 2 2 D 1 Process safety management Rail 4 10 0 2 (2012: 0) Significant • Through a company-wide process safety management Air 0 0 0 0 (PSM) project, our mandatory company standards Total 91 80 46 48 C have been revised to ensure they are compatible with 20 current and near future major PSM legislation (such as (2012: 16) • The number of distribution incidents increased from Not contained at site Seveso-3 and OSHA 1910). These standards define the 46 in 2012 to 48 in 2013. Most of these incidents minimum process safety requirements and (44 out of 48), occurred on the road B performance metrics 244 (2012: 209) • In 2013, pilots were conducted at ten AkzoNobel sites Motor vehicle incidents Not readily controlled but contained at site with varying hazard classification levels, located in different regions and covering all three of the company’s 2010 2011 2012 2013 A 1,150 Business Areas. The pilot results will deliver a template Incidents with injury 34 29 28 19 (2012: 1,809) for process safety improvement actions, related to the Fatalities – employees 1 0 1 0 Readily controlled and contained at site risks assessed • The findings from the pilots will also be used to facilitate • Fewer motor vehicle incidents were reported in 2013 Loss of containment is defined as an unplanned release of material, product, raw global implementation of the standards, additional material or energy to the environment (including those resulting from human error). than in the previous two years. The number dropped Losses of containment are divided into four categories, dependent on severity, from guidance documents and company best practices from 28 in 2012, to 19 in 2013 small on-site spills (Level A) to a significant escape (Level D). • The company continues to monitor safe driving performance and strives for improvement. During 2013, The results for 2013 present a varied picture. current road safety training programs for company drivers were evaluated. A best practice approach with • Level D incidents went up from zero in 2012 to one a focus on driver behavior will be implemented from in 2013 2014 onwards • At the same time, 2013 marked a general improvement in the management of safety at our high hazard sites. The number of these sites that have reached the targeted maturity level has increased significantly – 93 percent reached the reference level for process safety performance in our self assessment questionnaire (see Note 10). A total of 78 percent achieved reference level on all elements of the AkzoNobel HSE management system, while 82 percent reached reference level for safety leadership elements, which we consider an 182 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 9 Note 9: Product stewardship We aim to be a leading company among our peers by impact on the environment. These will be phased out Regulatory affairs providing customers with safe products that meet their from the end of 2013. A restricted substance example We carefully monitor changes and prepare ourselves needs. Based on the product stewardship objectives is respirable crystalline silica (RCS). Its use in paints and for new regulations that will affect our products and included on our HSE Agenda 2011–2015, our focus during chemical products should not exceed maximum levels. processes. In 2013, we developed a new company-wide 2013 was on common HSE platform programs. regulatory information system (RIS) which will ensure Taking this proactive approach to substance management that the latest information relating to product safety Priority substance management means that we are prepared in advance of new and legislation is available to all AkzoNobel regulatory affairs We are committed to reducing the use of substances in changing regulations. It also enables us to take a leading professionals. This new system will go live in 2014. our products and processes that may pose a significant position in sustainable product stewardship and supports risk to long-term health or the environment. We do the development and introduction of eco-premium During 2013, our primary activities included: this by minimizing exposure to hazardous substances solutions to the market. and, where possible, by substituting them with more REACH compliance sustainable materials. In 2014 we intend to extend the same substance scoring We met our target to complete the submission of 181 methodology into our procurement process in order to substances for registration under scope of the second Our priority substance management program takes a source fewer raw materials that may be harmful to longphase of the EU REACH regulation by June 2013. systematic approach to the identification and review of term human health and the environment. Our REACH team is now busy with tasks to support hazardous substances. We score each one on the basis of these registrations and is working towards successful their human and environmental hazards and where public Product distribution submission of dossiers for registration under the concern exists over their use. Substances with higher To ensure our products are transported and distributed third REACH deadline in June 2018 for substances scores are designated as priority substances and subject safely by our contractors, we insist that all risks involved in manufactured or imported in quantities of between 1 and to review by our experts. Where a more sustainable and the distribution process are assessed, and that they take 100 metric tons per year. effective alternative exists, priority substances are removed the right safety measures. We also audit their performance. from our products and processes and substituted with In 2013, we issued a comprehensive guidance note Classification and labeling of AkzoNobel products less hazardous and more sustainable materials. If this to all company personnel involved with selection of road We are on schedule with implementation of the Global is not currently possible, a full risk assessment on the transport companies to make sure that appropriate Harmonized System (GHS) for labeling of chemical substance is carried out using state-of-the-art techniques procedures are in place. substances and products. To ensure changes in labels and from the EU REACH regulation. Only when safe use of a datasheets resulting from the GHS rules are understood priority substance can be demonstrated is it allowed to be across the company, we have issued an electronic awareused in our products and processes. ness training module (e-learning) for employees through the HSE training academy. We are on target to review and risk manage all our priority substances by 2015. We have now reviewed Advocacy and risk managed 90 (62 percent) priority substances, We are active in industry associations at a local, regional meeting our objective for 2013. Of the priority substances and global level. Our aim is to support legislation, stanreviewed in the program so far, 48 will be phased out, 35 dards and agreements that promote the use of safer and restricted to uses that are proven to be safe and seven more sustainable products in our industry. have been delisted as priority substances. For example, during 2013, the United Nations Environment One example of a group of compounds to be replaced Program (UNEP) staged an International Lead Poisoning with more sustainable alternatives is short-chained Awareness Week. Through our involvement in industry chlorinated paraffins, as there are concerns over their associations, we took the opportunity to call on the AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 183 10 Note 10: HSE management coatings industry to follow action we took in 2011 to Management systems and applicable business requirements by filling in the SAQ. remove lead compounds from all products and substitute Operational excellence at our sites is supported by riskThe results are used to prepare site improvement plans, them with safer alternatives. based management systems that follow the Responsible while it also provides input to the corporate HSE audits. Care® and Coatings Care® principles. Our HSE management Together, the corporate HSE regulations and auditing create In the US, working closely with a major customer and the standards are set up and updated in accordance with the assurance framework. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), using an innovainternational standards such as ISO-14001, RC-14001, tive approach to testing, we obtained full approval for our OHSAS-18001 and PAS 55 (public standard for process For most sites, the audit frequency is every five years. For biodegradable and bio-based chelate (Dissolvine GL) for safety). Many sites and businesses have additional external sites with an intrinsic high hazard rating this frequency is use in household products under the EPA Design for the certification for their management systems, which are every three years. In 2013, the intrinsic hazard rating for all Environment scheme. subject to audit by our internal audit group and external sites was reviewed and updated if necessary. This formal audits from certification authorities. review now takes place every year. Through our membership of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), we actively External certification Management audits number of audits participated in the working group on the release of harmful in % of manufacturing sites 2010 2011 2012 2013 substances, which is part of their Action 2020 program, ISO-14001/RC-14001 72 73 75 78 66 and will continue to support their initiatives in this area to 61 61 56 OHSAS-18001/RC-18001 35 37 42 51 increase the market share of safer and more sustainable products throughout the world. Maturity framework We have a common maturity framework for measuring HSE 2010 2011 2012 2013 management progress at our sites through self-assessment and audit. The HSE maturity framework is being used to drive During 2013, we carried out 46 corporate HSE audits continuous improvement. The average improvement of sites (2012: 54), four site closure audits (2012: 2) and six was 5 percent in 2013, while there was a further reduction reassurance audits (2012: 5), which are required for sites of 3 percent in the total reportable injury rate (TRR). with high risk findings. Learnings from the 2013 audits indicate that in general, sites have improved their per­­ Self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) formance. Like previous years, the lagging sites need to The SAQ, which covers all elements of the HSE manage­ continue to improve management of asset integrity and ment system, is being repositioned as the company-wide process safety, health and safety and, to a lesser extent, HSE improvement planning tool. Specific focus has been security. These sites are struggling to translate the HSE placed on high hazard sites to ensure they achieve requirements into daily work practices and demonstrate reference level in all process safety elements. Sites facing safe operation of assets. The identified sites will receive difficulties with achieving the designated performance additional support. levels are being given special support. In July 2013, nearly all auditors and new trainees from North HSE audit America, Latin America, Europe and Asia joined a threeThe HSE audit process combines a continuous improve­ day training session in the Netherlands in which they were ment tool for sites with a periodic audit conducted by HSE trained in all relevant subjects to improve their performance subject matter experts from the business and managed and consistency. by the global Internal Audit function. All sites carry out an annual self-assessment against corporate HSE standards 184 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Safety incidents Regulatory actions To support the development of our product stewardship Safety incidents are incidents with an impact severity which We have defined three categories of regulatory actions, from and regulatory affairs (PS&RA) professionals, we have requires an independent investigation. The lessons learned self-reported issues (Level 1) to formal legal notifications designed a series of learning programs which are included are shared company-wide. with fines above €10,000 (Level 3). in our AkzoNobel PS&RA professional curriculum. During 2014, we will develop and deliver more specialized learning We continue to strive for zero injuries and zero safety Regulatory actions programs (Levels 2 and 3). The next modules for HSE incidents. We classify safety incidents based on severity of professionals will also be developed. 2010 2011 2012 2013 outcome, from severe local impact (Level 1), to severe Regulatory actions 4 0 3 8 impact on a specific business unit (Level 2) and on several (Level 3) business units or the company as a whole (Level 3). The total number of Level 1, 2 and 3 safety incidents dropped to Regulatory action Level 3: A formal notice of a criminal prosecution or (conditional) penalty greater than €10,000. These are reported to indicate to management the 14 (2012: 23). Of these 14 safety incidents, three involved potential for reputation damage and effect on our license to operate. severe injuries to independent contractors. All 14 incidents were investigated, improvement actions were addressed The most probable explanation for the sharp increase in and the lessons learned shared, to avoid similar incidents the number of Regulatory Actions is a stricter definition of re-occurring. There were no Level 3 incidents in 2013. the conditional fines recorded as Regulatory Actions. More focus has been put on the follow-up of incident HSE capability development investigation findings and recommendations, while both HSE professionals and line managers with critical HSE investigation process and follow-up are consistently tracked. functions develop their competencies based on our integrated supply chain competencies framework, proficiency Safety incidents (Level 3) levels and job profiles. Core training and development programs are delivered and further developed by using a 10 blended learning approach which includes, for example, 8 e-learning, classroom training and webinars. In 2013, the use of virtual classrooms was tested and this technology will be used more often in 2014. 3 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 HSE capability development Ambition Ambition 2012 2013 2013 2015 Safety incidents (Level 3) involve any loss of life; more than five severe injuries; environmental, asset or business damage totaling more than €25 million; or extensive % of target group 23% 62% 35% 100% reputational damage. completed HSE Critical Leaders workshop % of target group 0% 40% 35% 100% completed Level 1 PS&RA program AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 185 Employees 11 Note 11: Our people Key performance indicators – employees1 In the highly competitive markets in which we operate, it is our people who are the differentiating factor in ensuring 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target 2015 our sustainable success. It is therefore our mission to People data create a work environment in which people feel valued, are Employee numbers (FTE) 55,600 57,240 55,272 49,561 – engaged with our core principles and values and are given the right conditions in which they can perform at their Employee engagement best. We can only develop a high performance culture that Employee engagement (ViewPoint score 3.56 3.74 3.80 3.88 >4 (1-5 scale)) focuses on operational excellence when all our employees are fully engaged to excel. Diversity and inclusion % of female executives 12 13 15 16 20 In 2013, we made significant progress. We embraced new % of executives from high growth markets 12 13 13 14 20 values and behaviors that address habits which have held % of female executive potentials 27 26 27 28 30 us back in the past, and support us in driving a culture of % of executive potentials from high growth markets 26 31 31 34 30 excellence in business performance and integrity. See the Strategy section for a detailed description. Talent management % of online P&D Dialog participation 76 78 84 85 95 In October, an awareness campaign was launched and % of cross-BU moves of leadership talents 5 6 5 7 10 we have taken initial steps to integrate our new values % internal promotion into executive level 74 80 70 75 80 and behaviors into key HR processes – recruitment, % retention of leadership talent 97 96 96 92 95 assessment, performance management and talent % retention of leadership talent – under96 94 97 92 95 development. represented group (women and high growth market employees) The new values and behaviors, and new talent manageLearning and development ment approach, strongly support the implemen­tation ViewPoint score on Learning and growth (Q12) 3.61 3.80 3.85 3.93 >4 of our strategy at all levels of the company, driving (1-5 scale) an engaged workforce focused on delivering leading 1 More details can be found on our website. performance. Employee engagement We want to be an employer of choice with an engaged workforce. Regularly measuring employee engagement helps us to manage and develop our human capital and stimulate growth through people. We use our ViewPoint employee engagement survey to give employees the opportunity to have their say and to monitor progress. This is based on the Gallup Q12 survey and provides a comparison against nearly 500 organizations. Some 2013 highlights: • Almost 44,000 employees took part in the survey – 88 percent of the global workforce (2012: 88 percent) 186 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 • Our overall engagement score improved to 3.88 on a • Assisting managers, particularly those with low scores, • Our recruitment policy now takes into consideration our scale from 1 to 5 (2012: 3.80), which is a step towards with follow-up action planning with their teams D&I ambition achieving our 2015 target of scoring above 4 • Offering global webinars for all people managers to • To build an inclusive work environment, virtual employee • The engagement scores for each Business Area were: share best practice networks have been created Decorative Paints 3.93; Performance Coatings 3.85; • To increase gender diversity across AkzoNobel, we have Specialty Chemicals 3.87 In addition to actions that are taken around the ViewPoint now connected with an expert organization externally • Relatively high scores were achieved in the areas of survey, other activities are also in place that drive for training and skill building commitment to quality and the feeling that opinions employee engagement: count. Scoring relatively low was clarity on what we • Successful engagement of teams worldwide in As we move to the next phase of making D&I happen, our expect from our employees community programs (see Note 13) focus is primarily on diverse talent acquisition and diverse • The biggest improvements came from teams that • Onboarding program for new employees talent development. These initiatives will bring us closer to followed up their actions to improve engagement levels • Further implementation of internal social media channel our D&I aspiration for 2015. (Yammer) ViewPoint score employee engagement • Further professionalizing Your AkzoNobel – an Female executives in % (1 to 5 scale) association of young, enthusiastic employees who have Target 20 been working for the company for less than five years 15 16 12 13 10 3.56 3.74 3.80 3.88 Diversity and inclusion 8 Diversity and inclusion (D&I) at AkzoNobel is all about creating winning teams. Our D&I initiative is built around 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 four key strategic ambitions: • Create a sustainable and diverse workforce 2010 2011 2012 2013 • Build a strong and diverse leadership pipeline High growth market executives in % • Engage managers to build and lead diverse teams Target 20 Plans to remedy the gaps are already in place, including: • Create a highly inclusive work environment • Embracing and living our company strategy through the 13 13 14 11 12 implementation of new values and behaviors We have come a long way. Launched in 2008, our D&I 10 • Introduction of a new performance management ambition today is represented in various HR and business system which includes our new values and additional processes. We saw many positive D&I decisions in 2013 – 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 functionalities to align and better track objectives, both in business moving closer to customers and growing helping to further clarify expectations from our talents from within. Since 2008, female executives have employees doubled and representation of executives from high growth Talent management • Improving the communication from senior managers to markets has increased by 40 percent. We achieved this by In order to deliver diverse and inclusive talent development, employees by providing effective cascading tools continuous application of various D&I interventions across we have integrated a new company-wide Talent Mana­ • Further engaging HR business partners in coaching business, function and corporate teams. gement core process (see the Strategy section). From the programs and a Community of Practice to support results of the annual ViewPoint survey, we see that we managers and help improve people management skills Other activities reflecting our progress made in D&I include: have continued to increase employee engagement scoring • Further grow and drive the global Community of • We have extended disability reporting to regions not specifically on learning and growth. The ongoing investment Practice of engagement catalysts who influence mandated by local regulations in the AkzoNobel Academy, with its focus on functional and support people in their own environment to drive • D&I and mentoring are well represented in our Talent excellence, has contributed to this improvement. engagement Management Process AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 187 We continue to make progress on the representation of In addition, our performance and development review • Generic role profiles and a Career Navigator connected both females and managers from high growth markets process, which is applicable for all employees, ensures an to the functional competency frameworks giving our in our executive population. The increase in executive ongoing focus on individual development to improve job employees an impression of the deliverables and potentials from both groups suggests that the talent performance. competencies required by various key roles within pipeline is also improving. Furthermore, we continue AkzoNobel to improve the diversity of entry level participants to our Based on the Gallup Q12 survey our “Learning and growth” • A Development Compass which has been designed Global Graduate Management Trainee Program, which score improved to 3.93 on a scale from 1 to 5 (2012: 3.85), to help our employees identify any gaps between their specifically aims to recruit high potential graduates which is a step towards achieving our 2015 ambition of current competencies and those required in under-represented groups. After a rigorous selection scoring above 4. • The addition of new 24/7 learning resources: process, the graduates are given special development GetAbstract and Virtual Ashridge support and the opportunity to work in three different ViewPoint score on Learning and growth • The design of 43 new functional training courses AkzoNobel businesses before being offered a permanent (Q12) (1 to 5 scale) reaching initially 10,000 employees supporting targeted position. capability building 3.80 3.85 3.93 • The embedding of the “lessons learned” from 3.61 We have also seen an improvement in the number of performance improvement program projects in the cross-business moves involving leadership talent from Academy curriculum 5 percent to 7 percent, which has been helped by the Talent Matching Forums held on a quarterly basis in our Recruitment key countries. 2010 2011 2012 2013 The quest to attract the best talent while managing costs continued with a major remodeling of the Recruitment After a dip in 2012, we saw the percentage of internal In 2012, we launched the AkzoNobel Academy to drive function. A new e-recruitment technology platform has promotions to executive level increase to 75 percent, functional and operational excellence. It is now an established been launched in the Netherlands, UK, US, Sweden, which also reflects a strengthening of our leadership learning portal for all employees, enabling company-wide France, Brazil, India and China as the first module in a pipeline. Our retention of leadership talent also remains sustainable performance improvement. In 2013, in line with future Talent Management Suite. This will improve the high, with the small decline from the previous year being our ambition to drive functional excellence, we integrated efficiency and effectiveness of the recruiters, lead to impacted by divestments. functional capability frameworks and a structured training process standardization and increase direct sourcing, so curriculum for key functions, as well as a continuous reducing costs and improving quality. Learning and development improvement curriculum. We also offer special training To ensure that we attract and retain the best global talent, programs to enable HR professionals to better support the We also took a major step in utilizing social media we need to have an excellent learning and development business, in addition to tailor-made programs for our top channels by partnering with LinkedIn, which resulted in a platform in place that is fully aligned with the company talent at a number of prestigious business schools. 160 percent increase in followers of our Linkedin profile, as strategy and its key focus areas and processes. To that well as imparting training globally to our recruiters. end, we offer all employees, at all levels of the organization, Also in 2013, the Academy introduced a number of new This will help us tap into the passive labor market, provide opportunities to develop via on-the-job learning, new development tools, including: a platform for communicating our new Employee Value challenges and assignments within their current role, as • Functional frameworks defining a set of competencies Proposition and help avoid expensive indirect channels well as online development opportunities. It is also crucial – knowledge and/or skills critical for successful of recruitment. that all our employees are trained in the core principles performance within our key global functions to deliver underlying the new company values – safety, integrity and on the company strategy sustainability. 188 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 12 Note 12: Restructuring 13 Note 13: Community A new global on-boarding program has also been In 2013, we continued to restructure our business to As a global company, we fully understand our role and launched whereby standard tools will now be used globally execute our company strategy so we can meet the needs responsibilities when it comes to society and contributing to welcome new employees and enable them to integrate of our customers sustainably in years to come. We are to the communities in which we operate. It forms an as quickly as possible. aware of the impact this has on the employees involved integral part of our sustainability agenda. Whenever and, as a responsible employer, we are committed to possible, we try to make a positive difference to the world Winning two awards testifies to the progress we made supporting our employees during such reorganizations. around us, engaging with people and organizations to in 2013 in terms of developing as a leading employer. We do this in compliance with legal requirements help bring the AkzoNobel brand to life while supporting AkzoNobel China was officially certified as one of the top and, where applicable, in consultation with employee deserving and sustainable projects and causes, using our employers in China for exceptional employee offerings representative bodies. We strive to ensure clear and products when appropriate. by the renowned Top Employers Institute, which annually ongoing communications, transparent selection processes recognizes leading employers around the world. and, in many cases, support in the transition from work to Key to our success in this area has been our global “Let’s work, which can include training and out-placement. Colour” program, which is inspiring people, through our The company was also ranked Favorite Employer in the products, to revitalize their local communities. The initiative Netherlands among Dutch graduates. The research was During 2013 our workforce decreased due to ongoing – run by our Decorative Paints business – also includes the conducted by Memory Magazine, the largest national restructuring and divestments, but we also added to participation of many of our employees. In fact, hands-on students’ magazine in the Netherlands. the headcount, mainly through new hires in high growth involvement in local initiatives is something we encourage, markets. For details of how our workforce changed, see which is why we launched the AkzoNobel Community HR Services Note 4 of the Financial statements. Program in 2005. The development of young people For basic administration, Human Resources is implementis another area we are passionate about. Since 1994, ing a standardized OneHR Services organizational and Wherever possible, we announce our restructuring plans with the help of the Plan International organization, we working set-up. This is initially being introduced in our nine between 12 and 26 months in advance (recent examples have been supporting children around the world through key countries, based on three linked elements: standardized being restructurings in Gallenby, Sweden, and Nuremburg, our Education Fund. We also run a global sponsorship processes, executed on a standardized IT platform (myHR), Germany). This allows for better planning in the transition program, which focuses on two main areas – developing by HR staff in an HR Service Center. This will enable us to from work-to-work. In most countries, we use the services talent in communities through education initiatives, and provide a consistent and quality service, while reducing costs of an external company to support employees in finding supporting heritage, culture and the arts and sciences by to benchmark levels. In addition, the OneHR Services project their next position. Exceptions to this are in Italy, based sharing our expertise. will be pivotal to removing the different systems that exist on an agreement with the Italian government, and the in the function today, therefore providing the foundation on Netherlands, where we operate an in-house mobility office Our products which we can focus on our core challenge – putting in place to support employees. When possible, we endeavor to assist society through our a healthy talent pipeline and strong succession planning. products. Ferrazone, for example, is helping to improve well-being in many communities, particularly in developing During 2013, OneHR Services went live in India and Brazil, countries. Used to fortify food, it is widely regarded as while the UK prepared for implementation. Furthermore, being the most effective way to treat iron deficiency the Integrated Talent Management Suite was launched, anemia. a new global HR IT support for core HR processes such as performance and development, learning, talent Another example is our partnership with the Forest Steward­ management and succession planning. ship Counsil (FSC) in relation to our wood care products. See Note 3 Stakeholder engagement for more details. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 189 “Let’s Colour” program Since the start of the program in 2005, more than distributed to families affected by the tornados that hit the We believe in the regenerative power of color and 11,000 volunteers from around 55 countries have worked state of Illinois later in the year. the positive effect it can have on people’s lives. We on more than 2,200 projects, representing approximately express this through our global “Let’s Colour” program €14 million of investment. Our sites and offices initiate During 2013, 207 new projects were initiated. For (letscolourproject.com), which includes both charitable between 200-250 projects each year. The majority of example, a cooperation was established with the “Let’s donations of paint and community investment. Not only projects have supported educational/employability and Colour” program from Decorative Paints, as these painting does it embrace the physical improvement of deprived healthcare/well-being activities, with environmental and activities often touch on groups within the scope of the neighborhoods, but it also facilitates educational housing projects also well represented. Community Program. The employees involved were development and job training. encouraged to interact with these groups. Around Cumulative Community Program involvement 15 projects serving local communities resulted from this Working together with local communities, including Projects (number) initiative. customers, employees and other influencers, we have Volunteers (number) Support (€ million) 14.0 already created better living environments for millions of 13.0 2013 projects by region E people. Each initiative is designed to renew community 10000 11.5 11,000 12.5 spaces and improve people’s well-being. Education is also 10.0 8000 10 an important part of the process, both in terms of training 9,000 A Europe 128 D 8,000 people to become painters and teaching children about 6000 7.5 B North America 23 7,000 the value and science of color. By demonstrating our belief C Latin America 15 C 5 through this program, we are also inspiring people to get 4000 D Asia 35 A involved in making their world a better place. 2.5 E Other regions 6 B 2000 1,931 2,108 1,408 1,678 0 During 2013, we donated around 160,000 liters of 0 paint, worth an estimated €420,000. Approximately 2010 2011 2012 2013 750 AkzoNobel employees were involved, volunteering Education Fund roughly 4,000 hours of their time to various “Let’s Colour” The economic slowdown has prompted more focus Focused on young people in developing countries, the programs across the globe. We also trained nearly on projects benefiting deprived, socially disadvantaged Education Fund has supported a wide range of projects 9,000 people as painters. In 2013, we estimate that we groups. For example, involvement in the set up and since its creation in 1994, from investing in school positively impacted the lives of around six million people. running of soup kitchens, shelters and day care centers infrastructure to teacher training and promoting health for the homeless, and vocational training for unemployed and hygiene. Tens of thousands of young people have Community Program youngsters and women, are taking place on a continuous benefited from the projects in countries such as Bolivia, Our Community Program encourages sites and individuals basis in various parts of the world. Brazil, China, Ecuador, India, the Philippines and Vietnam. to take part in projects where our products/resources and More attention is now being paid to supporting vocational the skills and knowledge of employees can benefit the wider The fund is also available to support post-relief efforts for training of deprived youngsters. community. In the past eight years, this has led to a variety major disasters in countries where we operate, as long of projects, from educating underprivileged youngsters to as there is hands-on involvement by our employees. In Over the years, several thousand children aged three to creating more awareness about the impor­tance of a clean 2013, our employees in Bitterfeld, Germany, teamed 16 have directly benefited from the quality pre-school and environment. It also provides opportunities for employees to up to help reconstruct a community center which was primary education that it helps to provide. develop team-building and leadership skills. severely damaged after massive floods. In Morris in the US, disaster supplies were prepared after flooding hit the In addition, a special fundraising campaign staged in 2011 area. These emergency kits, including buckets, coveralls, raised around €140,000, providing approximately 500 gloves, safety glasses and dust masks, were then young people, mainly girls, in Vietnam, India and Brazil 190 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Environment with vocational training opportunities. In 2012, our support Key performance indicators – environment continued to focus on vocational training to help deprived Ambition Ambition Target young people find decent and safe employment which 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015 offers them long-term prospects. Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure 7 11 13 24 20 25 30 (% reduction from 2009) During 2013, the Education Fund supported a project in Sustainable fresh water management 48 74 83 85 80 90 100 Brazil which involved training deprived young people in (% of manufacturing sites) Natal to become stewards for the 2014 football World Greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production 267 256 257 222 – – 245 (own operations, in kg) Cup at the Arena das Dunas stadium. A total of 147 underprivileged youngsters graduated from the program in December 2013. Around 70 percent of the group was This section outlines the environmental impact combines energy, water, waste and air emissions, as well female. and improvements in our own operations. The key as cost elements. Weighting factors for each parameter performance indicators are mentioned in the table above. are used to calculate the absolute footprint. This number Global sponsorship program Many of these improvements are driven through our is used in combination with production volume to calculate Our global sponsorship program focuses on two main operational eco-efficiency (OEE) program. the relative footprint improvement. Between 2009 and areas – developing talent in communities through 2013, we achieved a relative footprint improvement of education initiatives, and supporting heritage, culture Operational eco-efficiency program 24 percent. We are on track to achieve our target of a and the arts and sciences by sharing our expertise. The focus of the OEE agenda is to increase raw material relative footprint improvement of 30 percent by 2015, and Among our most recent agreements are partnerships efficiency, reduce consumption of energy, decrease of 40 percent by 2017, with 2009 as the baseline. with the Rijksmuseum and the Van Gogh Museum in the emissions and production of waste. Improvements Netherlands. Several sponsorships are also ongoing with include many small site contributions, upgrading existing Our OEE performance and trends (the footprint and various other partners, including the Courtauld Institute processes, rationalization of the manufacturing footprint its related parameters) are transparent for the whole of and the McLaren Group in the UK. and application of best available technology for new AkzoNobel via the EcoXchange platform. This platform investments. also provides access to know-how, best practices and showcases on eco-efficiency related topics relevant for all We measure progress on a quarterly basis using the ecolocations. efficiency footprint measure, a company indicator which OEE footprint improvement (% reduction from 2009) Target 30 24 13 11 7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 The OEE footprint is calculated from the weighted average of nine footprint parameters and production volume. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 191 14 Note 14: Energy Energy use • In Stenungsund, Sweden, energy was saved by Our Renewable Energy Supply Strategy has three Energy is important for all our operations, especially some optimizing the distillation section, resulting in a focus areas: protecting our current renewable share, of our Specialty Chemicals businesses, because they use significant reduction of energy, over 10,000 tons less participating in cost effective, large energy ventures, and energy as a major raw material for their products. Energy CO2 and more than €3 million in savings exploring commercially feasible on-site renewable energy efficiency and carbon efficient energy use are therefore • In Ibbenbüren, Germany, a new burner now allows generation. Specific projects in progress include: important metrics for our operations. us to use hydrogen (which was flared) as fuel for the • Investment in wind power in the Nordics as part-owner production of steam, instead of natural gas of the VindIn consortium. Vindln already has 35 wind Energy use in 1000*TJ • In Barcelona, a boiler for hot oil was upgraded with turbines in operation, with many more to come over the Energy use better control and heat recovery, resulting in an energy next couple of years (1,000 GWh targeted annually) GJ per ton production reduction of 15 percent and a cost reduction of €26,000 • A long-term power purchase agreement with the largest • In Arnsberg, an innovative new chiller has reduced and most efficient biomass power plant in the Benelux 250 7.5 energy use for cooling by more than 40 percent, and region costs by €80,000 • A custom-built, two-kilometer long pipeline providing 200 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.6 6 steam from a waste-to-energy plant to AkzoNobel’s salt 150 4.5 Renewable energy site in Hengelo, the Netherlands Renewable energy is an important aspect of the improve­ 100 3 111 ments required to achieve our 2020 strategy carbon 107 106 99 50 1.5 footprint reduction. Our businesses have set themselves ambitious targets to increase the share of renewable 0 0 electricity and heat used in our operations – equivalent to 2010 2011 2012 2013 45 percent renewable energy for AkzoNobel, a substantial Energy use [TJ] is the sum of fuels, electricity, steam, hot water and other utilities increase from the 2012 level of 33 percent. In 2013, (expressed as fuel equivalents). 36 percent of the electricity and 12 percent of the heat used on our sites came from renewable sources. This is • Energy use per ton of production reduced slightly to 5.6 equivalent to 31 percent renewable energy, a drop from GJ/ton. Absolute energy use was down 7 percent to 2012 due to a change in some supply contracts. 99,000 TJ in line with lower production volumes • The total costs of energy used in our production was about €0.6 billion Total energy in % by source E • The indicative monetary value of the energy savings is €20 million A Renewable energy 31 D • Total energy consumption for Specialty Chemicals was A 92,000 TJ; Performance Coatings 5,000 TJ and for B Natural gas 37 Decorative Paints 2,000 TJ C Coal 15 C • More details about the energy sources can be found on D Nuclear 15 our website E Other fossil fuels 2 We use energy scans to identify savings opportunities in B all our Business Areas. During 2013, a series of scans was carried out, and the outcomes are being, or will be, implemented. For example: 192 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 15 Note 15: Greenhouse gas emissions 16 Note 16: Local air quality Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily related to the fuel Air monitoring around our operations is focused on volatile made at many sites, including Gebze, where vapor return and power we use, but also include some CO2, CH4 and organic compounds (VOC) and NOx and SOx emissions. lines were installed, as well as no-spill connections in HFC process emissions. This section reflects the perfor­ We monitor particulates at site level as required. transfer lines from tanker to bulk storage. Focused efforts mance of all our own operations covering the gate-to-gate in the Surface Chemistry business to reduce their VOCs scope. More details on our Carbon Policy and cradle-toVolatile organic compounds (VOC) from operations also proved successful (e.g. in Boxing, Itupeva and grave reporting can be found in Note 5 in this section. VOC emissions from our manufacturing operations Singapore). Continued OEE program activities will keep us may lead to local low-level ozone creation, smog on target to achieve our ambitions. Greenhouse gas emissions in million tons formation and associated health problems for people Direct CO2(e) Mt kg CO2(e) per ton of production in surrounding areas. All our businesses will continue NOx and SOx Indirect CO2(e) Mt to manage VOC emissions from sites, in line with NOx and SOx emissions may have a significant impact on 5 300 national or even supranational (EC) legal requirements. local air quality because of their contribution to acidification. 267 256 257 The VOC reduction focus for our paints and coatings Therefore, these compounds are monitored. 4 222 240 businesses is increasingly concentrating on low/zero 3 180 VOC product design, rather than only controlling VOCs in • SOx emissions (from process emissions and energy) 3.2 3.2 3.2 our operations. Reducing VOC emissions from our sites reduced to 0.26 kg/ton of production. Absolute 2.8 2 120 remains part of the scope of our OEE program, while emissions were down 39 percent at 4.6 kilotons. The 2.0 our Research, Development and Innovation groups are major reason for the reduction was the divestment of 1 1.6 1.5 60 1.1 working on projects to reduce the solvent content of our our Chemicals Pakistan activities and projects in 0 0 products – VOC in product (see Note 4 in this section). LeMoyne in the US. The emissions per ton for our three 2010 2011 2012 2013 sulfur derivatives plants in Germany, the US and Total greenhouse gas emissions made up of direct emissions from processes and VOC emissions per ton of production reduced by 10 Argentina were also down combustion at our facilities and indirect emissions from purchased energy. percent to 0.17 kg/ton. Total VOC emissions reduced to • NOx emissions from our sites were down 26 percent at 3.1 kilotons. This was achieved through improvements 0.08 kg/ton of production. Total emissions were down • Total greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production to 1.3 kilotons. The major reason for the reduction decreased by 14 percent to 222 kg/ton CO2(e). Absolute Volatile organic compounds in kilotons was the divestment of our Chemicals Pakistan GHG emissions came down 17 percent to 3.9 million tons Volatile organic compounds activities and projects in Morris (US) and Boxing (China). of CO2(e). The divestment of Chemicals Pakistan had a kg per ton of production A new incinerator in Mons (NOx reduction over significant positive effect on direct CO2(e). Other positive 50 percent) was started in Q4 and will further reduce contributions came from the use of steam from neigh­boring 7.5 NOx emissions 0.25 waste incineration plants in Hengelo and Delfzijl (the 0.22 Netherlands), with both significantly reducing indirect 6 0.19 0.19 0.20 NOx and SOx emissions 0.17 CO2(e). In Sweden, meanwhile, eight sites contributed by 4.5 0.15 in kilotons 2010 2011 2012 2013 purcha­sing electricity generated with a low carbon footprint 4.3 NOx 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.3 • The combined direct and indirect CO2(e) emissions for 3 3.6 3.6 0.10 3.1 NOx kg/ton 0.10 0.11 0.10 0.08 Specialty Chemicals were 3.5 million tons, Performance 1.5 0.05 SOx 7.1 7.7 7.6 4.6 Coatings 0.3 million tons and for Decorative Paints 0.1 million tons SOx kg/ton 0.36 0.41 0.41 0.26 0 0 • A detailed breakdown of our greenhouse gas emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 Emissions may form acid rain that can lead to acidification. The gases are emissions is available on our website from manufacturing and combustion of fuel that we burn. The total quantity of NOx/ VOC emissions may lead to local low-level ozone creation, smog formation and SOx emissions from manufacturing processes discharged directly to air (e.g. after associated local health issues. We measure halogenated and non-halogenated any abatement process) and the quantity of NOx/SOx emissions calculated from the organic compounds discharged to air. use of fuels. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 193 17 Note 17: Raw materials efficiency Ozone depleting substances Waste Total waste in kilotons Emissions of ozone depleting substances are at a very low Effective waste management helps to increase raw Reusable Total kg per ton of production level – 2.9 tons (2012: 1.75 tons). They are mainly due to materials efficiency in our manufacturing operations while Non-reusable Freon22 from maintenance in older air conditioning and reducing both our environmental footprint and costs. Our cooling units, which are replaced when appropriate. focus is on reducing total waste and eliminating hazardous 250 15 waste to landfill. The exception is asbestos waste – mainly 13.1 200 11.6 from demolishing old equipment and buildings – where the 11.0 12 preferred current safe disposal route is properly designed 150 9.0 9 landfill facilities. 155 100 121 6 118 • Total waste per ton of production generated and leaving 103 96 96 50 85 3 our sites was down 18 percent to 9.0 kg/ton. The total 65 waste volume fell to 161 kilotons, a decrease of 21 0 0 percent. The indicative monetary value of the total waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 reduction is €16 million Waste means any substance or object arising from our routine operations which we discard or intend to discard, or we are required to discard. Reusable waste is waste • The total waste for Specialty Chemicals was 64 kilotons, which is used e.g. for resource recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct re-use or Performance Coatings 54 kilotons and for Decorative alternative uses e.g. composting. All other waste is non-reusable waste. Paints 39 kilotons, while non-Business Area related totaled 4 kilotons • Non-reusable waste was reduced to 65 kilotons. The Hazardous waste in kilotons amount of non-reusable waste per ton of production Reusable Total kg per ton of production generated and leaving our sites was down 21 percent to Non-reuseable not landfill Non-reuseable to landfill 3.6 kg/ton. This reduction was achieved by implemen­ ting projects in our OEE program, and an increased focus on waste at many of our sites. Examples include 50 3.9 3.8 3.8 4.0 51 3.5 collaborating with suppliers to re-use packaging 48 40 45 44 3.2 materials at Suzhou in China, and working with a supplier in the US to use our own reconditioned drums 30 2.4 • Our program for waste prevention through alternative 20 1.6 outlets for obsolete paint materials is proving successful. 24 23 Around 11,000 tons of obsolete materials have been 18 10 15 0.8 sold as by-product, which is being used as raw material 4.7 3.0 2.7 1.9 0 0 for paint. This material would otherwise have been 2010 2011 2012 2013 dis­carded as waste. Sustainable outlets have also been found for other by-product streams, such as alpha Hazardous waste is waste that is classified and regulated as such according to the national, state or local legislation in place. cellulose to the paper industry and powder coating fines, which are also being used as raw material for paint • Hazardous waste per ton of production reduced to 3.5 kg/ton • The non-reusable hazardous waste to landfill was down 29 percent to 1.9 kilotons 194 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 18 Note 18: Water Fresh water availability • 85 percent of our sites (2012: 83 percent) have Water emissions Sustainable water supply is essential to life – and to sustainable fresh water management in place, as Reductions in COD in effluent are being achieved across the sustainability of our business. We rely on water measured by the AkzoNobel fresh water management the company. for raw materials production, product formulation and risk assessment tool • The COD load to surface water per ton of production manufacturing, as well as power generation, cooling, • Fresh water use per ton of production is down to reduced to 0.08 kg/ton (2012: 0.09 kg/ton) cleaning, transporting and for the effective use of some 14.9 m³/ton (2012: 15.3 m³/ton) • The total COD load to surface water was down 10 products. Around 88 percent of our fresh water intake is • Total fresh water use was 265 million m³, a decrease of percent to 1.4 kilotons (2012: 1.6 kilotons) from surface water and 88 percent of our intake is used 6 percent (2012: 283 million m³) for cooling and is only slightly heated. In addition to the Chemical oxygen demand (COD) in kilotons intake of fresh water, the emission of contaminated water Fresh water use in million m3 Chemical oxygen demand from our sites to surface waters may negatively impact Fresh water consumption 6 kg per ton of production 0.20 fresh water resources and eco-systems. We continue to m3 per ton of production reduce the chemical oxygen demand (COD) of our effluent 4.8 0.16 to surface water. 500 20 3.6 0.12 0.10 0.10 0.09 400 15.7 15.6 15.3 16 0.08 We monitor our progress using a fresh water risk assess­ 14.9 2.4 0.08 ment tool, which is completed at least bi-annually by each 300 12 1.2 1.9 1.8 0.04 manufacturing site. The tool assigns risk levels to water 309 291 1.6 1.4 283 sources, supply reliability, efficiency, quality of discharges, 200 265 8 0 0 compliance and social competitive factors. Sustainable 100 4 2010 2011 2012 2013 fresh water management is defined as a low risk score in COD is the amount of oxygen required for the chemical oxidation of substances in the 0 waste water effluent that is discharged into surface waters. all categories. In 2013, the assessment was carried out, 0 and the major risk identified was sourcing water in water 2010 2011 2012 2013 scarce areas. Fresh water use is the sum of the intake of ground water, surface water and potable water. Sustainable fresh water management in % of manufacturing sites Target 100 83 85 74 48 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 Sustainable fresh water management is defined as a low risk score in all categories in the AkzoNobel sustainable fresh water assessment tool: water sources, supply reliability, efficiency, quality of discharges, compliance and social competitive factors. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 195 19 Note 19: Soil and groundwater remediation Soil and groundwater remediation There are substantial costs associated with the assess­ ment and remediation of historical soil and groundwater contamination. We periodically review contamination at our sites, taking remedial action when required, and have procedures to prevent new contamination. In line with IFRS accounting rules, we make provisions for environmental remediation costs when it is probable that liability will materialize and the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have set aside €329 million, which we believe is sufficient for the sites where we have ownership or responsibility (see also Note 16 of the Financial statements). 196 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Independent assurance report To the readers of the AkzoNobel Report 2013 Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the evaluate the implementation, and test the operating International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. effectiveness of controls at local level in respect of the We were engaged by the Board of Management of Akzo This standard requires, among others, that the assurance information in Managing our sustainability agenda Nobel N.V. (further AkzoNobel) to provide assurance on team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and the sustainability information in the AkzoNobel Report professional competencies needed to provide assurance Additionally we determined, as far as possible, whether the 2013 (further the Report). The Board of Management on sustainability information, and that they comply with information concerning sustainability in the other sections of AkzoNobel is responsible for the preparation of The the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional of the Report is consistent with the information in scope Report, including the identification of material issues. Our Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants for assurance. responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on the to ensure their independence. engagement outlined below. During the assurance process we discussed the necessary Work undertaken changes in the Sustainability statements and in the Scope Our procedures for limited assurance included: Compliance and integrity management chapter and Our assurance engagement was designed to provide: • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify reviewed the final version of the Report to ensure that it • Limited assurance on whether the information in the relevant sustainability issues for AkzoNobel in the reflects our findings. Sustainability statements section (further Sustainability reporting period statements) and in the Compliance and integrity • Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting criteria Conclusion and opinion management chapter (pages 97 to 100) (further including conversion factors used Based on our procedures for limited assurance, nothing Compliance and integrity management chapter) of the • Evaluating the design and implementation of the has come to our attention to indicate that the information Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in systems and processes for the collection, processing in the Sustainability statements and in the Compliance and accordance with the reporting criteria and control of the information in scope for limited integrity management chapter is not fairly presented, in all • Reasonable assurance on whether the information assurance, including the consolidation of the data material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. in Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda of • Interviewing management at corporate and business the Sustainability statements of the Report (further level responsible for the sustainability and compliance In our opinion, the information in Managing our Managing our sustainability agenda) is presented, in and integrity policies, implementation, management, sustainability agenda is presented, in all material respects, all material respects, in accordance with the reporting internal controls, monitoring and reporting in accordance with the reporting criteria. We also report, criteria as defined by AkzoNobel • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business to the extent we can assess, that the information on level responsible for providing the information and sustainability in the rest of the Report is consistent with We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of consolidating the data for the Sustainability statements the information in the Sustainability statements and in the the objectives, targets and expectations of AkzoNobel. and Compliance and integrity management chapter Compliance and integrity management chapter. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of • Evaluating internal and external documentation, based assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility on sampling, to determine whether the information in Amsterdam, February 19, 2014 of information and are less extensive than those for a the Sustainability statements is supported by sufficient KPMG Sustainability, reasonable level of assurance. evidence Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. • Joining an audit of HSE (Health, Safety, and Environ­ Reporting criteria and assurance standard ment) management at the Functional Chemicals site in W.J. Bartels RA, Partner AkzoNobel applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Cologne, Germany ( 3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative supported by • Reviewing the relevant work of Internal Audit function internally developed guidelines as described in the Reporting principles section. It is important to view the Our additional procedures for reasonable assurance performance data in the context of these criteria. included: • Testing the relevant work of Internal Audit function in We conducted our engagement in accordance with the respect of the information in Managing our sustainability Dutch Standard 3410N: Assurance engagements relating agenda to sustainability reports, which is a specific part of the • Joining the sustainability assessment questionnaire International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE review at Decorative Paints in Sassenheim, the 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Netherlands, together with the Internal Audit team to AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Sustainability statements 197 Summaries Financial summary 200 Sustainability performance summary 204 Index 207 Glossary 208 Financial calendar 210 Summaries Financial summary Consolidated statement of income In € millions 2004 2005 1 2006 2007 2008 2 2009 2010 2011 5 2012 6 2013 Revenue 12,833 13,000 10,023 10,217 15,415 13,028 14,640 14,604 15,390 14,590 Operating income 1,588 1,492 887 778 (577) 855 1,219 1,145 (1,198) 958 Financing income and expenses (205) (162) (134) (151) (232) (405) (327) (336) (205) (200) Income tax (412) (338) (96) (166) (260) (141) (170) (233) (203) (111) Results from associates and joint ventures 10 6 87 (20) 25 21 25 24 13 14 Profit for the period from continuing operations 981 998 744 441 (1,044) 330 747 600 (1,593) 661 Minority interests attributable to minority shareholders (36) (37) (29) (31) (65) (77) (83) (64) (63) (68) Discontinued operations – – 438 9 23 32 90 (59) (436) 131 Net income, attributable to shareholders 945 961 1,153 419 (1,086) 285 754 477 (2,092) 724 Common shares, in millions at year-end 285.8 285.8 287.0 262.3 231.7 232.3 233.5 234.7 239.0 242.6 Dividend 343 343 344 472 417 325 320 304 214 210 Number of employees at year-end 61,400 61,300 42,700 42,600 60,000 54,700 55,600 52,020 50,610 49,560 Average number of employees 63,600 61,400 61,900 42,600 61,300 56,300 55,100 51,100 52,200 50,200 Employee benefits 3,216 3,221 2,158 2,215 3,022 2,955 2,980 2,765 3,018 2,950 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 202 212 162 240 251 231 266 286 295 291 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) 25 24 14 18 (9) 15 22 22 (23) 19 Ratios ROS% 12.4 11.5 8.8 7.6 –3 6.6 8.3 7.8 –3 6.6 ROI% 20.8 19.4 16.3 14.6 – 3 7.3 9.6 9.1 –3 9.6 Net income in % of shareholders’ equity 40.6 32.0 30.5 122.9 –3 3.7 8.4 5.2 –3 12.9 Employee benefits in % of revenue 25.1 24.8 21.5 21.7 19.6 22.7 20.4 18.9 19.6 20.2 Interest coverage 4 7.7 9.2 6.6 5.2 –3 2.1 6.4 4.7 –3 5.1 Per share information (in €) Net income 3.31 3.36 4.02 33.82 (4.38) 1.23 3.23 2.04 (8.82) 3.00 Adjusted earnings per share 2.06 3.71 3.10 2.55 2.62 Shareholders’ equity 9.12 11.95 14.44 42.06 32.21 33.47 38.48 39.25 24.12 23.06 Highest share price during the year 33.79 40.18 49.41 65.56 57.11 46.52 47.70 53.74 49.98 56.49 Lowest share price during the year 24.87 30.82 38.30 44.41 22.85 26.01 37.18 29.25 34.85 42.47 Year-end share price 31.38 39.15 46.18 54.79 29.44 46.40 46.49 37.36 49.75 56.34 1 The 2004–2005 figures have not been restated for the Organon BioSciences divestment. 2 Continuing operations from ICI are included as from 2008. The 2008 figures have not been restated for the National Starch divestment. 3 Not meaningful as operating income and net income were losses. 4 Until 2009: operating income divided by net financing expenses, as from 2010: operating income divided by net interest on net debt. 5 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 6 Restated for the revised IAS19. 200 Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Consolidated balance sheet In € millions 2004 2005 1 2006 2007 2008 2 2009 2010 2011 3 2012 4 2013 Intangible assets 448 488 682 669 7,172 7,388 7,308 7,392 4,454 3,906 Property, plant and equipment 3,535 3,432 3,346 2,203 3,357 3,474 3,384 3,705 3,739 3,589 Financial non-current assets 1,418 1,800 1,706 1,402 1,848 1,783 1,977 2,664 2,628 2,219 Total non-current assets 5,401 5,720 5,734 4,274 12,377 12,645 12,669 13,761 10,821 9,714 Inventories 1,978 1,987 2,042 1,177 1,781 1,441 1,678 1,924 1,545 1,426 Receivables 2,761 2,910 2,919 2,164 2,977 2,666 2,896 3,035 2,789 2,622 Cash and cash equivalents 1,811 1,486 1,871 11,628 1,595 2,128 2,851 1,635 1,752 2,098 Assets held for sale – 322 219 – 4 – – – 921 203 Total current assets 6,550 6,705 7,051 14,969 6,357 6,235 7,425 6,594 7,007 6,349 Shareholders’ equity 2,605 3,415 4,144 11,032 7,463 7,775 8,984 9,031 5,764 5,594 Minority interests 140 161 119 97 450 470 525 529 464 427 Total equity 2,745 3,576 4,263 11,129 7,913 8,245 9,509 9,560 6,228 6,021 Provisions 2,877 2,210 2,132 1,598 2,072 1,919 1,855 2,392 2,677 1,938 Long-term borrowings 2,392 2,702 2,551 1,954 2,341 3,641 2,880 3,035 3,388 2,666 Other non-current liabilities 200 183 181 133 715 674 589 541 434 389 Total non-current liabilities 5,469 5,095 4,864 3,685 5,128 6,234 5,324 5,968 6,499 4,993 Short-term borrowings 560 357 410 1,635 1,338 384 907 494 662 961 Current liabilities 2,677 2,571 2,652 2,276 3,510 3,220 3,761 3,782 3,632 3,438 Current portion of provisions 500 766 571 518 845 797 593 551 455 601 Liabilities held for sale – 60 25 – – – – – 352 49 Total current liabilities 3,737 3,754 3,658 4,429 5,693 4,401 5,261 4,827 5,101 5,049 Average invested capital 5 7,631 7,576 8,034 6,629 9,311 12,578 11,467 11,537 11,817 10,007 Capital expenditures 551 514 371 359 534 513 534 658 826 666 Depreciation 540 528 349 330 453 424 435 419 463 472 OWC 2,359 1,691 2,016 1,891 1,572 1,384 Ratios Equity/non-current assets 0.51 0.62 0.74 2.60 0.64 0.65 0.75 0.73 0.58 0.62 Inventories and receivables/current liabilities 1.77 1.90 1.87 1.47 1.36 1.28 1.22 1.31 1.19 1.18 Operating working capital as % of revenue 16.5 13.7 13.9 13.2 10.7 9.9 The 2004–2005 figures have not been restated for the Organon BioSciences divestment. 1  Continuing operations from ICI are included as from 2008. The 2008 figures have not been restated for the National Starch divestment. 2  3  Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 4 Restated  for the revised IAS19. 5 Restated  to current definition from 2011. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Summaries 201 Business Area statistics In € millions 2008 2009 1 2010 2011 2 2012 2013 Decorative Paints Revenue 5,006 4,573 4,968 4,201 4,297 4,174 Operating income (669) 133 275 235 (2,012) 398 ROS% (excluding goodwill impairment) 3.5 2.9 5.5 5.6 2.2 9.5 Average invested capital 3 6,515 6,169 4,908 5,032 4,701 2,896 ROI% (excluding goodwill impairment) 2.7 2.2 5.6 4.7 2.0 13.7 Capital expenditures 120 112 154 155 206 171 Average number of employees 24,600 22,900 21,800 17,100 17,200 16,800 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 203 200 228 246 250 248 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) (27) 6 13 14 (117) 24 Performance Coatings Revenue 4,575 4,112 4,786 5,170 5,702 5,571 Operating income 444 433 487 458 542 525 ROS% 9.7 10.5 10.2 8.9 9.5 9.4 Average invested capital 3 2,010 1,868 2,063 2,267 2,499 2,463 ROI% 22.1 23.2 23.6 20.2 21.7 21.3 Capital expenditures 89 61 87 116 123 143 Average number of employees 21,000 20,200 20,600 21,300 21,700 21,300 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 218 204 232 243 263 262 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) 21 21 24 22 25 25 Specialty Chemicals Revenue 5,687 4,359 4,943 5,335 5,543 4,949 Operating income 130 422 604 622 500 297 ROS% 2.3 9.7 12.2 11.7 9.0 6.0 Average invested capital 3 3,797 3,435 3,464 3,406 3,678 3,609 ROI% 3.4 12.3 17.4 18.3 13.6 8.2 Capital expenditures 305 319 273 365 484 346 Average number of employees 12,900 11,400 11,100 11,300 11,800 10,600 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 441 382 445 472 470 467 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) 11 37 54 55 42 28 1 Restated for transferred businesses and excluding National Starch, divested in 2010. 2 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 3 From 2010 restated to current definition. 202 Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Regional statistics In € millions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 1 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The Netherlands Other European countries China Revenue by destination 792 803 694 745 765 3,095 3,398 3,702 3,647 3,531 997 1,249 1,376 1,621 1,643 Revenue by origin 1284 1,537 1,646 1,601 1,600 2,211 2,336 2,459 2,400 2,330 929 1,177 1,361 1,699 1,690 Capital expenditures 104 84 144 110 94 69 83 98 85 66 143 147 96 135 104 Average invested capital 1,748 1,390 1,384 1,326 1,175 2,390 2,518 2,641 2,127 1,406 817 862 1,089 1,295 1,330 Number of employees 2 4,800 5,000 5,200 5,200 5,300 9,400 9,100 8,900 8,500 8,000 6,100 6,700 7,400 7,700 7,400 Germany US and Canada India Revenue by destination 1,088 1,160 1,284 1,258 1,176 2,600 2,954 2,092 2,294 2,155 249 332 359 371 353 Revenue by origin 1,089 1,096 1,228 1,219 1,143 2,712 3,074 2,222 2,413 2,287 200 251 283 288 270 Capital expenditures 19 22 31 69 87 55 63 67 70 62 6 17 18 16 17 Average invested capital 1,035 949 945 861 736 2,902 2,131 1,722 1,742 1,739 141 140 130 122 119 Number of employees 2 3,700 3,500 3,800 3,600 3,100 10,100 10,300 5,100 5,100 5,000 1,400 1,600 1,700 1,800 1,900 Sweden Brazil Other Asian countries Revenue by destination 423 468 515 486 473 732 844 949 987 925 1,336 1,448 1,559 1,716 1,380 Revenue by origin 1,284 1,475 1,481 1,505 1,411 715 815 903 909 851 1,189 1,263 1,344 1,491 1,193 Capital expenditures 37 19 54 70 38 25 23 54 123 70 21 31 46 55 23 Average invested capital 509 502 551 539 471 714 753 704 621 558 680 548 656 605 493 Number of employees 2 3,500 3,400 3,300 3,200 3,000 2,800 2,700 2,800 2,900 2,900 5,400 5,600 6,100 5,000 5,200 UK Other Latin American countries Other regions Revenue by destination 768 798 841 901 887 415 550 566 636 628 533 636 667 728 674 Revenue by origin 830 854 879 967 948 244 353 379 435 431 341 409 419 463 436 Capital expenditures 22 28 27 68 74 5 7 12 16 13 7 10 11 9 18 Average invested capital 1,443 1,531 1,512 1,433 1,314 58 67 153 163 155 144 168 218 210 178 Number of employees 2 3,800 3,900 3,900 3,800 3,700 1,500 1,600 1,700 1,700 1,600 2,200 2,200 2,100 2,100 2,500 1 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 2 At year-end. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Summaries 203 Sustainability performance summary Economic/Governance/Social Target Target Area 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2020 Product Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits % of revenue 17 18 – 20 Eco-premium solutions % of revenue 18 21 22 22 24 30 – Business integrity Code of Conduct alleged complaints handled by the Compliance Committee number 19 23 24 24 9 – – Code of Conduct trained % employees 95 95 95 96 95 – – Health and Safety Fatalities employees number 0 1 2 2 0 0 0 Total reportable injury rate employees/supervised contractors /million hours 3.7 3.6 3.1 2.4 2.3 <2.0 <1.0 Lost time injury rate employees/supervised contractors /million hours 1.5 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.3 1.3 – Occupational illness rate employees /million hours 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 – – Total illness absence rate employees % of sites 2.0 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.1 1.9 – Fatalities contractors (supervised plus independent) number 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 Total reportable injury rate independent contractors /million hours 2.8 3.0 3.5 4.2 3.5 – – Manufacturing sites with behavior-based safety program % 72 76 76 96 100 – Distribution incidents number 52 91 80 46 48 – – Motor vehicle incidents with injury number 31 34 29 28 19 – – Employees Employee numbers (FTE) number 54,700 55,600 57,240 55,272 49,561 – – Female executives % 10 12 13 15 16 20 – Executives from high growth markets % 11 12 13 13 14 20 – Online P&D Dialog participation % 72 76 78 84 85 95 – Employee engagement index 1 1-5 scale 80 3.56 3.74 3.8 3.88 >4 – Community Program investment in € millions 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.0 – – Reliable operations Management audits plus reassurance audits number 66 61 66 61 56 – – Safety incidents (Level 3) number 9 10 8 3 0 0 0 Safety incidents (Level 1, 2, 3) number 33 32 36 23 14 – – Significant loss of containment (Level D) number 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 Regulatory actions (Level 3) number 3 4 0 3 8 0 0 Sourcing Critical PR spend covered by supplier management framework % of spend – – – 69 80 90 – Product related suppliers signed Vendor Policy % of spend 85 91 95 97 96 96 – NPR suppliers signed Vendor Policy % of spend – – 77 80 83 80 – Suppliers on SSV program since 2007 2 number 185 266 304 373 392 – – Renewable raw materials % organic RM – – – 13 13 – – 204 Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Environmental Target Target Area 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2020 Raw material efficiency Total waste kiloton 249 258 217 203 161 – – per ton of production kg/ton 14.7 13.1 11.6 11.0 9.0 10.0 – Total non-reusable waste kiloton 89 103 96 85 65 – – per ton of production kg/ton 5.2 5.3 5.1 4.6 3.6 – – Hazardous waste total kiloton 71 77 71 71 62 – – per ton of production kg/ton 4.2 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.5 – – Hazardous waste non-reusable kiloton 30 29 26 20 17 – – per ton of production kg/ton 1.8 1.5 1.4 1.1 1.0 – – Hazardous waste to landfill kiloton 4.9 4.7 3.0 2.7 1.9 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.29 0.24 0.16 0.15 0.11 – – Maintain natural resources/fresh air Fresh water use million m3 270 309 291 283 265 – – per ton of production m3/ton 15.8 15.7 15.6 15.3 14.9 – – COD emissions kiloton 2.5 1.9 1.8 1.6 1.4 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.15 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.08 – – Manufacturing sites with sustainable fresh water % 38 48 74 83 85 100 – VOC emissions kiloton 4.2 4.3 3.6 3.6 3.1 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.25 0.22 0.19 0.19 0.17 0.19 – NOx emissions kiloton 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.3 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.12 0.10 0.11 0.10 0.08 – – SOx emissions kiloton 6.2 7.1 7.7 7.6 4.6 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.37 0.36 0.41 0.41 0.26 – – Direct CO2(e) emissions (Scope 1) million tons 1.9 2.0 1.6 1.5 1.1 – – per ton of production kg/ton 110 102 85 82 64 -10% – Indirect CO2(e) emissions (Scope 2) million tons 2.8 3.2 3.2 3.2 2.8 – – per ton of production kg/ton 162 165 171 175 158 -10% – Total energy consumption 1000TJ 97 111 107 106 99 – – per ton of production GJ/ton 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.6 – – Value chain Total CO2(e) emissions (cradle-to-grave) 3 million tons – – – 27.5 26.5 – – per ton of product 3 ton/ton – – – 1.7 1.6 – -25–30% Total CO2(e) emissions (cradle-to-gate) 4 million tons 14.6 15.9 16.1 15.9 – – – per ton of product 4 kg/ton 980 960 950 950 – -10% – 1  rom 2010 employee survey changed from % favorable to Gallup Q12 GrandMean: average of mean scores for each question (out of five). F 2 SVV program targets are included in the new critical PR spend coverage KPI. 3 Reported from 2012. Includes impact from VOC emissions. 4 Reported up to 2012. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Summaries 205 Driving improvements for customers Primers play an essential role in a wide variety of different coating applications, especially when striving for the perfect finish on a multi-layer coating system. This is particularly relevant in the automotive industry, where environmental considerations and cost efficiency are just as important as product quality. Our Powder Coatings business has long been a major supplier of products used on vehicles produced by many of the world’s biggest auto manufacturers, all of whom have strict specifications and are continually looking to make improvements in all parts of the production process. In an effort to help our customers increase productivity and cut energy use, we developed a new low cure technology to supply the global wheel market. The new Interpon primer is capable of reducing the curing window dramatically. Up until now, the window for standard systems has been between 170°C (20 minutes) and 200°C (10 minutes). The latest Interpon product reduces this to 15 minutes at 150°C or ten minutes at 170°C, allowing our customers to reduce their oven steeling or increase their line speed to boost productivity. Already approved by the automotive industry in the EU, the new primer system was developed by our coatings experts in Arnsberg, Germany, where the product is now being manufactured to the highest quality standards to supply the global market. With no VOCs, less waste and reduced energy usage during application, powder coatings have become an attractive proposition in many of our end-user segments, with the transportation industry beginning to show an increasing interest. Index Audit Committee 83 Employees 186 Profit allocation 161 Auditor’s report 160 End-user segments 9 Property, plant and equipment 133 Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 56 Executive Committee 74 Provisions 144 Board of Management 74 Financial calendar 210 Pulp and Performance Chemicals 69 Borrowings 144 Financial instruments 152 Raw materials 194 Business Area statistics 202 Functional Chemicals 68 Regional statistics 203 Business performance 31 Glossary 208 Remuneration 101 Carbon Policy 174 Health and Safety 181 Remuneration Committee 85 Cash and cash equivalents 136 History 211 Report of the Supervisory Board 81 Chairman’s statement 6 How we create value Cover flap Resource Efficiency Index 33 Code of Conduct 97 Industrial Chemicals 68 Return on investment 32 Community Program 189 Industrial Coatings 57 Return on sales 32 Company financial statements 155 Innovation 18 Risk management 22 Consolidated balance sheet 113 Intangible assets 131 Segment information 116 Consolidated statement of cash flows 114 Integrated supply chain 176 Shareholders’ equity 156 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 115 Internal controls 76 Specialty Chemicals 60 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 112 Invested capital 35 Strategic targets 32 Consolidated statement of income 112 Let’s Colour 189 Strategy 5 Contingent liabilities and commitments 146 Marine and Protective Coatings 56 Supervisory Board 79 Continuous improvement 18 Net debt and cash flows 35 Surface Chemistry 69 Core principles and values 19 Nomination Committee 85 Sustainability statements 163 Corporate governance 88 Operating income 35, 126 Sustainability framework 165 Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 33 Outlook 36 Talent management 18, 187 Decorative Paints 38 Pensions 138 Ten-year financial summary 200 Divestments 34 Performance Coatings 48 Waste 194 Dividend proposal 107 Performance improvement program 35 Earnings per share 112 Planet Possible 14 Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits 33 Powder Coatings 57 Emissions 193 Product stewardship 183 AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Summaries 207 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Eco-efficiency Invested capital Basic earnings per share from continuing operations Eco-efficiency means doing more with less; creating goods Total assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents, excluding incidentals in operating income, amortization and services while using fewer resources and creating less investments in a­ ssociates, the receivable from pension of intangible assets and tax on these adjustments. waste and pollution. funds in an asset position, assets/liabilities held for sale) less current i­ncome tax payable, deferred tax liabilities and trade BBS Eco-premium solutions and other payables. Behavior-based safety. A global program run at AkzoNobel A measure of the eco-efficiency of our products. An manufacturing facilities and other sites. eco-premium solution is significantly better than competing Key value chain (KVC) offers in the market in at least one eco-efficiency criterion Used to map the carbon footprint of our businesses. Key Carbon footprint (toxicity, energy use, use of natural resources/raw materials, value chains are product groupings with similar footprint The carbon footprint of a product or organization is the total emissions and waste, land use, risks, health and well-being), characteristics, which are representative of the majority of amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during and not significantly worse in any other criteria. total business unit revenue/production. a defined period, or across the total or part of a product lifecycle. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits LCA dioxide equivalents CO2(e) emitted. Provide tangible material or energy efficiency benefits for our Lifecycle assessments are the basis of our value chain customers, compared with competitive products. sustainability programs. Eco-efficiency analysis (EEA) is our Code of Conduct standard assessment method. Our Code of Conduct defines our company values and how EMEA we work. It incorporates fundamental principles on issues Europe, Middle East and Africa. Loss of containment such as business integrity, labor relations, health, safety, A loss of containment is an unplanned release of material, environment and security and community involvement. Emerging Europe product, raw material or energy to the environment Central and Eastern Europe (excluding Austria), Baltic States (including those resulting from human error). Loss of Community Program and Turkey. containment incidents are divided into four categories, AkzoNobel’s global Community Program encourages and dependent on severity, from small, on-site spill up to gives financial support for employees to get involved, handsEmissions and waste Level D – a significant escape. on, in their local communities. We report emissions to air, land and water for those substances which may have an impact on people or the Mature markets Comprehensive income environment: CO2, NOx and SOx, VOCs, chemical oxygen Mature markets comprise of Western Europe, the US, The change in equity during a period resulting from demand, hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Definitions Canada, Japan and Oceania. transactions and other events, other than those changes are in the Sustainability statements section. resulting from transactions with shareholders in their Natural resource use capacity as shareholders. GHG We do not report specific natural resource use, except Greenhouse gases, including CO2, CO, CH4, N2O and HFCs, water. We do report our use of energy and waste from Earnings per share which have a global warming impact. We also include the our operations, and indicate the main raw materials used Net income attributable to shareholders divided by the impact of VOCs in our targets. in our products. weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. HSE Net debt Health, safety and environment. Defined as long-term borrowings plus short-term EBITDA borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Operating income before depreciation, amortization and incidental items. 208 Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2013 Operating income ROS% (return on sales) VOC Operating income is defined in accordance with IFRS This is a key profitability measure and is calculated as Volatile organic compounds. and includes the relevant incidental charges. operating income divided by revenue. For 2012, we excluded the goodwill impairment from operating income. Operational cash flow We use operational cash flow to monitor cash generation. It Safety incident is defined as operating income excluding depreciation and We have defined three levels of safety incidents. The highest amortization, less capital expenditures. category – Level 3 – involves any loss of life; more than five severe injuries; environmental, asset or business damage Operational eco-efficiency totaling more than €25 million; inability to maintain business; Refers to the eco-efficiency of our manufacturing operations. or serious reputation damage to AkzoNobel stakeholders. Our aim is to improve operational eco-efficiency by reducing the resources used and emissions/waste from our sites Shareholders’ equity per share during the manufacture of our products. Akzo Nobel N.V. shareholders’ equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding at year-end. P&D Dialog The Performance & Development Dialog (P&D Dialog) is RobecoSAM assessment AkzoNobel’s global performance and appraisal system Assesses the sustainability performance of companies for employees. selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). The DJSI tracks the performance of the global sustainability RD&I leaders. The index comprises the top 10 percent in each Research, Development and Innovation. sector for the 2,500 largest companies. Regulatory action Total reportable rate of injuries (TRR) We have defined three categories of regulatory action, The number of injuries per million hours worked. Full from self-reported issues (Level 1) to formal legal definitions are in the Sustainability statements. notifications with fines above €10,000 (Level 3). TSR (total shareholder return) REI Used to compare the performance of different companies’ Resource Efficiency Index is gross profit divided by cradlestocks and shares over time. It combines share price to-grave carbon footprint. The index measures value created appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return from use of raw materials and energy. to the shareholder. The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to a ROI% (return on investment) reference group. This is a key profitability measure and is calculated as operating income divided by average invested capital. For 2012, Vendor policy/SSV we excluded the goodwill impairment from operating income. Vendor policy, Supplier Support Visits, Key Supplier Management and Together for Sustainable are all elements of our supplier sustainability program. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Summaries 209 Financial calendar April 17 April 29 May 2 2014 Report for the Annual General Ex-dividend date of first quarter Meeting of 2013 final dividend shareholders May 6 May 7 – May 22 May 23 May 28 Record date of 2013 Election period cash Determination of Payment date cash final dividend or stock final dividend exchange ratio dividend and delivery of new shares July 23 October 21 February 12 Report for the Report for the 2015 Report for the year 2014 and the second quarter third quarter fourth quarter 210 Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2013 A brief timeline 2013 New strategy launched focused on leading market positions delivering leading performance 2008 Akzo Nobel acquired ICI and changed its name to AkzoNobel 1969 1998 UK company Courtaulds, whose Akzo formed following the merger of products include hi-tech industrial Dutch companies AKU and KZO coatings, acquired by Akzo Nobel 1871 1895 Alfred Nobel founded Elektrokemiska Aktiebolaget, KemaNobel established in Sweden. Later, known as Eka. Today, Eka is part of our Pulp and in 1984, KemaNobel merged with Bofors Performance Chemicals business to form Nobel Industries, which in turn was acquired by Akzo in 1994 to create Akzo Nobel More than 350 years of history and innovation We’ve been at the forefront of cutting-edge innovation and have been supplying trusted brands and products for over three centuries. 1646 The name AkzoNobel hasn’t been around as long as that, only since the late 20th century in fact, but the history of our company can be Bofors forge founded in Sweden traced all the way back to 1646. And it’s a heritage we’re extremely proud of, not least because one of our founding fathers was Alfred Nobel (pictured), of Nobel Prize fame. His industrial legacy became part of Nobel Industries in Sweden, which merged with Dutch company Akzo in 1994 to create Akzo Nobel. Then, following the acquisition of ICI in 2008, a major rebranding resulted in a subtle change to the AkzoNobel name we use today. It’s been an exciting journey, full of pioneering developments and breakthrough research. And it’s a journey which is entering a new age of discovery as we continue to introduce revolutionary and sustainable technologies to meet the growing demands of our fast-changing world. AkzoNobel Report 2013 | Summaries 211 Disclaimer Integrated Report 2013 Design In this Report 2013, great care has been taken in drawing up AkzoNobel’s annual financial report has been combined with Claire Jean Engelmann, Amsterdam the properties and qualifications of the product features. No the sustainability report into one Report 2013. The Report AkzoNobel Corporate Communications rights can be derived from these descriptions. The reader is 2013 includes elements of the reporting guidelines issued advised to consult the available product specifications themby the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Photography selves. These are available through the relevant business units. The sustainability sections, however, in no way form part of Simone van Es In this publication the terms “AkzoNobel” and “the company” the company’s annual report as the company is required to Additional photography supplied by refer to Akzo Nobel N.V. and its consolidated companies in publish pursuant to Dutch law. AkzoNobel businesses general. The company is a holding company registered in the Netherlands. Business activities are conducted by operating Brands and trademarks We welcome feedback on our Report. subsidiaries throughout the world. The terms “we”, “our” and In this Report 2013, reference is made to brands and tradeYou can contact us as follows: “us” are used to describe the company; where they are used marks owned by, or licensed to, AkzoNobel. Unauthorized in the chapter “Business performance”, they refer to the busiuse of these is strictly prohibited. Akzo Nobel N.V. ness concerned. Strawinskylaan 2555 P.O. Box 75730 Safe harbor statement 1070 AS Amsterdam, the Netherlands This Report 2013 contains statements which address such T +31 20 502 7555 key issues as AkzoNobel’s growth strategy, future financial F +31 20 502 7666 results, market positions, product development, products in www.akzonobel.com the pipeline and product approvals. Such statements should be carefully considered and it should be understood that AkzoNobel Corporate Communications many factors could cause forecasted and actual results to T +31 20 502 7833 differ from these statements. These factors include, but are F +31 20 502 7604 not limited to, price fluctuations, currency fluctuations, develE info@akzonobel.com opments in raw material and personnel costs, pensions, physical and environmental risks, legal issues, and legislaAkzoNobel Investor Relations tive, fiscal and other regulatory measures. Stated competitive T +31 20 502 7854 positions are based on management estimates supported by F +31 20 502 7605 information provided by specialized external agencies. E investor.relations@akzonobel.com Printing Tesink B.V., Zutphen, the Netherlands Paper Heaven 42, printed with bio-ink www.akzonobel.com AkzoNobel is a leading global paints and coatings company and a major producer of specialty chemicals. We supply industries and consumers worldwide with innovative products and are passionate about developing sustainable answers for our customers. Our portfolio includes well-known brands such as Dulux, Sikkens, International and Eka. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, we are consistently ranked as one of the leaders in the area of sustainability. With operations in more than 80 countries, our 50,000 people AN_200220_210214 around the world are committed to delivering leading products and technologies to meet the growing demands of our fast-changing world. © 2014 Akzo Nobel N.V. All rights reserved.
